-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World of Warcraft
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/worldofwarcraft/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, beautiful, seamless world.
 High streamlined and conducive to short or long play sessions.
 Exciting, action-packed combat.
 Elegant, easy-to-use interface.
 Excellent music and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some stability issues immediately following launch.
 Player-versus-player elements not complete.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 43,578 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 23, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Here is the online role-playing game you should play, no matter who you are. 

  Though massively multiplayer online role-playing games have been around for years, it has taken 
 this long for the genre's breakthrough hit to finally emerge. Here is the online role-playing game 
 you should play, no matter who you are. This is because World of Warcraft brings out all the best 
 aspects of this style of gaming, if not many of the best aspects of gaming in general. It also 
 features many of the specific characteristics that have made Blizzard Entertainment's previous 
 games so entertaining, memorable, long-lasting, and successful. Of course, the company's past track 
 record did not guarantee that World of Warcraft could have turned out this well. Such high quality 
 simply cannot be expected, nor should it be missed.  

          World of Warcraft is amazing in many ways, but above all, it's a really fun game.     

 
  In World of Warcraft, you create your alter ego by choosing from a variety of colorful races and 
 powerful classes, and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling in Azeroth, the fantasy 
 setting featured in Blizzard's Warcraft real-time strategy games. Fans of those games (especially 
 Warcraft III and its expansion pack) will spot tons of references here, and they will be impressed 
 at how faithfully World of Warcraft translates so many of Warcraft's little details and even some 
 of the finer points of its gameplay into such a seemingly different style of game. Meanwhile, fans 
 of other online role-playing games will be impressed at the sheer breadth and volume of content 
 on display in World of Warcraft, whose setting seamlessly connects a bunch of wildly different-looking 
 types of places and somehow makes them appear as if they all belong as parts of a whole.  

  World of Warcraft is superficially similar to numerous other games that came before it, and it 
 clearly draws inspiration from some of them. The fundamentals are all here, such as fighting dangerous 
 creatures (optionally including other players) , exploring the countryside either alone or in the 
 company of other players, undertaking various quests, gaining experience levels and new abilities, 
 and acquiring powerful items. However, directly comparing World of Warcraft with any of its predecessors 
 would be almost like pitting a professional sports club against a school team. With all due respect 
 to the other online role-playing games out there, World of Warcraft is in a league of its own. 
 The game clearly benefits from not being the first of its kind, as the design issues that plagued 
 previous online role-playing games are handled extremely well in World of Warcraft. In addition, 
 the game's own subtle innovations turn out to have a dramatic impact on the flow of the action 
 from minute to minute, hour to hour, day to day, and beyond. So the particulars of the game's design -- along 
 with its incredibly vast, beautiful, majestic world -- translate into a one-of-a-kind experience 
 that seems fresh and original in its own right.  

  Fortunately, the game is very approachable. World of Warcraft is a complex game whose complexity 
 is carefully disguised by a simple, highly legible, uncluttered interface and an impressive 3D 
 graphics engine, which delivers high performance on a wide range of systems while not skimping 
 on pure flash. The game's interface is so slick and easy to learn and understand, and the gameplay 
 itself is so quickly intuitive, that there isn't even a tutorial to wade through; there are just 
 some helpful, optional pop-up tool tips, as well as an excellent printed reference manual that 
 goes into specific detail about most of the various aspects of play. It's also important to point 
 out that World of Warcraft runs fast and smooth. You can go from your desktop to being in-game 
 in just seconds, and it's virtually just one great, big, seamless world. Loading times are as rare 
 as they are brief. They only crop up when traveling across the game's enormous continents or entering 
 some specific higher-level zones that are instanced for each player group, which guarantees you 
 a fresh challenge.  

  So World of Warcraft is painless to get into -- with the possible exception of you needing a credit 
 card or prepaid game card to create an account, as well as initially deciding on which sort of 
 character to play, since so many of the options seem like they could be interesting. And it turns 
 out they are. So why not try them all? The game lets you create multiple characters on the dozens 
 of different available "realms," each of which is a unique instance of the gameworld that is capable 
 of hosting thousands of simultaneous players. Some of the realms cater to role-playing fans that 
 prefer to play in character the whole time, while other realms are custom-tailored for player-versus-player 
 action. Regardless, World of Warcraft's realms are nicely (if not densely) populated already, and 
 the unfortunate issues with login and lag that plagued the game when it first launched were mostly 
 taken care of in a matter of days. The game just has a solid feel to it that's uncharacteristic 
 of the genre, and for an online RPG, World of Warcraft is surprisingly responsive. Actually, no 
 qualifications are necessary: World of Warcraft boasts the tight control and polished presentation 
 that's desirable in any kind of game.  

          The imaginative world of Azeroth is already teeming with players.     

  After countless 
 hours spent playing, the great first impression doesn't wear off. This style of gaming is notorious 
 for being a time sink and for effectively forcing players to engage in repetitive, monotonous gameplay 
 for hours on end in order to make progress. But in contrast, World of Warcraft will keep throwing 
 variety at you, and the combat system at the heart of it features fast, visceral, action-packed 
 battles that are fun and intense, whether you're fighting alone or in a group. Furthermore, World 
 of Warcraft finally achieves that long-sought-after goal of many massively multiplayer games, which 
 is to make the player feel rewarded regardless of how much time he or she invests in a single sitting. 

  This is due to several key reasons. For one, World of Warcraft has a nice, brisk pace to it, and 
 the fast-loading, seamless world obviously has a lot to do with this. But, in addition, recovery 
 times between battles are minimal, as even those characters without healing spells can still easily 
 recover from their wounds by using bandages, eating a quick meal, or just from natural healing. 
 The battles themselves are quick, too, and they scale nicely so that higher-level encounters don't 
 just seem to drag on. Yet the pacing of the combat seems to strike a perfect balance, because it's 
 not so hectic that those unaccustomed to fast-paced action games will feel overwhelmed. You can 
 also look forward to facing some fairly intelligent foes that will do such things as flee when 
 injured, tag-team with their comrades, and use some dastardly special abilities against you.   
   

  Much of World of Warcraft is structured around questing, so there's always something to do or somewhere 
 to go, even if you don't have a lot of time. Whenever you enter a major new location for the first 
 time, you'll feel almost overwhelmed by the number of quests available, which you'll be able to 
 clearly spot since quest-giving characters helpfully stand there with a big, noticeable exclamation 
 mark over their heads. Luckily, the game's more-than-a-thousand quests are made quite manageable 
 by only being offered to you when you're qualified to complete them, and you can have no more than 
 20 quests pending at a time. So you'll eventually be forced to pick and choose, but this is for 
 the best. The quests will always be there waiting for you until you accomplish them.  

          Questing in World of Warcraft helps lend a sense of purpose to all your hunting and exploring. 
     

  Though you may venture out into the wilderness and spend hours hunting monsters for the sake of 
 it if you so choose, you'll always be able to undertake quests that help give a bit more meaning 
 and context to your actions, flesh out the game's interesting fiction, and, perhaps most importantly, 
 frequently yield useful items and a good chunk of money and experience for your trouble. Some quests 
 are highly involved, multipart affairs that naturally entice you to broaden your horizons and venture 
 forth into previously unexplored territory. Other quests challenge you to venture deep into enemy 
 territory. It's here where grouping with other players seems most natural, because it gives you 
 an edge in battle and because some quests can seem a bit too popular for their own good. This is 
 maybe one of the only apparent design issues in the game: Sometimes you'll effectively have to 
 wait your turn for a certain enemy or quest object to respawn, while at other times, foes will 
 keep spawning in so quickly that you'll barely have a moment to catch your breath. Both types of 
 cases can seem a bit silly, but since the underlying action and exploration is so good, "a bit 
 silly" is about as bad as it gets. Other rough edges, such as monster "corpses," which occasionally 
 can be seen standing upright and looking very much alive, could probably be counted on one hand. 
 For what it's worth, we also encountered a few specific, minor issues with a few quests, though 
 none of this really affected our progress or enjoyment of the game, and as with any online RPG, 
 it's all subject to improvement.  

  Though the world of the game is very large, you can still effectively travel on foot, taking in 
 the often breathtaking sights of Azeroth in between key points (you even earn some experience just 
 for setting foot in new territory for the first time) . As you explore, you'll also discover a variety 
 of means of rapid transit. For instance, you'll be able to quickly and conveniently cover large 
 distances by flying on the backs of gryphons, wyverns, and more, which can ferry you from point 
 to point for a small fee. But before you can begin zooming about through the skies, you'll need 
 to reach each destination by foot, which means there's definitely going to be a lot of legwork. 
 Luckily, the sights and sounds of Azeroth, the network of roads and road signs in the relatively 
 civilized areas, and the presence of a very helpful onscreen minimap as well as a full map, collaborate 
 to make the simple act of running from point to point surprisingly pleasurable. It also helps that 
 you can simply run away from most aggressive foes, as they'll lose interest in you and go back 
 to their business if you keep moving.  

  Of course, player death is inevitable in a game such as this, but it's here where one of World 
 of Warcraft's most unlikely innovations rears its head: Death in this game really is nothing to 
 get bent out of shape about, so when you get killed, don't worry. Previous games of this type have 
 made it a point of penalizing the player upon death (death should be very bad, right?) , such as 
 by inflicting an increasingly steep experience point penalty, directly resulting in a sense of 
 failure and wasted time. More-recent online RPGs have doled out more-lenient penalties in the interest 
 of appealing to more players, but World of Warcraft all but eliminates the sense of penalty altogether -- which 
 turns out to be a great thing. Here, death mostly just puts you out of the action for a bit, which 
 is undesirable enough as it is. You automatically respawn as a ghost (or a wisp in the case of 
 the night elf race) at the nearest graveyard, and you can usually double back pretty quickly to 
 where you fell; alternatively, a healer-type character can resurrect you, or you can choose to 
 come back to life at the graveyard (although you'll be weakened for a while if you do this) . When 
 you die, your items' durability will also degrade slightly, though this isn't permanent in the 
 long run or harmful in the short run. You'll simply need to pay to get them repaired by certain 
 types of non-player characters before their durability ratings drop to zero and they're rendered 
 useless. In all, the game's death penalty feels just right, in that it's consequential without 
 being frustrating.  

  Another of the game's subtle but important design innovations is there to benefit those who can't 
 necessarily commit to making World of Warcraft a huge part of everyday life (as much as it can 
 threaten to do so) . The way it works is that whenever you're not playing the game, your character 
 is considered to be in a rest state. When you return to a well-rested character, you'll temporarily 
 accrue double the experience points you'd normally earn by defeating monsters, and the more time 
 you spend between play sessions, the longer you'll enjoy the experience bonus when you resume play. 
 The result isn't a system that penalizes hardcore players because they are still going to advance 
 much faster than those who can't spare as much time. It mostly just gives everyone else a little 
 incentive to keep coming back and to not feel bad about taking several days off from the game. 
 You'll get a nice tailwind as you try to catch up to your friends who kept playing during the time 
 that you took off.  

          Even if you can't commit to playing World of Warcraft for hours at a time, the game can 
 still provide an entertaining and rewarding experience.     

  These types of smart design choices would mean little if the actual act of playing as one of World 
 of Warcraft's various combinations of races and classes wasn't enjoyable in and of itself. Fortunately, 
 you pretty much can't go wrong with whichever type of character you opt for. There aren't an exhaustive 
 number of races and classes here, but there's still plenty to choose from: eight different races 
 and nine different classes, though not every class is available to every race. In contrast to some 
 other such games, each of the classes feels very well developed. That is, there's no real sense 
 of "class envy" in World of Warcraft (except maybe in player-versus-player combat) . In most other 
 online RPGs, many players invariably feel like they made a mistake in their choice of character 
 class after a while, and they become acutely aware of their character's limitations and other characters' 
 apparent strengths. Of course, those other characters have significant limitations of their own. 
 In World of Warcraft, though, every class seems like the "best" choice. Each character class feels 
 powerful and self-reliant from the get-go. No matter which type of character you choose to play, 
 from a warrior to a mage, you'll be able to hold your own against the game's variety of monsters 
 while also contributing significantly to a group of players.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2013 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is terrible for some, great for others. I've played the trial for nine days now, and it's 
 rather boring. It takes so long to level up, and the only good thing about this is that there are 
 quests, but even they get boring from time to time. A good thing about this is that the game has 
 large cities such as Stormwind, but nothing else appeals to me. The instances aren't that great, 
 and overall, it's just like levelling up for no reason. I wanted to buy the game, but now I'm having 
 different feelings. It's just not my cup of tea. Others like it, I respect that, but there's really 
 nothing to discuss exept for the large amount of players playing. There really is nothing special 
 about this game that you can find out somewhere else.
  
  Still, download the trial, try it for yourself, you may not agree with me here until you've tried 
 it for yourself! Play it and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Thanks to blizzard, the online gaming has taken a break through. With stunning graphics and a detailic 
 attack srategy. With many classes and races. This game is a real sight to see. In the world of 
 Azeroth, there are 2 sides, the devious horde and the Alliance. Each with 5 races on each side.
 
  
  Alliance
  
  Human: Start off in Elywnn Forest there capital is the Kingdom of Stormwind, controlled by King 
 Varion Wrynn. 
  
  Gnomes: The little men that live in Dun Morough, questing with the Dwarves. There kingdom is Ironforge. 
 Exiles of their peacful city "Gnomeragan" which was taken by the nasty troggs. The King is High 
 Tinker Overspark
  
  Dwarves: The men that live in Dun Morough, questing with the Gnomes, There kingdom is in Ironforge. 
 
  
  Nightelves: The men from the small island Teldrassil. They live in the Kalmidor and can dissapear 
 from sight. There Kingdom is Darnassus. Where they live peacefully.
  
  Dreanei: The extra-testerrials from the peacful plant Dreanor. Where they lived with the orcs. 
 When the orcs became controlled by the Burning Legion. They attacked the Dreanei. They escaped 
 with few survivors, with there revenge against their revenge against the Burning Legion. They join 
 the Alliance. There kingdom is the crashed ship The Exodar. They quest in Azurmyst Island.
  
  Horde
  
  Orc: Controlled by the Burning Legion, they are vast eniemes of the Alliance. 
 They live in Orgimaar with there king, Thrall. They quest in the area of Durator.
  
  Troll: Living with the Orcs. There king is Thrall and quest in Durator too. They have sharp tusks 
 and can use the ability "rage" 
  
  Undead: Free of The Lich King, they are enimes with the scourge and the alliance. There queen is 
 Salyanns. And they start off in Trisfal Glades. With there city Undercity.
  
  Tauren: Enemies of the Centaur, near extinction, the horde helped get rid of the Centuar. Now they 
 are in debt with the Horde and joined there cause. There kingdom is in Mulgore, which is where 
 they start out. There kingdom is called Thunder Bluff and there queen is Carien Bloodhoof.
  
  Blood Elves: Living peacfully in Isalnd of Ques ' Danles. With there addiction of power. When 
 there sun well was destoryed by the scourge, they became evil and joined the horde. They live in 
 Eversong Woods and there kingdom of Slivermoon. Lord Salvendor is his name.
  
  With so many races to choose from. This game takes a long time to get boring. They have many different 
 classes. This game is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  How can any MMORPG get any better or any game get any better. This game truly is outstanding. All 
 critics have given this game very high scores. Except I don't agree with the things that don't 
 make it perfect. Anyway this game is the most epic, most grandest and most immersive game I've 
 ever played. No MMORPG can even get close in rivalling World of Warcraft.
  
  There are many races and classes to choose from and they start offf in different areas. You try 
 to level up and "complete" regions to move on to another one. The graphics, storyline, options 
 and the thought of rewards make sure that this is NOT boring. The most stand-out feature to me 
 is the graphics and the lovely surroundings. Without having to need anywhere a medium level graphics 
 card to run.
  
  The PvE is phenomonal especially the end game content. Unlike most other MMOs which don't include 
 much end game content, WoW has intense fast-paced instances, dungeons and raids. These are exciting 
 and are a major key in WoW.
  
  The PvP is just as good with PvP world and places to PvP including battlegrounds. Then there is 
 of course PvP realms. It is often dangerous in these places and offer as another option. Then there 
 is of course "raiding" a town or place of the opposite faction. These are very fun and unique. 
 
  
  Overall, WoW is game that makes what you pay to play as cheap. No matter what computer you have 
 or who you are whether your a politician or a pensioner you WILL enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePitt-man
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft. Simply the best game I have ever played in my entire life. WoW is a MMORPG (Massively 
 Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) . There are 2 factions (Horde and Alliance) and 5 races for 
 each faction. 
  Alliance: Human, Dwarf, Night Elf, Gnome, and Dreanei (i think thats how it's spelled :P) .
  Horde: 
 Orc, Undead, Tauren, Troll, and Blood Elf.
  There are also classes that determine how you play the game, like what abilities or spells you 
 will obtain throughout the game.
  
  The Rogue class for example can sneak around unseen and ambush targets from behind.
  The Mage 
 class is fragile and weak, but can cast mighty spells to kill their enemies from far away.
  The newest class the Death Knight, are undead warriors, rised from the dead by the Lich King to 
 do his bidding. However you have to have a level 55 character to make one. The level cap is currently 
 80 and is increasing with every expansion.
  
  There is so much that i haven't explained and won't explain. Why? Because I want you (if you don't 
 already have it) to buy the game. Go ahead. I promise you'll like it. And if you don't believe 
 me, try the 14 day trial. See you in Azeroth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galindanur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Well people might not agree but this game is the best thing ever created in my eyes.
  I dont know why people would rate it bad this game is really something, if you played the trail 
 i know the begining is a little scratchy, but you really get into the game, the only thing that 
 might be a problem is weakness in classes power or potential, i will explain.
  
  Paladin: this class is too good most OP class in game i think unfair. lv speed: fast
  
  Hunter: 
 best thing ever (except pally) untill lv 30 then hits a stop at getting much better ( no i dont mean 
 lv 30 skill i mean they never reallly improve more than the npcs ) lv speed: fast
  
  Warlock: loose mana WAY to fast, but are extremly good when used right, possibly better paladins. 
 Lv speed: medium
  
  
  Warrior: Great tanks but have minor flaws. lv speed: medium
  
  Druid: you will never meet an OK druid you will meet either an extremely good one, or a crappy 
 one. lv speed: slow
  
  Shaman: this class is really bumpy , lv 1-10 ok lv 10-20 great lv 20-30 good lv 30-40 ok lv 40-50 
 good lv50-60 horrible 60-80 great. lv speed: medium
  
  Rogues: crappy pve AMAZING PVP. lv speed :gets from fast slowly to low
  
  thats what i think 
 anyways hope you agree
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowbie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  I've been playing on and off since release. When I play it's to socialize with some of my buddies 
 at work and even some of the players are pretty cool. As an online social tool, WoW is awesome. 
 As far as the game play goes, I've always felt (as Randy Jackson would say ) it's just a'ight. 
 I have to give them props on the atmospheres they create too, some places are just cool, but when 
 it comes to the actual game-play, it's just okay. I have a lot more fun socially playing with my 
 friends then the actual game mechanics. Also mix Blizzard's ability to create a seamless world 
 with relatively good few problems and you have gold. WoW's art work just seems more unforgiving 
 than other games. I can't put my finger on it, but it's something I can over look much easier than 
 I can with other games. That's another plus. So WoW has a total experience package that I like, 
 rather than superb game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link3301
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the biggest online game and that's a fact not an opinion has over 11 million 
 players. One reasons it has so many players is that has simple gameplay unlike most mmos. It has 
 8 different races plua two more with the burning crusade. The races are: Blood Elf, Draenei, Dwarves, 
 Gnomes, Humans, Night Elves, Orcs, Taurens, Trolls, and Undeads. The are two factions in the game: 
 Horde and Alliance, With five races on each faction. Each race has different class choices. The 
 are nine classes in game ten with the wrath of lich king expansion. The classes are: Warrior, Mage, 
 Priest, Paladin, Druid, Shaman, Death Knight, Warlock, Hunter, and Rogue. each class has diferent 
 abilities. 
  
  The game is has two continents Plus one more for each expansion. The continents are: Eastern Kingdoms, 
 Kalimdor, Outland, and Northrend. Each continent has different regions. People who are looking 
 for a challenge should look no further than dungeons and raids. These are instnaced area in which 
 players form groups and help each other fight tough enemies and bosses. Each dungeon and raid has 
 therown rewards and quest targets. Quests are the games way of playing out the storyline and getting 
 more experience and awesome rewards. There are new quests coming out all time and millions already 
 exist.
  
  PVP is the main way of horde vs alliance action it will give you awesome rewards and even some 
 quests. The most popular forms of pvp are arenas and battlegrounds. Battlegrounds Are where large 
 groups of players fight against the opposite faction. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I never thought that I'd have given this game a 10 let alone be playing it, but i stand corrected 
 this game is great. Simply Put this game is a strike of brilliance. The game can be Intimidating 
 for beginners, especially gamers that are looking for instant amusement. World of Warcraft isn't 
 that kind of game. Getting anything done is tedious and the first 30 levels have a tendency to 
 be boring, but as your character starts to develop, as you meet other friends to play along side 
 with, the games true light comes out. No game on the current market can Leave you with such a feeling 
 of awe and accomplishment. The world is huge, and despite the graphics being somewhat dated, the 
 game play is top notch employing a great amount of depth and strategy, that really puts a lot of 
 whits into combat. with several different classes varying from casters, archers to warriors the 
 game will fit any type of play style or preference. The game isnt cheep to play though ive never 
 been a fan of pay to play after you front the 40 bones buy the software, but the fact that this 
 has nothing to do with the game itself i cannot mark the game down. If you are looking for a great 
 online game look no further than this title. 
  
  the only true flaw however some may debate is the sound. most people play with it off and it really 
 doesn't give the game much. 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  OVERALL SCORE 10/10 A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birthofastar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This Game is a chore. So much so that I don't really consider it a game but more of a "life" simulator. 
 Never in my life have I ever paid to have a job. Not untill I went out and purchased this "Gem" 
 of a game. Oh yes! This game is great. There is absolutely nothing like spending 40 hours a week 
 trying to level up some pixilated character that doesn't even exist beyond a computer screen. Now 
 I'll admit that may sound silly, but there's no reason to be spending 40+ hours on something that's 
 not even real. This so called game is nothing like a game. A typical game you can pick up, play 
 a but, get a thrill in, put it down, and move on with your life. In this game you pick it up, and 
 it takes 20 minutes just to get from point A to point B. I mean that's just travel time. Your not 
 fighting or doing anything. Just walking around trying to get somewhere. I mean you could probably 
 cut this play time down about 20 hours a week, if you didn't have to spend all your time traveling. 
 I mean I spent countless hours and minutes just waiting for people to get somewhere so we could 
 start a quest, or a raid or whatever. There's no point to it all, who are they trying to fool with 
 this nonsense. I mean you know a game is really bad when someone can type a paragraph about "traveling" 
 alone.
  
  I can spend all day on that, but let me get into the game atleast. Ah yes, the game. How magnificent 
 IT ISN'T! The plot and sole of the game is mainly this "Kill X of this, and Bring me that." That's 
 the entire game minus a battle ground daily or two. It's so boring and pointless you don't feel 
 like your doing anything at all. My time in the game was comparable only to my time I spent at 
 work, and I absolutely hate my job. I got so tired of doing this joyus quest that finally I gave 
 up with questing all together. I just whored myself out as a dungeon tank only. Try doing that 
 for 20 levels solely and tell me how much fun your having. I had to sit through horrible group 
 after group leading these rookies through tooth and nail just to level a few bars. I think I've 
 played with every type of moron and selfish loot needing a-hole this game has to offer. God forbid 
 I end up leading a group of sensible people, that was a compelte rareity. After I hit max level 
 I threw down that shield for good. It was all about PVP than baby. Probably the only thing I liked 
 about the game. 
  
  
  After adjusting my warrior I eventually became almost God like on the battlefield. I had over 25K 
 kills and almost the entire warrior PVP vendor inventory. Then what happend? It got boring fast, 
 and I mean FAST! There's only 4 battle grounds (3 really minus that god awful eye of the storm) 
 to play. Mind you I wont even talk about after the expansion since this is a pre lich review. You 
 can only kill but so many people in this game before you've seen it all, and trust me after 25 
 thousand kills you HAVE seen it all. So then what do you do? You start raiding, and oh baby! Now 
 that's the fun. If you thought grouping with 5 or so people in those dungeons was fun wait till 
 you have 25-40 morons. Oh yeah! Nothing like finger pointing, gear bashing, whinning, complaining, 
 bullcrap that raids bring out. Not to mention that this torture last 3-5 hours. I mean what is 
 the point? You have to sit there and deal with these aholes for 3-5 hours in the comfort of your 
 own home for what? A pair of shoulder pads that give you .03 strength? Most of time when I did 
 these raids... and I did alot of them I didn't even get anything. What did I just waste 4 hours 
 on a Saturday for? To get some digital tokens? What bulls@$% this is. 
  
  I'd have more fun spending 15bucks on those scratch off Lotto tickets. Atleast then it's mildly 
 entertaining. I've however grown to hate this game though. I stopped playing it once I saw what 
 utter garbage it was.
  This game is a time sink with no satisfying reward. Even as a form of entertainment it's weak. I 
 mean there is no way to justify that this game is good or worth playing other than there are 11Million 
 idiots willing to spend a good 15 dollars a month to be bored out of their mind.
  
  Would I reccomend this game? NO! would I even reccomend trying it NO! should you avoid it? YES! 
 If you see it run the other way, and if you can't do that do humanity a favor and knock it off 
 the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the biggest nay-sayers of WoW. But once I played for like 3 hours at my friend's house, 
 I noticed how good of a game it was. It's well made, with good smooth graphics, and a lot of customization 
 allowed for your character, in both appearance and skills. (Sadly, not all races are allowed to 
 be every single class in the game, which makes me sad that I have to use a Night Elf with owl eyebrows 
 to be a hunter) .
  
  Either way, it's a fun game, especially if you've got friends to play with, as with all MMORPGs. 
 The game can be slow at first, but what can you expect from the start? You can't really expect 
 it to push too much crap towards you in the beginning, or you'll never understand anything. Since 
 my friend made me start, he pushed a buncha info at me that I wouldn't really even need until a 
 month of playing, but I understood only some of it, anyways. Either way, after playing the free 
 trial, WITH a friend, I was persuaded into buying the battle chest (for the free month, buahahaha) . 
 I have a group of friends that all play at school, so it'll be less boring. I suggest getting a 
 friend to play with you, if you decide to play it, or it'd be pretty hard. Also, this game isn't 
 that fun from levels 1-10. It's just a lot of roaming around and doing easy quests, but trust me, 
 it'll turn up.
  
  Alright, all in all, it's a good game, a pretty darn well made one, also. It won't be too fun for 
 people that don't have any friends in real life, and are really bad at making friends even in the 
 game itself. It's a party-friendly game, more than a solo game. I suggest getting into it, if you're 
 okay with spending a lot of money on it, just make sure you get your money's worth and don't play 
 other games while you play it. In fact, just forget about your life, and anything. Unless your 
 friend plays WoW.
  
  That last part was kind of a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbman83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game consistently for over a year and a half, I finally feel qualified to review 
 it. I have been a pretty big fan of RPG style games for most of my life. Although, I would have 
 to say it's the Final Fantasy series that really pulled me into the genre. After making the move 
 from console to PC with Ultima Online, I was always left wishing for more. Mainly, I was wishing 
 for better graphics and less lag! I tried DAOC and, although it was amusing, it still wasn't quite 
 right. Then, I find WOW. I was astonished; to say the least. The graphics are simply amazing, for 
 a PC RPG, but that's not what really drew me in. What drew me in was the customizable gameplay. 
 Good or evil, human or orc (or something in between) , warrior or wizard, the choices are all yours 
 to make! Gone are the days of linear story lines! Now we welcome in a new world of truly open gameplay, 
 where a man (or woman) is free to do as he/she pleases. There is only ONE thing I disagree with 
 from watching the review. You should not consider this as a strong pick if you are only able, or 
 willing, to play for 30 minutes at a time. To get any real fulfillment out of this game, it's going 
 to take at LEAST an hour at a time. Even that only equals small gains and rules out things like 
 group raids. However, if you have plenty of time on your hands and you are truly an RPG fan, this 
 is the must own game of the century! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  the saposed wow is going to cost you twenty bucks for the game and it will also put the little 
 fee of $15 per  this game is worth 
 $50 but the price grows and grows this game isnt worth the ashes it leaves in youre walet its a 
 scam i have been warned dont bye this game ever in youre  
 you are better better off buying a different online multiplayer game this one is just a waist of 
 time and money and those exspansions forget about it ooooh i can get my troll up to level 25 were 
 i slayed the porpelious maximus dragon and evolved my spatendex to level 7 with this i can burn 
 more sleathium barblofdgh and get a better jump on those choogers flairesesed fares for $23. how 
 nerdy did that sound? EXACTLY so listen to me its a rip off a scam a @#$%!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! excuse 
 to be wateing youre money listen because thats the end of the B. A. D report call Beloved Amasing 
 Deduction or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Why does everybody like World of Warcraft? What's so good about it? I really dont get it. So far when 
 im playing WoW online I can barely find anyone Online. Seriously I dont really like this game. I 
 would call this a Medicore MMORPG. I would say that Runescape is slighty better than this game but 
 not quite. I still consider Phantasy Star Online the best MMO ever made. I cant even figure out the 
 controlls that well. The keys are also too small on screen for me to figure out. It's a boring ass 
 game for Otaku nerds with no life. I play Video Games alot but atleast I have the decentcy to go 
 outside. Unlike these people who play WoW every day of there paefetic lives. Im serious. WoW is pretty 
 much Meh in my eyes. There are some expansion packs but I have no intrest in them. This game is problilty 
 the most Overatted Video Game of all time. Overall World of Warcraft is an overatted and if you 
 nerds are going to complain to me I really dont give a crap. This game should be called World of 
 Warcrap. Im serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliano001
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Day one: WOW i love this game, so much thing to do, to see, to learn, to interact with others. 
 I LOVE this game.
  
  Day ten: If someone try hack my character i think i will die.
  
  Day 40: Damn, i love this game but it is taking a lot of time and effort to move to the next level. 
 I never noticed before but this bar of progression has 20 little bars.
  
  Day 60: Funny, i came back from work and need to work hours to get a good sum of gold. Why do i 
 need to pay 14 dollars a month to work?
  
  Day 80: So many quests to do, its so confusing. i forgot half of them and i am beggining to notice 
 that all of them look the same. Grab this, kill 20 of that. Weird.
  
  Day 100: Good Lord. Finally i reached level 80 woot. Let me talk to guild and see how happy they 
 are for my achievement. 5 minutes later... GUYS I AM LEVEL 80 NOW. WOOT. lol just one and against 
 his will said. congrats man.
  
  
  Day 100: I am so happy, lets do some heroics guys. AHEM, not so fast junior you need to have more 
 than 1500 attack power to run heroics. 
  
  Day 130: OK lets run some heroics now guys. Sorry man all we run now is Naxx ten and 25 man. 2k 
 of attack power mininum.
  
  Day 150 F. B. i hate this game. Now my attack power is 2500, but i am so tired of playing this 
 piece of crap that i finally realized that i am no more having fun a long time ago.
  
  Day 160: All i do is mine for gold, spent it in the ah for very expensive elixirs to raid and all 
 else is crap.
  
  Day 360: No real life. No matter now. Back from workd and log into this piece of crap of game for 
 my 200 th time run into Naxx for Gods now what. All the other quests are the same, no matter if 
 you did 1500 or 3000. Same people online as always. Same crap as always, everyone trying to be 
 the badass of the game. ALL in the same cloth, leather, mail or plate. ALL THE SAME. Look, i am 
 seeing myself in the corner. Oh, no its just another paly.
  
  Day 400: I cannot tolerate this game no more. Patch after patch and new content after new content. 
 This nightmare never ENDS. Blizzard promisses new gear and new armor in new high level dungeons 
 for morons like me spend another 5 to 6 hours daily trying to get a new piece of shoulders.
  
  Day 410 : I realized how bad this game is affecting me and decided to quit. My QI must be one 
 of an ameba for letting this came to this.
  
  Day 420: Never played again, just letting you guys now that when i stopped playing this garbage 
 i noticed that i have lost tons of good movies, parties and another games as well. Trying to get 
 back the lost time. I exercise now and already lost 3 k of fat. Feeling great, have more TONS of 
 time to spent with my wife, watch movies, and play another games as well. 
  
  Ever, never touch this piece of crap. Of course the game is all good in the beggining, but in the 
 end you are a junkie. My piece of advice for you guys, dont enter in contact with this game, its 
 highly addictive but will suck your sould for sure. Who knows when you will have the strenght to 
 regain your freedom.
  
  I am a new man. I am dedicating my efforts for something costructive now. Why waste so many time 
 and good will in this game? I am studying and improving my career. Games must be and end. This 
 piece of evil fails miserably in entertain you. All i saw when i was there was people saying that 
 they were bored but they did not had the will to broke the spell.
  
  You can do that. Stop playing it. STOP giving your money to Blizzard and regain control of your 
 life once and for all. Soon or later you will surely regret the time lost with this anomaly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndeathInc
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  When this game came out, I didn't start playing it right away. I think I was playing Everquest 
 at the time and my brother started to play it first. Watching him start out, the first thing I 
 noticed was how clean and perfect the interface looked. Even though the HUD is always separate 
 from the game-world no matter what you are playing, somehow World of Warcraft feels unified in 
 this respect. It's not overblown in the way of atmosphere. It remains a very "videogame" video 
 game (gamers should know what I mean) .
  
  People complain about the addictive quailty of the game... the idea being that you keep playing 
 and keep paying. Although, as far as I am concerned, it's cheaper because I'm not buying a new 
 game for $60 every few weeks. On the other hand, I admit it's extreamly damaging to your social 
 life. If this doesn't bother you (like me) , then this could be a life-time hobby.
  
  Yes that's right, a hobby.
  
  Building a character is very much like painting a picture or, 
 more similarly, building a model from a kit.
  
  Play this game... you wont regret the experience. You may not get the hype, but it's still fun. 
 That's the point of gaming after all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of those games you hear everyone go on about and is super popular and 
 you find yourself wondering what the big deal is. You wonder why people have sold their life away 
 to play this as much as they do and why people continue to shell out a monthly fee to keep playing 
 when there are plenty of good MMOs out there without monthly fees.
  
  So finally I decided to give this electronic smack addiction a try and I will say, at the start 
 it seems a bit daunting because you have to make the all important decision of what side, race 
 and class you're going to be and I had the WoW Battle Chest that had the game guides as well and 
 I spent several days thumbing through the books trying to figure stuff out. But I did settle on 
 a Night Elf Huntress. The game starts and you get to hear a little backstory of your race which 
 I found it amusing that apparently the Night Elves are an endagered species though you'd never 
 know this by looking around the area and seeing tons of them all over the place.
  
  When you start out, you're in a sort of starting area and this serves as your tutorial period. 
 Walk out of the starting area and you'll quickly get chewed to bits by the nastier monsters lurking 
 just outside. After doing a handful of tutorial quests, you'll be sent out into the world and this 
 is the thing that might turn off some. There is no real end to WoW, you can fully level up and 
 complete all the quests but there's no major final boss fight (not that I know of at least) , of 
 course that monthly fee allows new events to be added to the land of Azeroth, sort of like Animal 
 Crossing, certain events happen on certain days or certain times of the year. Like there's a fishing 
 competition every Sunday. But there's so much to do, you could keep yourself busy for months with 
 just the sheer amount of quests and raids available.
  
  The interface thankfully is really easy to use. Your attacks appear on a bottom bar. Right clicking 
 on an enemy unleashes basic attacks and while you can click on commands with the mouse, quick button 
 options are also displayed making the interface very user friendly.
  
  But the biggest thing that makes WoW stand out is the online community. After playing so many games 
 and dealing with dicks who cheat or make snide comments, almost everyone I've encountered here 
 has been incredibly friendly and helpful. If you are cornered by a nasty monster, someone will 
 often come up and attack it or heal you. If you get lost, you can always find someone to help you 
 out and in turn you should always try to help others if you can.
  
  I also like the graphics in this though they are starting to show their age now, but in this time 
 when so many current gen games rarely use colors other than dog-sh -- brown or gun metal gray, it's 
 nice to have the colorful and unique World of Azeroth.
  
  World of Warcraft isn't for everyone. It can be slowly paced at time and it sucks when you have 
 to travel long distances on foot (why is it I have to wait until lvl. 30 to get a mount?!) If you're 
 an instant gratification sort of person, the game might try your patience and I'll say having a 
 "Quest Helper" makes finding where you need to go a lot easier too.
  
  Anyway I've had a lot more fun with this than anything else I've played recently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amiman23
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  Wonderfully imaginative and dammed beautiful art direction. I've tried playing online but I've 
 never been able to get behind it and was hoping this game might change my mind. I've tried every 
 class up to level 10 -8 and really like the magic and the tremendous variety. It's like being reincarnated 
 over and over any way you can imagine (except dolphins) ! Advancement is very appealing as I really 
 would like to see how powerful I can become, but I can't justify the time sucking process of leveling 
 up. It's the same problem I had with City of Heroes, I spent hundreds of hours and eventually just 
 Burnt Out on not just how long it took to level up but on how little reward you got and how repetitive 
 it became. All echoed here at WOW. I'm an older player and I can easily see how it would be video 
 game crack to younger players, but I would prefer greater rewards and a broader variety of way 
 and means of achieving them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Good and Bad:
  ---
  +Occasionally fun and funny.
  +Flag RSP2 is a great mod.
  +RP ensures you won't get bored.
  +Extremly large world to explore.
  
  -Devoid of any challange 
 whatsoever.
  -Emotes look dumb and sound even dumber.
  -Cartoonish graphics bring riveting results.
  -RPers aren't on RP realams.
  -Mildly nice community.
 
  -Definetly over-priced.
  -Broken combat system
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Why do people play MMORPGs anyways? What is the point of an MMORPG? After all, aren't these kind 
 of games dead?
  
  
  These questions bother me. They bother me so much that I rarely play these actroities. There are 
 some good RPG games, like Oblvion or Too Human, but a good majority of them limit themself to awefulness. 
 World of Warcraft is absoulutly nothing new. After playing games like The Elder Scrolls series 
 or just about any other good RPG, you'll sneer at this kiddie, over-priced game.
  
  
  
  World of Warcraft is, in theroy, a MMPORPG filled with millions of children and teens who appearantly 
 never played a MMPORPG in their life, thinking this is absoulutly revoulutionary. Even adults crowd 
 it, thinking this is absoulutly amazing. And all these people are paying about 30 to 50 bucks per 
 3 monthes for this. I'm going to state why the game isn't worth such money deeper within the review, 
 but I will state now that its horribly overpriced. For Cartoony graphics, a weak combat system, 
 gay emotes and sound effects, and a crappy community, you'll either need to pay Paypal or get a 
 pre-paid 60 day card.
  
  
  
  
  
  I won't spoil the story, but upon making your account, setting up billing, and everything else, 
 you have a selection of over 50 realms when you first start up the game. These realms are actually 
 servers holding a certain ammount of players, and you can choose whichever one you want to start 
 playing. They're devided into catagorey: Normal, RP, PVP, RPPVP, but , say for instance, you probably 
 won't find many RPers on RP realms or PVPers on Normal realams. Once you picked out a realam, you 
 have a 10 slot cast for making your own character. You can choose your character to be Human, Dwarf, 
 Night Elf, Gnome, Troll, Orc, Undead, and so on, but none of them are actually fun to play. You 
 can choose classes between Warriors or Mages or Priests and so on, but they still aren't all that 
 interresting. Your customization options are limited to changing his gender, his facial features, 
 his hair, and nothing else. So you can see already that you will find many other players in the 
 game that have a character looking just like yours. But moving on, when you create your character, 
 you start in the realam of Azeroth. Its a huge world you can explore with very few loading screens, 
 but its also very cartoony. No matter what level of graphics you have it on, the weather effects 
 will probably be the only remarkable thing you'll see; Grass textures look horrific, npcs look 
 pale, and when you get up close, a person's eyeballs are poorly-cut polygons.
  
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay isn't anywhere near close on the money for World of Warcraft. You can use the 
 arrow keys or the wsad keys to move your character in a 3rd person perspective, but it really feels 
 aweful either way. You mainly just vist towns and cities in an attempt to gain quests, level you 
 way up to 80, and get all the respect. Its just like Warhammer online, but worse. You have the 
 option to do whatever you want in Azeroth, but unless you want 12 year-olds telling you how much 
 of a noob you are, you'll probably want level up. And the easiest way is to do repeative quests. 
 So basically, whenever you see an npc with an exclamation mark above his head, you just trot towards 
 him and accept it. The quests consist of killing X ammount of monsters, collecting X ammount of 
 items, activating an item, or sometimes just talk to the person 3 inches away from you. This obviously 
 makes quests way too easy, but if you simply decide to randomly kill monsters or go on instances 
 with friends, you won't get any experiance either. This is as hard as World of Warcraft gets. You 
 could probably make some adequate progress without ever glancing at the official website for help.
 
  
  
  
  Combat is definetly not the strong point of World of Warcraft. Might I state, there really isn't 
 any combat in the game.
  
  Do you want to know how to make your character kill a monster? You just click on it. That's it. 
 Clicking on a monster once will put the character and the opposing monster in "combat" mode. You 
 just sit there, staring at the screen while the two of you start dancing and sissyslap each other 
 til one of you drops. And your character also has a horrible reaction time. No matter what levl 
 you are, your character only attacks every 3 seconds. So every character in battle is simple: smacks.... dances 
 for 3 seconds.... smacks.... dances for 3 seconds.... smack, and just smack smack again. Its horrendous.
 
  
  
  If you lucky, the monster dies, and drops some completly unrealistic, like a full suit of armor 
 or an electronic device. If you were less lucky, you die, leaving you in a ghost form spawned at 
 a graveyard to have to litterly run all the way back to your dead body. This is mainly all you 
 do in World of Warcraft. You accept a quest, click on a few monsters or a few items, and reapeat 
 til you reach level 80. So there is no point of the game, other than to click 1 or 2 times for 
 every quest.
  
  
  
  
  World of Warcraft doesn't stop sucking. This game is easily one of the worst sounding, most cheesist-humored 
 games I own. The game lets you use some emotes, like laugh or dance, but they all look and sound 
 compeltly stupid. The annimations are mushy, the voice acting is terrible, and is for every single 
 race in the game. So all Night elves sound the same, all gnomes sound the same, all Blood Elves 
 sound the same, and its just aweful. The music is probably the only passible aspect, and even then, 
 most of it sounds fusterating (think of the annoying Silvermoon song) . You hear swords clashing 
 and some lame grunts when in so-called "kiddie combat", but you won't hear much else in the game.
 
  
  
  
  But lets imagine for a breif second that the game actually was good, had great graphics, and was 
 probably the best-playing game on the planet. Still, the community would suck. World of Warcraft 
 is filled with millions of people who never played a MMPORPG in their life. They vary from 20 year-old 
 drunks, to bald 15 year-old perverts that ask you sexual questions, to male strippers playing as 
 female characters without any clothes on, to sometimes even little toddlers that keep running into 
 the wall. A good majority of my friends are 19 year-old cheerleaders living in their moms basement. 
 And none of these people can spell, type, or let alone, even have a high enough IQ to know how 
 to play the game. And although there are some fun people, most of them just aren't worth the air 
 they breath. Even the game's moderators are pissy and sarcastic. During PVP, many people will stand 
 next to your body, waiting to illeagally kill you once you revive. Sometimes grown women will randomly 
 whisper you that you are a bad husband and you should be banned from the game. If you don't get 
 to level 50 in at least one week's time, the community will chew you up and spit you out, leaving 
 nothingless. It matters because your devoid of any special questing help or instance runs or anything 
 else for that matter without a decent reputation. You grow quite dependent on people. World of 
 Warcraft is quite possible the worst community I had ever experianced.
  
  
  
  
  
  There is obviously alot more to the game, like epic mounts, enchanted items, and different stuff 
 like that. The reason why I'm not going to state them is the fact that you probably won't survive 
 long enough in the hateful community, nor the boring gameplay. World of Warcraft doesn't come with 
 any editor of any kind. Not a face editor, mod editor, or any kind of editor, making it sink even 
 deeper, which makes you boggle why its so poplular. World of Warcrap is occasionally fun, but when 
 its bad....... its very very very bad. For a 5 disc game, and $50 per month, it totally isn't worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  About a year ago I was lured by pure pressure into trying the trial of World of Warcraft. I found 
 the experience pretty fun, and, as it was the summer and I had nothing better to do, I bought it. 
 However, after only about a month the novelty started to wear off and I was left with a game that 
 just wasn't that interesting.
  
  Graphically, the game isn't that great at all. For a game which forces you to pay $15 a month you'd 
 think they could do at least one graphical overhaul. The poly-count is pathetically low and texturing 
 in some places looks absolutely pathetic.
  
  Now, obviously, a game shouldn't be judged on its graphics. World of Warcraft's storyline is decent. 
 It isn't amazing though. WoW was the first one to get MMO's right and for that it definitely deserves 
 credit. But it obviously didn't get them as right as it could have. There many issues such as endless 
 farming, repetitive quests, and dulling gameplay that still exist. While Blizzard did do better, 
 much better can be done.
  
  WoW is good, but not good enough to have 10 million players. It has become a social game, not because 
 it is good, but because of good marketing and a bit of luck. Nowadays, there are other games out 
 there that are either as good or better (like LOTRO) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gambit81cat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I have actually played this two seperate times. The first time was for about a month and back befor 
 any of the patches were released. When I played back then, it was way to hard to level and got 
 annoyed at some of the quests you had to do on noob island. Then when I left the island, I spent 
 more time looking for quests then I spent doing them. Now Wrath of the Lich King is out and they 
 have released several patches. This is when I started to paly again, currently about 1 month again. 
 Yet, this time I can actually level and found a program that shows you where you complete quests 
 at. It is a much funner game when you can find your quests and finish them; resulting in leveling 
 up. I like that they have made a good genre of classes and races. This way you can be your own 
 character and play slightly different then anyone else does. This makes it one of those who ever 
 plays it more is the best kind of games, but not the point. Probably one of the best things about 
 WoW is the fact that you can play it with friends and make new ones really fast, since several 
 quests are easier with more people. If you do not sit down and play it for hours at a time, then 
 you do not level up and get bored. In order for it to be a good and fun game, you need time to 
 devote time to it. I think this is the one of the main problems with the game. Plus, you have to 
 pay $15 a month to play it. There are games that are close to WoW (like Rappelz, Runescape, Guild 
 Wars, Lineage, Perfect World) that are all good and free. Never the less, the monthly cost does 
 not change my vote on the game being fun and entertaining to just about anyone who plays it. I 
 suggest everyone at least tries the trial version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nortorious
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a great game, but you will find yourself playing it all the time! This isn't 
 a bad thing in a sense. Some games you want to stop playing them for a little bit because they 
 get a little boring, but with WoW you will play all the time. If you don't have a lot of time on 
 your hands i suggest not playing. I say this because THIS GAME IS ADDICTING! WoW isn't really a 
 hard game. The begining quests are easy and will leval you up fast. As you level up the exp bar 
 grows bigger making it take longer to level up. The custimization isn't the best but is succeds. 
 Ovarral WoW is a great game, but before you play ask yourself these questions:
  
  Am I a human being?
  
  Don't I owe it to myself to play WoW?
  
  Do I play video games?
 
  
  If you have answerd "yes" to at least one of these questions you should play world of warcraft.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokelink17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  If you think your not this game had a bad theme and its for dorks well your wrong! When my friend 
 told me to try the trail i am like fine but I don't think ill like it and know this game has blown 
 my mind. It has so many things to do all at once the first few days this may start to get hard 
 but it is to good to stop. Please if you think its a waste of money your wrong! Its the best online 
 experience that Ive ever played , and if there is better tell me and ill try it and if so ill chance 
 my review. still waiting...........
  
  Bad:
  Graphics could of been better there is weigh to many glitches like going through walls and floating 
 in mid air too. CAN RUIN YOUR LIFE ITS TOO GOOD! Ive never had played a game in witch i have to 
 pay to play it, this game is worth it but i still think its a rip-off.
  get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hey_Cage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft. It's the paramount MMORPG, swords and magic, outlandish races and classes, and 
 of course the huge evolving world. First off, let me just say this game is like crack, except twenty 
 times more addicting and (thankfully) completley legal. The world of Azeroth is huge. It starts 
 with two huge continents to explore, quest, hunt, train, and level up in. Yes, I said continents. 
 Each starting continent has about 15 or more zones, with varying sizes. To the peaceful tranquility 
 of the small, Druid inhabited Moonglade; to the huge sprawling Horde controlled Barrens, there 
 is always somewhere to go and something to do there. With the advent of the Burning Crusade (BC) 
 and the Wrath of the Lich King (WotLK) , two new higher-level continents have been added along with 
 a higher level cap (70 for BC, 80 for WotLk) , high end raids for guilds of coordinated players 
 to attempt to conquer, and of course more and more quests for solo players and groups of players 
 to enjoy together, it adds to the already huge world that we began with in an astounding and completley 
 streamlined way. 
  
  Quests offer variety to the usual hack n' slash through hordes of monsters ditty that a lot of 
 MMO's at the time sung along with. The quests seem to boil down to three different basic goals: 
 Kill this here, take this there, and take this here to kill that there. Save for the starting quests, 
 each quest seems to pull this off in an astounding way. How much more complex could killing ten 
 monsters be? Blizzard seemed to have asked this question millions of times over, and each time 
 they've come up with a new and exciting way to pull these three simple, basic "rules" off. for 
 instance, a quest may tell you kill a large horde of demons, and instead of running in, blade, 
 arrow, and spell flying wildly at your enemies; you might be given an armored gryphon, or in one 
 case, the King of the Storm Giants, to aid you in your endeavors against your enemies. 
  
  And speaking of instances, let's talk about the dungeons in the game, which are called "instances." 
 In any game, there has to be a place where your developed character can shine, and where undeveloped 
 characters can get a nice polish. Usually filled with powerful boss monsters and elite trained 
 regular monsters, these dungeons or "Instances" offer new and exciting challenges for anyone, with 
 cooresponding rewards to flesh out your character and make him or her that much more powerful. 
 It's a very nice twist on the common dungeon crawl, and it really makes you feel rewarded. For 
 completing an Instance, you may receive one or several good items, along with the items you may 
 receive for the quests involved with a particular instance. This provides the player with a rewarding 
 expieriance and offers replayability to the game. The instances scale up to meet your level, and 
 there are higher level raid dungeons (for ten or more players) which once again, offers new and 
 exciting scenarios which make the player feel like their character is actually getting stronger 
 with each passing quest/instance/level. The instance landscapes are, along with every other landscape, 
 varied, new, and always beautiful. From ancient decrepit castles, to lush underground caverns infested 
 with dinosaurs, to huge Troll cities and ziggurats, each expierence is exciting. The instances 
 in the game is where Blizzards ability to take an old, well-worn concept of going through a dungeon, 
 and getting better items to continue with the game and just completley innovate and add new and 
 interesting concepts to old ideals. Are you starting to see a pattern here? If not, I'll explain 
 later. 
  
  As with any online expierence (I like that word) , you'll run into a few people you may not like. 
 Though, Blizzard has added a feature to ignore people, and in some cases, ignore and report them. 
 All with the ease of a single click or slash command. Remember that pattern I mentioned? Well, 
 the ignore feature is part of that pattern. Blizzard takes some old and well-worn and makes it 
 new and/or easier and more enjoyable to use. That's the pattern with Blizzard. Their simple innovation 
 of old MMO features combined with the new features and lore of Warcraft I-III combine in an epic 
 expierence (there it is again) that anyone can enjoy, time and time again. 
  
  To round it all off, slight technical issues (popping textures, slow loads, jerky animation, and 
 low framerate to name a few) mar the game somewhat to those with out-of-date or not as good computers, 
 but the casual player or someone with a good machine can barely notice these flaws under the gleaming 
 brilliant sheen of the positives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soupwned
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  _World_Of_Warcraft_
  
  [INTRO]
  
  World of Warcraft, in my opinion, is a strong predecessor of two of Blizzard Entertainments games, 
 Diablo and obviously Warcraft. First off WoW is a mmorpg derived from the storyline of the warcraft 
 series and is regarded as one, if not the best, mmo of all time. The sales support this case with 
 11.5 million monthly subscribers. But to bring this game back down to earth, its success is not 
 owed to its ingenious design or 'breathtaking' story, it is owed to its fans which throughout the 
 life of warcraft and diablo have been loyal. Warcraft 3 sold 4.5 million copies, 1 million of which 
 were sold within the first month and Diablo 2 sold 4.0 million copies worldwide and sold 1 million 
 copies in the first 2 weeks (wiki) . My theory is that because of such an established fan base an 
 mmorpg is bound to have success. To cut it short, here is my review of the mmorpg, World of Warcraft
 
  
  [ [GAMEPLAY] ]
  
  If this game sold well for any other reason then the established fan base it already possessed 
 then it was the gameplay. World of Warcraft has a very well mapped out UI and the quest "grinding, 
 manages to keep your character workload full throughout your time playing. That being said, the 
 quests themselves aren't that spectacular, in fact 5/10 times you're going to be collecting something 
 by farming it from various mobs (group (s) of spawning monsters) which tends to be very monotonous. 
 The majority of the rest of the quests you'll get are the typical, talk to this guy who said to 
 kill this guy deal, even if you can get past that you then find yourself spending hours upon hours 
 on quests that 'link' to eachother to level up, this is near impossible to do without some kind 
 of buddy because you'll get very lonely and bored of walking (its the WORLD of warcraft, not the 
 tiny little playground of warcraft)
  
  Every so often you'll come across a quest which actually has some sort of depth, whether it is 
 that the item you're collecting relates to the next quest or the quest happens to be a profession 
 or class quest. Let us not forget the quests that lead us to my next discussion of gameplay, instances.
 
  
  Instances are for lack of better words, respawnable dungeons. Whereas you can play through them 
 over and over and over to get a specific item or for experience purposes. This sounds awfully familiar 
 considering Diablo 2's entire gameplay was surrounded around this kind of concept. Correct me if 
 I'm wrong, but that is how I see it. Anyway, the quests for, instances usually have a heartier 
 feel to them and will be the most immersive thing you'll run into in this game, until you do them 
 again and again.. and again.. Combat_
  
  The combat in this game is fairly smooth, the sockets for moves are all hotkeyed and allow for 
 you to quickly cycle through and execute what is necessary, given that your latency is in good 
 condition. From an immersion stand point though, the combat lacks as you find yourself mindlessly 
 dishing out repetitive macro-like sequences of spells and "moves". I'm speaking more to spellcasters 
 then the other classes, rouges for instance require you to at least move around due to some moves 
 only working when invisible or from behind. Also the combat doesn't feel 'meaty'. You'll find yourself 
 swinging at the air and watching your badself dish out the can of whoopass without ever physically 
 touching the other person most of the time.
  
  Alright PVP, this aspect of the game is great. It allows countless hours of you gaining honor to 
 gain ranks and.. waiittt nevermind they changed that. PVP is now just a way to get some high level 
 gear with no real "honor" involved because the way most do this is by silver spooning a toon to 
 be a twink. A sort of elitist way to play pvp and ruin it for everyone else. I'm going to ignore 
 the update to ranks and honor and talk about how it plays though. One major flaw to PVP is the 
 pally and priest bubble the reasons are apparent so I won't go into detail, and that every single 
 class nowadays has some kind of bash spell or scream. This is not fun to play with, period. The 
 first time you are incapable of defending yourself because your character apparently can't take 
 some wicked physic opera from a priest, you'll be very pissed off.
  
  END OF COMBAT
  
  One major concern I have for this game is what it has become, I feel it is being used by many of 
 the players within the game to find something they can be egotistic about, and competitive for 
 that matter. Logically speaking, well... they have no logic. Take a step back for a moment and 
 consider the argument of whether 25% crit is that much worse then 26% crit and you'll get what 
 I mean. The game has become more about calculative mindless competitions involving statistical 
 changes and collecting, then the lore and game itself. I do know some people who take the lore 
 very serious, in which case I say hats off to them but they take it a bit too far. I just think 
 if someone is going to do the quests and instances in a game, those aforementioned quests and instances 
 have to have a good enough storyline to remember or bother even reading/learning. I'd say about 
 50% minimum of the people who do the quests and instances don't know how they relate to the game. 
 Once again, prove me wrong.
  
  Carrying on...
  
  [ [ [GRAPHICS] ] ]
  
  The graphics are cartoony to say the least, which is not a good or a bad thing because visual aspects 
 of a game are often opinionated. I can say World of Warcraft has a very low polygon world and has 
 little to no normal maps, shadows are dark balls below you and worldly shading is a mere change 
 in color rather then dynamic shadows. However, these aspects actually attribute to the growth of 
 WoW because while maintaining a decent, smooth err.. very smooth look to the game the performance 
 is easily made optimal. fps should not be a problem with this game and allows a very large demographic 
 of pc users to be able to play it, granted it takes up about 6GB of space when everything is all 
 said and done. Compare this to Vanguard and you see how it runs into problems. Vanguard takes up 
 20GB of space and is a visual powerhouse and requires a PC of equivalency, making its demographic 
 smaller. See where I'm going with this?, cartoony graphics are not so bad eh?, well that isn't 
 for me to decide, I've seen one too many orange, purple and light green worlds to admire the graphics 
 ever again.
  
  Another note is that while the world textures of the equipment and monsters are diverse, the models 
 are most definitely not and are often reused many, many times. A simple change in color or hair 
 length can go a long way for a pig.
  
  [ [ [ [SOUND] ] ] ]
  
  The sound is this game is wonderful, if I love anything about delving into the dark instances its 
 the sound. Without it I'm not capable of hearing the rare voice overs of bosses or the epic battle 
 music and/or creepy castle music. So to put it straight its a 10/10 in the sound department.
  
  But then we get to the : [ part. People don't play with the sound on too often, I say this loosely 
 because some people do. Most people on the other hand usually are listening to their 'buddies' 
 on vent or teamspeak or the implemented chatting system blizzard made recently. So the beautiful 
 job blizzard did on the sound is for naught and we get back to the players being all business and 
 no real fun or appreciation for the game itself. It is kind of like a professional football player 
 who is only in it for the money and fame and when playing is going for stats and wins, rather then 
 having fun, it is.. after all.. only football and WoW is after all.. only a game itself.
  
  [ [ [ [ [VALUE] ] ] ]
  
  Alright, value-wise this game is expensive but in comparison to every other 
 mmorpg out there, this one stands out on top because you won't have to spend much if anything on 
 your computer to play it and if you work your subscription right then you won't actually be paying 
 15$! a month, as everyone whines about. Pretty sure it gets down to 12-13$ with yearly?
  
  Right now the WoW Battle chest is 39.99 and the expansion for some reason is 39.99 as well. Still 
 a good value though as far as the possible amount of hours you'll get out of it goes.
  
  But seriously, how many expansions are they going to have before it gets ridiculous, its up to 
 80 right now and people got there within the first week, think about the new users and how hard 
 it will be for them in pvp realms. I say they should have an EPIC reset at some point. Scheduled 
 of course so they can keep people from killing themselves, but a reset nonetheless. Diablo 2 resets 
 are a good comparison.
  
  
  [ [ [ [ [ [TILT] ] ] ] ] ]
  
  To be honest, this game is great. I really just can no longer stand it because I've played through 
 all the classes and no expansion blizzard makes can make me change how I feel about the warcraft 
 world and story. Plus the people who play WoW are intolerable and make me want to roundhouse kick 
 them in the face like chuck norris for mocking my one less strength boots.
  
  Try the game out, if you liked Warcraft, go for the quests, if you liked diablo stick with the 
 instances. But don't come crying to me when you get **** slapped for not knowing the spawn times 
 of pats and cooldowns of boss moves and autotargeting macros for chains, etc.
  
  You'll know what I mean, Anyway to end this monstrous review. Try it out, you may or may not like 
 it. If you don't, I've played about every mmorpg so ask me about others if you like. I'd like the 
 gaming world more so if WoW wasn't the monopoly of mmos. There are others out there ;]
  
  I am Soupwned and you've just read my World of Warcraft review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electro814
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  i got world of warcraft a while back and i would have to say its probaly the best game and downloaded 
 the trial account first to try it out and it was awsome so i went and bought it. Its about 20-15 
 euro and don't forget to buy the game card cause that gives you 60 days to play the game and thats 
 about 25 euro, it takes a while to install it, it took me about 6 hours or more well with all the 
 new updates and everything probaly take more longer now. 
  
  I'm around level 60 and i bought burning crusade the first expansion, and it was deadly cause there 
 was new places and 2 new characters, the blood elf for the horde and the draenei for the alliance. 
 the burning crusade cost about 20 euro i think, i have'nt bought the wrath of the lich king yet 
 cause my computer crashed and i can't play so theres no point in buying it yet, i'm probaly going 
 to get it when i'm about level 65 or so. The new characters in wrath of the lich king is called 
 the death knight which is a bit stupid cause of his powers, and he would be really hard to kill 
 in a high level and he starts out at level 55! its quite stupid.
  
  The gameplay is awesome but sometimes its not and i hate when you glicth its very annoying. Theres 
 about 6 or 7 classes i think, and theres 4 races on horde and alliance when you first buy the game 
 and then when you buy the first expansion you have one more race on each horde and alliance and 
 then theres the death knight which is on alliance and horde. The races for alliance are Gnomes, night 
  knight. Then for horde there is  
 elf, death knight. Thats all of them.
  
  Theres loads more to write about but thats enough. I would have to say Blizzard did a good job 
 on all of this, i would reccommend WoW to anyone so buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft was the first mmo to actully get attention and players to play it. With an open 
 world, many factions and classes and there is always something to do, this game doesn't get boring.
 
  After the first hour that you have this game, you will be thrilled with its tactics and spells. 
 After hitting level 10, you will get the real thrill of being a warrior or maybe even a hunter. 
 But still you will keep coming back to this game because theres always something big wen the next 
 time you level. 
  The Price of this game isn't alot, its about $20 and fews per month. One of the biggest problems 
 of this game is when you are downloading the game and its patches. I am not saying this is good, 
 just that, it might take 12 hours to actuly start playing this game.
  The player vs player in this game is fantastic unless you are the one dieing. You can raid cities 
 and make the lifes of other players miserable. But this does cause some annyoance for the user 
 who is dieing because you might be questing or killing a high level boss and then a skulled user 
 ( 10 levels higher then you) come to you and slices his blade through your body. Then you have 
 to run back to your grave that is time consuming and annoying.
  When you die in this game, it isn't that you lose all your gear and money, you simply just run 
 back to your grave. Though this sounds awsome, it really isn't. You could of fell of a mountain 
 and be stuck at an annoying point or if you body is so far, it takes 10min to get to it. Thats 
 a draw back and an advantage to this game.
  Though at the end this game shows great thing but it isn't perfect. It would of dersered a perfect 
 10 but wiith te draw backs above you, you know why. Still, buy this game, tell your friends or 
 family because this is still an awsome game. Thats why I am giving it a nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Note: Im only reviewing the original game, not the other two expansions, those two will have their 
 review apart.
  World of Warcraft is the first mmorpg of Blizzard Entertainment and it is set in the fictional 
 world of Warcraft and what I can say it is a great game in the mmorpg area but its not revolutionary. 
 The game set you in Azeroth and you must level from 1 to 60 as alliance or horde for see the end 
 game content. You will have to do alot of quests for level fast but also you will see great places 
 and they will differ alot, say you are in Stranglethorn valley that is like a valley with beaches 
 and then you enter duskwoood that is a dead forest, Blizzard at least added some great views for 
 one to see.
  The pvp is not that great, alot of classes imbalances but at first it was cool with the pvp ranks 
 making you grind for get the most highest ranks.
  End game content was great, it was epic trying to get to defeat Nefarion, Ragnaros or even Kel 
 Thuzad in the old Naxxramas with your guild.
  World of Warcraft the first is and despite all the end game content of this game is dead, will 
 always be the best of all the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  wow is good but its not great its got alot of classes but alot of them r almost the same i mean 
 a druid, mage, priest, warlock, and shaman are almost the same thing, theres very little difference 
 between them plus some classes are way over powered like the hunter and warlock.
  
  the community is kinda nooby, i'll ask even high lvls a question and get no respones and theres 
 tons of cocky noobs. sometimes you find a nice person but most of the time i never see him again.....
 
  
  the quests are ok there mostly just go kill 5 of this or bring me 10 of these.... but u dont have 
 to kill like 100 bears to get just 10 bear meat so its not to bad and the class quests r pretty 
 good.
  
  the pvp is ok but i dont like how the horde can attack you anywhere, i was on a new character and 
 had to wait an hour to play on him because there were like 10 lvl 70 blood elves where i was.... so 
 thats kinda annoying but dueling is really cool.
  
  i think the only reason wow is so over rated is because theres no real competition.... theres warhammer 
 but its mostly pvp i hear and i dont like pvp that much... so other then that theres the random 
 f2p mmos but they get boring very fast
  
  so over all wow is good (btw this is my first review so if its not that good.... well you know why 
 lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheez-it_kid
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Welcome to World of Warcraft, we will take over your life. Well... only if you're a prepubescent 
 12-18 year old with nothing else to do but sit at home doing raids.
  Yes, my fellow user, that is you.
  
  This game is quite mediocre if you really look at all 
 aspects of the game. 
  
  Gameplay... how boring and repetitive, but wait! That's the gameplay kids these days want anyways.
 
  
  Graphics are a bit odd. It's almost like, they fired all of their designers, gave a crayon to a 
 6 year old girl and let her draw a fantasy world. (For the Horde they used a 6 year old boy though)
 
  
  Music is quite... bland. I mean, during battle it will usually speed up, but its pretty much the 
 same thing over and over again. I guess it fits with combat system ;)
  
  I will admit there are some good sides to the game, like a lot of quests, of course they aren't 
 very varied in the objectives, but there's enough to keep you awake. While I did say the combat 
 was boring, I will say that some of the moves are pretty cool. Except after constant use of them 
 they get repetitive, just like everything else in the game.
  
  Overall.... What a COMPLETE waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhoy1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is the most amazing game i have ever played everything about it is great i have 
 played it too much i must say it is that addicting but of course you know i play it in my spare 
 time of course. with wow all the classes and races were highly wise of choice and they are all 
 so cool the game is even better if you hace the burning crusade, (which i do) the game is highly 
 addicting to play and as soon as you start playing you cant get of it but after playing for a couple 
 of weeks you might find yourself getting bored but dont let that stop you from playing this game 
 because after a couple of days you will find yourself with a sudden urge to play it tand then after 
 that you will carry on playing for as long as you trust me it may cost 9 a month but it is so 
 worth it. ypu should play world of warcraft no matter who you are. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adarmus47
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:53 am PT
Review:  Unbelievably over hyped tripe. Never have I experienced proof such as this that the majority of 
 people are mindless sheep. 
  Rinse, wash and repeat is the best way to describe this insanely boring and repetitive excuse for 
 a game. From the constant grinding to the juvenile and arrogant community this game was a complete 
 disappointment. And please do not get me started on the supposed huge amount of content. In the 
 same way that you can dress a transvestite in as many frocks as you want will still remain just 
 a man in a dress, you can dress the same two quests up in as many different forms you want but 
 it is still the same two quests repeated 1000 times. 
  Could the release of this game several years ago have been the beginning of the end for PC gaming 
 as we knew it. Only time and Dragon Age: Origins will tell. 
  To sum up just in case you were not quite clear on my feelings towards this game i will partially 
 quote the great Frenzal Rhomb "I would rather inject hot feces into my eye" than play this game 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Positives
  + Lots of customisation
  + A massive world to explore
  + Good way to meet freinds online
  
  Negatives
  - Requires a lot of time
  - Steep monthly 
 fees
  
  Welcome to my review for world of warcraft, the most played worldwide mmorpg.
  So, whats it all about and will you like it? firstly you might have seen the game around for 9.99 
 and thought, if it's such a good game why is it so cheap?
  Well they don't mention the 9 per month payment you need to pay to be able to play. 
  Bassically 
 you buy the game, get a code which you use to make your account then hook it up to your paypal 
 or credit card etc..
  You can select to renew your subscription every month, 2 months or 3 months.
  
  Anyways, looking 
 onto the account side a bit more, you can select a 'realm' which is like a sever, every character 
 you make on that server stays on that server and can only be moved on special request.
  This means if you want to meet up or even talk to your freinds you need to be using the same realm.
 
  There are some advantages though, such as the name selection is always available since characters 
 are unique to their server..
  Bassically, there can be a 'gormo' on every sever, think of it like that.
  
  You can have as 
 many characters you want on a realm, character creation is quite simple, you choose an allignment, 
 horde or alliance, you choose your race, you choose your proffession then your physical appearence.
 
  So what's the difference between horde and alliance? well they bassically have unique races, alliance 
 has dwarf, human, night elf and gnomes, horde has, undead, trolls, orcs and tauren.
  The decision of proffessions is completely up to how you want to play, keeping in mind that you'll 
 be using the proffessions style for a while.
  
  You have a choice of warrior, a balanced proffession which uses swords and sheilds aswell as having 
 a high defence.
  You could go for mage, a more complex class which includes mainly using magic to harm enemies or 
 even several enemies, the disadvantage is that the mages armour is weaker than normal.
  Maybe you could go for hunter, they use long range bow attacks and also have the option to have 
 a pet by their side.
  There's also the paladin class which uses heavy hammers and strong armour.
  Warlocks summon creatures 
 and use them to fight but have weak armour like the mage.
  Druids use a mixture of healing and offensive spells, they also weild the ability to shape shift 
 into different animals at a certain level, this can be used for their own advantage for travelling, 
 swimming and even flying.
  Rouges are masters of stealth attacks using physical attacks with speed, there armour is medium 
 and attacks weaker than the warrior or paladin.
  Shamans use heavy offensive spells and are based around nature, personally I haven't played much 
 as a shaman and don't have much to say about them.
  Finally there's the preist who is focused on using healing spells but has weak melee attacks and 
 armour.
  
  So.. as you just read the choice is massive when it comes to proffession, it's all about how you 
 wanna play.
  
  You maybe thinking.. so what do I do after I've created my character? well depending on your choices 
 you'll start at a certain place where your given a basic quest to get you started, this leads on 
 to several other quests.
  Eventually quests take you to new places, maybe even new cities and terretories where you can collect 
 even more quests.
  
  So what do quests include? well, collecting, fetching or killing to be blunt, this gets boring 
 after time but your ocassionally motivated by the rewards of gold, experience, items and even skills.
 
  There's also dungeons and raids for the more experience players, this includes teaming up with 
 other players and making a good team.
  
  You'll also be able to speak to other players as you go around your travels as well as team up 
 to help each other or just hang out.
  You can also make guilds which allows you to have your own private chat channel with your guild 
 mates.
  
  With experience points you level up, obviously you start at level 1 and with the basic world of 
 warcraft package your level limit is 60, to get here takes a long long time..
  I spent a couple of months on the game and reached the mid 40's.
  You will get bored of grinding 
 for experience very quickly, you really have to want to level up to do it.. you can spend hours 
 just gathering experience in a wilderness and only level up a few times.
  
  Jobs are also a big factor in WoW, you can cook, fish, cut food, collect herbs and even mine, all 
 these help in combat and making money.
  You learn how to do jobs from trainers in big cities which normally costs a small fee.
  
  Armour 
 and weapon choices are massive, most players use the auction house to buy what ever they need, 
 you just type in the name of the item your looking for and make a bid, you can also buy the item 
 out if the seller has put the option to, it's like ebay really ;)
  Of course certain armours and weapons are unique to the players class.. for example, only mages 
 can wear magicians robes etc..
  
  For travelling around you can obviously walk, swim, jump and ride mounts at higher leves.
  There 
 is no way of travelling quickly but blizzard helps by adding boats which orbit around certain locations 
 every x minutes, there's also a train.
  
  I reccomend WoW to anyone who has a lot of money and time and wants to experience this epic mmorpg.
 
  If you haven't got the time or motivation (or maybe not the money) then don't bother, there are 
 better things to be doing besides.
  Thanks for reading, hope this review helped.
  ~Gormo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  For an MMO it runs goods, is kinda fun and performs well I guess. If you like MMO it is decent 
 to play for awhile I guess, but man this game needs a new skins really bad. The raids are fun and 
 the pvp is so, so. I just can't stand the way this game looks, it's freaking terrible, unless your 
 four years old. I'm not picking on the kids here, but this game really is child like. For an MMO 
 it does have everything you would expect to see I guess, and compared to most of the others the 
 performance is good, can run it on anything. I know how successful the game is and has become, 
 but it lacks a lot of elements that EQ and Vanguard have that this one doesn't even come close 
 to having. Why WoW is ranked over EQ and VG, I have no idea, I guess to each his or her own I guess. 
 If you want to play a good MMO this is one, I just got tired of looking at it =/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentSoup
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, as many will attest to, is a highly-addictive game. Some would say that is the 
 mark of a quality game - after all, why would you want to play a game for eight hours a day if 
 it were awful? (Is there a person in this world who is addicted to Sonic: Unleashed and NOT a masochist? 
 Probably not.) Yet this assumption that an addictive game is neccesarily good is not always the 
 case. After all, would we say that heroin is a good drug because it's so addictive? Many would 
 say that the fact that heroin is so addictive is precisely what makes it a TERRIBLE drug. The same 
 rule applies to World of Warcraft. 
  
  WoW is a game which rewards play time over skill. The more addicted someone is to World of Warcraft, 
 the better he or she (let's be honest: he) will be at it. Someone who has played for 100 hours 
 will destroy someone who has played for 50 hours. On the one hand, you might say, "Well, the same 
 applies to any game. A person who has studied chess his entire life would destroy someone who learned 
 the game yesterday!" However, the difference with World of Warcraft is that the game stacks the 
 deck in your favor the longer you play. You collect better armor, get to a higher level, and unlock 
 stronger skills. It is practically impossible for a significantly higher-level character to lose 
 against a low-level one regardless of how skilled the lower-level character is. That's like having 
 a chessmaster play against a newcomer and giving the chessmaster a full set and the newcomer a 
 king and two pawns. All skill is eliminated, replaced by the drive to play longer, acquire better 
 gear, and ascend to a higher level in the hopes that you will "master" the game. Actual skill makes 
 up a significantly small portion of the game compared to who has the best this, the strongest that.
 
  
  This leads to an even bigger problem which plagues World of Warcraft, and that is the players themselves. 
 WoW-addicts are oftentimes egoists and take pleasure out of being able to press a button and destroy 
 a foe rather than winning through planning and focus with the cards evenly distributed. Many people 
 who play WoW would rather win a fight due to a super-powerful sword and armor rather than from 
 a fair match. PvP and duels are mere penis competitions.
  
  The two subsequent WoW expansion packs only lend further credit to my claim. In each game, the 
 level cap is raised another ten levels and the armor is improved so that the most powerful characters 
 now have to start all over again, grinding and raiding for the best weapons so that they can once 
 again be on top and all-powerful. WoW is a carrot on a stick suspended just out of reach. It is 
 a drug. One thing it is certainly not is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Louboyke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  As mentioned, World of Warcraft is probably the best game in its class. BUT it's either you like 
 it or not! some people can't play, 'cause they don't like it some can. Still it's easy to pick 
 up, everyone is able to reach maximum level. Personally, I liked it the most when i just started 
 playing, a low level warrior exploring durothar :P not having the rush to level fast, get beter 
 gear or satisfy fellow guildies... Grafically the game isn't really a milestone but it stays up-to-date, 
 it never grows old... but if you reach higher levels and start to do instances or even raids, the 
 game takes a complete other twist and suddenly you're much more responsible and you start to have 
 to make time in your private life to raid. You stay up late. your life begins to depend on what 
 happens in WoW. now because of that i've stopped playing: I won't let some game stand in the way 
 of my life... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  First off, World of Warcraft is the most addicting game I have ever played hands down. However, 
 this can be a bad thing sometimes because often one finds it interfering with his social life and 
 family life. I do not let my addiction get to an extreme, but sometimes it is hard to resist playing 
 this game for hours and hours.
  
  This is a a slightly different review because I am reviewing the game and expansions as a whole.
 
  
  The game starting out is very accessable and very user-friendly. Whether you are a starting Alliance 
 or Horde, the beginning quests are for the most part simple and fun to complete. Blizzard really 
 is serious when they called this game "World" of Warcraft. The entire game is a huge world, with 
 the only occasional loading screen. You may find yourself at first wanting just to explore, not 
 quest .
  
  The gameplay is solid, and the most of the different player classes are pretty balanced. Blizzard 
 does a good job at making all of the classes fun to play. The quests that you receive are if a 
 high variety, ranging from collecting plants to killing a number of creatures. Of course, later 
 quests get much more complex, but are fun nonetheless. There is just too much to talk about the 
 gameplay. The game also has a solid Player vs Player aspect. Player have a choice on select realm 
 types to fight enemy players for honor. The game has zones called Battlegrounds, where seperate 
 faction's players battle it out. These can be very rewarding over time, because honor points earned 
 from BG's allow the purchasing of special gear and weapons.
  
  I am running out of space so I will try to consolidate my review.. haha
  
  The graphics and 
 sound are solid. The environments are never bland, and will never cease to impress you. Since there 
 are few loading screens, the world unfolds seamlessly before you. The ambient sounds and the music 
 in the background are really well done.
  
  ] However there is one major thing wrong with this game [I believe] . The game has a pretty steep 
 monthly fee. If you can afford the monthly fee easily, then by all means to not wait any longer 
 to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceetizzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an awesome game with many features, and a lot of things to do to keep you 
 occupied for an almost infinite amount of time. But beware, it is highly addictive, and many of 
 people have had their lives ruined because they could simply not play it in moderation. I am among 
 those people who neglected real life priorities because they were too occupied playing WoW. But 
 don't let that stop you from experiencing this awesome multiplayer game, if you have strong willpower 
 and know how enjoy things in moderation, then you should not miss out on the most popular online 
 game in the world. Also, be warned that if you only have about an hour or 2 of free time for gaming 
 a day, then you might not be able to accomplish much in this game. It takes large time commitment 
 to accomplish anything worthwhile in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:11 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft for the PC reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 7.5/10
  +Good when it was released.
  -Is becoming quite dated.
  
  Music: 9/10
  +Very epic, much 
 like the size of the game.
  
  Visual: 8/10
  +Still good more than 4 years after it's release.
  -Can't compare it to next-gen games.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  +The perfect MMO, in all categories.
  +The largest game world I've ever had the pleasure of exploring.
  +One of the most addictive 
 games I've ever played, capable of sucking you in for years.
  +Hundreds if not thousands of quests to complete, people to meet, and items to collect.
  
  
 Multiplayer: 10/10
  +Thousands of real people playing in every server for you to encounter, whether it be for good 
 or bad purposes.
  +Guilds and parties allow dozens of people to team up and tackle tough objectives or simply explore 
 together.
  +PvP combat is very addictive.
  
  Story: 9/10
  +There is a nearly countless number of quests, each with it's own unique plot and characters.
 
  -No real main quest.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10
  
  NOTE: When I said this game can suck you in for years I was serious. Getting addicted to a game 
 is just like getting addicted to anything else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft. The series that got me into Real-time Strategies. So you can imagine how furious I was 
 when I found out the next game was going into the MMORPG realm. Especially since at the time I 
 was deep into FFXI and didn't care to start another MMO or quit FFXI, and just wished for another 
 Warcraft RTS to enjoy. So I waited for 3 years without touching WoW and finally decided to pick 
 it up. I will tell you right now, this game is nowhere near as perfect and as 'best game ever' 
 as people say it is, but it has a quality that is very powerful: it is addictive.
  
  At first you may read through the manual thinking things are a bit ovewhelming, but when you first 
 create your character (from a choice of 8 races and 9 classes... assuming I know how to count) and 
 jump into the game, things seem alright. The game eases you in slowly, with simple quests, and 
 slowly getting you used to the abilities of your class. In fact, the first 20 levels of gameplay 
 are easy, simple and help you to understand your class so that you never feel overwhelmed. The 
 good thing is that each of the classes is unique and plays differently, and since the first 20 
 levels are fairly easy and you aren't charged for making more characters, you can play around with 
 all the classes and races until you find one you particularly like. Then you slowly start getting 
 into the higher level content and realize that though you can level up by yourself (known as soloing) , 
 doing the dungeons and raids will require you to play with others. For some reason though, you 
 find it takes a long time to get groups together. Now what? You find a guild. This is a group of 
 players with similar goals as you, and will oftentimes become you little in-game family. The eariler 
 you find a good guild, the more enjoyable the whole experience is. This isn't like a normal RPG, 
 this is an online game for a reason. Interactions with other players are what make the game as 
 fun as it is. This is a game where you start of simple, and slowly progress and eventually get 
 to do very large-scale things (taking on a giant dragon with 40 other people is an absolute joy) . 
 Now the downfall is that now with two expansions out, raising the level cap by 20 levels and including 
 new content, you will oftentimes find that the original WoW content will be either too easy or 
 most people will just not be doing the instance (dungeons and raids) runs. In a guild though, you 
 usually don't have this problem. As an online game this game delivers. What about the other aspects 
 though? Sure the classes are varied, the learning curve is nice and easy... but is it fun?
  
  This totally depends on you. Because it is simple, most anybody can play it. It has its depth, 
 and you will figure this out when you go into the PvP (Player vs Player) Battlegrounds and discover 
 you are being mutilated by equal level players even though you felt you were doing well before. 
 But you don't have to play PvP if you want, and can stick to PvE (Player vs Environment) , which 
 means you just go around doing dungeons, doing quests, and not really fighting other players (by 
 the way there are two factions, who are always fighting against eachother... you get to choose which 
 side you are on depending on which race you choose) . For those of you that enjoy both PvP AND PvE, 
 you can join a PvP realm that means that no matter where you are, you can be attacked by other 
 players. Or if you are like me who likes to peacefully enjoy questing, you can be in a PvE realm 
 where you can only attack other players in PvP Battlegrounds or by turning your PvP flag on. This 
 means you can play how you want to play.
  
  Now the main complaint here is questing. It'll be fun at first, but gets very repetitive. You are 
 essentially always killing a number of monsters, acquiring a number of items from monsters, delivering 
 an item, getting through a difficult area to deliver a message or escorting an NPC (Non-player 
 Character) through an enemy infested area. This is repetitive and often times dull, but for some 
 reason addictive. It reminds me of Pokemon, where collecting them all really was utterly pointless, 
 but oddly satisfying. The same goes here, where completing quests will seem extremely repetitive, 
 but strangly enjoyable. The fun parts come from running dungeons, which are fairly varied in strategy 
 and doing the raids, which are different from the normal content since they require large groups 
 of players and thus different strategies. Not to mention the joys of raiding an enemy race's city 
 or going into the PvP Battlegrounds for some nice competitive fun.
  
  The best part about this game is that you get back how much you put in and getting the good equipment 
 and stuff isn't extremely difficult like some other MMORPGs. If you put in a little time, you can 
 do it. This is one of those games that you will find more rewarding the more you play and the more 
 you interact with others (though be warned that the Trade Channel can be plagued with immature 
 idiots) . The world is vast, there is a lot to explore, a lot of quests to complete, and a lot of 
 things to do that will keep you busy and with the periodic updates are well-worth the slightly 
 steep $15 a month.
  
  As for how the game looks and sounds... well it is a Warcraft game. The toony graphics may put off 
 some, but it stays true to the Warcraft look and really adds a very unique artistic value to the 
 game. The game looks fantastic and has a variety of fun environments to explore. And with a decent 
 number of character customization and gear choices, you won't run into a lot of the same looking 
 characters.
  
  The game's sound effects are good. The problem is since this is the type of game you will spend 
 a long time playing, the effects can become grating over time. The music is very well done though 
 and I usually have it on loop so that I always hear it... unless I have the urge to put on some 
 of my own music.
  
  Lastly I should point out that the fully-customizable User Interface and controls make this game 
 easy to play exactly how you want to play it.
  
  For the casual player this game is the perfect MMORPG, while the hardcore player may at first find 
 it simple and easy, it will deliver in depth as you get farther into the game. All in all, this 
 is a fun MMORPG that lacks in one department: story. In the game as a whole, piecing things together, 
 you still have the fun and interesting Warcraft story, but it really unfolds VERY slowly and you 
 have to put things together by yourself. This is a bit dissapointing for me because it is the story 
 that keeps me in the Warcraft series, but luckily the expansions improve on this.
  
  For most, you can't go wrong by choosing this as your MMORPG. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 
 10/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 (8.75/10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  this is an mmo its only an mmorpg on the role playing servers 
  i hate the game now they destroyed the warcraft storyline into amilion peices
  it was a good 
 game untill they made it so only good guilds can provale
  AV was awsum untill patches and stuff ruined it and now its not even fun lvling its all who can 
 get there first with mods and crap. all they want is money they dont care about the game they just 
 want you to pay them money. and this game realy requiers no skill to play - i heard they already 
 killed arthes sad if you loved to play the warcraft games
  i spent so much of my life on that game its not even funy pretty soon your going to be able to 
 leval to 80 in like 1 day
  o and im sure the death knight is overpowerd and can attack off their mounts thats what you call 
 cheap
  - i have origananl wow and the BC
  and ive played the campain on all the warcrafts except warcraft1
  and private servers...... cool 
 for awhile started my own and they dont do any thing to stop it
  its gone now though cuse of vista
  i have yet to find an mmo rpg that needs skill is fun and 
 not cheap 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voirrey1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  4 years and it's still the best "massively multiplayer" game available.
  You can take a character from 0 - 80 (60 maximum in the 1st version) in about 3 months playing 
 about 12 hours a week. Others can power level far quicker but I'm guessing i'm a standard WOW player 
 with no exceptional talents.
  
  The different races and profession keep the game repeatable, so once you've max'd with one char 
 you're likey to go back and start a new. Alternatively you can complete the mass of PVE dungeons 
 or PVP arena's to get the best items and continue tweaking your char until the next game release, 
 then start over again.
  
  On the down side the Guild play is limited and Blizzard have not spend time in building a Guild 
 vs Guild feel. This means that for most gamers they tend to drift between Guild's and unless active 
 friends are in the same Guild there is little bind to stay in one for any period of time.
  
  Finally, it is a time killer, great fun but make sure you have a comfortable chair... You will 
 be spending a lot of time using it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captinkidd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I Started playing this game in January of '07 and I'm Still playing, now to the review and beyond.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay on WOW is excellent there's always something to do, professions, instances, 
 raids, etc.... Never is there a dull moment in this game, mind you your running a good portion 
 of the game but hey thats what big world's are, running all the time, until you get your ride that 
 is, and the only time you see a load time is from new land to new land and instances.
  
  Controls: Using the keyboard is easy and you will get used to you mouse as your right hand and 
 your left hand will be glued to AWSD123 ect... in honesty the gamer ( as in you) will be in sticky 
 situations where you need to stretch your fingers to press one button
  
  Music: I love the music in WOW they make the lands come to life never does the music sound like 
 they just ripped off another.
  
  Environment: The land of Azerroth is freaken beautiful, all the lands look like real lands although 
 the transitions from the world is a little odd stepping from a desert in a lush green land is alil 
 strange but i'm not complaining.
  
  In Conclusion i Lalaluv the game and i suggested everyone to play... on the Horde side :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maphisto
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Yea, I was a fan. Until I realized that the game wasn't even fun, it was just addictive. Lower 
 levels are boring and dull. Leveling to 80 takes way too long if you're a casual gamer. Not to 
 mention the huge skill gap at 80. You'll basically be getting owned by everything and everyone 
 until you pick up decent gear. Dungeons are boring and take at least 1 hr 30 min to complete. Wraith 
 of the Lich King was mediocre in my opinion, at least the leveling was. Level 80 is the same as 
 70 and 60, nothing new to be honest. Just an endless grind that really gets boring after awhile. 
 Oh, and let's not forget the total class imbalance that pretty much ruins pvp. I suggest playing 
 this game when you're retired. Unless you can play this in moderation (usually never happens but 
 I don't want to generalize) you can expect a difference in school/work. Not a good one either. 
 Graphics are old, everything's cartoon looking. The quests are nothing special. If you're a casual 
 gamer with a somewhat time consuming life, don't play WoW. If you live in your mother's basement, 
 then by all means go to wal-mart and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RippedPenguin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a console gamer until I first played World of Warcraft. I thought it was geeky and 
 i didn't want to be apart of it. It also looked kind of dumb from short gameplay vids. But, once 
 I played it, it my opinion on it changed entirely. Its not nerdy at all and its really fun. The 
 interface is very simple and dosn't even have a tuitorial. The gameplay, though, provides a whole 
 new level of depth to MMO's. The endless amount of quests and addicting Player vs Player matches 
 make WoW a one of a kind. There are five races to the Horde and the Alliance. They include Orcs, 
 Night Elves, and Humans. The classes are pretty sweet too. My favorite is the Palidins. They are 
 kind of like a Priest and a Warrior crossed. They have the weapons and armour of warriors, but 
 the magic ability of Priests. They command the Holy Light witch can heal you and party members 
 as well. That is why Palidins can fight alone much better than Warriors. Warriors have rage which 
 contributes to their attacks but leaves there health hanging. It you are a Palidin, you can not 
 only depend on your weapon and armour skills (as do Warriors) but you can keep healing yourself. 
 At a high level, you are almost unkillable. Thats also why I love World of Warcraft. When you gain 
 a level, it effects all your attributes unlike some other mmo's like Runescape. Give WoW a try. 
 The 10 Day FREE Trial is complety free and easy to download. Every hardcore gamer must experience 
 The World of Warcraft at least once. PALIDANS RULE!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigrut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me first start by saying this is not my first MMORPG and most likely it will not be my 
 last. I have played almost every game by Blizzard starting with the original Warcraft: Orcs and 
 Humans. All in all, Blizzard has always delivered on good games. This one was no different. However 
 I have to say that as with any other MMORPG I have played it just gets old after a time.
  
  I was a bit late in joining the WoW world when it first came out. I joined about 6 months after 
 it went national which brought me into the game a little behind the standard curve. I started off 
 on the Horde side and was quickly greeted with a fun and entertaining leveling area. I made my 
 first few levels in minutes and was feeling spectacular. I had a level 10 warrior who could fight 
 5-6 monsters at once because they were all wimpy new player area monsters.
  
  It didn't take long to find out though, as with any MMORPG, the original skills you learn are the 
 fastest. Once you begin to play for an extended period of time things begin to take much longer. 
 This was not disappointing in WoW though. In fact, I started due to a real life friend convincing 
 me of it. Once I joined his small guild, it made leveling a lot of fun. We were able to group and 
 complete quests quickly thus removing some of the monotony of killing boars to collects tusks or 
 whatnot. As mentioned above, though the leveling process grew slower, many other things came into 
 the game. You were forced to learn to work as a group if you wanted to complete dungeons, as well 
 as learn to fend off the occasional opposing faction member. The only time this grew frustrating 
 is when a character of much higher level decided to go on a rampage and kill a bunch of poor low 
 characters over and over and over. 
  
  If you're looking for hard numbers in time spent, I would say that most people spend somewhere 
 between 5-8 days online (that's 24 hours of playtime per day) to get their character to the original 
 level cap of 60. This can be way too much time for some people, and many get frustrated somewhere 
 in the 30s and 40s and thus just give up. However, for those who pass this gap the real fun begins. 
 Once you make your way into the 50s and finally up to 60 you can get into the real meat of the 
 game (at least when there were no expansions) . In fact I knew many players that said this was the 
 point at which the game truly begins. I think this was very true for me for about 3-4 months. Once 
 I hit 60 there was still an entire world to explore.
  
  This new world involved several of the upper level dungeons that required talented groups of 5 
 10 or even 15 characters. These were great ways to spend 1-2 hours goofing around and still getting 
 some decent loot. The only problem I truly had with these situations is that it could prove very 
 difficult to find a group to actually run these dungeons. You'd often have 12 people waiting to 
 get 3 people who could heal the group. Or end up finding 10 rogues and 2 warriorsThis was one 
 of the complications of Warcraft, the dungeons often required specialized groups in order to complete 
 them. These were sometimes not easy to find and could thus prove rather irritating.
  
  Once you were able to complete some of the 5 10 and 15 man dungeons and acquire some better gear, 
 then you could often join a raiding guild. What this involved at the time were 40 man raids. This 
 required you to have a large group of strong players would could be online at a set time. It also 
 almost undeniably required a voice chatting system like Ventrilo in order to direct the raid. These 
 dungeons were fun and required a good deal of talent and coordination. At the same time, the bosses 
 were often difficult to beat and rewarding to kill (in some respects) . The real problem I had with 
 raiding was that it often required 4-6 hours online at one time and you can't just walk away if 
 you have to go. You must be dedicated to sitting there and playing for that time frame. Also, the 
 loot from the bosses was often disappointing as you could kill the same boss 10 times and never 
 see an item you want drop. This could frustrate players like me to no end as you could spend hours 
 online and hours preparing for raids for little to no reward. The two of these dungeons I spent 
 the most time in were Molten Core and Blackwing's Lair. Please don't misunderstand me when I say 
 they were frustrating. There were often great rewards, but at the same time you could often feel 
 very cheated out of an evening spent in these dungeons.
  
  Aside from the dungeon running etc, there were many other aspects of the game that could be explored. 
 From alchemy to engineering, there were all sorts of additional skills you could gain to make your 
 character more useful. You could also gain specialized skills such as first aid and fishing that 
 would allow you to heal yourself and carry around food that could provide you benefits in other 
 areas. These were fun and allowed for plenty of exploration, but at the same time they could prove 
 annoying due to the cost required to actually gain the skills
  
  Outside playability and character development, the game did have a significant social aspect. You 
 could make tons of great friends online on WoW. My small guild and I actually all met once, about 
 12 of us. Hardly and of us even lived in the same state, but we played online 5-6 hours a day and 
 decided to meet up. Had a total blast! 
  
  There is also the fact that the world is just gorgeous. You could spend hours simply walking around 
 the WoW World and seeing sights. Of course, you'd have to avoid the monsters (mobs) , but you can 
 have a great view of waterfalls, underwater views, mountains, night skies etc. You can screen shot 
 beautiful skylines and submit them to the WoW site to try and make the daily photo . This 
 can prove fun for some folks.
  
  I believe the real drawback of the game, like any other MMORPG is that it grows old. Once you've 
 explored the vast world, killed the big bosses, gained great gear, there is just nothing left to 
 do. You get tired of logging onIf you're a priest you get tired of seeing 100 messages the second 
 you hit WoW asking you to heal a dungeon. You get tired of farming gold to buy mana potions, or 
 farming herbs to make them. The game really just gets old. I think I played slightly over 2 years 
 and ended up with 2 level 60s maxed out in Tier 2 gear and 2 level 70s on my second account (you 
 can see my wonderful review of the Burning Crusade) . The game as I said, had its merits. I gave 
 it an 8.5. However, if you're looking for re-playability the best you will really get is a new 
 character. This can be fun indeed; however you still go through almost all the same motions once 
 you reach level 20. The same dungeons etc
  
  Your only real choice for a new experience is to switch servers in order to switch factions. This 
 can indeed be fun, and I did try it. However, it is frustrating to try establish a new friend base, 
 and then to maintain two servers at once
  
  Obviously I've begun to ramble. Rather than continue I will provide a short and sweet review for 
 those of you:
   Great game
   Fun aspects
   Tons of players
   Can lag out beyond belief (or could when I was on it)
   Turns into a total grind after a while
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XilePrincess
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is by far the most amazing MMORPG available. Imagine those pick-your-own-adventure 
 books you read as a child.
  Now imagine 11 million other people helping you on your adventure.
  
  You can delve into dungeons, 
 slay roaming beasts, or just adventure to all ends of your map. To be put bluntly, WoW has a play 
 mode for everyone, which I will explain, and by the time I'm finished you'll be out the door to 
 go buy this truly revolutionary game.
  
  Do you like high-energy, high-stakes excitement? Raiding is for you. Join a group and attack an 
 opposite faction city, kill their leader and return home a hero.
  
  Enjoy slaying monstrous beasts that would make mere mortals wet themselves, and getting a prize 
 to prove it? Dungeons are your new pass-time. With a group of five, 10, or 25, you can journey 
 into a new area, earning great loot and XP on the way.
  
  Like playing casually with no time limitations? You'll enjoy questing. Don't forget to read the 
 quest text, as each one is a small story in it's own right.
  
  How about battling other players for honor for your faction? PVP is for you. You can kill other 
 players on a PVP realm, or battle in an arena with your team.
  
  Okay, so now you know what kind of experience you'd like. Now, what will your hero be? Horde, Alliance? 
 It's all up to you. Play both sides for an even more fun experience. After you pick your side, 
 you'll have to pick a race. Are you a brutish orc? Or perhaps a cheerful gnome? But then, you have 
 your class to pick. What's a class, you ask? Well, would you like to be a powerful monster-thumping 
 warrior? Or a magical warlock? Perhaps you'd be interested in the shape-shifting druid? Again, 
 anything is possible.
  
  
  To be frank, this is the most amazing, involving, wonderous game you will ever play. The lore is 
 packed full, the monsters are unique and the quests are intriguing. Give it a try, you won't regret 
 it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcogamer07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that this game is pretty big in my life right now. I play, family members 
 play, good friends play, it's awesome! When we think gaming, World Of Warcraft is the first thing 
 that comes to our minds. We all have an awesome time playing.
  
  Now for the review. This game will blow all other online games out of the water. It has everything 
 good an MMORPG can possibly have. Fantastic community, excellent gameplay, massive online world, 
 awesome graphics, awesome music, awesome sound effects, and a party in a game box. This is my favourite 
 game ever. I have been playing for a year, I'm level 74 now and this game isn't wearing out at 
 all. 
  
  So now for the basics. You can create a character out of 8 different races to choose from and 9 
 different classes. If you get BC (Burning Crusade) , 2 more races become playable and if you get 
 WOTLK (Wrath of the Lich King) , you can play as the hero class, the Death Knight.
  
  After that, you will be taken into the world of Azeroth, the world where World Of Warcraft is set. 
 It is then that you get to interact with other players which are real people. You get to level, 
 train professions, quest, explore, battle enemies, PvP, bank, sell, buy, trade, interact, cook, 
 fish, train weapon and armor skills, and more! 
  
  There are many professions you can use to make money in the game to buy equipment and items. There's 
 alchemy, where you can make potions, leatherworking (crafting leather armor) , tailoring (crafting 
 cloth items like armor, bags and such) , blacksmithing (making armor and swords) , engineering (crafting 
 gadgets, inventions and mechanisms) , and enchanting (adding power and stats to your items, weapons 
 and armor) . There is also gathering professions, such as skinning, herbalism and mining. There 
 are also secondary professions. The secondary professions are cooking, fishing and first aid.
 
  
  There are different servers that you get to play on. Each server consists of different people, 
 different guilds and different economy. I'll talk more about player interaction later in the review 
 but for now let's talk about economics in the game. You can sell and buy items from other players. 
 This is a reason professions are useful, you can make good money. There are also Auction Houses 
 where you can buy stuff without having to trade exactly with another player. You can sell your 
 items here too and make good money.
  
  With your money you can buy equipment, food, potions, and items. You can even buy mounts, animals 
 that you ride on that make you go faster. Mounts are fun to have, but are usually expensive.
  
  For quests. There are approximately 2,000 quests in World Of Warcraft, not including the amount 
 of quests the new expansions added. There are different types of quests. There are collecting quests 
 where you have to collect a certain number of a certain item from mobs, a killing quests where 
 you have to kill a specific number of certain monsters, escorting quests where you have to protect 
 people, quests where you need to participate in battles, and group quests where you'll need other 
 people to help you. Most of these are quests where there's a big guy you need to fight and you 
 need a group to help you. A lot of quests are chain quests, where each time you complete a quest 
 it reveals more of the storyline behind the quest, and usually at the end there's almost always 
 a boss, some big guy that you need to fight.
  
  As you progress your character, higher and higher in level, your stats rise and you gain better 
 equipment. There are 5 different attributes in the World Of Warcraft: Strength, Spirit, Stamina, 
 Agility, and Intellect. Depending on your class and talent specialty, which I'll explain shortly, 
 you will raise these stats. These stats make you stronger an enable you to battle higher leveled 
 enemies and players.
  
  Now for talent specialization. There are many different specialties amongst the nine classes. In 
 each class there are three different specialties that enable three different functions in your 
 class. I'll talk about the functions more in the next paragraph.
  
  PvE: PvE means Player vs. Environment, or fighting against enemies. There's two different major 
 types of PvE where you have to group with other people. The first is instances. Instances are dungeons 
 full of elite monsters. Elite monsters are like any other monster, except they're helluva lot stronger 
 and have way more hit points than regular monsters their level. In instances, they usually require 
 a group of 5. Instances consist of elite monsters with many bosses that you have to fight. An instance 
 is basically a dangerous dungeon that only you can enter. When you enter, it makes a copy of the 
 dungeon just for you. For example, if 10 different groups entered the instance, 10 different copies 
 of the instance will exist.
  
  The second major aspect of PvE is raiding. Raid instances are like instances, except the bosses 
 are world bosses, the strongest bosses in the game. They don't have a level, they're simply ?? 
 levels. Raids usually require a group over 5 people, whether it be 10 people or a full army. Raids 
 almost always require high levels usually 60 and over. Most raiding guilds tend to take raiding 
 seriously, but that isn't to say that raiding is not fun.
  
  PvP: PvP is player vs. player interaction and there are many different ways of doing this. there 
 are two factions that are fighting eachother. Alliance vs. Horde. There are battlegrounds in the 
 game where you can play PvP mini-games and battle it out with eachother. You can also duel other 
 players in this game. You can also plan attacks on towns and cities of the opposite faction. PvP 
 can be a blast sometimes. However, I'll admit that PvP isn't the best in World of Warcraft. Try 
 it if you're bored.
  
  The highest level you can get to is 60, unless you buy Burning Crusade and Wrath of the Lich King. 
 In BC, you can get to 70 and in Wrath, you can get to 80.
  
  The graphics are great for an MMORPG in it's time, the music is amazing and the sound effects are 
 amazing. Try this game no matter what. It may even become your favourite game. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialFury86
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  If a person looks at it objectively, it is a poorly implemented game which, when compared to other 
 MMOs out there, falls under the category of "sub-par." It has very poor visuals. The game-play 
 is repetitive and tedious. Blizzard's support team is virtually useless (it would be nice to be 
 to talk to a real person) and if you encounter a bugged quest, forget about it being fixed until 
 4-5 weeks latter. PvP is a total joke, consisting entirely of twinked max level characters ambushing 
 players in the 10-20 level range. The ONLY redeeming quality that the game has is its low system 
 requirements. This does make it a good choice for low end users, but unless you are a low end user, 
 there are far better games out there to choose from. I spent a lot of time trying to give the game 
 a chance, since so many people play it. However, after all that time, I was only able to arrive 
 to one conclusion: World of Warcraft is a great example of the power of Brand Name merchandising. 
 No serious gamer would play this game if it did not have the "Blizzard" label on the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drew0987
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Addiction to a game implies that it's amazing and fun, the only reason some people can't stop playing 
 this is b/c they don't want all that time they put into this game to be "wasted" (like it was) . 
 It's hard to stop playing your character after you put 100 hours into it, but everyone who has 
 is very, very glad. I stopped at level 42-46 a year ago or something.
  
  Know why?
  
  Here's what I thought, every time I leveled up: This will get fun, I just need to reach a higher 
 level and the enemies will be more challenging and there will be spells, moves, and techniques 
 available that will make this game fun and difficult.
  
  The reality: No, every new spell you get just looks different, the enemies are never more numerous 
 or enormous or threatening. You only level up to level up, you only kill enemies to kill more enemies, 
 you only get new equipment to trade it for better equipment.
  
  Every quest is the same, no veteran can name one quest that doesn't have you kill something and 
 return to the person who gave you your quest, and you just do that all day. Do you want to know 
 how long it takes you to WALK to your quest from the guy who gave it to you? Let's just say that's 
 why it's called a "quest." You go twice as fast with a horse but you can't get those until level 
 40.
  
  The world is huge, and the only reason to play the game is to level up enough to see the whole 
 thing, which is impressive, but it isn't worth 100's of hours. I guess that is the sense of accomplishment 
 people get though, or at least a part of it. If you're into mmo's and sinking your time, this is 
 much better than everquest and I can believe it's better than the rest, but use your time and money 
 elsewhere, I spent over 200 dollars on this game, its expansion, and the subscription fees. You 
 can buy Rock Band, an extra guitar peripheral, and your favorite songs as dlc for that price, and 
 you'll have much more fun than you would with "WoW" (where most of the gameplay is holding down 
 the up arrow as you watch your character move towards your quest or back from it, or, if you're 
 on your quest, hitting the f1 key over and over until your enemies die slowly 1 by 1, NOT fun) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  im just gonna start by saying that the game in itself is actually pretty good...
  
  now that being said... there is the small problem with the 12 million people who play. (there are 
 9)
  
  here are the basic types of people you will encounter:
  
  -the casual douche: not very good at the game... just a douche about everything
  
  -the hardcore 
 douche: VERY good at the game... still a douche
  
  -the entitled casual: they think that just because they are there, the game should cater to them
 
  
  -the entitled hardcore: just because they are good and put more time into the game, they feel that 
 everyone else should not be allowed to play
  
  -The Big man: uses all there resources to seek out noobs and make them miserable in any way possible 
 
  
  -the little guy: very low level, very low skill, very determined to leech off of others
  
  
 - the regulars: The most normal and tolerable of the whole playerbase and makes up around 30%. 
 they tend to mind their own buisness, do what they gotta do and work in small groups of other regulars
 
  
  - the hardcores: these are the guys you see running around in huge packs of high lvl guys, they 
 are well coordinated and generally are somewhat willing to help you when not busy. beware however, 
 they will not hesitate to take advantage of you to make a profit
  
  
  and finally
  THE OBSESSED: these are the recluses of society... they will spend days and nights on end doing 
 EXTREMELY boring things in order to gain either cash or XP and will do it simply to be the best. 
 they are usually unpleasant and never talk to you without reason. you can spot them by doing the 
 following
  1. log in and find someone thats not doing much or is doing something boring like crafting or selling
 
  2. log out for a few hours 
  3. log back in
  4. find that guy again
  if he is STILL doing what you saw him doing earlier, there is a good chance he is OBSESSED 
  
 
  
  
  here are the average amount of each player per server/zone:
  
  30%- regulars/ entitled casual (some crossover here)
  25%- casual douche
  10% -hardcores
 
  10%- hardcore douche
  10%- little guy
  10%- entitled hardcore
  5%- big man 
  5%- obsessed 
  
  i know this isn't really a review but i think its a helpful guide to the kind 
 of players i ran into during my brief time playing. i found that the game itself was solid and 
 that most of the game revolved around community, so i pretty much reviewed that instead
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: copymachine23
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Having several friends play it for the past 4 years, curiosity just got the better of me. I downloaded 
 my 10 day free trial of WoW and I've got to say, it was pretty disappointing. 
  
  I'll start off with the good.
  
  -An enormous world to explore with different environments
 
  -Plenty of things to do
  -Combination of skills and items to produce goods is interesting.
  -Character customization 
 
  
  The bad.
  
  ---Mediocre graphics, (BUT THEY HAVE TO BE LOW SO THE SERVERS WON'T LAG!!!) Point taken, but the 
 graphics are still extremely mediocre.
  ---Can't explorer outside world beyond your own realm level, my most favorite part of the game, 
 exploring the different environments and finding the different cities. I tried to explore a lvl 
 20 realm while i was a lvl 11 character. The end result was me getting gang raped by the computer 
 controlled bots, extremely frustrating... Exploring and walking through an area 100 different to 
 get to point X are two entirely different things.
  ---EXTREMELY REPETITIVE, this is biggest fault in my opinion. All the Quests (Majority of the game) 
 consist of
  1) Run package/mail to person over there.
  2) Kill enemy X (insert amount) times.
  3) Gather good X (insert amount) times.
  ---EXTREMELY 
 ADDICTIVE, like I said in the title, the addictiveness quality doesn't mean its a good game... especially 
 when you step away from the game and realize its a gigantic waste of time. 
  ---Player vs. Player battle are horrible early in the game. This is the part I thought I would 
 like the most, I like blowing the hell outta people on xbox live so why not this? Skill had nothing 
 to do with battle, it was a slaughter by the higher lvl characters. They'd run up and kill you 
 in 1 hit.
  
  In conclusion, the bad far outweighs the good. This game is a teenager version of the rat race. 
 You gotta get that new sword to increase your attack or that new shirt to boost your defense, go 
 mine copper to use in item X, now repeat this process about 500 hundred times while mindlessly 
 killing tens of thousands of computer controlled bots. (Any lvl 70 ppl wanna fess up on how many 
 bots they've killed?) Their is no way to win, when you finally get to the top, here comes another 
 update!... and it starts all over again. Blizzard is way better at making money than video games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Everyone should know what World of Warcraft is. It is the most popular MMORPG out there. With over 
 10 million people online, it is a game that is fun and will keep you entertained for a long time. 
 However, try not to get to addicted because you might spend to much time on it.
  
  --Graphics -- 
  
  It may not have the best graphics engine, but World of Warcraft is a beautiful 
 game. The environments look amazing, the characters are greatly detailed but the textures are a 
 bit rough around the edges. It also takes a really good graphics card to play the game, so most 
 people don't have WoW look at it's best.
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay -- 
  
  The concept of WoW is simple. You choose one of the 8 races. 4 of them are on the Alliance while 
 the other 4 are on the Horde. Each race has their own unique classes. They can either be hunters, 
 mages, paladins and more to choose from. Once you create your character, you are sent into the 
 world where you do quests, run through dungeons and kill monsters to gain levels. While leveling, 
 you can run through dungeons to get gear or weapons. The highest level you can get to is 60. Once 
 at 60, there is still a lot of stuff to do. There is player versus player combat that you can do, 
 run 60 only dungeons to get even better gear, do raids and much more. Even once you get a character 
 to 60, you can make a new character with a new race and class. Every race or class is it's very 
 own experience.
  
  9/10
  
  --Music -- 
  
  When you start the game, you need to run around a lot. Running gets kind of long and boring, so 
 you need something to entertain you. Well, Blizzard has made great tunes that are throughout the 
 world. Each area has it's own theme and they are all catchy. 
  
  8/10
  
  --Story -- 
  The game before WoW was Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos along with it's expansion Warcraft III: The 
 Frozen Throne. WoW's story follows it, however some of the main characters are not in the game. 
 These characters include Illidan Stormrage, Arthas the Lich King, Kael'thas The Sunstrider and 
 more. These characters would only be included in further expansion packs. So when people just started 
 playing WoW, they always wondered what happened to these characters until the expansion would come 
 out announcing the returning characters and what happened to them. Besides that, most of the characters 
 from the other Warcraft games have returned and it's nice to see what has happened to them.
  
  8/10
  
  --Overall -- 
  World of Warcraft is an amazing experience. The world is huge and 
 beautiful and there is so much to do. Making new characters is always fun and playing with your 
 main characters is fun also. It is possible to get too addicted to it, so if you are a kid/teenager 
 who plays, make sure your parents check out the Parental Controls. It may sound dumb, but it is 
 a good thing to do.
  
  8.5/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christianbran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well before i start i would like to say this is my first review so give me tips for my next one (: 
 Ok this is a great game and it does grow on you. when you start off its not that great but you 
 have to keep playing. im glad i did. i have been playing for about 5 months. the story line is 
 very good and keeps you locked in. there are multiple professions to chose from so pick the one 
 your most interested in. when you get a friend involved in this game when you start it makes it 
 more fun. there are 2 expansions out to keep the story going, and when you reach lvl 70 (80 now) 
 there are more things to do. the game starts out easy but progressively gets harder. the feature 
 voice chat allows you to talk to your friends through wow with a mic set. i havent played to many 
 online games but i can tell you im very impressed with this one. i recommend it completely. just 
 dont get addicted. (:
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  i recently stopped playing wow after my timecard ran out, here is my opinion overall.
  
  it is a massive environment full of quests and enjoyment, and it can be quite funny. there are 
 many creatures to battle, and things to buy, there is so much i simply cannot fit it into the one 
 review!!! the downside of all of this is once you have done all of it, that's it, nothing else 
 left to explore, nothing more to do, nothing to discover, all of that invested 8 a month down 
 the drain.
  
  the character you can create at the beginning is a pretty cool idea, especially as there is two 
 sides, good and evil. evil have all of the ugly monstrous things like orcs and trolls, whereas 
 the good have all of the human type creatures like humans and dwarves. the downside to this is 
 that if you want a name, do it fast or else someone else may nab it before you, remember that there 
 are over 8 million people playing this game so someone is going to have something like bobbybob 
 which is really annoying as there are hardly any names to go around. no name means no play.
  
  the thing that really really annoys me is that i have only 3 hours a day to play it then i 
 got to go to work and i spend about 2 and a half hours running around!
  this is how they make their money, they have a huge world to explore and you spend ages wondering 
 around in it wanting to kill stuff!
  
  don't get me wrong, it is good, just a bit boring after a while and after you play it you think, 
 "why did i waste my time on here, why am i so down in the dumps?". Ignore the hype, you will be 
 disappointed. if you need to play an online game like this, try runescape or dungeon runners or 
 even guildwars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the most addicting game man ever made.
  
  There is no real backbone story to this game, but it goes like this: There are 2 factions, the 
 horde and the alliance. The horde consists of monster creatures like the undead, the tauren, the 
 ogres and the trolls. The alliance however features humanoid style races like humans, dwarfs, elves 
 and gnomes. You choose any of those 8, and choose a class. Classes like the warrior have to soak 
 up lots of damage, whereas the hunter can attack from a range. This makes for good party raids, 
 as one class is always dependent on another.
  
  The game is probably the least linear game ever made. You're restricted to one area at a time, 
 but it moves at your pace. It's not really a case of 'do 10 quests here, next zone, 10 more quests, 
 etc.' it's more of a case of exploration. You find quests around the towns (they're conveniently 
 marked on your map) and on the outskirts. The quests can be repetitive as its 'kill x no. of y's' 
 or 'collect this much of a, this much of b' etc. 
  
  But, there are deviations. You have skills that you can get better on. You can only take up 2 out 
 of them all. Skills include things like engineering which gets you explosives or cool gadgets, 
 whereas tailoring gives you robes, handy for priests and mages. Each skill is dependent on another, 
 like mining goes with engineering as ores are needed for alot of things. You can also trade in 
 the city. You can go to AI shops or go to the auction house and buy things as other players ell 
 them.
  
  The game shines particularly with mates. You can create parties with minimum hassle, and there 
 are numerous ways to spread loot around. There are alot of instances (dungeons) to choose from. 
 Alot of these have quests which involve grabbing a missing object or killing some super-boss. the 
 problem here is that these are time consuming, as when the super boss dies, he on, y drops 1 of 
 everything. when he comes back 1 minute later, you must fight him again on lower health and supplies. 
 this becomes problematic when one guy buggers off, or there are multiple parties (which happens 
 alot of the time) .
  
  I experienced minimum lag issues on broadband, there are rare times when the server crashes, but 
 these are annoying when they do happen its crap. Also, updates take a long time to download and 
 often hinder your experience.
  
  When it comes to the factions, there are 3 ways to clash: the first one is planned battles. you 
 go to a major city and find some warriors. they'll direct you to a battlefield where you fight 
 the other faction. this is ranked so its quite fun. 2nd is in the medium- higher levels areas. 
 these are used by both sides, so you'll encounter enemies along the way. 3rdly are massive, clan 
 based raids. These are truly chaotic. One side storms into the others capital city, and the other 
 side end up fighting them off, with the level 65 city guards. These don't happen often. 
  
  To sum it all up, this game is a must if you have some time to fill. it doesn't cost much, and 
 you get one month free! splendiferous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first booted up World of Warcraft, I was expecting the game to end all games. Hyped up to 
 the moon and back, it seemed like this was going to be a game I'd enjoy for years, being first 
 enticed by MMORPG's by Jagex's Runescape. Sadly, this was not the case.
  
  As I finished booting up the game and began creating my character, I was quickly disappointed by 
 the lack of customisation and graphics, although easy to overlook as I've never been too sucked 
 into graphics and the like myself. The real disappointment kicked in when I actually started playing. 
 After several characters, trying different starting locations, classes and races it became apparent 
 that this game was simply one of the most repetitive games out there. Even Runescape sported a 
 wide variety of skills.
  
  The combat wasn't too bad in itself, but the repetitious quests, similar enemies and boring story 
 quickly grew old. After I finally had a character I was happy with, I slowly started to delve further 
 into the game, hoping to curb my disappointment - sadly this did not happen.
  
  I leveled, quested, joined guilds, tried to enjoy the admittedly nice amount of player interaction, 
 but nothing did it for me.
  
  Now, World of Warcraft is not necessarily a bad game, but at the price VS entertainment value, 
 it's just not what I was expecting. Still worth a check out by MMORPG fanatics (although I'm sure 
 most will have already seen the game inside out) and Warcraft nuts.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Replay Value: 4 (unless you somehow manage to get addicted)
  Overall: 
 7
  
  I tried to like this game - I really did, but sadly, Blizzards Magnus Opus, World of Warcraft, 
 just didn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogartcool
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow is.. okay. The thing that really bugged me were the graphics, they were pretty bad. I also 
 found it really confusing to move around, and other stuff like upgrade skills. I have played Guild 
 Wars for 2 years and decided to try Wow, but I really cant see myself paying for a game like Wow 
 when I can get an equally or better game without paying monthly fees. For any of you who don't 
 like Wow, I suggest playing Guild Wars. It may lack the cohesion of a story [and that's one thing 
 that Wow is good at] , but I have to say it has far better graphics hands down, providing you have 
 a good enough computer. It also seemed that Wow didn't have a big range of spells or other things. 
 Although, they do have something Guild Wars doesnt, which is talents like "blacksmithing" or alchemy. 
 Maybe its just because I'm used to the Guild Wars playing style, but I really didn't enjoy my experience 
 with Wow, especially since you have to pay monthly fees, which I think is a rip-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Yea yea. The next BIG installment for WoW is coming out. After playing the trial version of the 
 game for roughly 5 hours just now, the game didn't intrigue me what-so-ever. It never really seemed 
 to grab my attention from the start. The graphics aren't all that great either. I'm not going to 
 hold the graphics against the rating of the game though. At least I wasn't playing with x's and 
 o's. The game seemed very repetitive. With lots of emphasis on very. I started the game running 
 around doing quests. I ended the game doing the same EXACT thing. Run here, do this. Run there, 
 do that. Just a bunch of go kill this, go collect that quests. I thought to be quite repetitive. 
 Honestly, I think runescape's set-up of quests is better. If you want to get something for someone, 
 you have to MAKE it or buy it. I'm a big mmorpg fan. But this one just didn't seem to catch my 
 attention. Go out, fight the monsters, do it again. The interface and buttons were really hard 
 to get used to also. It took me a good 2 hours just to figure out how to use the interface and 
 all the controls. The game DOES seem to be quite complex and huge though. The map size was quite 
 impressive. But I honestly can't find motivation in this game to want to explore all of it. I really 
 could not find a point to the game at all. I guess it would be more interesting if I had a ton 
 of friends to play with. But I guess there is a reason none of my friends play this game. It's 
 boring, repetitive, takes a looooooonnnnnggg time to do ANYTHING, and the quest system never ends. 
 I can't really find a purpose in spending countless hours to obtain a poor quality item that I'm 
 sure just about everyone else in the game has. I've heard a lot of hype about this game. Save your 
 money. Save your time. Maybe I'm judging the game too soon? BUT the beginning of the game is when 
 someone should really try to catch the players attention. All I have to say is... EPIC FAIL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is pointless and waste of time and money. Also dont see how gamepot can say a game is 
 a waste of time but the users cant. I dont use bad language. Why have a option that a game is a 
 waste of time maybe because they payed u or play all day yourself. All im saying is that with no 
 story provided, not much grouping, generic quest all the way through the game im still killing 
 15 mobs for no reason, all im doing is spending months maybe years on a character with no other 
 benefits but to say im lvl 70 like everyone else. Good gameplay but it doesnt have a point besides 
 get to max lvl. And that would be ok if maybe u grouped more but still with no story what so ever 
 it and soloing mostly what the point. kill 1,000,000 mobs mostly by myself for months even years 
 to only get to max level with no story. There are mmos with a point besiden just getting to max 
 level by yourself. That your not stuck paying month after month. And your character has a story 
 and purpose. Well i had a real review but i guess i dont have that now. Great gameplay, large scale, 
 but when u really get in depth with your character and his story it has no point. Because when 
 u get to max level thats it beside needing other ppl to help you get armor who wont let u join 
 cause ur current armor aint stronger enough to join them. One day ppl will see how this game is 
 set to take ur money and life and just keep u grinding for no reason. WoW even boo hoos when u 
 cancel ur account. They wont miss u just ur money. If really cared about its fan it would have 
 a lifetime by now.
  
  Please especially new comers to mmos read what the guys who gave it low scores said. There are 
 other great mmos that give u a purpose not just want to u to keep trying to kill stuff for no reason 
 to keep u leveling to get ur money every month. The greatest alternative I found and actually better 
 to me because has a purpose and almost every quest in the game ties in the mainstory line does 
 and there are thousands of quests- has a lifetime subscription and they are not trying to make 
 u a slave. 
  
  Believe me I like the game to for a while but then i saw no point other than to lvl and by myself 
 mostly with no other substance that mattered until the end of the game but still that was just 
 to get better armor so when the expansion comes out i can do another kill 15mobs quest with no 
 real story to make it feel like it mattered.
  
  Also, If KOTOR online comes out right I think more ppl will see what there missing is substance 
 u can level and still feel important and that ur getting somewhere all the way through besides 
 just leveling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daslaya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  lllllllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll 
 llllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllll 
 lllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllll lllllllllll llllllllll lll lllllllll llllllllll 
 lllllllllllllll llllllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllllllll llllllllllll 
 llllllllllll lllllll l l llllllll l l l l l lllllllllll llllllll lllllll lllll llllllllllllll llllll 
 lllll lllllllll llllllllll llllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllllll lllll 
 lllllllll lll ll llllllllll llllll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllll lllllllll l lllllllll lll 
 llllllllll llllllllllll llllllllll lllllll l lllllllllll ll lllllll lllllllllll l llll llllllllll 
 llllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llll llllllll llllllll llllllllllll l llllllllll 
 llll llllllllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll lllllll lllllll llll lllllll ll lllll lllllll 
 llll llllll llllllllll lllllll lllllll llll llll llllll llllllll lllll lllll lllllll llllllll llllll 
 lllllllllll llllll lllllllllll llllllllllll l llll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllll l llllll lllllllll 
 lllllll lllllll lllllllll lll lllllllll llllll llllll ll l llllll lllllll llllllll lllllllll llllllll 
 lllllllllll llllllll llllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll llllllll llllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll 
 llllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll lllll llllllll lllllllll llllllll lllllll lllll llll lllllll 
 lllll llllll lllll llllllll llllllll lll lllll lllllll llll lllll lllllllll llllllllll lllll llllllll 
 lllllllll lllllllll llllllll llll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllllllll lllllllllll 
 llllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll 
 lllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllll lllllllllll 
 llllllllll lll lllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllllll llllllllllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllll llllllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllll lllllll l l llllllll l l l l l lllllllllll 
 llllllll lllllll lllll llllllllllllll llllll lllll lllllllll llllllllll llllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllll lllllllllllllll lllll lllllllll lll ll llllllllll llllll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllll 
 lllllllll l lllllllll lll llllllllll llllllllllll llllllllll lllllll l lllllllllll ll lllllll lllllllllll 
 l llll llllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llll llllllll llllllll llllllllllll 
 l llllllllll llll llllllllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll lllllll lllllll llll lllllll 
 ll lllll lllllll llll llllll llllllllll lllllll lllllll llll llll llllll llllllll lllll lllll lllllll 
 llllllll llllll lllllllllll llllll lllllllllll llllllllllll l llll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllll 
 l llllll lllllllll lllllll lllllll lllllllll lll lllllllll llllll llllll ll l llllll lllllll llllllll 
 lllllllll llllllll lllllllllll llllllll llllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll llllllll llllllllll lllllllllll 
 lllllllll llllllll llllllllllll lllllllllll lllll llllllll lllllllll llllllll lllllll lllll llll 
 lllllll lllll llllll lllll llllllll llllllll lll lllll lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satgamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  OK, so I buy the game, install it on my computer (that took 1 hour) then was ready to play. WTF??? 
 more downloads? Patches? ok whatever I will just wait another 1 hour. *1 hour later* Finally done!! 
 cant wait to play. WTFFFFF!!!! another one???? arghh!!!!! FINE!! THIS ONE WILL TAKE 2 HOURS, probably 
 worth the wait. YESS!!! Finnaly done!! oh wait, have to go to bed, fine I will wait till tomorow.
 
  
  WHAT??? Its nots working!!! ok, ill just give it back now. but wait... let me try installig the 
 whole crap one more time.
  
  OMG!! i cant believe it!! after 10 hours FINALLY it works.
  coool... it just feels so great to play this game... but ill stop for now and play tomorow again, 
 no wait ill just play now for another hour..2...3...4
  
  ok.. ok im a little addicted but trust me... if you have a lot of time... THEN FRIKIN BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Papitar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, WOW for short, is a MMORPG with a monthly fee. It has over 11million subscribers 
 and basically EVERYONE knows this game. You can't say that you're a gamer if you haven't heard 
 about this game.
  
  So you start out by choosing a servertype from PVP, PVE, RP or RP-PVP. Then you choose a specific 
 server. After that you choose Alliance or Horde. Then you get to choose a race and a class. You 
 can customize the apperance of your character, but it's nothing special.
  
  The graphics in this game are mediocre, but the art-design is really amazing. It still is unchallenged 
 in my opinion. The only bad part is that many spells and effect are sprites, good ones though, 
 but it seems really too cheap to be in this game. The areas are really diverse: from creepy and 
 depressing to an orgasm of colors. Especially the areas in the expansion are really beautiful, 
 and massive. You'll certaintly see a difference between the old and the new world.
  
  So, you get to choose talent points to customize your character to fit your playstyle, so you need 
 to choose where you put your points wisely. Leveling up is pretty fast for the first 30-40 levels, 
 after that it might get a bit frustrating. Getting some freinds or a guild is extremely important, 
 you need some social contacts to keep you playing this game.
  
  There is a large map, and then there are instances that you do with your party. Instances give 
 you very good gear and weapons and decent xp if you have quests. Gear is EXTREMELY important in 
 this game, and is actually the only thing to aim for in the game, since it basically is your only 
 goal at lvl70.
  
  Pvp in this game is fun - as long as you chose the right class. After five years, the classes are 
 still pretty unbalanced, especially at lower levels. EX. A stunlock Rogue can kill a same leveled 
 player, without giving the other player a chance to even play back. This tactic becomes useless 
 after 60 though.. PVP at 70 is a lot better though, but there still are some classes that are and 
 will be superiour to others. There is Open PVP, which is random fights you may encounter while 
 questing out in the open. High level characters may come and kill you and you don't stand a chance, 
 but it's not that big of a deal, since it really doesen't matter if you die in this game. 
  Then there are Battlegrounds. They are like minigames which are CTF and some kind of Domination 
 where you have to hold certaint points. They are really fun to play, but you'll get your ass handed 
 to you if you haven't got the gear.
  Then there are Arenas. These are maxlevel arenas where diffrent teams fight to get higher upp the 
 ladder. The games currently best gear can be earned here so lots of people play it.
  
  When you finally reach lvl70, you know a lot about the game. You have now entered "The Endgame". 
 You are now respected by your gear, because this game isin't really skillbased, because when you 
 have gotten the best gear you've played REALLY long and often, and you should learn to play good 
 in that time. You can either do instances with a guild to earn gear via PVE, or do PVP to earn 
 gear. Both are fun, but get repetative after a while. This really hasn't got that much of depth 
 when you think about it, but it should keep you entertained.
  
  So - the big question, what are World Of Warcraft's bad sides? Why haven't i given it a 10?
  
 
  Well! Simply the fact that it is an enourmous timesink. You can't accomplish ANYTHING if you play 
 one hour. At lower leves you can get a level or two, but later it's useless to even turn on WOW 
 if you have one hour to play. Travelling times are good and bad, they make the world feel really 
 epic and big, but who wants to fly 30minutes on a wyvern to get to a diffrent location?
  The community in this game is very young and immature, but as usual, there are exceptions. The 
 servers might become "dead" and some servers are just empty, so you have to ask around for a good 
 server.
  
  World Of Warcraft isin't really for everyone. It is extremly addicting, but it promises more than 
 it gives. The time you put into this game rewards you, but not enough. You have to grind for 4-6months 
 to get to 70, and the instances take from 3-10hours to complete. You have to grind PVP from weeks 
 to months. It's obvious that it just isin't worth it.
  
  Casual gamers could play this game, but it might take 6-8months to get to 70, and there is no hope 
 of getting the best gear in the game. Not that it really is better that you have the best gear. 
 Almost every month, new gear is added and your grinding has become a bit more worthless. Same thing 
 goes for expansions, only that it's the 100x the effect. So don't get too attached to your gear.
 
  
  Another thing that is bad in this game is that it's extremly easy. PVE is a joke, and PVP consists 
 of knowledge. As long as you learn what other players might do, have good gear, know what their 
 weaknesses are and how to use them, you're going to be succesfull in PVP.
  
  So, if you're looking for a socialbased, good MMORPG with lots of content, you're not going to 
 be dissapointed. Just don't get too addicted, and don't excpect too much from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperYeti22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Really awesome game. The best computer game of all time. better than warhammer online. Warhammer 
 does have a better pvp system, but other than pvp, no pc game can top WoW. For those who say WoW 
 sucks is just plain WRONG! All ten races are pretty unique, and fun. The 9 classes (death knight 
 makes 10 when WotLK comes out!) are very enjoyable. And it's even xtra fun when you play with ur 
 friends online. The graphics are good. Not amazing, but good. But they will be amazing when WotLK 
 arrives. The music is really good. The death system is really good. In other MMO's, u get heavily 
 punished for dying. But in WoW, u just play as a ghost and get ur body back, ur stuff does loose 
 some durability, but u can get it repaired for a small price. I reccomend this game for anyone. 
 In pvp, u'd get owned a lot if ur not 2 good, but for those who are REEEAAAALLY skilled would be 
 a (capital m) Master at pvp. In battlegrounds, u get a little bit of money by killing enemy players, 
 without taking anything from them. I'll see u in warsong gulch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  World of war craft is a fun game first of all. I still say its over rated though. Why well read on 
 to find out.
  
  First you will be assigned too or select a realm which is a server. You will then start to create 
 your character. This does not take long but it is deeper than you might think. However its not as 
 deep as say Oblivion, KOTOR, or neverwinter nights. YOu will pick your race and the races have certain 
 perks and traits that set them apart. Although not that far apart. The race you pick also determines 
 your starting area. After you pick your race you will then pick your class. This is a big decision. Your 
 class will determine how well you get along in the game. Some classes are harder to use than others 
 but all offer unique Talents. After this your off on your first quests.
  
  Questing can be fun, frustrating and boring. It depends on what quest you do and if you have friends 
 to help you. I must say if you are really wanting to play please try to get some friends on with 
 you. You can get lucky and run into a friend on wow but your chances are not that good. Anyways with 
 that said questing is fun when you first start, however the kill 10 of these gather 10 of those 
 gets really old as you continue to climb. This is where friends come in handy. With a good group 
 you can run dungeons which are way funner than your normal quest and offer way better rewards. You 
 and your buddies can start a guild join a guild, do group quests which also help break up the monotony.
 
  
  Wow also has a good reward system. You start out learning your character, then at level 10 you get 
 your first talent point. At later levels you'll get a mount, a better mount, flying mounts and better 
 gear. However you really need to do a lot of playr vs player battleground combat and higher level 
 raids and dungeons to get the really good gear.
  
  Now for the cons. Like I said if you don't have people to play with approach with extreme caution. I 
 started out with friends and they quit and so did I for a bit because it gets furious trying to 
 find people to play with. Some will bail out on you in a dungeon after they get what they need and 
 just leave you there with nothing to do but warp out. This is a huge problem and I think players 
 should be penalized in some way for this. Its happend to me several times. Then I got lucky and ran 
 into some people after almost giving up for good and it got really fun at this point. So try to 
 get some people you can trust to play with you.
  
  Another thing that gets annoying but is not as bad as it was is the fact that sometimes you feel 
 like you bought a game from scrooge. Everything is designed so it will take you lots of time too 
 do and there for you will be buying more game time. Whenever the realms are offline for whatever 
 reason you also don't get that game time back which is a big rip off in my opinion. Like one time 
 I called in too work cause I have not missed a day in seven months and that day they were doing 
 maintenece and I just gave up trying to get on, like I said this can get annoying but they don't 
 do it very often so its not bad just one of those things that make you feel like you just got took!
 
  
  Anyways if you want to try an mmo this is the one to try for sure its fun but is over rated. It 
 has its fair share of problems but a lot of these are due to players and not the game. The game 
 itself has its problems but they are over lookable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is probably the most addictive MMO (or game for that matter) I've ever come across. Even know 
 as a non-player I find myself checking out the news on this game.
  
  There are millions of players and if you are ready this, chances are you've either already played 
 it, have played it or have seen it played. This is a good game, it's not perect but it has lots 
 to offer.
  
  The graphics are cartoony but beautiful, characters and and enemies look great. Movement is smooth 
 and not awkward like some other games.
  
  There are thousands of quests which are pretty generic but take you all over a massive open world. 
 Crafting is easy and fun and making money is simple at higher levels. It amazing how much game 
 world money is exchanged.
  
  End game content consists of raids, pvp battlegrounds and aquiring gear that is .00001% bettter 
 than the last set item you had. Even then the chances of a drop are slim and even slimmer considering 
 you will need to decide who gets it in the raid group. After while all this seems to eat up too 
 much time better spend out in the real world.
  
  Still, it's a fun, easy to master, nice looking game that is addicitve at it's worst and entertaining 
 for a hour or so when you have nothing else to do.
  
  If this game had a one time fee of $199 like LOTRO I'd be back in a heartbeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theavenger95
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to explain because it can be extremely fun to play and also extremely torturous.
 
  Leveling and getting new gear is cool, but whats the real point of it?
  Its all in all just a waste of time
  If you can get online with some friends and do missions 
 together and interact with other people than trust me there is no game better to do this
  This game is absolutely huge with endless stuff to do and see
  By your self can get tedious
 
  but with a friend (s) its amazing
  Give it a try, but dont get too addicted
  The graphics can use some touches fro modern times but we'll see how the new expansion the wrath 
 of the lich king will do
  the burning crusade is awesome and completely worth the money
  if u can get the battle chest its the best deal by far with the two strtergy guides
  World of 
 Warcraft: a true world to explore and get sucked into
  and addicted to for life
  i didnt let the happen and just play it leisurely in spare time, controlled, and with friends
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  OK, so i got WoW back in 2006 something like in April 2006, well anyway when i got this game i 
 thought it was incredible. Seriously i don't actually play it anymore because i think i got addicted 
 to it ad it was killing my social life.
  
  Gameplay- (10) This game is probably one of the best games ever made seriously. Basically the task 
 is you chose from 1 of 10 races (5 from alliance 5 from horde) . You can customizes this character 
 from facial looks n stuff pick your class whether its ranging from being a warriors to a mage or 
 druid, what ever there are plenty of classes to chose from. Once you have made your char you can 
 log into the world and then it begins from there. You start from level 1 and from lvl 1-10 its 
 basically training. But once you have reached lvl 10 this were the game actually begins. From here 
 you can explore this world. Meet people online. Go explore dungeons. Go raid instances. Get party's 
 to help with quests. Or even raid horde and alliance city's when you get to a higher lvl. You can 
 even go to a battle arena and fight horde or alliance sides (depending which side your on) . In 
 the arena. When you get to a higher lvl you can also start to get really nice armor and weapons 
 from a place called the auction house in capital cites. Very, very, very addictive.
  
  Graphics- (9.0) Not quite the most impressive looking game but for 2005 this game looked pretty 
 great. All the magic spells look really nice and when there are loads of people on screen at once 
 the frame rate holds up. Lag also isn't really a problem although a few times in the world lag 
 will start to show.
  
  Sound- (9.3) Good sound, nice soundtrack really fits in with the game, voice acting is great, when 
 you hear your sword slice against and enemy or a magic spell casting it sound really good.
  
  Value- (10) This game has almost to much value, theirs so much to do it will last you for about 
 2-3 years.
  
  This game overall is amazing. But the addiction is unreal. Anyone who give WoW a chance will no 
 what i mean. If your looking for a MORPG, theirs no doubt that you should get WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhrnw
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so if your thinking about playing World of Warcraft don't do it. This game will take over your 
 mind, body, and soul. One day I went over to my friend's house and he said "Check out this new 
 game I got for my computer." I created an orc warrior on his account and played it for about an 
 hour or so. After that the addiction just got stronger. Next thing I know I'm at my house installing 
 my own copy. I wasted countless hours of my life playing this stupid game. Most of the time is 
 spent grinding. You basically do the same thing over and over again with no end in sight. I know 
 that that sounds boring and believe me after a while I really wanted to stop but I couldn't. I 
 just had to keep playing. I had to make my characters better by leveling and improving their gear. 
 So there I am doing the same mundane tasks over and over again, wishing I could just stop when 
 I finally realized something. This game is a completely worthless waste of my life. I've thought 
 this before but this time it actually sunk in. Why should I play this game? To make my characters 
 better. But what do u get when you do this? Absolutely nothing. Sure you'll have a lvl 70 with 
 all epic gear that is totally bada**, but who cares? Nobody. And the amount of time spent to do 
 this is absolutely mind blowing. If people devoted this much time and dedication to something more 
 constructive then they could improve their own quality of life. Who cares about some avatar that 
 lives in a virtual world. The diehard junkies will completely disagree with me but most alcoholics 
 will tell you that they don't have a problem either. They'll say that they are completely under 
 control and I just didn't play the game right or some bs. I have plenty of friends that are still 
 warcraftaholics and its just a shame. Heck some of them I even recruited myself (which I feel horrible 
 about) . They spend every waking moment playing this horrible game. I never see them unless I go 
 over to there house and when I'm there they just play this game the whole time barely even talking 
 to me. Who am I to tell people how to spend their free time but this game has actually ruined lives. 
 Thankfully my eyes where opened to the evilness of this game and I was freed from its devilish 
 grasp. If you are someone that wouldn't mind having your life controlled by a video game and feel 
 like playing the greatest game of all time only to be sucked in to its addictiveness then go for 
 it. Don't say that you weren't warned. Personally, I'm just gonna stick with regular less addictive, 
 less evil games. That way I can still enjoy gaming along with other aspects of my life. I'm gonna 
 level up the most important character, Myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napkin4TheFace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best game on PC. The game is really fun and highly addictive. It is just great. 
 The PVP system is unique and I've never seen another game with quite the same PVP system. You can 
 do so much with this game. From PVPing to Raiding to Arenas. You can probably never get bored of 
 this game. The leveling system is great as well. The idea of any level being able to PVP any level 
 (such as a level 70 PVPing a level 50) makes you want to play and get better so then later you 
 can be like the player that PVPed you. Also that when you level you get better things that make 
 the game easier and less of a hassle. Like getting mounts to walk faster at level 30 (previously 
 level 40) . I've played this game to its fullest extent and am still not bored with it. There are 
 few flaws in the game. Like it gets very frustrating dying to a higher level player but in the 
 long-run its worth it to get killed by that played because it causes you to play more. IF you have 
 a PC that can run this, it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  When World of Warcraft was first released, they hype was unbelievable. However when you play the 
 game you come to realize that it is worth all of the hype. 
  
  Of course blizzard is well known for warcraft, diablo, starcraft, however; many people would consider 
 WoW to be thier greatest achievement. This game, simply put, is epic. There are several different 
 classes to play, and currently you can reach a max level of 70. Once the second expansion comes 
 out there will be another class as well as an increase of level to 80 and a new enviornment to 
 play in. Of course there are traits you can pick up such as blacksmithing and mining, but be careful. 
 You can only learn two traits so pick them well. WoW even has a vast number of items throughout 
 the game, that will have you searching for the best constantly.
  
  WoW is a game that every gamer of this generation must play at least once. The in game graphics, 
 i think, are cartoony. But that doesn't matter once the game sucks you in. You can literally sit 
 at your computer desk and play this game for hours nonstop. I would have given it a perfect 10, 
 if it wasn't for the fact that you have to pay to play it. 9.5/10 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a game that is very great game that appeals to almost every person. While i was in school 
 i can remember people from every "click" playing this game. From the jocks, to the stoners, WoW 
 has united millions of people in this awesome MMO. You can really create a digital you in this 
 game as you control the path, destiny, look, feel, smell and personality of your characters. Though 
 it may take a long time to get to the real exciting rewards, the journeys along the way will be 
 just as good. The only problems with this game is the fact that its just expensive. For 15 bucks 
 a month you can continue to play this game... but if you look at the amount of content in this game, 
 it will last you more that most other console games for 60 bucks. Whether your new to games, or 
 your a "hardcore gamer", WoW is definately worth checking out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementality89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Whoever bothers to read what I write here may have noticed my significant lack of contribution 
 and overall presence here, so I would like to clear the air and blame this.
  
  Ive been playing on and off on WoW since over a year ago and I've always enjoyed it but found it 
 had a knack of sucking you in at an almost explicit level. Well this time it's engulfed me and 
 I would like to take this moment where my server is currently being a bint to inform you all of 
 the phenomenom you have all no doubt heard of.
  
  The game is coming up on it's 3-4th year of existence and over 10 million people worldwide play 
 it, which, if I calculate it right, is 0.15% of the worlds population.
  
  The reasons I can muster for this popularity?
  
  + It's not only a pretty game, but it will 
 work on mostly any machine. In my books anyway, techno-hogs are always a plus.
  
  + It's a follow up to a hit series of RTS games. Think about it: if you loved a game series and 
 they made an online version where you could get huge amounts of playtime out of it without getting 
 bored (get a move on Bioware) and keep the experience alive, it will sell.
  
  +Combat, pvp and pve are all very satisfying, world events are fun and imaginitive and the general 
 feel is amazing.
  
  + There is very few things better than entering a huge world with your friends and exploring for 
 hours and having fun, especially on those cold winter evenings. 
  
  + You meet alot of pleasant and interesting people, some of my best friends, I have met in the 
 game.
  
  + The classes appeal to everyone. Want to sneak around and stab people by surprise? Go rogue. Want 
 to heal your friends or maybe show your darker side? A priest is perfect. Feel like throwing a 
 scorching ball of fire the size of a car at someones face? Guess whos being a mage!
  
  + The questing system is simple and straightforward allowing anyone of any age to grasp the concept. 
 
  
  Theres much more great things but theres too much to go over without writing them down as you go. 
 
  
  Enough pleasantries however. This game has flaws, as do almost all.
  
  - Although it is difficult for a developer to balance a game on this scale, there is never an occasion 
 where the classes are evenly balanced. Someone is always whining over how overpowered whatever 
 is, however I've come to accept that as a natural element of any game this size.
  
  - The enemy models seem very lazy. For the first expansion, Blizzard seems to justhave changed 
 character models slightly in colour or appearance. For example, one of the first foes you encounter 
 is a boar. Once you reach outlands at level 58, one of the first enemies you face are? You guessed 
 it. A boar. A red, demonic boar with spikes in it's back, but at the end of the day your loot will 
 likely involve some kind of bacon. 
  
  - There is only so intuitive an MMO can be. Quests are fun at first, but you begin to notice repition, 
 however it would be too difficult and too labourious to create 2000 individual quests. The learning 
 curve would be non-existant and the length of the game would deteriorate, losing what makes people 
 continue to play these kinds of games.
  
  I find it difficult to negatively criticise this game without hauling other MMO's into the same 
 wagon. A game shouldn't be criticised for the imperfections of it's genre and as a game, World 
 of Warcraft holds up excellently despite it's inevitable flaws. 
  
  Overall, I want to express a recommendation, but also a warning. Many laugh at the "Warcrack" joke, 
 however it can get quite serious. It has very addictive qualities, I find myself feeling I need 
 to play sometimes, not wanting to, it gives a sense of priority that seems to place most everything 
 behind it, however with a little willpower and something else to occupy your time you should be 
 able to enjoy your time in Azeroth, Outland and soon to be Northrend quite easily while still obtaining 
 a social life.
  
  However if you were the fat kid in school who tried to make friends with the teacher, then you 
 might aswell stock up on energy drinks and microwave food, because quite frankly, your doomed.
 
  
  My realm should be back up by now so ill see you all in a years time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spacemancer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  i really think this game has it to keep being the best. i dont blame it, i personally think its 
 tetious to level up. but it would eventually grow on u as u lv up through the world, when u hit 
 the highest level, it gets alot more fun than it was before leveling try to be the best... i feel 
 sorry for all the other games competeting with it. thou a good side game would be EVE. this game 
 still is really astounding, even though somtimes it would get boring, blizzard would make somthing 
 to get u back into it such as an expansion or new content patch. you should try it for yourself, 
 get into it. the expansion only make it better, and wrath of the lich king is only going to make 
 it stay the number 1 online game. i dont blame people who say it is the number 1 online game with 
 10 million players and counting. not to mention the hundreds extra people makeing private servers 
 or are on private servers. that still counts as playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandemic-7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  4 years have gone by since the release of this game and I must say this is arguably the best game 
 I have ever played. I'd probably put it in a tie with a few other games but nevertheless WoW is 
 truly a revolutionary game.
  
  Every now and again a game comes out that changes the way games are played. WoW is one of those 
 games. Having played only a couple of other MMO's in the past I wasnt too impressed with the things 
 I had seen so far, and then I played WoW. I became immersed in the world of Azeroth, making friends 
 with real life people that I built friendships with, watching your character grow and become more 
 and more powerful, exploring a new land for the first time, hearing that wonderful "ding!" and 
 the feeling of accomplishment that comes with it. The list goes on and on. The overall feeling 
 of newness and wonder is something that only a handful of other games have ever done for me in 
 my 20+ years of gaming.
  
  Without a doubt WoW is one of those games that has permanently altered my gaming mentality forever. 
 No matter how many times a new MMO comes out that claims to be the contender to the throne it just 
 gets proven to be a pretender. Blizzard truly created a masterpiece that transcends game to art 
 with WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUMBOSAUSAGE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  To all you world of warcraft hooligans out there this will be my review of the greatest game made 
 since zelda and mario galaxy even know this game probably came out first. I would like to start 
 of by the graphics well when i first played the game my i could not only smell the deepness but 
 i felt like i was actually running around calling people poops so the graphics do a wonderful job 
 of looking sexy. When you start the game you can choose some characters i chose i night elf because 
 he was the only character that didnt look like a wagon wheel but might think differently. The gameplay 
 however made my toast black because i was to busy beating up strange creatures and exploring the 
 WORLD OF WARCRAFT with my friend COLETRAINBBY in the server DOOMHAMMER EU. This game will make 
 you eat all the pop tarts. I want to tell you this before you buy the game you need a very good 
 pair of glasses to play this i bought these and they worked very well copy and paste if you dont 
 own a pair of glasses allready_ http://www. specsavers. co. uk/glasses/mens-glasses/brian_. Now back 
 to the review if you ever played a game called oblivion aka old man club dont get put of rpgs because 
 this is only 20 percent old man which means you wont be sipping tea and reading newspapers after 
 2 hours of gameplay so to round this review off this game is deep but you need a bit of money to 
 play it so say you prefer a happy meal instead of a plain burger i recommend it if you disagree 
 with my deep review go and play oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfbm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This isn't a new game by any means but I just recently started playing it due to the free trial. 
 I'm not really an rpg nut but I have been known to play games such as Knight Online. Due to this 
 I was very much against WOW since I come from the old school Warcraft 2, 3 and Starcraft (which 
 im pumped about starcraft 2) and I figured Blizzard was just making a massacre of my beloved strategy 
 games. Since they decided to have a free trial I gave it a whirl and I have to say that I was completely 
 wrong in my previous opinion. The game is.... nothing less than awesome, it is everything that Knight 
 Online is and everything that KOL isn't. I hung up my KOL account and now strictly play WOW. As 
 additional information, the trial is 14 days and after about 7 I was ready to buy it, and in fact 
 did for both my wife and I. So to all those "old school" blizzard players as I am do not fear this 
 game, I guess change CAN be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game that lore wise takes place 
 four years after the previous strategy game (expansion) Warcraft 3 : The Frozen Throne. This is 
 a fantasy setting about war, betrayal, loyalty, strength and honor. Alliances come and go  but 
 the bloodletting is always there. Now the Alliance stands strong with humans, dwarves, gnomes and 
 night elves rallied up and they fight against the Horde; orcs, undead, taurens and jungle trolls.
 
  
  This game is promising enough  the theme and setting is perfect for a massive online battle game 
 with gritty town raids and huge green orcs pounding the living hell out of the knights defending 
 the castle from utter destruction and catapults tearing down town after town  as seen in previous 
 Warcraft titles.
  But this game is sadly not keeping this promise at all.
  
  When starting the game you will be prompted to create a character. You will get to choose from 
 one of the above races and that will determine whether you are a part of the Alliance or the Horde. 
 The various races mostly differ in looks and what classes they can become. The different classes 
 are as follows; Warrior, rogue, mage, warlock, hunter and priest. Shaman and paladin are only available 
 to the Horde and the Alliance respectively. You will get to read about each race and class in the 
 character creation screen.
  
  Upon entering the world, you will start with very limited resources in terms of health, mana and 
 skills. You will quickly learn the quirks and twists of the game thanks to comprehensive hints 
 and help windows in the game  you can pretty much go by the "pick up and play" approach, which 
 is a nice accomplishment by the developers. The controls are also intuitive and more or less allows 
 you full control from first try.
  
  It doesn't matter if you are familiar with the previous Warcraft games and the world Azeroth or 
 not, the game will tell you what you need to know as you go by  in fact, you don't even have to 
 care about the story if you don't fancy it. Being a MMORPG this game isn't about storytelling at 
 all. It is more about accepting and completing different quests, and building up your character 
 as much as possible. As you reach higher levels, the game will tend to encourage dungeon raids 
 and doing player vs player (PvP) combat in specific PvP battle grounds as this becomes the only 
 way to further progress your character - through equipment.
  
  The quests in this game, are similar to most other MMORPGs out there. You'll be collecting stuff, 
 killing certain persons and monsters, and delivering things back and forth across the world. This 
 type of quests quickly become boring as the only thing that changes are the locations you do the 
 quests in. The rewards tend to be experience points (needed to progress your character) and some 
 useless items. You will also notice that the game will more or less demand that you repetitively 
 kill monsters in order to advance in levels.
  
  When you have worked your way up to reaching max level, quests will no longer be of much use and 
 will only feel excessive. Chances are that your quest log will be filled with various uninspiring 
 quests when you reach this level. Killing monsters repetitively ("grinding") will still be needed 
 if you want to increase the reputation towards the various factions that are present in the game. 
 A good reputation means that you will be granted access to certain rare items from that faction 
  sadly you will more or less be dependent on having a certain level of reputation to get some 
 of the so called must-have items in order to increase your chances in the harder dungeons.
  
  Dungeon raids seem to be the end-game content of this game which was the fact that made me 
 lose hope in this game. Dungeon raids are basically the only way you can get the better items in 
 the game, and since the game is so much based around getting items for your character, I don't 
 really understand why they decided to hide away all the items in these dungeons. These dungeons 
 demand a group of people who are well equipped if you hope to reach and defeat the dungeon boss. 
 Sure, the recent patches try to tone down the importance of huge (40 man) well organized groups, 
 but the main mechanic is still there. You will most likely feel that you have wasted your time 
 playing this game if you aren't prepared to do dungeon raids  there isn't much more you can do 
 in this game!
  
  If you aren't accepted into a huge guild equipped and prepared for raids, you might be stuck in 
 limbo for a long time to come  how fun is that? There's also a high risk that most of your time 
 spent in this game will be spent looking for a group to play with as all dungeons and even some 
 quests requires a group  you simply can't go solo here.
  
  The PvP battle grounds are fun, but I would have much rather preferred if the battles had taken 
 place in the actual world and not in a sealed off arena. Due to the nature of this game it is pointless 
 to try to raid the cities and outposts of the opposing faction because there will be spawning overpowered 
 guards that will make a quick end to your attempt to cause disorder  sooner or later you will 
 feel that you are imprisoned in this game. You don't have the freedom to do anything but dungeon 
 raids and battle in arenas!
  
  What further makes me strongly disapprove this game is the fact that you can't play this game "hardcore" 
 without the use of user developed add-ons that can be downloaded from various sites around the 
 Internet. These add-ons will make it easy to defeat the bosses and dungeons and all guilds use 
 them. You can't really hope to do dungeon raids in a guild if you haven't installed some of these 
 add-ons. I fail to understand why they made a game where you are dependent on add-ons like this.
 
  
  Another point where this game fails is the lack of AI for the monsters. The bosses of the dungeons 
 all follow set patterns of attacks, making human input and skill unnecessary  you basically just 
 have to follow instructions given on the screen (by the add-ons) which skill you need to use and 
 at what time. At the very best you need to follow instructions given by the raid leader.
  In theory: A monkey could play this game. How fun is that?
  
  Considering that this game has 
 a monthly cost and comparing what you get from it to any of the free MMORPGs that are out there, 
 the difference isn't all in favor for World of Warcraft. I keep wondering if it really is worth 
 it or if all the players are getting ripped off; playing this game 60 days costs 249 SEK (37 USD) . 
 I tend to think that the money could be spent on better things!
  
  The graphics in this game are nice and colorful. The architecture of the buildings all follow this 
 certain comic book style that I really enjoy. The 3D models are okay too, but you will have to 
 accept that the different armors will mostly only be skins, making your plate boots look more like 
 socks for example. The design of the armors also could have been better, as you'll end up looking 
 like a clown with all the clashing colors of the different armor pieces  there are purple leather 
 armor, green plate boots (socks?) , yellow helmets and it goes on and on. Many jokes have been made 
 about this.
  
  The musical score of World of Warcraft is amazing. It's epic and bombastic and will really suck 
 you into the world the game takes place in. The theme song "Legends of Azeroth" is easily one of 
 the coolest songs used in a fantasy game. Ever. The rest of the soundtrack also maintains a high 
 standard  really impressing work!
  Blizzard being known to create fantastic intro cinematics show their prowess in this game. If you 
 haven't seen the intro to this game I highly recommend you to download and watch it!
  
  In order to enjoy World of Warcraft, you will first need someone to play with  you will need help 
 with quests and dungeons as you go through the levels of your character. Once you reach max level 
 you will need a guild who can do dungeon raids if you want to get better items. Without these better 
 items you can't really compete in the PvP battles nor can you hope to survive in the next dungeon. 
 The PvP battles can award you better items, but to get there you need to play a lot and keep being 
 slapped around by the big bad dungeon raiding guilds.
  The outlook for this game seems to be that there are mostly new dungeons coming, making sure that 
 you will need to keep killing monsters that behave like robots in a dungeon for many years to come 
  but to what use!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  There's a lot to be said about being part of a group, and i can definately say that i'm not one 
 to want to be in one. You could say that maybe my hatred for WoW came from my own unwillingness 
 to participate in something popular. Or, you could say that i was simply trying to ignore the fact 
 that everyone else was right. But in the end, i've figured out that their's no reason for me to 
 hate this game, because after playing all of the different games out there i can't help but want 
 to like it. So here is my fair review, different from the others I have posted.
  
  WoW is a simple game, it's about living life in a virtual fantasy land, but it's how the game executes 
 this idea that makes it work. Simply placing a character in a land without a goal can work (morrowind) , 
 but in the end what the player really wants in a deep game is leveling and customization. In short, 
 a reason to play the game for hours on end. WoW offers many different ways to level something up, 
 whether it be with combat, tradeskills, or even just fishing. I found playing the game that the 
 wide variety of options for things to do was a lot of fun, but had a problem with the fact that 
 only one of them actually leveled my character, and that was combat. In that sort of sense, it 
 made me wonder why any PvE player would ever want to go into PvP if it doesn't level you up (besides 
 getting pretty armor) . 
  
  The combat itself works, but I can't really say it is groundbreaking in todays market. It does 
 a lot, and there are quite a few neat looking spells for casters, but it never seemed to do anything 
 that made me say "whoa". I also found that most of the quests came down to simply killing X amount 
 of creatures and then returning to the quest giver. This is alright, but it quickly gets repetitive. 
 Not many times did i particularly look forward to another quest and even when i did the quest seemed 
 too short. 
  
  I think a lot of the appeal to me (and what makes this game so unique) was in the games presentation. 
 Everything simply feels extremely polished, the world feels like just that, a world, and I found 
 myself gawking at some of the ways the designers took such a basic art design and made it work 
 for them. Some of the dungeon areas look amazingly "screenshot worthy" and some of the armors look 
 amazing as well.
  
  All in all, WoW in todays market is a good game. While it's not really anything but a polished 
 version of what came before it, thats not bad, because even so it does a majority of things right 
 and manages to still be successful years later (something other games can't claim) . If there's 
 anything i could recommend though, play this game the way you want to play it, don't take someone 
 elses advice. If you want to play an alliance dwarf, do it, this is an open world of adventure 
 that you can create for yourself. So be what you want, have fun, and most of all try to look past 
 the fanboys to see that behind all the hype really is a decent game. World of Warcraft is in some 
 ways a victim of it's own fame, but it deserves the right to be looked at on face value as a game, 
 not as a pop culture reference.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vispyr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I come into WoW with alot of MMO bias, being an old school MMO gamer. With its weak visuals and 
 less than diverse choice of classes, on the surface WoW seems shallow when compared to many other 
 games on the market. But in order to really understand why WoW commands such a large audiance, 
 you have to go into this game with a clear mind.
  
  The game feels totally stock in the beginning levels. Laden with simple quests and even simpler 
 combat, my initial impression is "I've done this before". However one important thing is that quests 
 are rewarding and progression is steady.
  
  Classes work well together in group situations, and there is a huge community which makes teamwork 
 so much more commonplace. There is also a huge amount of content for thoes who choose to solo.
 
  
  Overlooking the dated visuals, the least compelling part of WoW is the pvp system. When compared 
 to more pvp-oriented games, the open and arena combat, along with the honor system, do not hold 
 ground. While it is not a total failure, pvp in wow feels somewhat empty, while the pve endgame 
 has alot to offer.
  
  My conclusion is that WoW is a game that anyone can enjoy, but in the end it might not suit the 
 needs of gamers who look for dynamic pvp or great graphics. This game will work for 4 out of 5 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmigotti
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  When I first start playing it, was like anyother MMO, grab a quest and do it but after 20 lv's 
 it slowly got more & more boring, just repeating. The PvP isn't fully balance with a 70 vs another 
 70 it's geared base then "skill", EG/ Warrior vs Warrior it's gear. I liked doing Instances but 
 60-70% of the time I couldn't get a group or missing a tank/healer doing any instances after BC 
 with the lower ones. WAY to many kid's or people that can't act there "AGE" complaining about the 
 dumbest thing's sometimes. I was 60 doing MC and ect. for my higher Tier armor little did I know 
 in Feb 2007 they we're releasing BC Exp-pack, so yeah, I was pissed off like half of the people 
 when I found out "GREENS" had almost better stat's then my one epic of armor. I stopped playing 
 during the summer after I got 3 pieces of my S1 gear then found out they are moving S2 for honor 
 rating, again.. I was pissed off cause I grinded for that crap. Sounds are OK nothing to really 
 complain about. Looks isn't to great cause I pull out Line-age 2 or DAoC and they look some what 
 better. Overall it's a OK game worth a try but it's up to the person.
  
  The new EXP-pack coming might seem good and all but half of the people will be pissed off again 
 if "GREENS" beat your Tier armor. The DeathKnight sounds cool but... I bet 70% of people are going 
 to make one... when they get a chance, soon or later might be over run by them. My only real Problem 
 with WoW is the "BLOODY F***ING GRINDING" and I mean everything.... it's so boring after some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconOI
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I Had To Pry My Self Away From WOW For Just Enough Time To Write This Review ^_^
  This Game Is Friggen Amazing!!!!!!
  Everyone Else That Thinks Differently Can Go Shoot Them Self 
 In The Head. This Game Simply Can't Be Beaten But Any Other Game!!
  Exepet Mabye Fable 2 ^_^ I Love Fable 2 All Ready I've Been Waiting Ever Since Lion Head Anounced 
 It, Fable 2 Was Mad For Me And Plus It's Getting Released On My Birthday, What More Proof Do You 
 Need ^_^.
  Ok Back To WOW, WOW Is JOY. I Just Can't Wait For The Wrath of Lich King To Come Out ^_^
  If 
 You Haven't Already Played WOW. Stop Reading This Review And Get This Game Right Now. And Don't 
 Stop Playing Until You Die!!!!
  Trust Me Your Life Will Be Well Spent ^_-
  Just Kidding Guys I'm Not That Addicted To WOW But I'm Not That Far From It ^_^
  Seya All. And 
 Have Fun Gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  When this game was release I thought great another good MMO, but after you have done the basics. 
 Eg got to level 60, 70 burning crusade there would be something to do. But no, its the same thing, 
 you either grind components or golds thats it. Raids are too long & I was hoping for something 
 like a decent raid where you actually can do something for the alliance or horde by killing other 
 Alliance/Horde. Then blizzard came out with arena PVP, this is so unbalanced. The winner is not 
 determine by skill, its who has the best equipment. What do you get for winning? points to improve 
 your equipment. What happens when you have the best equipment. "I know, I will go & do some pointless 
 killing of lower level people. I do not care I will not get penalised." This is because they have 
 nothing better to do. This is where WOW fails.
  
  This review is to the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petrarus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, which has addicted millions of people. The graphics are very good and 
 they don't make the game heavy on your computer. The outstanding presentation of World of Warcraft 
 makes the virtual world of Azeroth seem alive.
  
  The sounds also impressed me. WoW has excellent audio cues which highlight key moments, such as 
 when you level up, when a friend of yours comes online, or when you accept or accomplish a quest. 
 The music is beautifully composed and when entering another area, the music changes to fit the 
 area's atmosphere.
  
  The current Pvp combat is awesome. The majority of players will keep coming back after they've 
 already invested the hundreds of hours necessary to max out their character's experience for Pvp 
 Combat. The only problem with pvp combat is that once you have reached level 70, you will go to 
 battlegrounds to get some honor to purchase equipments, but you will encounter many better geared 
 players which could easily kill you. That is the downside of pvp.
  
  In conclusion Wow these are the strong and weak points of Wow:
  Good:
   Huge, beautiful, seamless 
 world 
   High streamlined and conducive to short or long play sessions 
   Exciting, action-packed combat 
   Elegant, easy-to-use interface 
   Excellent music and 
 sound. 
  
  Bad: 
   Some stability issues immediately following launch 
   Player-versus-player elements not complete. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianWalter
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I've never played such a beautiful and well-done game. This game is amazing. The quests are awesome, 
 the classes are nice, the players are friendly and the quest-based XP mode is really nice.
  
  World of Warcraft offers an amazing gameplay to any MMORPG fan. Extremely recommended, each 
 dollar spent in this game is a well-spent dollar.
  
  One of the things that impressed me the most is the big maps. I just love to walk from a city to 
 another one.
  
  Horde and Alliance rivality is nice too, I used to be Alliance but I'll try to play Horde.
  
 
  The clean and nice graphics don't make the game heavy to your computer, and the engine/physics 
 in the game are just right. In the Alliance, the cities are beautiful and the visual is friendly.
 
  
  World of Warcraft makes you addicted and makes you love your own character. Definitely the best 
 MMORPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetankfrank
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Game was good, when people used to actually group together to do things. Now you can never find 
 a group to do ANYTHING. 
  
  End game is horridly boring... Sit at level 70 with nothing to do. joing the LFG system which is 
 garbage and no one uses.
  
  Trying to pug a 10 man instance, another waste of time. Not being able to do 25 man instances because 
 you need a guild, that will expect you to devote your life to the game otherwise they will kick 
 you out.
  
  Arena's are an addition to the game that is another unbalanced system that is garbage. If you arent 
 one of 3 classes your basically not going anywhere. You are only required to do 10 matches per 
 team. 
  
  End game in a nut shell, is just frusterating. Most of the time you spend, you log in stand around 
 in a major city for a hour or so. only to realize no one is looking for a group. 
  
  You can join a battleground which is more unbalanced garbage, Horde wins 99/100 times. So now everyone 
 that was good on Alliance pretty much rerolled Horde. So the Que times for Horde must be ridiculous. 
 
  
  So if your not worried about end game gear, you can allways just farm gold and possibly buy some 
 junk crafted gear which costs ridiculous amounts of gold to make.
  
  And farming is the biggest waste of time, because they nerfed the loot system in the entire game 
 due to chinese farmers. So now they have daily quests, which the only thing they do is produce 
 massive amounts of gold which makes somthing simple in the game cost a fortune.'
  
  This is only my opionion, the game will keep you interested for a while. but you will never get 
 the full experience of the game unless you are great friends with hundreds of strangers. Which 
 Iam not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of the few games that shatters the high level of hype. People regard this 
 game as the best massively multiplayer online role playing game, and well they are right to do 
 so. World of Warcraft has something to offer to everyone and both fans of Warcraft and MMORPG's 
 have something to get from this. Of course World of Warcraft is also an excellent way to get into 
 the MMORPG genre as it is easy to pick up but difficult to master. World of Warcraft is a game 
 that rewards you for putting the time into it but of course this game also requires a lot of skill, 
 especially in the later part of the game known as 'end-game'. 
  
  World of Warcraft centers on the struggle for power between the horde and the alliance. The player 
 can choose from 8 different races in the original game and can choose from a variety of classes 
 including warlock, warrior, hunter, mage, priest, paladin, shaman, druid, and rogue. Once the player 
 customizes their character, they are thrust into a unique beginning portion of the game which is 
 only available to the race they select. Each race has their own home city and area with the exception 
 of Dwarves and Gnomes, and the Orcs and Trolls who share a beginning area and home city. Each race 
 also has unique characteristics which make them specialize in a certain play style and class. This 
 helps bring incentive for players to make alternative characters.
  
  On a technical level World of Warcraft is pretty amazing. The fact that a world the size of Australia 
 can be loaded within a few seconds is a great feat in itself. The bigger feat is the game is absolutely 
 gorgeous. Four years down the road and the game is still a pleasure to look at. The world is beautifully 
 rendered and even though it doesn't have the highest-res textures or the best character models 
 the world is still gorgeous, colorful and memorable. Each region in the world is completely different 
 from the rest and they all have something awesome in them. It's often fun to just explore regions 
 and search out the amazing scenery. The player models aren't amazing looking and could look better 
 but I won't hold that against the game. Most of the time your player is covered head to toe in 
 armor so that's a non issue. The armor looks great for the most part, especially the flashy epics 
 and legendary weapons you can get later down the road.
  
  World of Warcraft offers a lot of things in term of gameplay. In fact the game is almost endless 
 due to the constant updates Blizzard gives for the game. Be it new raids or updates to the PvP 
 in the game, World of Warcraft has something to satisfy hardcore fans of Player versus Environment 
 or Player versus Player.
  
  The PvP in World of Warcraft is secondary to the PvE but it's still great. There are three battlegrounds 
 in the base game, there are Alterac Valley, Warsong Gulch, and Arathi Basin. Eye of the Storm and 
 Arena was added later on the in the expansion pack, Burning Crusade as well as a variety of world 
 PvP but that's for the review of Burning Crusade. Warsong Gulch is your basic capture the flag 
 mode, Arathi Basin is your basic capture the point mode and Alterac Valley is something else all 
 together. The objective is to bring down the other teams recruits either by killing the other sides 
 players, killing the other sides captains, capturing the other sides points or eventually killing 
 the other sides general which is an instant win. All of these games are very fun and each one is 
 well played and well made. A lot of strategy is required and failing to work as a team will equate 
 to a loss. The game rewards players for PvP by giving them tokens to buy gears and weapons with. 
 It's a system that works well and I have no complaint with it. I just wish there was more world 
 PvP implemented. There are also some problems with classes being overpowered but Blizzard fixes 
 these issues often due to the constant patching the game gets.
  
  The PvE is the strong part of World of Warcraft. The quests are all interesting and though they 
 can be repetitive it's difficult to really make varied quest structure in an MMORPG. They tried 
 their best for the most part and it's nothing to complain about. There are also quests requiring 
 you to do a dungeon or raid which often leads to you gaining some great weapons, armor, and other 
 items. A great feature implemented into World of Warcraft is the ability to share quests with your 
 friends easily so if you find a friend and want to pair up it's easy to do so. World of Warcraft 
 has a lot of features like this and they put a lot of care into these little details. PvE is a 
 blast with a friend and it's very easy to get together and quest. 
  
  Dungeons and raids are also well implemented into the game and provide satisfying and challenging 
 gameplay. There is no feeling more satisfying then completing a dungeon and getting the gear you 
 wanted. Completing raids is also amazing as they often require intense team work and great strategy. 
 The game is quite challenging at these moments and they are the bread and butter of the game for 
 many users. The game offers many dungeons for almost every level above level 10 so there is no 
 moment in the game where you can't do an instance. There is also a handy feature where you can 
 look for a group to do a dungeon with and it works well and is the easiest way to find a group. 
 There is also a teleportating device at every dungeon to summon other players which makes it easy 
 to get together. 
  
  Raids are not easy to get a group together for. To raid you'll have to join a guild but this is 
 no bad thing. Guild are well implemented into World of Warcraft and they are great as many are 
 strong and active communities. I've met countless great people in guilds. Most of them are very 
 similar to clans as they have forums, websites, and teamspeaks. Starting a guild is easy but guiding 
 it to greatness will take a lot of time and many great friends. Guilds are easy to find though 
 and it's easy to get into raids for the most part once in a guild. If you don't want to socialize 
 though in World of Warcraft don't bother beause you'll need to if you plan to raid or do any end-game. 
 
  
  I could talk about everything in World of Warcraft but it would take far too long. All I can say 
 is that now is as good a time as ever to buy the game, the game is constantly updated and endless. 
 There is a great community and the game is an awesome experience for any fan of PC gaming. With 
 some friends World of Warcraft is well worth experiencing and the 14.99 monthly fee is very reasonable 
 for what you get. This game has my seal for being one of my favorite games of all time. 
  
  Good: Endless content, amazing artistic graphics, challenging, strong PvP element, great community, 
 guilds are great, raiding and dungeons are some of the the most satisfying moments in gaming history.
 
  
  Bad: You'll be hooked, 14.99 is a bit much for some people, world PvP could use an overhaul
  
 
  Overall: The perfect game, endless value and a lot to do World of Warcraft will have you hooked 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  i give it an 8.5 for many reasons... it is a good game, aside from being a MMO, but as well it 
 is a good mmo, and honestly the best one i have played yet... yes it could have a little more work 
 done to it... but the servers are stable... the preformance of the game is stable. you have a chance 
 to meet some cool people... though alot of morons as well... but i met my girlfriend on wow... 
 we played quite a bit together, then we met in person. now we are happy as could be... but thats 
 another story... this game has good immersion and if you have a computer to run it right it is 
 actually a beautifully crafted game.. though not like AOC where you need a monster rig to play 
 it anywhere close to max at decent frame rate.. but AOC kinda failed anyway so it doesnt really 
 matter.. it has good music, not all teh music is good, but alot of it is thanks to the added help 
 of Matt Uelmen, who did all the diablo music.. a master composer. the leveling system is good, 
 the professions are good, its just a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supppergamer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I am a WoW player i started to play WoW since it first came out and i loved it... to this day it 
 is still my favorite game, i was so exited when they announced the burning crusade i just couldn't 
 wait. It was a whole new experience, to me it was like a new game.
  
  Now when they announced the Wrath Of The Lich King i still cant be happier, i like these expansions 
 because they make the game different and make it a whole new experience and now there's a new class 
 which looks awesome and when i was allowed to play the beta and was able to try it out it was awesome. 
 
  
  Ive even played Warcraft and diablo, and even starcraft so i was with blizzard for awhile, every 
 blizzard game ive played is awsome and there expansion packs are even sweeter, so there is no doubt 
 that the new world of warcraft is going to be awesome.
  
  I cant wait till the Wrath Of The Lich King!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haon8
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  If you're into MMOs and are a part of that crow, then you NEED to play this game. I picked it up 
 maybe three years ago, and I am still playing. The way it works for me is that I'll play for a 
 few months, and then take a break for a few months when it gets boring. It had been over a year 
 since I last played, but had to urge to again, so I reinstalled it and got time. I'm not disappointed.
 
  
  Right from the get-go, the game grabs your interest. No matter if you start Horde or Alliance, 
 you begin in a beautiful, immersive environment that is much more than just killing rats. You can 
 choose from two factions, five races (if you have Burning Crusade, only four if you only have the 
 base game) and so many classes I can't even count. They include Warrior, Paladin, Mage, Warlock, 
 and others.
  
  As you progress you dive into much more epic quests, including instances, which are HUGE! dungeons 
 with GIGANTIC! boss battles throughout where you get AMAZING! armor. 
  
  Not to say that grinding and questing is all you get. You can get pets or minions (if you play 
 as a Hunter or Warlock, respectively) , along with mounts (Paladins and Warlocks have 1 gold mounts 
 included, all other classes need to buy theirs) . When you hit level 60 you can get an epic mount, 
 which costs 300 gold (and I haven't gotten to yet) , but is much faster than a regular mount and 
 looks much cooler.
  
  The graphics are cartoony at best, but that's actually a good thing! Blizzard made a smart move 
 on that part, almost any system can run the game. And if you really crank up the settings it can 
 look great (running at 1680x1050 with all settings maxed) .
  
  Most MMOs since WoW have been either really cheap knockoffs, or just not that good, the only exception 
 I can think of is Age of Conan. If you like MMOs and are stuck with something like Runescape, give 
 the free trail a try. You WILL NOT be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krynspencer17
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The only game I thought could stand a chance at taking down this mammoth of a game is WAR but after 
 playing that for a few days i realize just how truly amazing WoW is. It is easily the most balanced 
 MMO and the most fun imho. millions of people play it and people are constantly talking in the 
 chat so you feel like you really are playing with other people. Its extremely easy to make friends 
 on it through guilds, paries, raids and such. I have taken this game for granted hoping that WAR 
 would have been better but WoW is still the #1 contender in the MMO department. The only bad thing 
 i can really say about this game is that is VERY easy to become VERY addicted. as of now i since 
 about December 2004 i have spent about 40 days of my life playing WoW. Which to most seems like 
 its ridiculous but since all my friends in RL play it even more then me. It's hard to do anything 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemarsh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game. There are so many things to do in the game it is hard to say you have 
 done everything or that you have beat the game. I have played the game for more that 300 hours 
 now and it is still fun. The people you meet in game are great, the PvP is really fun, the quests 
 are great, the world graphics are very nice. I know some people complain about graphics but I think 
 this game is just about right, to much more and the game may be to slow online. I like the fact 
 that you could spend hours just moving around in the game from zone to zone. The game world is 
 much bigger than other games I have played, but its not to big that you get lost easy. I own the 
 burning crusade expansion as well. I think that they did a good job adding new content to the game 
 (equipment, skills, quest, zones, etc.) My only negative with the game is that you have to pay 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabocalde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I don't talk really good english
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9.5
  Community: 9.5
  Quests: 9.0
  Storyline: 10
  Worth the money: Yep
  
  I really 
 like playing video games. Before playing WoW, I though it was a waste of money and other games 
 like Runscape where better.
  
  Now 1 month after I quitted other MMO's, Im playing WoW.
  Since the first day I try it I was like, OMG how much time I have been wasting playing other games. 
 This is just plain fun!
  
  Im not really a good player. Im a lvl 12 that has much more to explore. But what I have expirienced 
 in this 1 month is just awesome. PVE is really cool and i like that combat is not just, click and 
 wait. The graphics are pretty awesome and the gameplay is outstanding. The community is really 
 nice both in alliance and horde. Quests are kinda repetitive some times but they are really fun. 
 And the storyline is really cool, I really like it.
  
  So yes, say hi to the best MMO out. Join this game cause it PWNZ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 10
  Storyline: 9
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 9.5 (real 9.5)
  
  Before 2005 MMORPG's were a bit lacking and had a poor name, it 
 was considered that only "geeks" played them and they weren't all that great; They did not reward 
 you enough and were quite repetitive. 
  
  World of Warcraft has come and has changed the MMORPG market forever. The huge range of things 
 to do, the large amounts of skills... everything this game has to offer is brilliant and there is 
 no reason you shouldn't get it, no matter who you are.
  
  When you start the game you choose a race, i. e. gnome, human, night elf e. t. c. and each race is 
 either on the "Hordes" group or the "Alliance" group. Once you have chosen a race you can choose 
 a class that is available for that race type and these include things like a hunter, mage, warrior, 
 druid so on. Each class is unique in it's own way and so is each race, depending on what race you 
 chose depends on where your story begins.
  
  There are many quest which are all different and all enjoyable and relate to a story, some quests 
 have several parts to them and others are easier done with a group so it is aslo very easy to socialise 
 in WOW when you find others taking part in the same quest. Quests reward items of value, money 
 and experience. This experience goes toward your leveling and as you go up a level you can learn 
 many new special abilities from a trainer for your skill. There are millions of items, millions 
 of quests and plenty of things to do. You can have side abilities such as mining or leatherworking 
 to create things for yourself, friends or to sell for in-game money. Everything in WOW has a purpose 
 and isn't just put in there for the sake of it and every single thing adds to the enjoyment.
  
  PVP is also an option, which includes dueling and PVP arena and events, in the game and so 
 is role-playing which can be rather enjoyable to act as your character within this massive mystical 
 world. You join guilds which have their own bank vaults so members of the guild can have access 
 to things they need and are able to receive help in quests when they need it.
  
  There are many different types of creature and they change from region to region, there are many 
 forms of transport, there are many different types of traders, i mean there are so many things 
 to do that are so enjoyable that time will disappear before you even know it, so prepare to be 
 sucked right into the wrath of this games pleasure and reward. 
  
  No matter who you are and whether you think MMORPG's are for "sad people without lives" you are 
 wrong! Anyone will love this game as no other game will reward you as much as this one. I believe 
 that WOW is a supremely superb MMORPG and cannot be improved in anyway a part from the graphics 
 which are still beautiful without a doubt which is why this game is rated as 9.5 for me.
  
  The Good:
  -The best MMORPG up to date
  -Excellent multiplayer and gameplay
  -Total Customization
 
  -Over 10 mill players online
  -Clans, guilds etc.
  -Huge world
  -There are useful patches
  
  The Bad:
  -Unpopular for many
  -Some minor problems with AI
 
  -Only up to 70 level
  -Same engine from Warcraft 3: TFT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-relorder90
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  WoW seems to be made for all. Blizzard is always making great games but this time blizzard made 
 the best game ever. WoW has many interesting and cool classes. I personally prefer druids they 
 rock! I like `em because they can morph into 9 forms each one with cool abilities. Anyway other 
 classes are good too. World of warcraft is the best game. You have to have it. Wrath of the lich 
 king features a new class Death Knight. It is awesome. The Druid forms are written down here.
 
  
  Bear form, Dire Bear Form, Cat form, Travel form, Moonkin form, Aquatic form , Tree of Life, Flight 
 and swift flight form.
  All of these forms have their own unique abilities. Such as prowl for cat form which turns you 
 invisible.
  
  Two new races are also available on the BC expansion : Blood elves and Draeneis besides than night 
 elves, Humans, Undeads, Taurens, Orcs, Trolls, Gnomes, Dwarves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I had only played one MMORPG before I began with WoW. Everquest 2. 
  With the huge popularity of WoW it is hard to ignore the news about how addicting the game has 
 been for many all over the world (unless you have spent the last 4 years living in a cabin out 
 in the wilderness) and teens that quit school just to play this game. Even some boy in China commited 
 suicide believing he could join the heroes in the game. Now, my guess is that those people already 
 have problems of their own, whenever they have no friends or are in urgent need of a neverending 
 role-playing game.
  
  Well, personally I didn`t find WoW that addicting.
  I bought the Battle Chest which was a great deal to me and those who are beginners in the game. 
 
  
  Now what they have accomplished with WoW is simply quite amazing. You choose whatever class you 
 want which have their own unique realm and choose whenever you want to join the good forces of 
 the Alliance or the evil of The Horde.
  No classes in the game is bad, but some races qualifies better to some classes than others.
  
 
  As in every Role-Playing game basically what you do is killing all kinds of creatures collecting 
 money and doing quest.
  WoW also gives you the choice of proffesions and talents so you can specialize your hero to almost 
 excaly how you want to be.
  You can also be part of auctions where you sell and buy things you and other players have to a 
 price you completely choose yourself.
  PvP is also avaiable and you can challenge a friend to a duel or be in a massive battle against 
 the Horde/Alliance depending on which faction you belong to.
  Quest are colored green, yellow, orange, red (green-easiest, yellow-medium etc.)
  
  All in 
 all World Of Warcraft delivers everything it promises, but isn`t worth a buy if you don`t accept 
 the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warboss01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  I played the game from about June 2007 to August 2008 and I'll give the guys at Blizzard credit 
 for having me hooked for that long. I largely enjoyed playing the game early on and was deeply 
 satisfied with its size and scope. But as time progressed, the game's value began to deteriorate, 
 a lot of the quests slowly began to become very repetitive such as killing 20 of these mobs or 
 having to kill 35 other mobs for a single item to drop.
  
  One of the things I really disliked doing is having to run an instance because of how simple yet 
 difficult it was to find a proper group. You'd think that with a game that claims so many accounts, 
 it would be very easy to find a good group very quickly (and yes I know all about individual servers 
 and that each only have several thousand) . It could take hours just to find one person to run one 
 of the dam things, and it takes longer to find a tank or a healer. Worse still is that some people 
 in your group won't think ahead and possibly consider that they "g2g" for something.
  
  What I disliked most about the game is how unbalanced the pvp system is. When going into a battle 
 ground, the team that has the most number of high level and best geared toons is bound to win. 
 That's what I hated about the game, it was based largely on having the best gear and being the 
 highest level, no skill required what so ever.
  
  There's a lot more that can be said, but the bottom line for why I chose to stop playing is one 
 word, money. Since the game is no longer as good as I thought, there is no point in paying a monthly 
 fee for it; nor should there have. You'd think that with having 11 million accounts, Blizzard would 
 have all the money they would ever need; but they still feel the need to press the 15 bucks a month.
 
  
  I will say that I enjoyed playing the game for sometime, but now I feel that it has lost its edge 
 and that this new expansion that is coming up will only make the progress in the game even more 
 irritating. To simplify my feelings on this game, I describe World of Warcraft as being, frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  WoW is the best MMORPG I've ever played and I doubt there's one to match it. In WoW you can live 
 second, fantasy epic style where you can be a hero of the alliance or a twisted member of the horde. 
 
  When getting the game you must be patient because there are some insane patches. I won't lie to 
 you. There is this massive 1GB patch which takes hours to download. Fortunately when you have all 
 you need it's clear sailing from there if you keep up with the subsription fee.
  Firstly you have to your character. There are 4 races on both sides (5 in Burning Crusade) to choose 
 from. Once they're made you go to a starting place in the race's homeland which is where you go 
 through some tutorial quests to get you going. 
  Now there is no specific story to WoW but there are quests with storylines to them.
  The game 
 has many many features to help your character grow and develop.
  Unlike a lot of computer games which have some fairly complex controls, WoW has a really intuitive 
 control scheme like the SIXAXIS on PS3 or whatever mtion sensor in Wii.
  All in all anyone who likes both multiplayer games and RPGs should definately look into WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Yeaaah.... This is the most famous and biggest MMORPG of all times, I believe anyways. It's to 
 expensive, both monthly fee and to buy it, It's overall a overrated game... Those people that are 
 addicted to death to it are hypin' it tooo much and it makes everyone believe that it's really 
 great.. Sure it's a good game, but there are better and cheaper games like Guildwars or so on the 
 market... 
  
  The graphics, well, it's just below average, Nothing really special, compared to Guildwars these 
 graphics are lousy. 
  
  The other stuff then, since it's a MMORPG you need to think about servers and stuff, I played on 
 European servers only since I live in europe, but may I say that if you choose a PvP server you 
 have a high chance to get killed fast and often, even in lower lvls. Also the environment, it's 
 good, all to good and all to big... In the early lvls you will fins yourself running and running, 
 and since you can't get a skill for all classes at low lvl that will make you go faster, and the 
 first mount (like a horse to ride or something) comes at lv 40 then in the beginning it will be 
 boring to run around like a chicken without head.. 
  
  And then for the skills..... World of warcraft isn't the most played MMORPG for no reason at all, 
 the skill arsenal is a big reason why it might be so big.. Many other game got only about, highest, 
 5 attack skills and maybe 5-9 buffs at highest, WoW got maybe 20 attack skills that you use within 
 a minute or 2 which will make you confused and sometimes you will find yourself doing wrong skills 
 and then die... It's to many skills if you ask me. 
  
  Bottomline, this game is too good.. It's to big, and to wannabe biggest. Blizzard got crazy when 
 making it... It's a good game if you like to waste money and time on useless things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhavas
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who'se anyone has played WoW, right? Its the hip, cool thing to play, everyone's in the 
 game, and its addictive!
  
  This is what people tell you, and what you see on TV, in magazines, papers, etc. Sadly, however, 
 its just not true.
  At least a good 2 million of those "registered accounts" are dead, another million or more are 
 gold farming accounts.
  
  The simple truth about WoW is that its a good little game, but anyone who takes this seriously 
 as a hardcore MMO needs to get a clue. It has elements in it from Asheron's call, Everquest, Ultima, 
 and so many other MMOs before its time. Its not a clone, its just a very clever rip off with some 
 new elements. 
  There is a noticeable lack of lore, the combat system is simplistic and completely (COMPLETELY) 
 gear-based, the PVP is laughable, and the quests are unimaginative at best. 
  I have played many MMOs before this, and for some reason stuck around in WoW for almost a year, 
 never getting past level 26 because i always seemed to find something more interesting to do than 
 play, such as stare at a blank wall.
  
  The game is populated by immature shut-ins and teens just going through puberty, and forming a 
 group is near-impossible unless you're resigned to one person power-looting, another trying to 
 take command of everything, and a third attempting to tank every single enemy at once. The entire 
 population speaks in "wow-ese", a language composed entirely of acronyms and abbreviations that 
 no one can understand, and there are so few new players that whenever you attempt to group with 
 someone your own level, you get laughed at for "being a noob".
  
  If you want something hardcore, engaging, and fun, i'd recommend a better P2P MmO such as Everquest 
 2, or Vanguard: Saga Of Heroes. Hell, there are even free ones like Perfect World that just immedtiately 
 blow this grind-fest right out of the water.
  
  
  so, the good and the bad:
  
  
  good: colorful world. lots of players.... colorful world
  bad: lots of players under the mental 
 age of 12, engorged auction house, annoying and unimaginative quests, outdated graphics, lack of 
 new content, not enough races or classes, crappy PVP
  
  
  People who claim this is the hardcore MMO to play would not last a second in an Everquest 2 raid, 
 let alone a Vanguard PVP battle.
  This game is candy for the mindless, not fun, not engaging, not different, just boring and bloated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdannx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is the best MMORPG ever made, and the most addictive game ever made because you 
 always have fun in the game: if you are bored of quests and usual grinding, then you can interact 
 with people and make a dungeon or even better, a raid and Blizzard added the yearly events to change 
 the game so it makes it alot fun but the problem at World of warcraft is that ITS NOT FREE! Not 
 everybody has the money to play such a wonderful game, every month...
  Another cool part at World of Warcraft is the PvP system, with many battlegrounds to choose from 
 and very dynamic battles in which players jump and move alot so the enemy can't attack them.
  At many MMORPG's, there aren't many classes to choose from or rasses, well at World of warcraft you 
 can choose from 8 rasses (10 in the Burning crusade) and 9 classes (10 in the Wrath of the Lich King) 
 so you have a wide range from which to choose from and the armors look very cool especyaly level 
 70 armors from plate (I like warriors: P) .
  So if you are a person looking for a very fun game in witch to interact with people and if you 
 have a good financial status, then World of Warcraft is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tydi2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft has to be one of my favourite games now this game is not targeted to any particular 
 age or gender. its for everyone! thats what makes it awsome. its a huge game and its basically 
 another world to explore only its on your computer! its great to meet to friends go through dungeons 
 level up with each other explore new places. fight in battlegrounds. work to get a mount. its just 
 simply the perfect game for anyone! there is really no downside to it, its easy to get the hang 
 of its loads of fun and extremely addictive. when i even downloaded the trial for this it blew 
 me away! if your not to sure about purchasing the game download the free 10 day trial on www. worldofwarcraft. com. 
 you do have to pay monthly membership but trust me ITS WORTH IT! the game is not that expensive 
 and you can find it at a store like eb games best buy future shop and any other store that sells 
 video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolife982
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  If you have never played WoW, you have never experienced complete immersion in what the video game 
 industry calls "the magic circle." This is when you completely forget about your actual "reality" 
 and feel as if you are actually inside the game, and actually are the person that you see on your 
 computer screen. No other game in history could accomplish this except for WoW. This game sparked 
 a phenomenon that nobody could have ever anticipated. If you say Wow, virtually anybody with any 
 kind of knowledge about video games will know what you are talking about. Not only was this game 
 perfect, but the upkeep was executed amazingly as well. Patches and additions were made in perfect 
 timing to keep the players of the game satisfied. And yet... this game is STILL not over. With the 
 recent release of the Burning Crusade, and the soon to Come Wrath of the Liche King, players still 
 have more to be excited about. I cant really describe to you how amazing and addictive this game 
 is, all I can say is that if you have not played it you NEED to like NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amin848
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  i have played this game for a long time ( more than one year ) waiting and expecting the game to 
 have a story like warcraft3 but no you go for 8 hour (real time) on a mission and after it is completed 
 you have to go back to take another then walk for 8 hours again and then go back for another mission 
 ( same place ) .
  
  so after 30 hour of play you find out that if the game give u all the missions for that place you 
 will end it in max 8 hour ( wast of time) .
  
  you expect that the game will have main quest and side quests but you find that thire is no main 
 quest and if thire were it is "time waster championchip"
  
  so after i called balzzerd and complaind with no response from them i quit the game.
  
  the 
 game is good but the online team are time thifes and do not care about you or the game the just 
 wont you to wast time and pay money.
  
  this game is an online game but still you find spam and pay money (real $) to get level up (cheating) .
 
  i hope some one criminat them for this.
  so dont wast you time on this game and buy another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SceaduHyrde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft as we know it, made in 2004 by Blizzard, one of the most played and addictive 
 games to date, perhaps they've done extensive work on the dopamine trial, known as the "addiction 
 testing" or simply one of a kind game where people just love it, dwelling in a fantasy world; leveling, 
 camping, role-playing, dressing, questing, raiding.
  
  There isn't much to say unless one has actually played the game but generally it was a game to 
 enjoy back in the days, now it's just in the way, still addictive but annoying as it causes.. How 
 shall I say it, 'problems', e. g, forum spam, hype.
  
  There are goods and bad things to a game and this one in particular has became bad in a way that 
 can be quite hard to describe, any game would be the same, it all comes down to how it's presented, 
 played, reviewed, introduced but the more people the more problems start to stir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzero14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  ive only played the 10 day trial and ive played it at my friends and i have to say wat a flippen 
 awesome game. this game gave so many things and some are still yet to come in the new expansion 
 the lich king and im sure there will be more expansions hopefully until level 100. this game offers 
 more than just leveling up and questing it offers having fun with ur friends online fighting bosses 
 doing instances, questing and other awesome stuff. this game is one of the best mmorpgs out there 
 or it maybe just the very best and since its the best well u have to pay to play and well its just 
 a small price to pay for only like 35 bucks for a game card or like 15 bucks if u use a credit 
 card and well thats not that much if u have a JOB. so i would recomend this game to people who 
 have jobs or people who get allownces and for people who have nice enough parents to make them 
 pay with their credit card every month 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing world of warcraft for a long time now and i finnaly have a chance to review 
 it. 
  
  First im gunna talk about all the good things about WOW. One good thing is that you never run out 
 of things to do EVER through out the game! There are always quests, PvP, or just going around and 
 discovering new things to do. An other good thing that really stood out was the amount of different 
 character races, and character classes that you can be! This really makes the game interesting 
 because you have alot of options on who and what to be. I have been quite a few characters until 
 i found the right one, amd that was a night elf rouge, and so far that has worked out great for 
 me! The last thing about WOW that i really liked is how the level cap is 60. That suprized me beacsue 
 i compare that to some games (i. e. guild wars) and there level cap is only 20! I also like that 
 each expansion addes an additional 10 levels to the cap.
  
  Bad things about WOW = 0
  
  Over all WOW is a perfect 10 game, and i dont thing any other MMO games for PC will be better for 
 a LONG LONG time.:)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGisTHEbest
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  If you are a person who gets addicted to certian games in a terrible manner be smart and DONT BUY 
 IT if you do bu yit and you are that type of person, then you are screwed unless u snape the thing 
 or things in half. so ya. BE SMARTBE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMARTBE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART 
 BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMART BE SMARTBE SMART 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANTHOLOGY-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  there is lots to do and its a big world to quest in i can say this game can make great memory's 
 for players i have had lots of fun playing this game for 2 years i had a good time the race's and 
 class's are great and the loot is fun to hunt the armor and weapon's are cool looking and the effect's 
 of magic spell's are wicked there are dungeon's to go in but you must group with other players 
 to beat the enemy's inside also do pvp to earn points to get pvp items and weapons any player who 
 wants to start playing mmorpg's play this one it would be a good start for you this game will not 
 last forever but i say it has got some years left so hurry or you would be missing something so 
 hurry newcomers also the new ex-pack Wrath of the lich king is comeing soon so thats gonna be fun 
 to try there are 9 million players and still rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire1218
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft in my opinion is the best mmo , it is highly addictive, none of the classes are 
 extremely over powered and it has a great interface. i think every gamer should play this game 
 it is amazing. the only problem with it is that the economy in the game isnt great but other than 
 that it is one of the best games ever in my opinion and you should try it out if you already havent. 
 there is a very wide range if classes, races and talents. the community is also very friendly and 
 great. there is also a wide variety of gameplay (pve and pvp) and they are both great but different. 
 the expansions also add a lot of new features and fun to the game. it is only 20 dollars to buy 
 and 15 dollars a month it is not that much money and it is worth it. if you havent played it you 
 should at least get the free trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dheuermann
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard got a lot of things right with this game. Many of the frustrations that generally come 
 with MMOG's are gone, leaving just fun. As with most MMOG's after the intro portion, what makes 
 the game is the people you play with. If you find some nice friends, you'll have a good time. If 
 you run into trouble makers, you'll probably quit. WoW is set up to minimize the amount of trouble 
 people can cause. It still happens, but it is much less than in most games.
  
  Graphics - good, runs on slow systems as well. These are not the best graphics in the world, but 
 they are not bad either. With some tuning, I was able to get Wow running on an old laptop with 
 a Radeon 9700 at 1920x1200.
  
  Sound - good. It adds to the game and doesn't distract. What more could you ask for?
  
  Controls 
 - good. The controls work well. There's nothing really to complain about. Macro's and shortcuts 
 are easy to set up.
  
  The bad - Had some trouble with updates. They're not as simple and problem free as they should 
 be. Couldn't find the monthly fee until after I purchased the game. This information should be 
 available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilrubberduck
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  It's amazing, but not everyones thing, try the 'ten day free trial' a friend who has got the game 
 will have one just ask. I realy enjoy and most of my friends have it too so we quest together! 
 (Share Experience when in a group) . It's a ONLINE game wich is set in Mythic time with many race's 
 and class's you can choose from there are two sides of characters that you can choose from 'Alliance' 
 and 'Horde' Alliance are seen as the good guys. The annoying thing about this game is that that 
 you have to pay a total of 8.99 (sorry i dont know how much you have to pay on an American server) . 
 Most people would think 'oh thats a boys game' but it realy is'nt you can Change the Gender of 
 the character.
  Anyway i think this game is absolutly awsome and recommend it! I honestly think who ever play's 
 this game i think you will get addicted to it, but get the ten day free, trial better to be safe 
 than sorry if you ask me. Oh yeah if you do decide to get 'World of Warcraft' get the battle chest 
 it comes with All expansion packs and some Gaming books to help you through the game so you basicly 
 get them books for FREE! and we all love things when ther're free! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: applelvr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  This is Reviewing both WoW and it's expansion pack: The burning Crusade. 
  Graphics: The Graphics are good, not extremely amazing, but you can't expect the graphics to be 
 amazing in a world as big as Azeroth. Don't get me wrong the graphics are pretty good, they might 
 be better if your running a better system. I'm playing on a pretty basic laptop which right away 
 is not as good for gaming as a desktop would be. 
  Controls: The controls are excellent and they make this intense game more enjoyable, since your 
 not always fiddling with the camera or angle you can spend more time questing and playing. 
  Sound: This was one of the problems I had with WoW. My laptop is, like a said before, in no way 
 advanced or built for gaming. At first the sounds were okay, but as I played more and more the 
 sound skipped and faded. It made it hard to play sometimes. I recommend playing this on a desktop 
 or a high-end laptop. Desktops naturally come with more processor speed and better graphics so 
 you will be better off. 
  Gameplay: The Game is amazing. Blizzard really has made it feel like you are a citizen in this 
 world. First: the world is HUGE! It really is massive! Each country and region has its views and 
 own cities. Towns and cities have guards at the gates that can tell you where to find the nearest 
 Profession Trainer or the nearest Auction House is. Plus there are countless players that you can 
 ask. 
  Professions are a huge thumbs-up in the game, one of the ways it makes you feel like a citizen 
 in Azeroth. There are several to pick from like Blacksmithing and Mining or Herbalism and Alchemy. 
 Most of the time, your professions are dictated by your class. Many warriors are blacksmiths because 
 they can make there own armor and weapons, or many mages are Tailors because they wear cloth armor. 
 Professions are, of course, a source of income also. Bags are highly sought after in the world 
 of Azeroth and so Tailors can make very good gold selling bags. (Hint: the Auction House is an 
 excellent way to sell items.) 
  Dungeons: dungeons are an excellent way to build experience and get new items. Sometimes you have 
 to dungeon to complete a quest. Make sure you are at least the level minimum for the dungeon because 
 they are not easy and impossible to beat if you don't have at least three other players with you. 
 
  Factions: Blizzard did an awesome job of creating the Good vs. Evil theme in WoW. The Alliance 
 are bringers of good, Night Elves, Humans, Dwarves, and some more where the Horde are the trouble 
 makers, Orcs, Trolls, Tauren and some others. It is often good to have a character in each faction, 
 so that you can experience the whole world. 
  Classes: Once you pick your race you get to pick your class. Mages, Warriors, Priests and many 
 more. They each have their own pros and cons. Mages can hurl magic over long distances but are 
 very limited in close combat. Warriors are just the opposite. Excellent at close combat but almost 
 no long distance attacks. Some classes are faction unique. For example, Shamans can only be played 
 by Horde characters. (In the Burning Crusade, the Dranei race can be shamans and they are of the 
 alliance.)
  All in All I give WoW 95 out of 100. It is a wonderful and extremely addictive game, where you 
 can easily spend a day, week, month, or just become a WoW addict. Definetly a game that everyone 
 one needs to try at least once. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, so many people were playing it so I decided to give it a go. Well, after waiting several 
 hours for the game to just patch, I found the game to be kind of boring. First off, the game has 
 majorly outdated graphics, but thats ok graphics dont make the game, it just makes it look cooler. 
 But the lag in the game is very bad for such a low graphic game, I think its because its over populated 
 servers. Anyways when I started playing I wasnt sure what to do so i started doing some quests. 
 They werent very entertaining at all, most of the ones i did had NO story, just go kill some spiders 
 or something. I must admit the people in the community are much more mature and nice than in games 
 like rappelz or runescape or cronous, but some just got on my nerves and started following me around 
 asking for things I had no clue about. One of the big problems I have with this game is the price 
 per month for the low quality service. Im sure Blizzard must be rich making money off of all these 
 teens who have nothing better to do than jump into a game full of freaky ugly creatures and act 
 all cool, but I don't have that kind of time. This game is to open, it's hard when you first start 
 playing, even if you have other game experiance in mmorpg. Im sorry I dont see what all the hype 
 is about, its just another overcharged c**py online mmo. I wouldnt really recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: LEVEL YOUR CHARACTER TO 60. EXPERIENCE BATTLE GROUNDS. BIG CITIES, BIG PLACES.
  THE BAD: WALKING THROUGH EVERY CITY TAKES TO LONG. ITS ANNOYING. BATTLE GROUNDS MAKES YOU MAD SOMETIMES. 
 IT IS ACTUALLY A NERDY GAME.
  Graphics 5/10 : The graphics are bad. You walk through people..
  Game Play 10/10 : Still a nerdy 
 game but everything is all fighting, choosing your alliance, HORDE OR ALLIANCE. Value 6/10 To expensive 
 for a $50 game. It should only be $39.99
  Questing 10/10: Questing is a great experience and is important for you to Level up!
  My Overall 
 is 7.5, this game KINDA sucked! JUST WALKING THROUGH PEOPLE IS LIKE YOUR A GHOST. Running Wailing 
 Carverns and other instances are great. You might Level up when you do it. It takes about 30 minutes 
 to finish. You can get various items. They are all rare. You will need 5 party member to do instances. 
 ME, MEM=MEMBER, MEM, MEM, MEM. Thats your group. So this game is like only standing there watching 
 your character beat the enemy up. This is only for Warriors lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Since its' release in Nov 24,2004, World of Warcraft has been rumored to be the most breaking RPG 
 in the world, it was even off the chart of "WoW Addiction"in Korea. So now it was hands down WoW 
 vs. Runescape vs. Everquest and all other popular RPG's. Blizzard's best known work has hit popularity 
 and addiction of their other franchises including Starcraft and Diablo, but Warcraft was different 
 from among all of them.
  
  The game focuses in a large land named Azeroth where you can create your own character with your 
 favored apperance and race, or give your character a name containing only letters instead of numerical 
 characters. There are many races to choose from Night  
 Trolls. And don't forget the classes too such as  
 Warriors. There is however the option to choose which realm you want to go to. It is possible to 
 change or get a new character but you won't use your previous characters, so that means there are 
 no such thing as more than one file for someone else to play on.
  
  Since all of you RPG nerds have already known, you have the freedom of finding available quests, killing 
 monsters to raise you XP, dueling with other players, and finding trainers to hand out some abilities 
 to you. The main problem with the quests are repetitive, there are not only a hundred or more of 
 them but doing nothing but going on an adventure for other quest givers can become tedious overtime. But 
 the best way for me to solve this problem is going after rewards that you must want after completing 
 a journey. But to make quests more interesting is to form a party like Final Fantasy to help aid 
 you on killing monsters from the edge of death.
  
  Speaking of parties, there is something called a raid, which is twice as big as a normal party, and 
 so you can give different commands to your group.
  
  There are a hundred creatures you can fight around Azeroth from cuddly rabbits to dragons of unspeakable 
 fire. Althought killing a certain monster gives a a different number of experience points to level 
 up your character. There are some monsters however that really aggravates me, but the combat was 
 the problem since you have problems escaping a fight forcing you engage. Most of the enemies will 
 come up and rip you apart you come across their eyes.
  
  There is a possible way of making your own item buy getting some training from other people in 
 every city instead of buying the product you want for your own money. One problem with classes is 
 you can't learn magic as a Warriro or a Paladin so you need to choose your class wisely.
  
  The environments are astounding seeing large trees and lakes that really make my eyes pop out, and 
 this took Blizzard lots of cooperation to make a game this large with many to do. The graphics aren't 
 too bad but let's hope that the new Wrath Of The Lich King has some improved visuals.
  
  World of Warcraft may be the best Role-Playing but paying a monthly-fee of $14.99 really loves 
 to put me down. Though World of Warcraft is the best to come out in 2004, RPG fans have loved this 
 game since its' release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is nowadays more of a concept than a game in most gamers' minds. The One and 
 Only MMO. The One game symbolising the casualisation of the PC market. The Holy Grail of addictive 
 gaming. With a paying user-base of over 10 million it's not surprising the game has become a scape-goat 
 or ideal for such a wide arrange of causes. But ultimately this also means the game beneath it 
 all, the game and all the simple fun it provides, simply isn't very well-represented for those 
 who don't know too much about it.
  
  WoW is at its core a very simple game compared to most other MMOs. The possibility of failure in 
 building your own character (talents) is small, artificial supply keeps everyone on a fairly similar 
 level gear-wise up to level 70 and while the game does feature a fairly wide assortment of different 
 ways to obtain money or do "work" everything is introduced at a modest pace which keeps even the 
 most inexperienced MMO players on top of it all at all times. This doesn't of course bother people 
 who haven't played MMOs before, and herein lies Blizzard's secret.
  
  WoW is much more accessible than any other MMO on the market I personally have played. Anyone can 
 pick it up and expect to not feel overwhelmed during a single part of the process of integrating 
 one's self into the world of Azeroth. Compared to something like Anarchy Online the difference 
 is absolutely HUGE. I'd even go as far as argue a level 70 WoW player who hasn't played any other 
 MMO would feel absolutely overwhelmed by the freedom given to a low level character in AO.
  
  The combat in WoW is very similar to that in most other MMOs. It's based on using different 
 unit abilities (often mapped to the 0-9 keys on the keyboard) . The amount of damage taken or given 
 is mostly determined by numbers in the background so the player never has much control over whether 
 he can take on a monster or not. Unlike most other MMOs WoW is quite conservative with handing 
 out more of these "skills" though. Instead every skill usually has a secondary function, like area 
 of effect or stun or sleeping the enemy. By doing this WoW makes the combat much more fun for the 
 player as every skill is useful in its own ways. This also allows for the player to build his own 
 "combos" to maximize the damage. While this of course is something almost all if not all MMOs do 
 WoW does it with more clarity by just not giving the player 40 different skills by level 30 but 
 instead fewer with more clear usages.
  
  I personally feel the best part about MMOs is exploring the world around you. Climbing on top of 
 mountains to see how beautiful the world looks from above, swimming into the deepest sea rifts 
 to search for easter eggs, trying to find ways to get to places where you aren't supposed to be 
 while in towns and so forth. WoW delivers to a certain extent on this. The world is absolutely 
 beautiful with Blizzard's art team doing a fantastic job with the engine. However WoW is also the 
 most polished MMO out there which means it's hard to find places where it's actually possible to 
 explore places you aren't supposed to go to, and in most cases Blizzard seems to consider mountains 
 to belong to this group. The mountaineer inside of me died a little when I realized there's no 
 way to climb on top of most of the high places in the game.
  
  The polish shows in other places than level design and accessibility as well though. WoW is a game 
 that can be played on "auto-pilot" without any thought which allows the player to concentrate on 
 the best part of the game: the social aspect. The WoW community can be everything from fantastic 
 to absolutely terrible but if you're playing with mates you know the game will positively become 
 10 times better (scientifically proven) . Doing instances together, talking about gear you might 
 buy, talking about your professions and using them to make stuff for each other. It's all easier 
 and more fun than in any other MMO out there.
  
  So my opinion is that WoW, while not as deep or challenging as most other MMOs I've played, still 
 stands among the best of them. There's something almost magical about getting a new blue sword 
 with rad looks and know you friends are going to envy you for weeks as soon as you show it to them. 
 And there has to be, because why would millions of people all over the world otherwise give up 
 their lives for digital equivalents in the World of Warcraft? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drek4
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This must be the most addictif game in this century to say the least. I must say that they have 
 done a tremendous work of art in the making of this game a reality. The whole world in wich you 
 have to play in is a masterpiece and is all worth the dollar amount you must pay every month to 
 enjoy. The fact of playing with so many people at the same time you are is a tremendous feeling 
 of total immersion and awe to this game that seems to become an extension of yourself. Even if 
 you choose solitary play in the days you don`t want to interact, you feel a constant presence that 
 seems so strange and yet fun. To be honest I had to cease my account for the summer season to get 
 back to my life. Come to think of it that is a pretty scary affirmation... one of my friends had 
 to go cold turkey becuase his wife gave him an ultimatum... her or the lawyer :) Anyways, you can`t 
 disagree that this game is the game of the century until someone takes away it`s title. Yes I know 
 the constant updates are a pain... but they must please millions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadExploder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This review is going over both the original World of Warcraft and it's first expansion, Burning 
 Crusade.
  
  In all honesty I would give this game a 9.7 out of 10. Since I can't do that though, the next best 
 thing would be 9.5. Giving it a 10 would make it look absolutely flawless, which it ALMOST is...
 
  
  Graphics: Pretty standard, if you ask me, but maybe that's because I play on a standard computer, 
 not a high-end one. However, I have seen this game played on my friend's border-line high-end computer, 
 with all the graphical specs all the way up, and it is impressive, but nothing to really oggle 
 at. However, even if youre playing the game with all the specs down, it's still not bad. The game's 
 art style keeps things looking good even when tuned down.
  
  Sound: Definately not much to brag about here. Sure, there are hundreds, if not thousands of sounds 
 that can be found in the entire game, but none of which will have you blown away, even if you were 
 using surround sound speakers. But once again, this is not one of the main aspects the game even 
 needs to worry about, so it's definately no problem.
  
  Gameplay: The controlls are no big deal. Most players will use their keyboards in unison with the 
 mouse, to move their character and click on the screen when necessary. However, one thing I did 
 find impressive was that you could play the game entirely without a mouse, or entirely without 
 a keyboard. So this would be convenient for players using laptops or just happened to have theyre 
 keyboard lost or ruined.
  
  There are, uh, let me count...9 classes total in World of Warcraft. Melee classes would be the 
 Warriors and Rogues. Long-range/Caster classes would include Mages, Warlocks, Hunters, and Priests. 
 And the hybrid classes would be the Shamans, Druids, and the (really cheap) Paladins. Trust me, 
 there's a class for everyone. There are also a total of 10 races total for players to choose from. 
 
  
  Completing quests and killing monsters gives you XP. So on your journey from level 1 to level 70 
 (it was 60 in the original game, and the expansion added 10 new levels) , you will spend the vast 
 majority of your time playing solo, or possibly with 1 or 2 people, completing quests for XP, which 
 you will need for levelling. Depending on your skill level, you will either get to level 70 in 
 a couple of months (if you play normally) or less, or it will take you have a year or more. It 
 has it's ups and downs, but prepares you for the challenges you will face at level 70...
  
  Of course, you don't ALWAYS have to focus on levelling up. You can take breaks and play in the 
 Battlegrounds. The Battlegrounds has up to 10 people from each of the two factions, the noble Alliance, 
 and the fearsome Horde, play against eachother in a variety of different game types. You may think 
 that it takes away from the game's lore and "seriousness", but it is a great way to kind of deviate 
 from the regular path of levelling for something different. 
  
  But what I'm trying to get at is, not all the classes are perfectly balanced, especially against 
 one another in PvP (Player versus Player) . It's sort of like a rock-paper-scissor effect. One class 
 beats another while that class gets beaten by another. It's not all about skill, at least not until 
 you get to lvl 70. Until then, though, you might find yourself becoming very frustrated at the 
 game. For instance, it's a bit discouraging when a Shaman keeps killing your Warlock and he won't 
 leave you alone when all you're trying to do is get some questing done.
  
  You can also take part in Dungeons, or Instances. For these, you join (or put together) a group 
 of 4 other people in order to take on a 'Dungeon' or set path filled with NPCs (Non Player Characters) . 
 For me, these are one of the best ways to get XP, other than questing, and it also benefits you 
 when you happen to find a rare drop that would be of some use to you.
  
  When you do happen to reach level 70, there are basically one of two things left to do...
  Raids: 
 These are basically Instances, but require 10 or more people to complete. These are very fun to 
 partake in, but can also last a tiresome number of hours.
  PvP/Battlegrounds: This is similar to the BGs you encounter in your earlier levels, but at level 
 70, it takes much, much more skill and advanced gear in order to do well, or at least have fun. 
 You will have to devote much time to the game if you want to be good, and i mean much, MUCH time. 
 
  
  You will also be amazed at the amount of land to explore in World of Warcraft. The game is appropriately 
 titled, since it really is almost the size of an entire world. There is also tons to do, other 
 than PvP/BGs and Instances. You can work on professions, which will earn you money from other players 
 (buying your goods and such) , which also adds pleasure. The game really is World of Warcraft.
 
  
  Replay Value: I know some people that have been playing the game ever since it came out in 2004, 
 and I can see why. It's extremely addictive AND fun to play, especially when you're with friends. 
 If you like the game, you will be playing for a long, long time.
  
  Will I recommend it? Yes and No. Yes because its a very fun and addicting game, and it can hook 
 even players that hate RPGs (I used to be one of those haters until I played this) . But No because 
 you'll be surprised at how much time it eats. You will feel like crap if you play it consistenly 
 for hours at a time. Also the game takes up a ton of space on your computer. It also costs $15 
 a month, which could be a sting to some, but it's really not that bad. 
  
  All in all, World of Warcraft is an unbeleivable MMORPG. Its been named No. 1 MMO basically everywhere 
 you look, and it still is the best MMO available, with almost 11 million players worldwide. Now 
 you make the choice; think you can handle it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydrobot
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a massively multiplayer game with everything you could want in an RPG then 
 World of Warcraft is the right game for you. From the start you can see why WoW is as popular as 
 it is. Breathtaking landscapes and customizable characters from 10 different races and 9 different 
 classes keep this game on the peak of gaming. Since its start in 2004 WoW has gained a great status 
 among the gaming community as a force to be reckoned with, and that's for a reason. With over 8 
 million players currently playing and a second expansion on the way WoW has no where to go but 
 up. 
  
  The gameplay in WoW is very clean cut. For every type of gamer, casual or hardcore, there is something 
 for you. Feel like spending hours with a group of people fighting dragons? Join a raiding guild. 
 Feel like crushing the skulls of your enemies for hours on end? join a PvP guild. Basically this 
 game is perfect for any fan of the far reaching RPG genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyguy331
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft.... How do you sum it up in only a few paragraphs ? Wow is game that everyone 
 should play addictive, impressive and darn right fun!
  
  I've played many MMO's but nothing has come near to Wow in my opinion, Wow grips you causing you 
 to not stop playing for hours until your eyes start to bleed and explode.
  
  a vast world full of monsters to slay, to explore various zones ranging from the snowy lands of 
 dun morogh to the fiery demon infested hellfire ramparts.
  
  Wow features 9 classes:
  
  Druid, Hunter, Mage, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Shaman, Warlock, Warrior
  
  Each class is different 
 from the last and takes on roles others can't do 
  example: Mage is a great Dps class (damage dealer) but cannot heal or tank whilst others can. So 
 you can easily find a class you like to play. 
  
  Wow's Character customisation isn't as great as others, the usual skin colour, hair style, hair 
 colour, features and face style makes it easy to find another player that looks identical to yourself.
 
  
  The expansion Burning Crusade added a new world, 2 new races, a new level cap of 70 and flying 
 mounts. Hoping this would be amazing but i was a little disappointed as it was the same quests 
 over and over again through out levels 60-70 and the original 40-man raids at the end of lvl 60 
 are now empty as no one goes to them anymore.
  
  Hopefully the new expansion Wrath of the Lich King will deliver a similar experience to the game 
 before Burning Crusade as there will be a new area, level cap to 80, achievements, the new hero 
 class - The death Knight (the starting experience for the death knight is amazing) , siege weapons 
 with destructible buildings, mounted combat and many more features.
  
  In conclusion Wow should be tried by everyone and you'll wonder why you haven't been playing this 
 amazing game sooner. It will knock your socks off :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeye1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  WoW is fun for everyone in my opinion. You start by making a character either on the Alliance or 
 Horde. Then you start in the homeland of the race you chose and go through the tutorial quests.
 
  The beauty of this game is that you are free to do what you want although there are storyline 
 quests for each race. Basically WoW is like a second life. You can enjoy WoW for ages but sometimes 
 you get stuck in one place for ages trying to train and the game becomes very dull. The game features 
 PvP combat arenas allowing you to fight other characters and pwn their backsides.
  
  Gameplay...
  The control interface is incredibly simple, you just click a button and the action 
 takes place, soon you won't even be using the onscreen panel you'll just be using the keyboard 
 rather than moving the mouse a lot making it quicker for you to do moves during combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  No I am not bashing WoW.
  If you are looking for an emmersive MMO that will keep you entertained for THOUSANDS of hours, 
 BUY IT! NOW! You won't be dissappointed.
  
  Two days ago I sold my account and I broke every game disc from WoW and Burning Crusade in half... 
 WHY? I'll share with you.
  
  I bought this game in Aug 2005. My friend, whom I hadn't seen much lately, when asked "Where have 
 you been?" answered "You gotta see this game!" So I started playing, and then my roommate did the 
 same. We both got to 60 in about 5 months, not fast at all I know but I wasn't playing that much. 
 My roommate came to the realization that he had just wasted literally days of his life and that 
 this game was leading us down a dangerous path. I thought he was flat-out INSANE to have quit... 
 and I pressed on. I leveled up another character to 60, this time in about 3 months.
  
  The expansion pack came out. I took a week off of work to play. I got my first character to 70, 
 and then my second. And then my third. And then...
  
  I stopped going out on Friday nights, because we were raiding.
  I started getting anxiuos when 
 I couldn't play.
  I lost about four solid months of my life to this game. Thats more time than you spend at your 
 job 40 hours a week for an entire year.
  
  Please don't buy this game for yourself or someone else unless you are certain they aren't going 
 to become over immersed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-QC
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  When the game got out, I didn't wanna buy it because I thought it would be too big and that it 
 would take all of my gaming time for only one game. But when I heard so many good things about 
 it, I finally decided to buy it, and realized that I lost the 6 first months after WoW's release 
 thinking I shouldn't buy it, while I should have done that when it got out.
  
  The thing is (as I thought) , the game is extremely addictive, which is a good thing in that case: 
 World of Warcraft has so much to offer in a crazy immense world made in beautiful graphics for 
 a game needing so much data passing, enriched with a good soundtrack and nice audio effects which 
 gives a whole new experience in term of gaming.
  
  It's also good to see that the gameplay is awesome, since it offers a whole bunch of command and 
 actions, and I'm just talking about one class (9 in total) . You can do a lot of other non-combat 
 related things, like creating and having a guild, doing professions like Enchanting or Blacksmithing, 
 or simply hang out with the tons of friends you can have in this game.
  
  Unfortunately, after some time (which was 3 years in my case) , you can get tired of that game, 
 even if that's a whole lot of time. After hitting 70 and then do almost everything possible in 
 the game, I eventually stopped playing, considering that this magnificent game has had its time. 
 So, for those who are playing, play other games than WoW sometimes: don't let it own ur life... for 
 those who never play the game, buy it and enjoy. This is arguably one of the best video game of 
 all time. You won't regret it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legitplaya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i'm going to keep this short for you out there that think this game is a terrible rpg and such, 
 and such. I mean this game is really amazing and highly addictive to MANY, BUT not ALL. A lot of 
 people like this game not really becuase of the graphics and story part of it, but possibly more 
 the gameplay and multiplayer part of it. Many people find it any easy way to play with friends 
 online and have some fun playing a game together, now of course you can pull out the "omfgz get 
 a life" card, but think about it, your at this site reading this, you must like gaming a lot, and 
 playing wow with your friends for however little time each day is not ruining your life, you just 
 have to have a balance...
  Ok, well back to what i was talking about, i mean this game is fun to paly with friends, or even 
 random people you meet, there are a lot of cool people to meet, a bunch of stupid, ignorant idiots 
 and newbies out there of all ages. There are very good ways of comunicating too and such that make 
 the game fun when you're almost doing nothing getting to know some random person who you think 
 is cool, which i personally don't see anything wrong with, wether you meet someone and make a friend 
 online or in real-life, you meet a **** load more online then the few you see in real life.
  But yah... back to what i was talking about again.. even if you're not that social you can still 
 play this game solo and have a crap load of fun too, the gameplay is very addictive once you get 
 past those first 10ish levels or so, i mean you can spend enless hours at the auction house aswell 
 trying to be the next big merchant or just selling some items you just found or are trying to find 
 that next sword that'll give you a nice damage boost to make killing those baddies that much easier.
 
  
  Well bascially, the game isn't for everyone, but if you like to make tons of money, have fun with 
 friend, have fun making friends, have fun killing monsters, have fun leveling up and getting new 
 skills and talents.
  
  This game is what you make of it, it can either be a crappy rpg with a crappy story that's really 
 repetitive and boring, or the game that's really addictive with endless hours of gameplay, leveling, 
 money making and friend making.
  
  There is a lot more to this game then i've said, but basicly what i explained in this "review" 
 are the reasons why there are like what 10million subscribers? or something like that. There are 
 so many reasons people can put up to say that this game sucks and isn't worth the $15 per month, 
 but you can make up many for why it is, i'm not going to tell you more of why because it's up to 
 you wether or not you want to play the game or not. If any of the aspects i listed earilier are 
 interesting to you, you should try it out and i mean really try it out. If you don't like any of 
 those aspects then the game could just not be for you, plain and simple, not everyone is going 
 to like every game, it's just how it is...
  
  Well thats about it, it wasn't really short like i said first but what ever, thanks to anyone who 
 read the whole thing, hahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersayan778
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is Over looked in many ways. Many people say that it is for nerds etc. but it is just 
 not. there are people who play everything to much and not every wow player is that. Its amazing 
 gameplay alot of stuff to do after lvl cap highly competetive just crisp perfect performance from 
 a game.
  
  Classes range from diffrent roles in the game itself
  
  as for
  
  DPS- damage per sec. every class can be this basicly damages
  
  Healer- heals people
  
 
  Tank- the monster focus on him
  
  Its diverse and fun and simply amazing
  
  playing is fun and never gets boring however it takes spme time to grow on you
  
  alot of things 
 t say about the game people are very friendly and have good attitudes its worth dling for aa 10 
 day FREE trial and you can do it as manh times as you want
  
  realy fun overall chec it out its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitewhitewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  this game is the definetly the best Rpg online game in the world, its complex scenary, spells and 
 proffesion mechanics to just having a load of fun, if youve never herd of this game then here is 
 what its about...
  
  Random FACTS:
  
  You choose your race and class: example..
  
  Tauren Druid
  
  Dwarf Paladin
  
  So far you can reach up to the level 70, but soon, with 
 the new expansion 80, but its not all that easy, it gets harder and harder, and btw, you cant beat 
 the game ofc, you can trade with other players, raid with them, quest with them, etc.... azeroth 
 (The continent) has loads of regions in wich range from different levels, and each race has there 
 own starting please and there own capital.... 
  For example, the taurens start in Mulgore, and there capital Thunderbluff
  Oh yeah, and i forgot 
 to mention that not all the races have the same old buildings, etc....
  For example the orcs buildings: Spikes raising from the sides and painted red, dwarfs: buildings 
 built inside the snowy cliffs of Dun Morogh.
  
  
  Any way, the rest is for you to find out, you need to pay for each month, you dont have to pay 
 with credit card, you can buy these cases with gamercards wich you just enter in the pin number 
 on the back. GOOD LUCK 
  
  WARNING: This game is heavily addicting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Before 2005 MMORPG's were a bit lacking and had a poor name, it was considered that only "geeks" 
 played them and they weren't all that great; They did not reward you enough and were quite repetitive. 
 
  
  World of Warcraft has come and has changed the MMORPG market forever. The huge range of things 
 to do, the large amounts of skills... everything this game has to offer is brilliant and there is 
 no reason you shouldn't get it, no matter who you are.
  
  When you start the game you choose a race, i. e. gnome, human, night elf e. t. c. and each race is 
 either on the "Hordes" group or the "Alliance" group. Once you have chosen a race you can choose 
 a class that is available for that race type and these include things like a hunter, mage, warrior, 
 druid so on. Each class is unique in it's own way and so is each race, depending on what race you 
 chose depends on where your story begins.
  
  There are many quest which are all different and all enjoyable and relate to a story, some quests 
 have several parts to them and others are easier done with a group so it is aslo very easy to socialise 
 in WOW when you find others taking part in the same quest. Quests reward items of value, money 
 and experience. This experience goes toward your leveling and as you go up a level you can learn 
 many new special abilities from a trainer for your skill. There are millions of items, millions 
 of quests and plenty of things to do. You can have side abilities such as mining or leatherworking 
 to create things for yourself, friends or to sell for in-game money. Everything in WOW has a purpose 
 and isn't just put in there for the sake of it and every single thing adds to the enjoyment.
  
  PVP is also an option, which includes dueling and PVP arena and events, in the game and so 
 is role-playing which can be rather enjoyable to act as your character within this massive mystical 
 world. You join guilds which have their own bank vaults so members of the guild can have access 
 to things they need and are able to receive help in quests when they need it.
  
  There are many different types of creature and they change from region to region, there are many 
 forms of transport, there are many different types of traders, i mean there are so many things 
 to do that are so enjoyable that time will disappear before you even know it, so prepare to be 
 sucked right into the wrath of this games pleasure and reward. 
  
  No matter who you are and whether you think MMORPG's are for "sad people without lives" you are 
 wrong! Anyone will love this game as no other game will reward you as much as this one. I believe 
 that WOW is a supremely superb MMORPG and cannot be improved in anyway a part from the graphics 
 which are still beautiful without a doubt which is why this game is rated as 10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catlover8976
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Ok, 1. Why do you have to pay for a game you have already bought? Because of that I give it, -1
 
  
  2. Cool! I get to be a cow! The wide range on what you can play as is fun and good choices for 
 females. +1
  
  3. Nice spells! The spells are very cool as well as being able to shape-shift into what ever you 
 want with no time limit! +1
  
  4. The land. I think it's great that the land seems to go on forever and it just gets better and 
 better! +1
  
  5. Pets! It's a shame only hunters can have pets that can battle but you can get show-off pets 
 which I still think are cool! You can have from dragons to snow bunnies and roaches to parrots, 
 I just love them and I have set my self a mission to collect them all! +1
  
  6. Quests, I love the quests for it gives me some thing to try and do, I think the rewards are 
 good! +1
  
  So in conclusion it comes to a lovely 5/6 I think that's not bad going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lanfordr
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  First, let me say that I am a huge singleplayer RPG fan. I have played through Baldur's Gate, KOTOR 
 I/II, Neverwinter, Jade Empire, Dungeon Seige, The Witcher, Mass Effect, Diablo 1/2, Morrowind, 
 and Oblivion to name a few, so needless to say I know the RPG genre. However, I had never played 
 an MMORPG, for one, I am against paying monthly for a game you already bought, but that's another 
 issue entirely. I finally decided to try an MMO out since there are no new RPGs coming out soon. 
 Since WOW is the most talked about, I went over to Blizzard and tapped into their 10 day trial. 
 I must say I was not impressed at all. Here is what I found wrong with the game when compared to 
 the great single player RPGs.
  
  1. It just throws you into the game with no story or anything and immediately you start grinding. 
 (The lack of story is the most damning aspect in my mind, but I'll continue.
  
  2. Before I could go anywhere or do any real Sshhitt I had to stand around killing random wolves 
 in the noob spawn point just to get up to a high enough level where the first baddie I met didn't 
 kill me immediately.
  
  3. Then, I finally level up, and nothing happens! No skill points, no new spells learned, nothing!!!! 
 What the hell how can you call this an RPG without the ability to assign skill points. 4. Finally, 
 at about level three the game decided that I was buff enough to wonder out on my own and guess 
 what, most of the quests involve killing the same kind of mindless monsters that I just finished 
 killing. 5. No voice acting at all. How much Dialogue do the expect me to read, and why should 
 I when it isn't building any story. All the quests seem pointless since five other guys just did 
 the same bloody thing (I mean why did NPC "smith" need me to scout out a mine when ten other guys 
 just told him it was full of monsters? Did he not believe them????)
  
  6. It takes forever just to get anywhere. I honestly spent 90% of my time walking to the place 
 I was supposed to go, dying, and then walking back as a ghost so I could die again.
  
  7. At least in the lower levels, you are only strong enough to take on one monster at a time, if 
 two happen to spot you at once, you're screwed, and its time to start walking forever back to your 
 corpse. I mean I can understand if it was this way for the first level or so, but I got to level 
 six, upgraded my armor, and it was still the same old story. 8. The map doesn't tell you where 
 you need to go to do your quests, so I found myself walking around in circles forever before I 
 by luck just happened to stumble onto the place I needed to go.
  
  Anyways, after about three hours, and six levels, I decided that the game just wasn't for me. So, 
 someone please tell me I was playing it all wrong and it really is quite fun if I only knew what 
 I was doing. Tell me that it really does have a rich story and that you do get skill points, if 
 so, maybe I'll give it another go. Otherwise, the only multiplayer RPGs I'll be playing will be 
 of the Neverwinter/Dungeon seige/Fable 2 variety, and those don't have subscriptions either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bskittles4u
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This games has some of the best depth I've seen in gaming. The world Blizzard created is huge in 
 comparison to many others, and the story board from the quests moves you from one place to the 
 next to keep you involved. The graphics, and game play are smooth with minimum glitchs. And a wide 
 range of abilities and character development keeps you engaged throughout. Overall a well put together 
 game.
  
  The only cons I have found is the repeated down time of the servers and number of patch downloads 
 necessary to play. Patches come almost weekly, so if you don't have a large hard drive make sure 
 to get one. The size of the game doubles from it's original size upon installation, and updating. 
 Also, the game is ok to run solo for a while but if you really want the best items available, you'll 
 have to find a few friends or join a guild. At high levels, special items may take days of play 
 time to aquire and the game becomes boring for some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvskater321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for people who like massive on-line gaming. The reason i think this game is 
 great is cause you get to level up and get as strong as u can then go pvp against the horrid, and 
 help your friends out. As you level there are many places you can go to level instead of just one 
 place, and as you level there are quest that you can do to get items and experience these two things 
 will help your character throught out the game. These are just a few of the things I like about 
 the game. 
  
  But this game has its downs. Over time when u get to a high level it gets harder to level, this 
 leads to bore dem. when you level as high as u can you cant level anymore until the come with a 
 expansion pack the may let you level higher. I also think that haveing to be levl 40 to get your 
 first mount suck ish. 
  I think this game is worth every pennie.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Raijin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played WoW I was already a Warcraft III veteran but as soon as I started I was like 
 "whoa". I felt like an ant in a whole new world to discover, Mulgore seemed so big and beautiful 
 to me, and it was only the tip of the iceberg. I explored every area of the game, I made up to 
 60, I started to raid and PvP , I made friends through WoW, I was happy, until TBC came.
  
  TBC, short for The Burning Crusade, ruined the game I loved. 
  Sure, it was a whole new world, 
 OUTLAND! And I found myself exploring the beautiful landscape blizzard creates.
  But... PvP was no longer fun. Every WoW Pre-BC player here, knows that Resilience ruined everything 
 in PvP.
  PvE was still fun, but now that's all there is to it, no more World PvP, no more fun raids, no 
 more Onyxia, Ragnaros, C'Thun... 
  Now everyone can have epics, when I started to raid, I had to work my @## out to get an epic, but 
 now it's easy. Everyone can have them.
  
  But then I found out a last good thing on this game.
  
  Roleplaying.
  
  Roleplaying is 
 treating Azeroth like a real world, you act like you're a civillian of Azeroth, you can even marry, 
 become a city guardian, form your own story and share with everyone else.
  
  It was the thing that saved me from quitting this game, but overall, it's still the best MMORPG 
 ever.
  
  The Good:
  - A immense, wonderful world to explore.
  - Realism in PvP. You no longer stand still spamming spells like in other MMORPGs, you really have 
 to MOVE.
  - RP servers have a wonderful community.
  - Overall, good GMs and Costumer Service, however it's still not perfect.
  - Good soundtrack 
 and graphism overall, not too realistic and not too plain.
  - Perfect in-game lore, and lots, I mean LOTS of weapons, armour and items.
  
  The Bad:
  
 - Ruined with The Burning Crusade.
  - Might get a bit boring for some people to level up.
  - Community can get very childish in PvP realms, especially in the Barrens.
  - In PvP realms, 
 get ready to suffer from the opposite faction a lot. Especially in Stranglethorn Vale.
  - Can get extremely addictive, learn how to control this addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft AND Burning Crusade.
  
  I've been playing WoW for a long time now and I'm finally getting the chance to review it. Firstly, 
 the different races and racial bonuses make this game interesting. One might prefer to go for gnomes 
 for that little, cute look or choose taurens for their beefy size. The option to customize one's 
 face makes it a little better so that not every player in the world has the same face. Looking 
 at the same face everytime would bore someone to death. The two Factions also make a nice touch 
 as it gives a sense of never-ending war. If one is bored, they can just go to other faction's cities 
 to wreck havoc. If another faction's members come into one's faction city, they would not be able 
 to attack you unless you attack them or flag as PvP. This doesn't make new players cry as they 
 get pwned by LvL 70's over and over again. As we all know, there are lots of griefers out there 
 who would like to ruin gaming for other people. This nifty option prevents that. The faction system 
 also brings some sense of loyalty to one's own faction and they would generally help each other. 
 
  
  Once you get into the World Of Warcraft, you'll be at your own starting place. Every race's starting 
 place differs except for a minor exception. WoW is catered to casual and hardcore players and there 
 are lots of different content. At starting places, there would be some basic 'courier' and 'kill 
 X monsters and collect Y items' quests. The monsters are also just right and not too powerful. 
 Any newbie can get it done and there are also starting tips whenever you click or press something 
 new. The only gripe I have is that there is not Full Tutorial or even a Practice Area. Once you 
 enter the game, you're really on your own. I find the tips not that sufficient and new players 
 might find difficulty navigating. 
  
  After getting a grip on how to move and all, the real fun begins. You're able to kill monsters 
 and do quests for EXP to Level Up. However, the option to duel at Level 1 is still there. People 
 can duel other people for fun or to compare each others' PvP skills. At Level 70, the possibilities 
 of different combos are endless. An example would be, one is casting X spell and the other casts 
 Y spell to counter X spell. There are also different uses for different spells and they're pretty 
 fun. The mage spell, Blink, can be used to avoid falling damage if one blinks just before hitting 
 the ground. Another spell, Safefall can also be used to run away from other faction's members to 
 avoid PvP, or just to save oneself. 
  
  If you think WoW is just endless grinding, you're really wrong. There is also the addition of different 
 Professions, which really adds another element of fun to the game. Different Professions can be 
 used for different things. Enchanting can be used the enchant gear with different powerful effects. 
 Alchemy gives the option to create potions with different buffs. They all help to make life on 
 WoW seem a little bit more fun, as you may gather reagents for professions instead of just killing 
 monsters over and over again. Furthermore, these professions can be used to make money. One may 
 sell enchantments for money or trade them for other professions' items/buffs/enchants. With the 
 addition of Burning Crusade, there are more professions to cater to different peoples' playstyles. 
 
  
  The World Of Warcraft is a massive world. There are two different continents : Kalimdor and Eastern 
 Kingdoms. To get to the other continent, one must either Hearthstone, Astral Recall, Take the Zeppelin/Boat. 
 I particularly like this way of transportation. Hearthstone makes it easier to get from place to 
 place. Instead of walking 30 minutes, just hearthstone to get to one's home. Hearthstones can also 
 be used to recall to other homes, which would make travelling that much easier. The only annoyance 
 is that it's on a 60 minute cooldown, which would make using it over and over again hard. However, 
 i think it does help to prevent exploiting. People would just keep hearthstoning to reach their 
 home. I think the developers at WoW would want us to travel across the world they built instead 
 of just hearthstoning. The two continents are separated by the Great Sea and it is impossible to 
 swim to the other side. I tried before and the sea just ended at a particular spot. The ability 
 to take zeppelins/ portals/ and fly makes the World of Warcraft easier to get around. Flightmasters 
 provides flight to different Flight spots that one can get by talking to the NPCs there. This makes 
 it easier to reach somewhere one has already been to before, of course for a small fee. After playing 
 WoW for so long, I haven't even been into some places and instances. Furthermore, it's so huge 
 and with the addition of Outland in Burning Crusade, it would take even longer to see every NPC, 
 every place and every instance. There are also some secret places in the world of warcraft. For 
 instance, there is old ironforge and of course, Newman's Landing. , one need to has at least Tier 
 3 item sets. Too lousy gear and you'll find yourself dying alot in raids. It'll be pretty easy 
 to find raids and as long as you don't steal all the items that you can't use/ not of use to you 
 (Ninja) , I'm quite sure others would be happy to take you in. After all, the more the merrier right? 
 More people= More Heals, Off-tanks, DPS, but of course, lesser chance to get the item you want. 
 There is the occasional game-spoiler in a raid that would do anything to see other members get 
 killed. It'd be best to kick them out fast unless the raid wipes like Leroy Jenkins. Ah yes, I 
 forgot to talk about the death system. When one dies, one will turn into a ghost. Ghosts are unable 
 to attack or be attacked and they're able to float on water. To resurrect, one only needs to talk 
 to the Spirit Healer nearby to resurrect for 25% item durability loss and 10 minutes of Resurrection 
 sickness (-75% attributes) . If not, one can also run to their corpse to resurrect for no consequences. 
  . Now, back to raids. Bosses are very, very hard at level 70 and I'd recommend checking WoWWiki 
 or some other websites to look for tips and advice. They normally do enough damage to kill non-tanks 
 in one hit and it is important to not over-aggro. This ensures that people would not just keep 
 spamming spells and swinging weapons endlessly. 
  
  I trust that you have gotten all your gear, no? If not, why not join the arenas to get some points 
 for some PvP gear? There are arena systems and battlegrounds in WoW which add to PvP fun. Arena 
 is something like 2v2,3v3. The more wins you get, the more points you get and points can be used 
 to redeem PvP gear. Pretty neat, huh ? PvP gear refers to gear which has resilience on them. Resilience 
 is one of the many different factors that determine damage and damage taken. Resilience decreases 
 critical strike chance and periodic damage which is very important in PvP. Normally, PvPers would 
 have a trinket which removes effects that cause loss of control. Without that, it's very hard to 
 avoid getting killed in Arenas/PvP. The battleground also adds different play types to the game. 
 Instead of the usual 'kill-em-all' PvP, there are different modes such as 'Capture the Flag' and 
 'King of the Hill' (something like holding points until you win) . I'm sure this would cater to 
 people bored of the usual PvP combat. 
  
  
  In any case, I'm not able to describe every single thing in WoW although I did my best over here. 
 To truly understand how epic a game WoW is, you just have to try it. I'd recommend this game to 
 anyone who considers themselves a gamer, be it casual or hardcore.
  
  The new expansion pack: Wrath Of The Lich King is coming out later this year. So to all people 
 who want to try this game, don't wait. Get it now to ensure you'll be ready for Wrath Of The Lich 
 King later on!
  
  P. S. Sorry for all the stupid typos and I may have made some mistakes about the game details, correct 
 me if I'm wrong! 
  
  Thanks, I hope this review gives you a general idea about WoW. 
  
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong, i like WOW, but it really is WWAAYYY over-rated!
  
  I like this as a game to fill the big void between the biggest games releases, but not any other 
 times, not as much as LOTRO anyways.
  
  WoW has what though really? a high LVL to reach, mounts, professions, one large pay-for expansion, 
 highlevel instances, PVP and well, thats about it.
  
  Since there is no tutorial or "Practice Area" to help you get used to the game for new players 
 it can be quite daunting to start playing it, but once you get used to it the quests can be fun, 
 and to get the most out of WoW you really have to spend around a month to get to a high level, 
 if you really push yourself.
  
  But even if you go solo without a party, this is a relativly easy game, as long as you know what 
 you can take and take no stupid risks, your not gonna die quickly.
  
  The only REAL thing to do is reach 70 and do it again. 
  which is unfortunate that i easily bore 
 of if and take a long break from it.
  
  for me its a bit of a dissapoinment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F3l1P3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  If you wanted a good game that won't go out from you collection till.. the next expansion arrives 
 you've searched well cause you already found it, World of warcraft is a MMORPG, where you start 
 with a character you customize (race, hair color, skin color, proession, name etc) Since you choose 
 your race you already know what general enemies you've got. The game "divides" in two sections 
 the game the allience conformed by humans, dwarf, gnome, night elfs and the lasted (with the expansion) 
 draenei, the other group are the orde they are conformed by the orcs, tauren, trolls, living deads 
 and as the same with the alliance with the expansion.. the blood elf, in both side you will begin 
 with the default weapons for your profession, after some kills of monster and maybe chatting with 
 other player, why not ;) you should level up; means that you are getting stronger so you can hve 
 other spells or skills that you will be learning each time you reach a determinate level or finish 
 a quest, maybe your reward is money :)
  This is a really good game and it is really simple, obviously it looks like omfG! when you enter 
 the first time; as i did, but after 3 minutes you will notice that the game is very kind in many 
 ways, since it has word filter so you will only see @&%$!, the administration of the video and 
 ram memory is good to, the game is always loading the game and it doesn't make you wait in those 
 loading unfinishable screens :)
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a short review.
  
  World of warcraf: First of all, I am not an RPG fan at all. Rpg's bore me to death but one day 
 I saw a trailer of WoW on tv and despite its association with "nerds" it interested me. 
  I downloaded a 10 day free trial soon after. It was a quick download & quick installation.
  I 
 created a character. There are two different sides to choose; The "good guys" which are called 
 The Alliance or the "bad guys" which are called The Horde. 
  There are 4 types of characters to choose from each side. Each is entirely different in every aspect 
 including their hometown.
  You customise everything about them including skills, appearance, name etc.
  After that is complete 
 there is a short loading and then prepare to be surprised!
  The scenery is great; there is quite a lot of detail and not too much repetition in objects and 
 textures.
  My favourite aspect of the game is the enormous open ended world. And by enormous, i'm not saying 
 san andreas enormous. I am saying it's so big that all the Grand Theft Auto worlds put together 
 cannot match the scale of the "World of Warcraft".
  When I realised the size of the world, I was utterly bewildered. Shocked beyond measure!
  The 
 game is updated regularly. There are always new missions there and the scenery/surroundings are 
 always suited to the time of year. (Eg: On christmas day you will see christmas presents, NPCs 
 wearing santa claus hats, christmas trees... etc.
  There are always great numbers of people playing online and you can chat to them as well as perform 
 missions with them or trade with them... etc.
  
  There is too much in this game for me to put into this small review and so i will tell you now 
 that no matter what genre of games you are into, you MUST at least try world of warcraft. 
  Download the WoW free trial, it gives you a good idea of what the full game is like and if you're 
 anything like me... you will play for one day and the next day... go out and buy the full thing.
 
  
  It is a brilliant game, full of surprises. 
  The only downside is the monthly price to play.
  But then again... there are always private servers. 
 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmullan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone knows about World or Warcraft by now, This game is a Grind-Fest. Most quests involve 
 you killing a certain amount of X, or retrieving an X amount of Y. 
  
  Some people like this kind of stuff, I can stick with it but I'd prefer if they would add a few 
 more type than that. The community in this game can be Either brilliant or down right awful. Depending 
 on what Realm you choose, People can be so nice on one Realm but then on the other realm they treat 
 you like dirt.
  
  The game play is basically like your average MMORPG, but expanded a good bit. Their is never a 
 time in the game when you have nothing to do, unless you are waiting for the newest patch, which 
 updates alot of stuff and even adds new content into the game!
  
  Graphics for the game today aren't that great, but they are bearable. I'd say anyone with a computer 
 these days would be able to run this game on maxed settings.
  
  Well if your into MMORPGS and don't mind paying money every month then you should check out this 
 game. It's a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  I've read a Review... WoW is a Rip-Off, how can that be, Rip-off of what? it Was one of the first 
 , and it is the best untill today. 
  
  I used to be a hater, untill i actually started to play , and it is great. You begin with a little 
 of grinding, but at the early levels, you can go to raids, and instances, which is really great 
 playing in a big group. 
  
  This game has "cartoonish" graphics, but the reason is that you don't nee the best machine to run 
 it, it's easy, so EVERYONE can play, and with this Blizzard gets more people, apart from games 
 like Age Of Conan, great graphics but only people that bought great graphic card and stuff, today 
 , can actually play it, and apart from the connection speed you must have....
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is actually really great for a 2004 game, we can do lots of things
  
 
  Sound: Well i love those sound effects, the music it self is really great, altho i sometimes like 
 to hear my own music, inspires me =)
  
  Graphics: Nice graphics, cartoonish, but as I said, so everyone can play. Having great graphics 
 like crysis is just BS, because one in a million can play, and a server with 10 guys would be so 
 damn sh*t!
  
  Besides, when you had a NES, or was playing Duke Nukem 3D , killing those little b*tches listening 
 to "come get some", nobody cared about graphics, the 2 things that rated a game were, Gameplay, 
 and Fun!
  Wow has both those things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter24450
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft
  
  What can we say about this game? 
  
  They took everything from every online game made and put it into world of warcraft blizzards over 
 rated mmorpg, 
  
  Not so munch to do on it well there is! 
  
  When you create your first character all you do is quest up to 70, and everyone says the fun begins 
 on 70 well not really,
  
  When you finally reach 70 all you can do is do pve, pvp or some boring proff,
  
  The game is 
 most about grinding and get the best gear so you get respect,
  
  The graphic are just cartoon children graphic, And its getting old, well to say most people havent 
 never played online games than wow thats why they say it owns, well they are wrong. 
  
  Anyway in my opnion wow is a bad game and it will die anytime soon because all the new games coming 
 out, diablo 2, starcraft and blizzards new mmorpg online game and also age of conan is out and 
 ive tested it and can already say it pwn wow 100% 
  
  Skip this game and buy age of conan and have fun!
  
  In the end wow is a waste of time and 
 just a rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is simply amazing. I'm playing the trial and through my eyes it's a great game. 
 The world is huge with many different kinds of places (forests, kingdoms, plains, etc.) , and there 
 are many awesome creatures ( not counting the cows, I mean come on... moo?) All of the visuals 
 are outstanding even though the characters don't look too realistic. When you play this game, you'll 
 notice the familiar MMORPG formula, killing, looting, and leveling up. Also you listen to quite 
 beautiful music. But Blizzard Entertainment also added the original Warcraft flavor to it. In short, 
 World of Warcraft is the best MMORPG on the market. Any gamer should buy it and pay the monthly 
 fees because you will have a quite spectacular gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber-Cyrax
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  When the game got out, I didn't wanna buy it because I thought it would be too big and that it 
 would take all of my gaming time for only one game. But when I heard so many good things about 
 it, I finally decided to buy it, and realized that I lost the 6 first months after WoW's release 
 thinking I shouldn't buy it, while I should have done that when it got out.
  
  The thing is (as I thought) , the game is extremely addictive, which is a good thing in that case: 
 World of Warcraft has so much to offer in a crazy immense world made in beautiful graphics for 
 a game needing so much data passing, enriched with a good soundtrack and nice audio effects which 
 gives a whole new experience in term of gaming.
  
  It's also good to see that the gameplay is awesome, since it offers a whole bunch of command and 
 actions, and I'm just talking about one class (9 in total) . You can do a lot of other non-combat 
 related things, like creating and having a guild, doing professions like Enchanting or Blacksmithing, 
 or simply hang out with the tons of friends you can have in this game.
  
  Unfortunately, after some time (which was 3 years in my case) , you can get tired of that game, 
 even if that's a whole lot of time. After hitting 70 and then do almost everything possible in 
 the game, I eventually stopped playing, considering that this magnificent game has had its time. 
 So, for those who are playing, play other games than WoW sometimes: don't let it own ur life... for 
 those who never play the game, buy it and enjoy. This is arguably one of the best video game of 
 all time. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The first time I entered the World of Warcraft a few years ago, I thought "WOW! The world is so 
 huge, I can't wait to explore all of Azeroth and see the sights and meet new friends." It was like 
 a whole virtual world, I was amazed at how big it was. I loved to explore Elywnn Forest and other 
 zones. I couldn't wait to see the world of warcraft that I went into zones I too low of a level 
 for. But after you see the whole world and do a lot of quests, you'll start to get bored and want 
 something new. This happened to me recently, to get myself interested in the game again, I rerolled 
 horde, but that didn't last too long as I rejoined my friends as Alliance on another server rerolling 
 new mains. But this time, I decided to pay attention to the quests and the story line. When I did 
 that, it made me feel like I was apart of something, it felt more immersive and when you pay attention 
 to the story of these quests, you begin to realize that there's history to this world called Azeroth. 
 I also tried Role Playing servers and found that Role Playing is fun because you're really "Falkor, 
 defender of the alliance" and not a 3D thing on your computer.
  
  All in all, this game is really fun at first, but to keep yourself interested in it, try something 
 new when you start to get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, it revolutionizes PC gaming. its been goin on for wut 4 YEARS and still it 
 is 1 of teh most popular games ever
  
  the graphics r awsome, the story is awsome , the gameplay is tremendous and there is a wide variaty 
 of how to make ur character ensuring unquie gameplay
  
  teh only down side is this game can consume lives and create sreious addictions, there has been 
 1 case of a boy who comited suicide after a staraight 32 hrs of playin, his suicide note; to hav 
 his name placed in Warcraft Hall of Fame or sumthin.
  
  
  soz hav to copy this
  
  This game is amazing, it revolutionizes PC gaming. its been goin on for wut 4 YEARS and still it 
 is 1 of teh most popular games ever
  
  the graphics r awsome, the story is awsome , the gameplay is tremendous and there is a wide variaty 
 of how to make ur character ensuring unquie gameplay
  
  teh only down side is this game can consume lives and create sreious addictions, there has been 
 1 case of a boy who comited suicide after a staraight 32 hrs of playin, his suicide note; to hav 
 his name placed in Warcraft Hall of Fame or sumthin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awsomecal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game after one of my friends recommended it to me.
  When i had bought it and downloaded it , i stayed playing it for around 8 hours. The next day i 
 wasn't as eager to play it and eventually traded it in after a week.
  The graphics are amazing as is the game play. However, you really have to put the time in to level 
 up and dominate the game. If you don't have a lot of time on your hands then this game wont be 
 so fun play. Another thing is that it dosn't have a tutorial and can be quite confusing to play 
 if this were to be your first pc game. I felt really let down, after all the good reviews and hype 
 it just didn't reach my expectations. 
  In my opinion i find this game over rated and i don't really understand why its so popular. If 
 you really want to have a good time i suggest spend some time with your family and friends, it 
 will be much more satisfiying than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, I'm not saying every game should be a mmorpg. What I'm saying is that every 
 game should be as innovative, creative, exciting, fun and enjoyable as this. This game delivers 
 perfect on every single aspect and outruns any of its predecessors. World of Warcraft (WoW) is 
 an online rpg that lets the player create their inner alter ego.... work with me now.... and lets 
 them loose into a vibrant, enjoyable and dangerous world. How the hell does GTA 4 and MGS4 get 
 10's and this doesn't? This game revolutionizes gaming as it is. The player can complete quests, 
 join groups of factions, or can even learn a profession to make a living from. There are several 
 races and classes to choose from and the list continues to grow. This is a game that has truely 
 amazed me everytime I've played it. Here's the scenario, imagine Oblivion, Morrowind, Fable, and 
 Diablo. Now imagine that crack was added to it. You now have Wow.
  
  
  There's one thing that verifies if a game is a true rpg and truely has an open world... you can 
 be a hustler. Now I know many of you are thinking, what the hell is he talking about? Not only 
 can you fulfill quests, do favors, ask favors, and work professions, but you can do all of this 
 at the same time. You can make money ANY WAY YOU WANT. I'm sick and tired of rpg's that only let 
 you join factions, freelance, or steal. I want to be able to do all of that and more, this is easily 
 achievable in Wow. Now for those who complain the monthly price, shut the hell up! If YOU don't 
 think this game is worth the $14.99 a month then don't pay it, but don't make it seem as if the 
 game isn't worth it. Since the game has over 10 million users it's obviously worth it to someone 
 and I don't think there are 10 million idiots doing the same thing, unless it's the presidential 
 election (different story) . I'm not paying for the monthly charge, I got the trial. However, I could 
 see how this game could be worth it. Honestly, try the trial version of Wow. I got it for 2 bucks 
 @ GS. This game is at the very least worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  WOW was one of those games that came on the scene, and by word of mouth it grew into one of the 
 most successful games of all time, and after playing it for 3 years I still view this as one of 
 the biggest landmarks in gaming history to which many have tried to recreate and have failed.
 
  
  Your journey in warcraft is a long one, but a satisfying one, with many different races, classes 
 and professions to choose from - it is simply massive and most importantly fun! the world in itself 
 is fully realized and still great to look at even with some low rez textures around the place.
 
  
  If MMO has never been your thing, i would still advise giving warcraft a try, it brought me into 
 this genre with open hands and i have never looked back, and i hope that when you play it you feel 
 the same way too! p. s. go for warrior as we are the best even tho every other class out there thinks 
 they are lol! roll on wrath of the lich king! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladiesman48
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a amazing game sure you have to pay like $15 a month for it but its all worth 
 it when you see how fun it is like the dungons, guilds ,good PVP, questing, but like every game 
 (exsept GTA lol) there is only a couple bad stuff in it like lots of the Blizzard (the company 
 that made the game ) will be doing some fixing thing which you won't be able to go back on for 
 hours some of the quests are kinda lame. But still World of warcraft is a game id i'd recemend 
 for anyone and it beats Ever quest Guild wars and Runscape by miles, well every game beats runescape 
 lol. but i need to put more words in this revew so im going to write a bunch of letters and words 
 and stuff. Runescape sucks! wii sucks hahahahaha lololololol hahahahaha lolololololo hahahahaha 
 ololololololololo hahahahahaha lolololololololol hahahahahahaha lololololololololol hahahahahahahahaha 
 lolololololololo hahahahahahahahaha lolololololol hahaHAHAHAHAHAH ololololololololol hahahahah 
 lolololololololool hahahahahahahaha lololollolololololololo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Just4pool193
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's see here... yeah I used to hate WoW, back when I was a RuneScape fanboy. Now that I took 
 a second stab at it, it makes RuneScape look like a joke. The real issue with this game comes from 
 the $15 a month fee, which can be a bit steep for some people. Another problem could be that you 
 have to wait until level 40 to get a mount. Action is where this game shines. This game is pretty 
 fast paced, and will not disappoint. There are virtually no load screens, unless you are teleporting 
 across the entire map or something. I am currently a level 5 Warlock (lol) but I am working on 
 it. I know quite a few level 70 friends, and they still play this game. No matter who you are, 
 you must AT LEAST try the 10-day free trial. It make take a 4.5GB bite out of your hard drive but 
 you could just uninstall it once the trial is up. Oh, and before I forget, ALLIANCE FOR THE WIN!! 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhour1212
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say.... when it first came out like alot of people i hated it!.... but as time went 
 on i decided to try it out and i have to say its very fun. great gameplay and great game content. the 
 armor and weapons look badass. the pvp system is almost flawless. and the races are great too with 
 the exception of the drinai which are lame but anywho other then that they're great with plenty 
 of backstory for heavy role players such as me.... yes the game seems to have everything.... keyword 
 in that sentence SEEMS.... even through all these great features i cant escape the feeling that 
 i'm in a cartoon world.... i really HATE World Of Warcraft graphics. they feel so...... cartoony! 
 i mean really they just plain suck... and in addition with that i really dont like the classes you 
 have to choose from... it just feels limited. like i said this games great.... FOR SOME ONE WHOS NEVER 
 PLAYED AN MMORPG..... but other then that its not much.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradmasterofff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I've played wow since about half a year after it came out. I still play now. I come and go from 
 it really. I have the expansion. What i'm really waiting for is the next expansion. That should 
 be exciting. The game can be quite addictive. The graphics are not top notch. They are wonderfully 
 done however. They're done in a way that allows you to feel like it looks good, while not needing 
 a really good computer to run. However, if you do have a better computer, there is room to up the 
 visual and make it look a lot better. There's quite a bit of freedom within the world. Personally 
 i wish there was more, but i often just look for complete freedom in games. Its like living another 
 live if you will. Wow lets you do this to an extent. It'd be nice if they developed a housing system 
 or something. Of course this would be difficult to do. Yet, if they did i would be very impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I am finished playing World of Warcraft, because quite honestly I find it hard to play the same 
 damn game for more then 1 year. Sure the game has new things added from time to time. But really 
 it does actually get old somewhere along the lines.
  
  I guess I just need games that have endings.
  such as Metal Gear Solid or BioShock and Mass Effect.
 
  
  At first I really enjoyed this game to the maximum. but after a year I found myself playing a game 
 where the numbers just keep getting bigger and bigger and I'm supposed to be amazed by this.
  
  I'm sure a small few will understand what I mean and I'm sure a great many are super pissed 
 at me right now.
  
  I do still think that BLIZZARD is not one of the best game companies out there but THE BEST. They 
 know exactly how to make games right and knowbody else can do it like they can. They are the one 
 game company that really know how to make a game easy to get into but yet hard to master and 100% 
 fun.
  
  I've just grown tired of world of warcraft. But time will tell I will admit I may just become addicted 
 to WOW once more.
  
  So I will tell you the Pros and Cons of World Of Warcraft.
  Pros
  - Graphics are simple and clean yet artistically awe inspiring.
  - Sound is fanastic, voice acting 
 and humar is really great.
  - Gameplay is the most important thing about a game and should be and Blizzard once again has not 
 failed here at all.
  - Story line and Plot, while gameplay is not directly linked to a storyline it is there and can 
 be a whole other part of warcraft to delve into at your own desired time, believe me there is a 
 background story to the whole Warcraft universe much like Toklien did with the lord of the rings 
 yet this is still unique which I find very impressive.
  - Multiplayer is obviously the best you can find on earth at the moment and has been that way since 
 the game had come out 4 years ago.
  - Content - is through the roof. There are so many items and weapons helmets armor and not to mention 
 anything else that you would call an item in the real world is also in the virtual world of Warcraft.
 
  
  Cons
  - Somewhere along the line I lost focus on this game because of other games that have caught my 
 interest, its too bad but thats what happened.
  
  I also become really addicted to warcraft which is another thing that stops me from playing again. 
 I know alot of people who don't even go out anymore because they play World of Warcraft they also 
 have girlfriend or wife issues. They always say its saving them plenty of money. Ya I'm sure it 
 does but a quality life isn't free.
  
  SO I guess there aren't any direct cons about world of warcraft, but if I could think of one thing 
 it would be that alot of people are missing out on the real world because of this game. so I'm 
 going to knock off a couple of points for that.
  
  Blizzard is as we speak pumping more and more of your own money into creating more reasons for 
 you to keep playing this life dominishing game.
  
  I'm sorry but I choose the real world, I choose life. Ha ha Im just kidding but dang this game 
 takes up alot of your time though. 
  
  World Of Warcraft is possibly the most popular game ever created but it isn't the best place to 
 put your money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  "This is amazing MMORPG that deserves the name "wow". There are wonderful places to explore and 
 engaging quests. Fans are moved to tears when they leave their friends and move on to other games. 
 This game is a cultural phenomenon with over 10 million users.
  
  Although the game was first launched in 2004, the graphics are not bad due to frequent patches 
 and realm upgrades. The cartoony characters are cute and balance things out, as you only need a 
 dual core and direct x 9 to run these graphics. The sound is bad, but after I tell you about the 
 gameplay, you wont mind.
  
  The price is only 20$, but the Burning Crusade expansion which will set you back another $40. I 
 suggest you buy it, while the game even remains on the shelves. The only downside is waiting for 
 the Wrath of the Lich King expansion and the lack of a console version. Wake up SONY this game 
 is made for the Playstation 3.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, with an easy combat system and awesome weapons. There are auction houses 
 and banks to store your stuff. For you Warlocks, you can summon demons to aid you in your battles. 
 It is sexy to have a Succubus with a whip fighting along your side. 
  
  
  There are non combat mounts, and flying mounts, so you can travel by land/air/sea. There are are 
 special instances where you can party up w/ friends and take down bosses together, there are lots 
 of unique boss fights. There are also raids up to 40 people. Quests of course, awesome UI system. 
 The upcoming Lich King expansion will add a Death Knight class, new monsters, new gear and MORE! 
 
  
  I hope this game will be remembered through gaming history. A console version would improve the 
 graphics and add millions of new users. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_SlaY3R
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  You want to pay about 120$ per year and play a great Blizzard game? Then go for World Of Warcraft. 
 This game has
  
  Races, Class and Sides (Horde or Alliance) ... check
  Proffesions... Check
  Wepon & Armor that are awsome to look at... check
  Modify your equipment... check
 
  Build your own Spec (like in diablo 2) ... check
  Big Dungeons that requires 10-40 persons to get done... check
  
  The 2 thing I hate about this 
 game is the graphics are getting dull with the time. But lets give this game a chance cuz it's 
 still recruiting people even if the game was release in 2004! And the second thing is that at level 
 70 (or 60) its a BIG freakin' routine.... farm gold and reputation...
  
  But this game is SO addictive that I've stopped playing 2 time and guess what I've replayed! I've 
 played for over 2 500 hours to be exact. And I'm not kidding!
  
  -Sry readers but I got to go because I'm going to Kill Illidan with my guild XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  WoW, is one heck of an mmorpg that is a ton of fun to play. It has some minor set backs, and is 
 aging, but in no way should it be overlooked. All though the future of mmo's will challenge, and 
 is currently challenging WoW's status as number 1, this mmo is still top dog.
  
  GOOD: Very fun, great lore, absolutely enormous world, not the least bit linear (you can go just 
 about anywhere and get lost doing nothing for hours if you want) , large community that is for the 
 most part, helpful. Addictive pvp that offers huge 40 on 40 settings to small team based 5v5 matches 
 with plenty of rewards that allow you to not be totally dependent on pve to be successful. The 
 game can be played all the way up to 70 by your self or with others. Riding and flying mounts are 
 fun and not only offer a faster way to travel but also open up different areas of the game otherwise 
 not accessible. Caster animations are a blast to watch and are truly well done. The sheer number 
 of items, armor, upgrades, potions, elixirs, scrolls, gems, and trade skills is staggering, and 
 at times, almost too much for me to keep up with. Which is a lot better than having seen it all.. 
 Once you begin to put together armor sets, your character definitely begins to look very powerful 
 and cool. Weapons also are very elaborate and at the higher levels are very unique, flashy, and 
 down right cool looking. There are plenty of unique races to choose from and the tension between 
 the horde and alliance is also a blast to get into. 
  
  The gameplay is also very smooth. The controls are very easy to learn and do not feel restrictive 
 at all. The camera is yours to move as you see fit, which is a major plus when in large scale battles. 
 The ability to jump is also nice and just adds to that non-linear/non-restrictive feeling that 
 is so wonderful about this game. You can also customize your hotkeys as you see fit, write macros, 
 and tweak the UI with some great mods from the community. Also, the replay value is high since 
 there is the thrill of playing both sides, the horde and alliance, to see what each is all about, 
 and you have unique starting zones for almost every race, which keeps things interesting with different 
 environments to start leveling in and different back stories, quests and cultures to keep your 
 interest. The new addition of smaller raid instances is a plus that makes end game pve content 
 and gear more practical and attainable to the rest of the community, and the social aspect of the 
 game, ( especially working with a guild to overcome some very challenging and unique raid encounters 
 or intense pvp) , is just plain fun. 
  
  Blizzard, despite what some disgruntled wow players might say, offers some great customer service. 
 Ive played plenty of fantasy games, ranging form Everquest to Guildwars, to Ultima, to Final Fantasy, 
 and more.. and Bizz has shown me quick response times to issues, friendly support from game masters, 
 and a very thurough and informative website that keeps you in the know and connected to the wow 
 universe, especially with the addition of the wow armory which allows you to look at guilds and 
 individual players online to see their armor, numbers, pvp ranks, talent trees and more. 
  
  
  BAD: The graphics are becoming dated, although this in no way takes away from the awesome 
 job Blizz has done with this game ( I cant stress that enough) The character selection process 
 needs to be updated and given more options. Although there are a healthy amount of different and 
 highly unique races to choose from, basic adjustments should be made such as; the ability to make 
 minor adjustments to hight and body size, the ability to customize more specific features on faces, 
 and a much much larger choice of hairstyles. I would say that is my biggest let down; the very 
 low level of character customization, I really feel like every time I make a new character, I find 
 my self continuously choosing between the same few styles because there are either no others to 
 choose from or they are just flat out way too ugly to stare at till level 70. 
  
  The game can get repetitive in the middle levels when trying to reach 70 and you get stuck looking 
 kinda goofy at times until you get into the higher levels and have a chance to put some nicer armor 
 and weapons on your toon. Also, the game does not allow for players to customize their armor a 
 bit more, with different color schemes and designs. I'm not suggesting anything that would stray 
 away from the look of the particular armor set, but players should be able to stand out somewhat 
 and express themselves more. 
  
  
  To end this long review, I conclude by saying that WoW has been and still is very enjoyable to 
 play. My self and others included just cant seem to set it down to get into other mmo's, even ones 
 that "look better" or are "next gen". 
  
  World of Warcraft has set the standard for what an mmo should be. The 10million subscribers are 
 a testament to that, not to mention that every mmo since WoW's birth has had to compare itself 
 with the giant, whether they like it or not. I'm no WoW fanboy and there are a couple other games 
 such as Guildwars and recently Conan, that are also great to play, but wow takes the cake, at least 
 for now... Hands down, this is the mmo that everyone should play at least once. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman13579
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I started playing WOW Only about 2 months ago as I was never really into it. I tried the free-trial 
 and absolutly loved it! I was up to about 3 am playing it and couldn't get enough. I bought the 
 full game and the installing was extremely fast but the patch took quite a while. I started a new 
 charcter and couldn't stop playing but the thing that caught my eye about this game was the amount 
 of people in one place. It actually makes you feel like your a real person in an RPG with all the 
 other people. You'll see Mages, Warlocks and everything else from Inns to weapon stores. All I 
 can say is this game will never be stopped playing and will never have any no people playing it. 
 Except from when updates are applied!!
  WOW gets a 9.5/10. Just a few minor problems from abit of crashing ( Might just be my cpu!) and 
 graphics I wish should have been improved but as I said you would put this all aside when you notice 
 the vast environment and surroundings. As Gamespot said this is a game that everyone should play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DF2
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  This was a jewel of a game during its release and the year and a half that followed. Lots of content 
 and an interesting choice of dungeons to raid. Finding players to raid with was not too hard then. 
 There has been many changes over the years but the pattern unfolding is not the in the best interest 
 of casual MMORPG players. When released the game was somewhat balanced to suit the play styles 
 different people have. Lately Bliz has been pouring lots of energy and effort to fine tune the 
 game to a point that some of the new dungeons are more a curse for the casual players who does 
 not have oodles of time to aquire the necessary items needed to traverse them. Whats worse there 
 are fewer players to party with to beggin with. Even if you do manage to get a group together the 
 newer dungeons are tricky unless you got some really good gear which brings us to the first problem. 
 The new game model Bliz is sporting will automatically weane the interest of the casual player 
 overtime (specially after hitting lvl 70) . If you are willing to dedicate tons of time and have 
 a lot of patience to progress to the higher strata of this game then this game will give you much 
 to look forward to, others should not expect much after hitting lvl 70 unless Bliz figures out 
 why so many people are leaving as opposed to joining by the thousands. Like some others here I 
 am not looking forward for the expansion unless they change the direction of the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icetray86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  ---------
  Pros:
  --------
  Huge World.
  Custom Channels.
  Can be addictive.
  FlagRSP2 is a great mod.
  --------
  Cons:
  --------
  Graphics are disasterous, even at 
 High.
  Combat system is nerdy and stupid.
  Retarded, overloud voice actors for Dungeon bosses.
  NO RPERS ON RP SERVERS.
  Emotes text is 
 kinda corny.
  People online are retarded.
  Game masters can get sarcastic and pissy.
  Outragous price.
  Pre-paid cards are a rip-off.
  Ali is annoying.
  A heavy dose of in-game 
 spammers.
  Rules for Godmodding. (Unless that's ok with you)
  --------
  
  
  
  Wow can be a complete bore, while sometimes it can be a blast. Unfourtunetly, most of the time, 
 when you begin playing, it starts off fun, and dies out really quickly. You first create your character 
 as one of the horde or the alience. You have a bunch of colorful races to make your char, which 
 will look just like everybody else except different hair, color, or face. The options are still 
 limited, so that is possible.
  
  
  For starters, the Combat is completly broken. This is what it's like:
  
  
  
  
  When you 
 find a target to fight, your guy automatically starts to fight it.
  
  
  
  
  He hits it with a sword.
  He dances around for 3 seconds.
  He hits it with a sword.
  He dances 
 around for 3 seconds.
  He hits it with a sword.
  He dances around for 3 seconds.
  He hits it with a sword.
  He dances around for 3 seconds.
  
  
  You just sit there helplessly, 
 not controlling any action, and hope you don't die. Ok, sure, maybe cast a few spells in the process, 
 but that's it. Unlike Oblivion, which had you mashing the triggers down to slice your foe in half, 
 you could stop to go to the bathroom while your guy is fighting. What's worst is you can't fight 
 2 at once. If you encounter 2 monsters, you can't block one and fight the other like a real lvl 
 70 could. Other times, when you run away from a monster, he's 16 feet away, chasing you, you suddenly 
 die, even though he didn't even touch you. If you DO manage to get away, the monster runs 300000 
 miles per hour back to his "A. I zone" like an idiot.
  
  
  And if you fight a high leveled person with him not even attacking you, your heath with plummet 
 and you'd eventually die. And somehow, someway, somebody could get exploded by dynmites, run away, 
 and his health would replentish by itself in seconds, although, unfairly, monsters recover faster 
 than players. However, for some reason, the gameplay, despite it's corniness, can still be fun. 
 You might find it enjoyable to fight monsters, especially when your high level. PVP can be boring, 
 however.
  
  
  
  
  There isn't too much difference between quests. They have you:
  
  
  Kill X amount of enemies.
  Collect X amount of items.
  Activate X amount of items.
 
  Reach a location.
  Read a letter.
  Or talk to sombody that's either 6 inches away, or 350 miles away.
  
  Ok, sure, maybe there's 
 different monsters, or different textures, or different objects, face it, THEY'RE ALL THE SAME. 
 Luckliy, a large number of them keep it from looking similiar. They do happen to be a bit challanging 
 than they seem, and they give little exp.
  
  
  
  
  
  Even Blizzard themselves would have to admit that the Graphics, even on the high setting are terrible. 
 They look cartoonish far away, and the people look terrible up close. For instance, a person's 
 eyes are poorly cut-up octogons moving at random places. Faces look like what the graphic processers 
 look like when the graphics were first being generated. Weapons are about the good thing with graphics.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  With combat, hitting and pausing, hitting and pausing, hitting and pausing, you can't imagine how 
 lifeless combat sounds. The voice actors for the emotes are passable, but the Dungeon boss voice 
 is aweful. Like, when your in Deadmines, and come across this huge tuarren dude, who's clearly, 
 50 feet away, yet he's nearly talking in your ear saying "You there! Checkout that noise". Even 
 the explosion before that isn't nearly as loud.
  
  
  
  
  
  Emotes are pretty corny, when they saying "Somebody pokes you. Hey!" Or something like "Dwarf shooes 
 you. Be gone pest". It's just so nerdy, but lets forget that part, and move on the the retarded 
 people that play online.
  
  
  
  
  Ever MMPORPG has annoying people online, but this is nearly bad as Conquer online. People often 
 call you retarded for not leveling up, followed by the Ignore system, the worst part of the game. 
 And if it wasn't for all these damn spammers telling you about their WOW Gold, and Free Leveling, 
 WOW would be a better place.
  
  
  And the people are retarded as they call you. In fact, a majority of my friends are 19 year old 
 cheerleaders living in their mom's basement.
  Or their just miserable 12 year olds. Either that, or they're perverted 15 year olds. I'm not trying 
 to say this is as bad as conquer, but jezz...
  
  
  
  The game also has a terrible lag. For instance, no matter how powerful, your computer is, when 
 you get on a zeplin to go to Ogirmar, there's a loading screen that pops up. You cannot move during 
 this screen. When the loading screen is done, the zeplin is already returning to Trifal glades. 
 SO you have TO WAIT FOR ANOTHER LOADING SCREEN. When that loading screen is done, the zeplin is 
 returning before you can get off it. SO YOU HAVE TO WAIT ANOTHER LOADING SCREEN. When it's done, 
 the zeplin goes the OTHER WAY, SO YOU WAIT FOR ANOTHER LOADING SCREEN.
  
  
  Perhaps you can see..... YOU ARE STUCK.
  
  
  
  
  Adding a last insult, the price is outragous. 
 From 55,0000 players online, having to pay 20 bucks a month, you'd excpect that Blizzard could 
 buy 6 copies of the Empire State building. And the Pre-paid cards are a rip-off. They say you get 
 a free 60 day for each card. What they don't know is that it usually glitches, and 4 days later, 
 you need to buy a new one. Either that, or sometimes, you don't need to buy one for 139 days. No 
 point. No logic. And Ali is this annoying girl that keeps ignoring me, and calls me loser every 
 freaking 125258238 times!!!!!!!!! And there's a girl by the name of Kaid, who even debates she's 
 human. Freak. (But I know it's not mature to talk about retarded online relationships)
  
  
  AND WHY DOES EVERYBODY TALK ABOUT CHUCK NORRIS!?!?!?!?!?!?
  
  
  
  
  Totalling all 
 this up, WOW isn't too bad of a game. It can be lasting at times, depending what mood you're in. 
 But saying that it's addicting, and lasts for at least 4 hours, is usually lying.
  
  
  ____________
  INITIAL SCORE:
  
  F- - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
  
  ____________
  MIDDLE 
 SCORE:
  
  
  A++++++++
  
  
  ____________
  FINAL SCORE:
  
  
  B+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  There are those who love the universe of WarCraft and those who don't. Personally, I never found 
 the WarCraft strategy games to be all that interesting compare to Blizzard's own alien based conflict 
 StarCraft games, however World of WarCraft is a completely different experience that should not 
 be critisized without having tried it first. I hear so many people talk about how great it is and 
 I was one of those people who said that WoW was for losers until I actually sat down and tried 
 it out. Having played it now for about 4 months, I can safely say that it is one of the best online 
 experiences I have ever had with a game, the level of depth when it comes to the story and quests 
 is quite mind blowing and the player interaction can be quite fun. There are numerous MMO's out 
 there and most don't offer nearly what WoW has, and while it is a bit pricey to play it, the amount 
 of extra content that Blizzard throws at players every month more then makes up for the cost.
 
  
  
  In the World of WarCraft, you can play amongst two different factions, the Alliance and the Horde. 
 The initial game limits you to the standard races, getting the Burning Crusade gives you access 
 to two new races, the Blood Elves and the Draenei. Each faction has it's advantages, one may notice 
 that the Horde is extremely dominant in PVP mode, however you are limited in class selection as 
 no race has access to the Paladin class, whereas the Alliance has human and dwarf paladin's, only 
 the Blood Elves can use the paladin class. Each race has it's own advantages, Tauren's are slower 
 but can take a beating whereas the Undead are smaller, faster but are a little bit more frail in 
 physical combat, regardless of the class choice. If you like to agitate people in PVP, Gnome rogues 
 tend to be a popular choice since they are small and hard to hit since they can move quickly.
 
  
  You can choose from being a pet loving hunter, a transforming druid, a magic weilding shaman or 
 mage, shadow magic based warlocks and their minion, the stealthy rogues, holy magic weilding preists 
 and paladin's or the all brute strength of the warrior as your classes, the upcoming expansion 
 The Wrath of the Lich King will offer a new class to those level 55 and above, the Death Knight. 
 One thing new comers to WoW will experience is getting familiar with each class and understanding 
 how to build your character properly to be successful, plus which ones suit your combat preference.
 
  
  As you level up your character beyond level 10, you will earn 1 talent point per level and using 
 them gives you special fields of skills, however since you are limited in how many talent points 
 you get before you hit the level cap of 70 (soon to be 80) , you should research your character 
 build beforehand. For me I wanted to be a paladin and play PVP a lot, however the Alliance does 
 not do well on the PVP battlegrounds most of the time, so I had to wait to get Burning Crusade 
 before choosing to use a paladin, at which point I opted to be a Protection based paladin which 
 goes along with the secondary skill of Armorsmithing which you will learn after mastering Blacksmithing. 
 The focus of a protection paladin is to have the best armor, sheild and single handed sword, a 
 retribution based paladin would be more focused on brute strength and speed over defensive abilities 
 whereas a holy paladin is magic based for healing, however mana growth is low compared to a preist 
 so it is better not to go down that road.
  
  The variety of weapons, armor, items professions and skills will really blow your mind. There have 
 literally got to be millions of items in the game, polearms, swords, guns, daggers, axes, maces, 
 wands and staves as well as companions, mounts and things such as potions and little items will 
 make for interesting times.
  
  However with all that WoW has to offer, you may find this game will take some time to get into, 
 but if you do get into it, you will find yourself always wanting to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Bought the game made several characters, was invited into several guilds  no group invites followed, 
 and everyone in the all guilds was always soloing (Uhmm the point of a guild (aka gang) is to 
 have strength in numbers and to group to power level, quest, grind, farm etc TOGETHER!!!)
  
  This MPG Massive player game noy MMO is turning out to be a boring solo grind cause there's 
 no one to group with so why don't they just let you create a character from level 60 - 70 now cause 
 I'm sooo bored of being alone. I play mmorpg's to be in groups constantly and play with other people 
 but WOW feels more like "playing alone together" and I can't see the point in having to solo. I 
 might as well just play Oblivion which has far better solo content which isn't just "go kill 10 
 boars and come back" lol.
  
  Also what if I just enjoy PVP and not PVE, why can't I level up on PVP throughout the game in Battlegrounds? 
 Only makes sense to me to allow players to do this to give us the option of not fighting boring 
 mobs all the time alone. Warhammer Online is going to allow you to level up on PVP so I don't see 
 why WOW can't. This whole level system I find sooo flawed because it's the same thing in every 
 mmorpg. A new expansion is released and level cap increased leaving the old world completely empty 
 and because all the players are out "end level" then there's no one to group with on the lower 
 levels. At least in previous games like SWG you could group with anyone (at any level) and a veteran 
 could play with a noobie because there were no level restrictions of any kind and it kept the community 
 together, very strong grouping communities - with constant groups of up to 16 people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The good - World of Warcraft is to MMORPG what Mario is to platform gaming and Zelda is to action/rpg. 
 It is the standard that all other games must measure up to. Blizzard has created an immense world 
 with polished and fluid game-play, questing, crafting, trading, etc., The game is just as fun and 
 easy to pick up and play for a new MMO player as it is for a veteran. Tons of daily quests, PVP 
 quests, rep quests, and end game will keep players going way past the current lv 60 cap ( 70 with 
 the expansion) . Blizzard is constantly adding new content and the plethora of down loadable mods 
 allow and player to customize UI to personal preference.
  
  The bad - lack of PVE DPS for healers and tanks means few players spec in those trees until end 
 game, multi-hour instances can become a chore
  
  The Ugly - Blizzard suffers from their own success which results in large server populations with 
 large immature populations. Plenty of mature and friendly players play WoW but so do the opposite 
 type of player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoflol
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the most sucsessful mmorg in time with it estagaring 10 million subscribers, 
 and hype. As all massive phenomenon its been bashed by the media because of some unfortunate happenings. 
 WoW has 10 races who are unique in themself, and 9 classes that has one primary role and also other 
 roles such for example Paladin who is an plate wearing healer but also can forfill the role of 
 dps and tank. 
  
  The world is massive and entertaining and the gameplay is standard mmorpg with click and wait pressidure. 
 There are two playable factions The Horde and The Allience, who may look like archtypical good 
 versus evil themed factions, but in actually they are both in the greyzone and fights for their 
 right in the world.
  
  Visuals: deccent in 2004, aged in 2008 but its carming, and an grapichal update arrives in the 
 next expansion
  
  Gameplay: Easy too learn, hard too master, there are many gameplay combinations and hard too tell 
 whats the most effective, it should be the players own oppinion that desides
  
  
  Length: Well, easy too say very long hehe
  
  Setting/Story/Quests: In the pre TBC quest there 
 are grinding and fetch item quests, but in TBc there are other quests like crafting quests, bombing 
 runs and dailys that gives an player an stedy income of gold, and also pvp quests.
  
  Downsides: The monthly pay is not an downside you pay for improvement of the game, but downsides 
 may be the very comunity in the game with its many harrasments and boldness. But its fun if you 
 like too kill some or should I rather say alot of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbudwill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a complicated game at times. But if you know what to do you'll be just fine. 
 There are a variety of quests, a variety of races that can be a little weird. You will start out 
 as level one. But keep working on your character to level up. As you level up you may do harder 
 things and fun things. I recommend this game to everyone who has time on there hands. But I must 
 warn you, don't let your kids play unless they can read. What do I know I'm 9 years old for crying 
 out loud! You are warned. I want to tell you my favorite song: "Warrior you may have incredible 
 strength you can probably pone some bodies face but you are worthless without a priest. You are 
 destined to raid for all your life. Travel in your future till you hit level 30 and you get your 
 travel form. You will never be a rogue always healing and crying about your class. (That was the 
 druid one) . You should be able to kill someone with a 10000 damage shadowbolt crit, if I were you 
 I'd join a guild always raid never never never never never never leave my house again. To hear 
 all the other songs go on youtube type down world of warcraft that you play.
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timotiherb333
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, in my opinion, is the best MMORPG on the planet. Sure, the cost is steep, but 
 once you start playing, you forget the cost. Many people argue that it's addictive and this makes 
 it dangerous, but i disagree with this. I think that as long as you have self control, the World 
 of Warcraft experience is incredibly satisfying and safe. WOW has the trademark Warcraft graphics, 
 which, while not the best, give the game an element of realism and it also includes some very nice 
 special effects, especially for spellcasters. WOW's class system allows for a lot of replayability 
 and also for you to really shape and mould your character into what you want it to be. The classes 
 all differ greatly, and are made top serve particular roles, but with the use of talents, which 
 are skills and abilities that you learn as you level up, you can make your character useful in 
 a variety of fields. I also really like the non combat elements of the game, where you can choose 
 from a variety of professions and pursue them to make money or useful items. Another really great 
 thing about WOW is the fact that it almost forces you to work cooperatively with other players. 
 You can also join guilds, which enable you to become close to a group of people and do lots of 
 stuff with them. The whole game system is really cool, with the questing and buying and selling 
 and fighting and all. I can't adequately describe all of the things that you can do, but I will 
 leave you with this :
  
  World of Warcraft is a brilliant game, well worth the cost. It is a must have for any fan of Fantasy 
 RPGs, and for anyone who likes video gaming. It deserves every point of the 9.5 that I rated it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbishop64
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Playing pc games for years it's hard for me to think back to a time when a game has had me rushing 
 home to play it. Super Mario Bros., Half-Life, Diablo 1 & 2, and Baldur's Gate 1 & 2. This game 
 stays with you, if you are not fighting you are constantly looking for an item or a person. I have 
 play many mmorpgs and I have to say out of my top five: 5. Hero Online (free) , 4. Metin2 (free) , 
 3. Guild Wars, 2. Perfect World (free) , 1. World of Warcraft. You have to have several things to 
 make a good epic mmorpg as well: lots of quests, lots of fighting (some grinding is necessary) , 
 a great variety of NPCs, monsters, and background, huge landscape to explore, a great variety of 
 weapons, a great community with guilds, good to great graphics, the animation has to be fluid, 
 no lag, great customer service, and reasonable pc requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kouts1
Rating: 4
Date: May 27, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I have played WoW for over 3 years now. To be honest the 3 years was mostly cancelling my account 
 then re-activating it. Whenever I got bored, I would cancel and take a break for a few months and 
 then return, etc.. etc.. I have come to realize, that no matter how many times I give this game 
 a chance, no matter how many expansions and classes they pour into this game, that it is all the 
 same. You create a character that looks like every other character of that race. You then start 
 by kiling the same mobs, 10 of this, 20 of that, etc... All with a click of one button. After you 
 have killed hundreds of the same type of creatures, you level up and do it all over again. No mechanisms 
 for dodging or swaying, no moving back and forth. The AI is almost non-existent. The repetitions 
 and the inability to attain good gear without 
  1. Being a member of an elite guild. 
  2. Grinding to the point where you would want to rip your hair out. 
  3. Playing battlegrounds 
 over and over again to get one item is very painful indeed. 
  4. OR do 5 man dungeons repeatedly to get one or two badges, then when you attain 50-70 badges 
 after doing 1000 runs of the same instance, you get the chance to turn them in for ONE item, or 
 a couple of lesser powerful items if your lucky. 
  Probably the easist way of all of these is to be lucky enough to get into a real good guild and 
 then slowly attain unique items/gear.
  But attaining gear and getting high levels is not the basis of this game other people say. "NO, 
 it's the fun of playing and adventuring and exploring, and strategizing ways to defeat your enemy! 
 "
  I agree to a point. From levels 1-70 all you do is grind. Maybe you get some instances that are 
 descent along the way, but basically its the same grind to reach 70 and then maybe then, once you 
 get into a guild, hopefully a raiding guild, you can strategize ways of killing raid bosses, which 
 I admit is fun in the beginning. But overall, you spend months trying to reach level 70 by killing 
 the same old monsters, and getting crap rewards and gear to do it all over again at level 70. Now 
 that is what i call fun!!!
  How about ways to improve the overall grind by adding:
  1. Puzzles!! make things enigmatic, add some twists.
  2. Reward your customers with better gear 
 after they have grinded 5 billion kills of one type of mob.
  3. Add some uniqueness to each character. All chracters look the same, dress almost alike and move/walk 
 the same. Change this by adding some unique customizations at the start of the game and maybe during 
 or the level 70 cap where you can re-customize your appaearance even further.
  4. Don't just add classes or races for the hell of it. Add races cause they change the structure 
 of the game and something special.
  5. Create a sense of uniquness by allowing players to create their own spells and name them. For 
 example, I want to create a Healing spell that is an AoE called "Bob" (watever, just an example) . 
 Then you can allow further customizations by adding the type of effects, on whom, where, what surrounding 
 will this work in, etc... This "spell crafting" per say, is fun and engaging. Plus, you won't see 
 spells that do the same old thing.
  6. How about 1-3 man instance runs. Alot of people in this world don't have the time to sit around 
 all day and night looking for group (LFG) . This will allow the option of playing a game whenever 
 you feel like it and enjoying it. I remeber times when I would be LFG for hours and then get pissed 
 off and log out. Why? A company that creates a game, should make the best effort to accomodate 
 all types of playing styles, casual or not. we all pay the same monthly fee, we deserve to play 
 the game whenever we please.
  I can go on and on, but I think i have made my point here. And don't get me wrong, i did enjoy 
 the game in the beginning, but now it's gone to a point where the focus is on quantilty not quality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suavepoe
Rating: 1
Date: May 25, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The lust for bigger, badder gear that you will never get is awesome.. if you're into that. Me, 
 I'm not.
  
  Not saying the game is hard, but it is incredibly challenging in end game content. I've played 
 many other games and while WoW is a good game, I would never say it is a great game. I can see 
 all the reasons why it's really popular. But I was basically just playing because there's nothing 
 else to play, at least nothing that my friends play. They all play WoW! haha.
  
  Anyways, I'm tired of the same old repetitve stuff. The dungeons at the end of the game are just 
 like the ones at the beginning, only they are alot longer and require a certain formula to win. 
 And in the end, you are still never badass enough. And their guild system definitely does suck, 
 I won't lie about that. PVP is fun though.
  
  I'll play WoW until Warhammer Online comes out. Or if Age of Conan turns out to be as good as it 
 sounds, I'll play that. But I am done with WoW, sorry. Don't believe the hype. Oh and when Wrath 
 of the Lich King comes out, good luck with your repetitive, endless, leveling HELL... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hojimachong
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  WoW has been called lots of things - addictive, evil, career-ending, girlfriend-losing, etc. But 
 whatever label you stick on it, it's just plain fun.
  
  WoW lets you take whatever path you want. Feel like dominating some chumps from the other faction? 
 Join a Battleground for some quick PvP action. Or maybe you'd like to face the real raid boss challenges, 
 which requires time and effort. The casual player can log on, spend an hour or so doing fun and 
 varied quests, and leave feeling satisfied. The hardcore addict can spend day-long binges gearing 
 his character with the most badass gear imaginable.
  
  The WoW player is everyone. In my guild, there is the stay-at-home mom, the working mom, the rich 
 businessman, the young dad, the stoner, the annoying 10-year-old, the slacker highschooler, the 
 preppy highschooler, the college kids, and the cop. All of us play together, enjoy each others 
 company, and have an amazing time. It's not just the gameplay that makes WoW fun - it's the way 
 that social interaction is woven into the fiber of the game.
  
  Besides that, WoW has some great lore (including books, comics and manuals) that you can lose yourself 
 in, reading about the motivation behind this event, or how that event happened.
  
  Whatever your play style, WoW is conducive to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel426850
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a phenomenon. The game is played by millions of people all around the world. 
 A sequel to the most successful strategy game up to date, WarCraft, WOW (Short for World Of Warcraft) 
 inherited most of the advantages of it's predecessor- the great story, the wonderful fantasy world.. 
 But still the drawbacks in the new Blizzard's creation are far more than the good things in it. 
 First things first. RPG is a genre that depends much on capturing the imagination of players, "transporting" 
 them to new worlds. That's why such games have to look good. 
  The first thing I said to myself when I started the game for the first time was.. "Wow, that's 
 ugly..". Still some guys are rating the game's graphics really high. Hello? Are we playing the 
 same game? 2D grass and trees (well, not really 2D, but a few flat panes, arranged in the 3D environment, 
 so they would look like a tree..) ? Low-res textures (try to zoom in and see if you can recognize 
 your character..) ? Objects going through each other, Mobs disappearing into the ground all of a 
 sudden, NO real-time lightening, Static shadows, no reflections at all.. (do I have to go further?) (because 
 I can- No wind in the leaves of trees, constant wind in hte grass, ugly, UGLY 2D clouds, low view 
 distance (for objects) , no splashes in the water, molten iron that look like ketchup, small buildings 
 in small towns, near small capitals in the smallest world youve ever seen!.. And event it's not 
 a sphere!) ? And above all the colors are way too bright and vivid and make even an undead creature 
 look like a clown, rather funny than scary. Still the game shows considerably low performance on 
 slower PCs, when graphic options are boosted to the max (try to lower them and LoL, now you're 
 playing Super Mario!) ..
  The next significant drawback in the game is (please people in poor health, don't read further!) 
 the Gameplay! Yes, that's right. Perhaps paying 100$ for the game, downloading patches for 1-2 
 hours and then paying 20$ a month for playing, Obligates you to enjoy the game, but please, wake 
 up! There are 3 activities in this game, which you perform one after another till your own brain 
 leak out through your ears. These are killing the same mob 56729 times, talking to mobs, who react 
 the same way every time and never move, and flying on the back of.. something, I don't know, it 
 was too ugly for me to recognize.. All of the quests in the game consist of "Kill X mob 5-50 times, 
 then return" , "Speak with X mob, located somewhere in "it's mama's a*s"" and "Go kill X elite 
 mob and bring back the bastard's head (fang / claw / leg / wing /di*k.. let's go no further..) 
 ". That's all players do in this game, except when they're fight. The fights are tragically realized 
 too. The two characters stand still against each other. The first one (let's call him X) swings. 
 Hits or misses. The second one (this one's Y) swings. Hits or misses. X swings, Y swings, X swings.... 
 and they swinged happily ever after... Spellcasting brings some sort of light to the total darkness 
 of the gameplay (Static light, as we already mentioned in the graphics section) , but usually spellcasters 
 are considerably stronger than common fighters (like the warrior) and every time I see someone 
 playing WoW, I see his/her character with balls of fire in the hands, waiting for the spell to 
 charge.. Which makes the game seem so damn boring.. I will give you an example, that all of these 
 drawbacks can be avoided. Have you ever played Gothic3?? No? Buy this game and you will never ever 
 play WoW again. Just a few examples- NPCs chat with each other (chats that make sense!) , NPCs carry 
 on their own daily routines. NPCs react on all of your actions, not only when attacked. NPCs organise 
 attacks on enemy hardpoints. Everything is 3D! And not just 3D, but beautiful 3D (comparing to 
 WoW, of course..) . So, next time you start the game, think of this things. Especially when you 
 see the "Starving Wolf" and "Sheep" mobs wondering around together, never attacking each other 
 (which is normal for the sheep, but does not explain why the wolf should attack You on first sight 
 and never think of eating the sheep) .
  So after all, a deserved 4.5 for this game from me, and please, wake up for the reality and don't 
 give your money for an arcade game, just because it's called WarCraft.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn45
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I recieved WoW in 2004 as a christmas presant. Three months ago, in 2008, I finally managed the 
 quit the game, and I have touched it since. If that doesn't tell you how addicting and amazing 
 this game, I don't know what else to say.
  
  Actually, there's plenty more to be said.
  
  First of all, the game has one of the most basic, and easiest to learn controls ever. This 
 sounds like it would work against the game, but it actually is one of its strongest points. Your 
 inventory is easy to find, equiping things is just clicking a single button, and the entire control 
 scheme is very effective. The interface is very easy to navigate, unlike other online games. 
 
  
  Combat, also, is very easy to learn. There is a bar where you can place your abilities and spells, 
 and you can easily click them to activate them. If you're a melee class, simply right clicking 
 on the enemy will enter you into combat with them. The beginning zone will give you more than enough 
 time to figure this and the interface out quickly. 
  
  The music in this game is incredible. You can tell that blizzard put a LOT of time into the music 
 of this game, and it shows. The first time you walk into the human capitol of Stormwind, epic music 
 plays as you walk pass the statues of the heroes who went into Outland. There is seriously not 
 a single track in this game that isn't good, it all fits its area perfectly, and the music has 
 to be the strongest point of the game.
  
  There are two sides in this game, and on most servers, the Alliance grossly outnumber the Horde. 
 Luckily, I managed to find a server in which the sides were pretty balanced out, and I have characters 
 on both. The Alliance consist of humans, gnomes, dwarves, and Night Elves (Draenai as well, but 
 only with the Burning Crusade expansion) . The Horde, meanwhile, consists of the Orcs, Trolls, Tauren, 
 and, probably the only race I consider to be evil, the Undead (Blood Elves are avalible as well 
 with the expansion.)
  
  There is no truly evil side. Both have their shades of gray, and both have their share of very 
 fun stories to tell. Of the Alliance side, be sure to check the Cathedral in Stormwind and find 
 the little boy walking around and accept his quest - hands down the best questline in the entire 
 game. Back on track however, the only race that seems to be truly evil is the Undead, who are trying 
 to make a plague to wipe out all life as the world knows it.
  
  Back to quests now; every quest, if it's a chain or a single one, has a well thought out story. 
 It can either be funny (Finding a guy locked in an Outhouse asking for silk cloth) , to being completely 
 epic (The Missing Diplomat chain from the alter boy in Stormwind, the one I was talking about earlier) . 
 Unfortunately, for a lot of quests, they make you do the same thing over and over.
  
  This brings us to one of the worst things about WoW, the drop rates. There are very few quests 
 that have a 100% drop chance, and the ones that don't are VERY random. I have gotten several characters 
 up to the high 40s and max level, and I have completed a quest in 10 minutes on one character, 
 can take me up to an hour on another. It's one of the worst flaws in the game, and it unfortunately 
 will get you bored quickly.
  
  Fortunately, while you're questing, you'll have the environment to look around at. Some may say 
 that the world is too cartoonish, but that only adds to the charm. It's a very fun world to look 
 around in, because there is always something to greet you at every turn. Unlike other games where 
 it's just miles of nothingness, you'll always see something different in this one. The world also 
 happens to be smaller than what is normal in an MMORPG, but this again, works in the games favor. 
 You'll never have to travel for too long to get to your quest area (Unless if its on a different 
 continent) , and to get to the other side of the continent, you can just use a Gryphon (taxi bird) , 
 which still allows you to see the world in full as it takes you to your destination.
  
  There are also instances in the game. Otherwise known as dungeons, where you and whatever group 
 you're in can go in and complete it. A dungeon is very difficult to do without a full group, and 
 is recommended that you have a tank and a healer to get you through the entire thing.
  
  Each dungeon has its set of events that unfold as you go through them, and are always a blast if 
 you have the perfect group set up and required levels for it. Deadmines is one of my favorite dungeons, 
 and the first one you'll probably do on the Alliance side. In it, you slowly make your way to Vancleef, 
 the leader of the group inside, and in the process, you find out that what you thought was a small 
 bandit organization, was a LOT bigger than you originally thought.
  
  You don't have to be in a group to play the game though. In another great move of genius, the developers 
 made it entirely possible to get to the max level without ever having to group at all. The advantage 
 of this is that you can keep everything you find, and never have to fight over an item. There are 
 a couple downsides. First is, you won't be interacting with people, which is one of the most fun 
 things to do in the game, and you won't be getting the much more superior dungeon loot. The currency 
 in this game is very effective as well. There are three types of coin you have, copper, silver, 
 and gold. 100 copper is one silver, and 100 silver is one gold. In the beginning, you only get 
 small amounts of copper for doing quests, and one silver will be what one gold is to a level 70. 
 It is easy to gain money, you either go and sell things, and go and kill things.
  
  A great way to sell things is the player ran auction house. You put up an item for sale at whatever 
 price you want, and wait for anyone to buy it. When it's sold, the place takes a small cut (5% 
 of it) , and gives the rest to you. If you deal with the goblin Auction houses though, prepare for 
 a much bigger cut than your factions.
  
  Last thing I wish to cover is the population of the game. If you join the right server, there will 
 always be someone in the zone with you, and it's really fun to walk through a city and literally 
 see hundreds of people wandering around the same place as you are at. (The exception cities are 
 the Night Elf capital, and the Tauren one) There are a couple of people who are **** but they are 
 a minority, and I found MANY people who were very fun and helpful to play with.
  
  In conclusion, this is a great game. There are very few things that are bad about it, but multiple 
 that are great. It's fun to level, it's fun to hang out with people, and most of the quests are 
 very compelling to follow the story of. There is usually not a single boring moment in the game, 
 and I know you won't regret buying it.
  
  I am having a hard time staying away from it... I have to remember that I quit it a couple of months 
 ago... no going back... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HMI1892
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun it is scary. I have wasted countless hours of my life sitting at my keyboard 
 with my eyes glued to the screen. I do not know of anything wrong with this game. The graphics, 
 though some might say are childish, are still very detailed and even on a middle of the pack PC 
 look great. I think it is important to note that this game also works on macs, which is a great 
 feature. The gameplay is just plain addicting. The player vs. player combat, instances, quests, 
 everything. There is something for every type of gamer in this game. It is nearly impossible to 
 get bored playing this game, due to the countless possibilities of what to do. Wether player vs. 
 player, pve, or crafting suits your interest, it is here. Or, if your like me and probably most 
 players, it is possible to get a dose of everything. I highly recommend this game to everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy94_hcm
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Well i've only played this game cos some my friends are playing it. It seemed quite messed up and 
 complicated at first as the world might be a little too big for walking and you just don't know 
 where you are.
  
  But once you get over the hard times, here comes the most brilliant and enjoyable days of your 
 life. There are 10 races to choose from, about 6-8 classes for each race and the character customization 
 is wide so it's a joy making a new character and rarely can you see 2 same looking people in the 
 game. The combat might not be as good as you expected but believe me there are loads of other things 
 which will help you get over this. The transport system is realistic, you get trams, airship, boats, 
 anything else you can think of. 
  
  The range of items is so wide that you can spend restless days looking at different items of the 
 game. The pvp is indeed incomplete but after a few times getting killed by ppl from the other side, 
 you'll feel the heat of battle coming and just want to level as fast as you can to back at the 
 Alliance (if ur a horde) or The Horde (if ur an alliance) .
  
  Another good thing is that the keybinding is completely depended on you whether you want a skill 
 to be at number 1 or a health potion and all those sort of things... you don't even have to worry 
 about dying when you're talking to someone. There are lots of places to go and i'm sure you can't 
 explore everything under 4 days unless you get a fly mount and spend all of your time exploring.
 
  
  The bad thing is that this game is so addictive it'll ruind your holidays, such as Christmas, Easter, 
 etc.... So do NOT get near this game when ur exams are coming. You might wake up 1 morning thinking 
 u'll only be on the game for about half an hour but trust me it WILL take longer than half an hour 
 to get off the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife97
Rating: 6
Date: May 7, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Ok now I know I have probably dug myself a hole with that opening, but atleast hear me out first. 
 World of Warcraft is a fun game that has many many players and has a wide variety to offer every 
 gamer. But everyone seems to overlook a few things. This game has some major flaws. For instance, 
 You cannot talk to the opposite side (horde or alliance) this is a major flaw. Wouldnt you like 
 to tell someone you wont attack them, or ask someone not to attack you. Without these things it 
 makes the opposite side seem inhuman, if that makes sense. Another flaw is the teaming aspect. 
 I mean yeah its fun to team in instances, but outside of that there is no use at all. No 2 ppl 
 or more will ever have all the same quests at the same time, and if one person helps another they 
 lose their questing time and gain nothing, there is no value to teaming at all. Many people say 
 that world of warcraft is the best MMO ever, but in pvp it is beat by Guild Wars, in teaming it 
 is beat by City Of Heroes, and in story it is beat by Final Fantasy XI. So the only thing that 
 WoW has is numbers, so if grinding alone, yelling at the computer because you were killed by another 
 player randomely, spending hours trying to get one item you need from an instance and killing things 
 for items you need for quests for hours and hours sounds fun, go for it. But dont beleive it is 
 the best MMO until you have tried the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedragons20
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer online role playing game created by the Blizzard Entertainment. 
 It is very famous for its fantasy worlds, characters and the music. In World of Warcraft, Start 
 off with creating a character by choosing from a variety of colorful and unique races and classes, 
 and then begin exploring, questing, and battling in the beautiful world of Azeroth. 
  
  Each of the character classes is quite unique. The Hunter and the Warlock are ranged attack specialists 
 who get to fight alongside pets that can help deal damage and distract foes. The Warrior, Rogue, 
 and Paladin are multitalented fighters, capable of drawing their enemies', magic-using allies, 
 and using their own abilities while killing their opponents. 
  The Priest, Shaman, and Mage learn a variety of different spells that make them quite a bit better. 
 And the Druid can learn to shape-shift into different animal forms.
  
  Though the world of the game is very large, the player can still travel on foot, taking in the 
 often breathtaking sights of Azeroth in between key points (plus even earn some experience just 
 for setting foot in new territory for the first time) .
  
  While exploring, discovering variety of world and lot of cool monsters would be common. The vast 
 world in the game includes a vast amount of quests that give off weapons, experience, money, and 
 armors. 
  
  Luckily, the game's more than a thousand quests are made quite manageable by only being offered 
 when qualified to complete them, and can not have more than 20 quests pending at a time.
  
  Death in this game really is nothing to worry about, so when get killed, don't worry. When received 
 death, the Character will turn out to be a spirit in the nearest graveyard. There will be two choices 
 to get back. First to walk to the corpse or damage one of items and get the character back right 
 were the graveyard is. so have fun!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Where to i start to describe this game, its World of freakin' Warcraft!!!
  
  I will edit this review later and add more information but here it goes
  
  World Of Warcraft 
 is a fantasy MMO by blizzard where charicters can do lots of fun quests, dungeons, raids, you name-it. 
 This game has revolutionized the MMO genre, claiming over 12 million subscriptions. It has been 
 called addicting for its never ending gameplay. They currently have the level up at 70 and have 
 released an expansion, with more coming up. They have many classes over many rases over the Horde 
 and Alliance. PvE is extremely fun with hundreds and hundreds of spells, huge monsteres and bosses, 
 the deep sea, high mountrains and awesome quests!! They have lots of huge areas so theyres always 
 more quests, monsters and place to discover. Mounted travel at level 30 and griphons are very fun 
 to use and can get you traveled quickly. The dungeons are huge, bright, brutal and fun and with 
 guilds, you can make friends just so quickly. Say, for example your quest says that you have to 
 kill 30 ice demons in this certain area so your there, kill them in a brutal, fun fashion on the 
 icy terain when someone else comes and starts killing some mobs, you say hey, they say hey back, 
 you both finish a quest, level up, distribute skill points, learn 10 new spells, make a friends 
 then go to the battlegrounds to PvP and get hundreds of fun kills. Im not even scratching the surface, 
 im miles from the surface using a microsoft too look down at it, this game is HUGE!
  
  I cant put into words how phenominal this game is, i just cant, theres new content added all the 
 time, millions of things to do and its extremely fun.
  
  If you own a PC, you should get it. If you dont, get a PC and play it!
  
  
  My rating scale 
 depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games on it, i mark much 
 harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of other awesome PC games 
 of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game is a great game, on the 
 system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to the point. If 
 theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because they are the 
 best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Replay 10/10
  Single+Multiplayer 10/10
  
  
  Overall = 50/50 = 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Well WoW is either a game you will hate or love. unless your me... who gets board of it then plays 
 it again and so and and so on
  
  Good: well everyone liked Warcraft III so why not like WoW. WoW is a interesting MMO. still wondering 
 how ppl spend so much time on it though. its sometimes scary. the many items will be good and interesting 
 to get. the story is pretty good but its not stunning. the many many people will help you on missions 
 so your never alone. most people on WoW are pretty helpful so it wont be a problem. i think though 
 that it is a building block kind of game i like to call it. like games like crysis will set the 
 standed for all FPS's. WoW will set the standed in MMO games. in how many people play it and how 
 many freaking spell and patches there are!!!!!!
  
  Bad: WoW will take up ALOT and i mean ALOT!!! of your time. even if you finish the whole campaign 
 of WoW.... not sure if it is possiable but i am sure it is. then there is the PvP element. even 
 if you have the best items you can get from the PvR part of the game, it will never be enough. 
 you HAVE to get the PvP armors and items. when it started it was alright, only a few PvP points. 
 but then the weirdos with no life had to play and make to so that you had to get a million PvP 
 points for a piece of armor. A PIECE OF ARMOR!!! 1 PIECE!!!!! i repet again 1 PIECE OF ARMOR!!!!! 
 ARGH!!!!!!!!! i soemtimes wonder how normal people keep up with them. the leveling part is alright 
 but you will have to do alot of missions or kill alot of stuff. (boars form south park?)
  
  Conclusion: well i think its ridlicious how much time i spent on it. but i think its mixed emotions. 
 its not quite like any over MMO. so i think its up to personal opinon for this game. please try 
 it before you buy and waste your life away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 6
Date: May 11, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  WoW isn't a bad game . It has a nice gameplay, sound, music, but really ... there are better MMORPG's 
 out there. WoW is expensive and its graphics are really out dated. You should look for something 
 new. If I was writing this review 3 years ago I would probably say : BUY WORLD OF WARCRAFT ! But 
 now, 3 years AFTER its release, we got 10.000.000 players sitting on their chairs killing the geometric 
 looking enemies ... picking up money . then killing again . then picking up more money . The combat 
 has something missing into it ... No effects, there's just something missing. Combat is just really 
 boring at the beginning.
  
  All I'm trying to say is, WoW is a good game, but it's EXPENSIVE and paying for it ISN'T WORTH 
 it anymore . There are plenty of MMORPG's out there that are a lot more attractive, fun and cheaper. 
 WoW WAS "The Game". But not anymore. I suggest you get your money and go buy Guild Wars. You only 
 pay for it once, the graphics are nice and you won't be as dissapointed as I am with WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The World of Warcraft (WoW) is by far one of the most famous games of all time. People who don't 
 even play games know about this one. In fact, at my school, the varsity basketball coach made fun 
 of some of his players for a playing WoW or "Dungeons and Dragons" as he called it. They got him 
 to download the free trial in class one day (he also teaches economics and government) and he started 
 playing. He bought the game at the end of his free trial and in one month already had a level 62 
 human warrior. This game is that good. People who do not play consider WoW to be a nerdy/corny 
 weird game with mystic creatures. This game is far from just that. You can play RP and make it 
 be like a "Dungeons and Dragons" game with quests and mystical creatures if you want to, or you 
 can play on Normal and PvP servers for an awesome experience. I like chatting and questing with 
 my friends while running around doing stupid stuff or just dueling each other for the heck of it. 
 Joining or creating a guild adds to the experience. Being in a group with people of the same mindset 
 and enjoyments of yourself increases the fun. This game can be used in many ways: single player 
 RPG adventure (Oblvion) , multi-player co-op (Two Worlds) , mult-player duels (any multiplayer game 
 really) , or just a huge glorified chat room. Many games have tried to simulate the success of WoW 
 by using some of the same concepts. However, WoW has such a lead big lead, I doubt any game will 
 pass it any time soon. WoW is like the 800 lbs. gorilla in the MMO genre, nothing really mess with 
 it. Gamespot is right when they say you should play this game, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THKRI
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is with no doubt , the best MMORPG! PERIOD!
  
  At first , i never thought WoW was such a great game , i mostly tried to avoid it and prefferd 
 GTA or DMC over it and at that time never really thought about MMORPG's until the day i visited 
 my friend and for the first time that ive seen WoW . I had one thought when i saw it and it was 
 pretty much "WOW"
  
  When your character will set it's foot in WoW for the first time you will slowly see the horizon 
 expending as you will quest and discover new lands and places to such a sheer scale you will ask 
 yourself "Will this ever end?. The game offers so much to do from customization of your toon 
 ,choosing your faction ,choosing your race, choosing your class and gender, to thousends of quests 
 ,and millions of items throughout the world ( of warcraft ) . The realm wich you will play on will 
 be constantly affected by the players that will wage wars , raids and quests wich bring the game 
 to life.
  
  While playing you will have to make lots of decisions to choose from or just do what you want to 
 do . To go to a battleground and go toe to toe against other players from diffrent factions and 
 feel the thrill of PVP , or going on questing and by that meeting new people to quest with and 
 becoming friends eventually and create guilds for dungeons you will go through later on as you 
 will level . But you can do everything you would like to do at any given moment setting a few footsteps 
 here and there and in a few clicks your ready to go . You could also chill out with friends in 
 nearby Taverns or go Role Playing ( acting as if your character has its own personality ) and evolve 
 your character so that people would see you as more then just another player. 
  
  I recommend world of warcraft to anyone who loves MMORPG's and for those who want to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely perfect. It doesn't have that feeling like your doing a quest for nothing, 
 as all quests usually have excellent xp rewards or better items or your first trinket or helmet. 
 Also, the end game content is very, very good. You can upgrade your gear to obviously more rare 
 items indicated by the items color. Gray is crap, white is vendor trash, green is ok, blue is good, 
 purple is great, and orange is the best available for now. They have high level raids for level 
 60 players (70 with burning crusade) so that you can swap your uncommon items for blue, rare items, 
 and then swap your rares for purple epics. They also have a marvelous pvp system in play, where 
 there are certain instanced battlegrounds for you to compete in to get honor points and marks of 
 honor. Honor points and marks are used to get better weaponry and armor and for purchasing mounts. 
 They have mounts available to level 40 and 60 players, and flying mounts for level 70 players. 
 You can even pvp in the non-instanced world. All you have to do is find a raid group and go into 
 enemy territory. This game is also one of the few mmo's that you need skill to play. Some people 
 have enough skill to take down a level 70 at level 50. My friend took down a level 52 on a level 
 19 with the best possible gear for his level (or twinked) .
  In the long run, this game is a must-have for any gamer. If you think you are too cool to play 
 a game like this, you are very wrong. Nobody deserves to miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebbinsd
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because it was supposed to be so massively addictive that it caused people to loose 
 their jobs, girlfriends, and so on. Boy was I disappointed. This game is nothing but dull, boring 
 monotony.
  
  Basically, I'm slaying every animal I see to build up these experience points just to level up 
 and get more skills to slay the same enemies. Until I get new moves, every animal is the same, 
 just sit there and hack at it while it hacks at me, and if it's the same level as me or lower, 
 I kill it before it kills me. If it's a few levels above me, I use some special attacks to help 
 me deal more DPS.
  
  So I can have two professions, eh? Good. That mixes things up a little bit, but not much. Basically, 
 if I'm a skinner and a leatherworker, I go slay more animals, take their skin, sell their loot 
 to pay for leatherworking supplies, make leather armor out of the supplies and skin, sell the leather 
 armor for a little profit, and repeat the entire process again. And again. And again.
  
  There might be more too it than this, but I personally don't care enough to look into it. This 
 game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FD_Gordon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing! There isn't a better M. M. O. R. P. G. out there!
  
  The game is put together really well. Because of its huge environment, it is very easy to create 
 such a fabulous world. The unique graphics is what takes the game to a whole new level of M. M. O. R. P. G. 
 style. It's art. A never ending masterpiece.
  
  Flaws:
  
  The game takes a lot of time to level up, sometimes you get bored over the limited amount of quests 
 you have depending on which lower levels you're on.
  
  There should be more information at the beggining of the game, so you know what you're getting 
 into, for example, when you create your character, there's a little lack of information. As well 
 as when you first start up, for newbies, there should be somewhat a help / training on how to get 
 skills, and level up, etc.
  
  All in all, its just another brick in the wall. Buy it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmanmotherf
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is the only horrible game Blizzard has made. No matter how much you play it, it doesn't 
 really go anywhere and it is way to easy. People first said it's fun at 70 and thats bs. Then they 
 said do pvp and that was even worse since the multiplayer takes the least skill known to man due 
 to it being based off the gear you have. The game is overall boring, takes no thought, and is extremely 
 slow paced. I do not understand how so many people play this game and like it. Accually, I believe 
 that is one of the wonders of the world. The people I know who play this also talk forever about 
 this game and talk about nothing else and all the conversations are the same, battle grounds things 
 with slightly different wording, and you tube videos of the game. I believe they should recall 
 all copies and delete all accounts and just burn the whole thing and make something good and worth 
 while like Diablo, Stacraft, or the rest of the Warcraft series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_chief_MN
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  After my first login with my real (non-10 day trial) WoW account, I literally decided to get rid 
 of all my consoles and to swear them off for good. And this is coming from a person who has purchased 
 each console (during release week) since the NES. Before I get into my review, I should just mention 
 that I played console and pen and paper role playing games for ten years, and love fantasy novels 
 as well... Creating the character is very easy and intuitive. It's no nonsense, any given site 
 online will give you the base stats for each race class, etc. The stat customization comes as you 
 level (which is the most fun I've ever had grinding in any game) . I say this for many reasons: 
 In most games, you grind as a certain hero and his generic little crew that's with you for all 
 of most of the game. In WoW, since there is no additional charge to create numerous characters 
 on numerous servers, when you're sick of grinding as Blood Elf Rogue you can within a few moments 
 be grinding as an Orc Shaman. Or you can skip grinding all together. Most power/time players actually 
 use the 95% Quests/%5 Grinding rule to power level their characters. .. The possibility of addiction 
 to this game is extremely high, with all of the cool people you meet and once you've created or 
 are invited to join a guild, the games mechanics just keep surprising you with their quality and 
 innovation. While it never hurts to have a bleeding edge graphics card inside your gaming PC, I've 
 seen it run beautifully on a Radeon 9000 or generic (current) Intel chipset as well. Azeroth is 
 a wonderful world to be running around in. Especially Taldrassil, home of the Night Elves. Another 
 important thing I should mention: to truly get the full picture regarding the history/races/classes/key 
 locations/guilds of Azeroth. Plan on spending a few hours of reading when you first get started. 
 This will greatly help you in creating the right character that keeps you rabidly logging in time 
 after time. An epic masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey-boi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a game that does exactly what any developer sets out to do. It keeps users 
 coming back for more and draws in new players despite its age and drawbacks. The problem in my 
 opinion is that after a while it just stops being fun and becomes a chore.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game is well made and for a while it is very enjoyable, but once the initial 
 'wow' factor of playing in such a large game wears off, the games repetitiveness becomes apparent. 
 Many quests are just the same quest given a different name and the gameplay varies little during 
 the course of the whole game.
  
  Despite my feelings on the repetitiveness of the game I rated World of Warcraft an 8.5. This was 
 because somehow this game just doesn't let you go, you just can't give it up. It only takes an 
 advert or a friend's comments to get you eager to play again. Some would see this as a bad thing 
 but let's be honest, if a game does this to you it's doing something right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacek007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well... WoW is the best game i ever played, which I really enjoyed playing hours and hours, and 
 it never get me bored. As you lvl up you would find the game more enjoyable and will make so addictive 
 and as you may hear many people are, when my cousin first get this game he really loved it but 
 not as much as his girlfriend and as he lvl up he chooses the game =DD so as i mean the game is 
 better than your boyfriend, girlfriend, dog, family and you would really love it as i do love the 
 game soooo much. As you get to lvl 60 - 70 you would spend more hours on the game as you would 
 get your pvp gear and you would do a arena fight also the outland is a good for lvl 60 - 70 and 
 for all the proffesions and many instances also the game is releasing new pathes which 
  would make the game more interesting, enjoable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great MMORPG. Despite what people say, it's not like smoking crack: You do NOT get addicted 
 to this game, at least most people do. But that's like every game, there's always gonna be a select 
 amount of people addicted to it.
  
  Well anyways, World of Warcraft is a fantastic game. It's a perfect first RPG and it's very easy 
 to get the hang of, so it's very "noob friendly" I suppose.
  
  What I love the most about this game is the PvP. I love the fact that I can just go destroy a whole 
 horde town. I'm not much on raids though, I'm pretty much PvP all the way. Too time consuming for 
 my taste.
  
  Although WoW is fun, it definitely has it's problems. WoW has a pretty bad community for the most 
 part, not as bad as runescape's, but pretty bad. Yes there are a lot of good people playing, but 
 for the most part you're probably gonna end up being called a noob a lot.
  
  Also, it does get VERY boring after a while. Once you hit 70 you either RAID RAID RAID or PvP PvP 
 PvP. So yeah, good for a good 6 months then it gets kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Originally, i rated WoW with a low score. I felt it was boring, unimaginative, and lackluster. 
 I really hadn't taken the time to appreciate the game. Now however, I have a newfound appreciation 
 for it. I took a break from the game for a few months, and have discovered it's depth and skill 
 level required to be successful now that I have returned. WoW's gameplay is deceptively simplistic, 
 and grows and grows as you level in the game world. I got bored when I first got the game because 
 I hadn't researched all of the possibilities in classes and professions. With the 3.0.2 patch, 
 WoW is much more balanced and fun overall. My main character, a lvl 28 Mage, is very fun to play 
 and is slowly becoming more powerful over monsters even two-four levels above his own. WoW's PvP 
 is still weak in compared to other games (hence the 8.5) , but it really does grow on you the more 
 you own and play it. WoW may take some time to appreciate, but it really turns out to be a great 
 game if you spend the time on it.
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  As has been noted countless times before, WoW doesn't innovate in any area. It takes the standard 
 MMORPG formula and polishes it up to a high sheen, while severely simplifying gameplay and character 
 customization. It's the MMORPG equivalent of the McDonald's cheeseburger; a product aimed at that 
 lazy and undemanding middle ground who don't really want to be challenged -- just fed.
  
  Don't get me wrong -- WoW is a solid game that can keep you entertained for a good while. But it's 
 a very very simple game, with next to no room for building a character, or exploring, or departing 
 the rails in any way.
  
  If you're happy being "Warrior #99382992", and essentially indistinguishable from every other player 
 of your class and level, then you'll have a good time. If you like to occasionally jump the rails 
 and do something new, you won't like WoW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mooshay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Theres a common understanding among MMORPG players that goes something to the affect of before 
 WoW and after WoW. There was a time when MMO's were just that; massively multiplayer games that 
 we played. It wasn't until World of Warcraft burst on the scene that we started to see MMO gaming 
 as more of a cultural phenomenon. How did this all come about? Simplicity. World of Warcraft made 
 getting started, finding friends, grouping, questing, killing; everything just easy. It introduced 
 players to interaction amongst others while feeling like you were still in a single player game. 
 It was one of the first MMO's that made it possibly to level your character to max level completely 
 solo if you so chose or to group up and do it. The freedom to choose was there for the first time. 
 Or rather the first time so easily. 
  
  An excellent game for anyone looking to play their first MMO. Easy to learn, hard to master perfect 
 meld of what people look for in a product.
  
  9.5 Overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgkennedy5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  WoW is the most time consuming game I have ever played. I'm not saying that in a bad way, it has 
 so much content lots of the time you are just deciding what you are going to do next. It is tons 
 of fun and really addictive. Anybody can pick it up and start playing even if they have never played 
 before. If you don't think the graphics or sound is good, you can change it to your liking because 
 the options menu gives you tons of options. Blizzard made this game spectaculor just like all of 
 their other games. Even if you do get bored of it, give it some time and you will definetly be 
 playing it again soon. The only problem is that once you reach the max level, there is not much 
 to do unless you are a hardcore WoW junky. I'm not saying their is nothing, but you have to have 
 lots of time to do things like instances and raids. Other than that, there are no flaws. It is 
 insanely fun and I have never got bored of my WoW experience. Oh yeah, every single sound and piece 
 of music in the game is from "Baldur's Gate'. But I don't see that as a problem because that was 
 an amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venoroth53535
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is definetly an addicting game, it is an online role-playing game every gamer 
 should play. The fantasy game Blizzard has made after the original Warcraft series is vast and 
 boundless. World of Warcraft has got to be the best of Blizzard, Blizzard has contributed many 
 role-playing games, such as Spacecraft, Warcraft, Diablo, and World of Warcraft. The graphics are 
 beautiful, and each environment varies. Each gaming experience is separate from the other, because 
 each faction, race, and class have its own unique playing style and their own story. The multiplayer 
 for this online game are so amazing, allowing players to intermingle with other World of Warcraft 
 fans. Dungeons and other Instances make the game dangerous and exciting, while the Battlegrounds 
 are fun and competitive. The game is rather easy to grasp, and doesn't take long for players to 
 get used to, although the game has a sort of "serious" atmosphere, it may cause newer members to 
 shy away, while other gamers that take gaming seriously will enjoy the game greatly. Most online 
 games should be as boundless and immense like the world the Blizzard team has created with World 
 of Warcraft. World of Warcraft is like walking into a new world, with environments as real and 
 diverse as reality itself. In conclusion, World of Warcraft is a game every gamer should play, 
 without a doubt, World of Warcraft is the best online role-playing game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I played WoW for 2 years while not playing hardly any other games at all on my PC. I saw 
 most areas of the game so I should be able to give you a pretty good summary I hope... Before this 
 I had not played any other MMOs, so I wasn't sure what to expect.
  
  Back when I started, it was early 2005, so PC game graphics weren't anywhere near as good as they 
 are now. I have to say I was blown away by the beauty of the game world... not the technical complexity 
 of the graphics, but the level of detail that the game designers put into the artwork for Azeroth. 
 WoW is an extremely colorful game and everything in the game world feels like it belongs. Each 
 zone on the map has a specific flavour - from forests to deserts to mountains to waterways. This 
 IMO is the best aspect of the game - if you haven't played an MMO before I think you will love 
 spending hours and hours just roaming through the wilderness exploring all the different things 
 to see. The capital cities are also pretty amazing the first time you see them. Sure, the graphics 
 are a bit over-the-top and cartoony, but it adds to the fun. 
  
  As for the actual gameplay, it is simple, but surprisingly addictive. Whichever class you play, 
 you start out with only a few spells or moves, but by the time you have moved up to level 60 you 
 will have about 30-40 abilities. And that is one of the things which keeps you playing - there 
 is always something new which you can look forward to aquiring - whether it is your next level, 
 a new ability, a new piece of equipment, a new recipe for one of your proffessions, etc. Blizzard 
 obviously spent a fair bit of time adjusting the difficulty level of the game so that is just right. 
 Combat starts out pretty easy, but then scales up in difficulty as you progress. It is easy enough 
 that you can get satisfaction out of killing the various monsters and bad guys, but difficult enough 
 that you can get quite frustrated if your character dies. I started out playing a warrior, and 
 I used this as my main character up till level 60. I must admit I did get a little sick of using 
 mainly the same moves over and over by the time I had reached the higher levels. I played a few 
 alt characters with a different class - in hindsight I wish I had've chosen maybe a priest or a 
 warlock rather than a warrior, but by the time I had levelled my warrior I had seen most of the 
 game world so I couldn't be bothered going through it all again. There are good and bad aspects 
 to playing every class, and they are reasonably balanced so that no one class has superiority over 
 all the others.
  
  Travel... As I mentioned, exploring the game world is one of the best things about WoW. Not just 
 on foot either - at level 40 you can buy a mount (horses for humans, rams for dwarves, etc.) . Mounts 
 make travel much faster and when you first get one it feels like a real sense of achievement. (The 
 expansion also has flying mounts for higher players) . Travel between major towns or outposts is 
 also possible by gryphon or bats, which is pretty cheap. When you take your first gryphon trip 
 you will probably be amazed at the graphics and scenery (although maybe it is not so impressive 
 now as it was in 2004 when the game first came out) . But after a while these trips can become a 
 bit annoying because to get from one end of a continent to another takes a fair bit of time, even 
 if you fly. You will probably use the time for a food or toilet break.
  
  I played on a PvE server most of the time, and this was fine for me. If you like being a bit more 
 competitive though, you will probably like PvP servers. In PvP areas there is a bit more of an 
 adrenaline rush because you never know when you are going to run into some players from the other 
 faction. It can also be a bit more frustrating though if you get killed a lot, or if you can't 
 complete a quest or get somewhere because the other faction is outnumbering you or camping. The 
 best part of the PvE is instances (high-level dungeons which have elite bad guys) ... for me this 
 is the part of the game which I enjoyed the most. Completing instances can take a lot of teamwork, 
 and each class has a specific role to play. In instances there a lot of variety in the monsters 
 which you fight, and there is often a bit of strategy required to beat them. If you are playing 
 with a group of friends you will love it - especially being linked up using teamspeak. The downside 
 to doing instances is trying to get a group together, which can be easy enough if you are playing 
 with friends or are in a reasonably large guild. But if your friends are offline it can be annoying 
 trying to spam the chat channels to find the classes you need to get started.
  
  Endgame...
  I also spent a bit of time on raids (super instances which require 25 or more players) 
 after I got to level 60. If you can join a decent guild you can have even more fun doing raids 
 than instances. The sense of achievement you get when your guild takes down a boss for the first 
 time keeps you coming back. It is a bit disappointing though how you might have to do a raid quite 
 a few times though before you get the pieces of loot you want. The other part to the endgame is 
 PvP - I didn't spend as much time on this but I tried it a few times. The battlegrounds can be 
 quite fun if you want a distraction from the usual PvE levelling up or questing. It depends how 
 organised you are - if you are in a team with friends or guildmates it can be great, but if you 
 join a random battelground group then people are less co-ordinated so a lot of the time everyone 
 just goes ape. Which can work sometimes, but it does help to have a team plan. Overall I liked 
 battlegrounds, but if you really like competitive multiplayer games then I'd say go and play Unreal 
 Tournament, Battlefield 2, or Guild Wars
  
  Professions... The 2 crafts you can learn are another thing to do if you want a change from the 
 usual gameplay. I found it was a bit tedious collecting all the ingredients, and even when you 
 do, the items you can make are usually not as good as the loot which drops from monsters anyhow... 
 But you can sometimes make a bit of money out of the collection proffessions (mining, herb-gathering, 
 etc.) if you are dedicated enough. The in game auction house is also cool if you want to get into 
 the economic side of the game or you are looking for a specific item or piece of equipment. And 
 believe me, there is so many different items in this game that you would never be able to see them 
 all. Sure, a lot of them are junk, but at the higher levels there are a lot of uber-items to eqiup 
 yourself with which can make other players jealous if you get them.
  
  Sound & music.... the sound in this game is pretty decent and well done as you would expect from 
 a Blizzard game. I think the music is really great, and it is not too repetitive and really fits 
 the game world. If you hear the music later on it will bring back memories of what you did in the 
 game.
  
  In summary, the best parts of the game are:
  1. exploring the game world 
  2. playing with other players.. 
  Sure, you can solo the whole game from level 1 to 60, but you 
 won't have anywhere near as much fun if you do. The multiplayer aspect is what really drew me in. 
 I made quite a few friends in the game, and also got a small group of real-life friends to sign 
 up and play with me. Some days I just logged on to chat to friends for an hour or 2. The only problem 
 playing with friends is if your friend spends more time playing than you do they will probably 
 level up quicker. This becomes a problem if you want to do the same instances or quests together. 
 One of the things that isn't good about WoW is that there a quite a few younger players who can 
 be idiots at times... eg - spamming chat channels, and the Chuck Norris jokes soon get old. But 
 like any multiplayer game there is a share of idiots, as well as some nice people you will run 
 into.
  
  WoW is a great MMO to play if you are looking for a fantasy game. If you can afford to pay the 
 15 bucks a month then I would get either this game or Lord of the Rings online. I didn't think 
 $15/month would be worth it at first, but I ended up spending more time than I expected playing 
 it, and I didn't spend much money buying other games for the next 2 years because WoW kept me pretty 
 occupied. If you get WoW, I wouldn't bother getting the Burning Crusade yet unless you want to 
 start as a blood-elf or a Dranei or a jewelcrafter... the original game kept me occupied for hundreds 
 of hours!! I quit just before BC - not because I think it would be a bad expansion, but because 
 after 2 years of playing the same game even WoW's gameplay becomes boring. You can always download 
 the update later on anyhow. 
  
  If you can't afford a monthly fee then maybe try out Guild Wars. The graphics in World of Warcraft 
 are now a bit dated, so if it worries you perhaps you might want to wait till Age of Conan comes 
 out. On the other hand if you want something sci-fi or a bit more innovative, then give Tabula 
 Rasa or Eve online a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tt4under
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the Online successor to the previous RTS games with the Warcraft title. 
 
  
  I bought this game along with about 5 other friends and played it for about 3 years before finally 
 canceling my subscription for XBL. The game was great for about the first year (which is incredible 
 these days) . Looking back on WoW it was actually very tedious. The quests were all the same. Either 
 you were walking through the forest hunting or FedExing (for you noobies that's a quest where all 
 you do is take an item to someone) walking through a desert hunting or FedExing, or (and here's 
 where it gets tricky) walking through a tundra hunting or FedExing. There are one or two quests 
 in every area that are a little different but you get the gist of it.
  
  Now World of Warcraft is really for people who can stay active with something for a very long time. 
 I for one didn't want to be an orc warrior the whole entire time because I like exploring everything 
 so I made some Alliance alts (characters that are just for funsies not your main character) about 
 2 years in I realized my main would never get anywhere if i had all these alts. So I started really 
 playing my main and found I was bored out of my mind. The quests are the easiest way to level up 
 and they are just too BORING!!!
  
  Now as I said before I started the game with my friends and maybe at year 2 again most of them 
 left and I found I was just going on WoW to chat online. If no one was on I would just log right 
 off. I got to about level 65 on my warrior and just said wow this is wasting all my free time. 
 Canceled my subscription, bought xbox live and downloaded AIM for chatting.
  
  Not saying WoW is a bad game it's actually a great game and I'm going to give it a score as such 
 but to finish the game you have to be really lonely or really boring (which probably will lead 
 you to being really lonely) . There just isn't enough to get you through the game in a reasonable 
 amount of time.
  
  I understand they just came out with a patch that changed some quests and made a new area but really 
 everything in the game was for lvl 70s and I'm just not that devoted to one game to invest all 
 my time into that. Wait a minute why am I having this discussion anyway? Aren't games made to be.... what 
 is it.... FUN? A game shouldn't feel like a second job. If it does well then write a letter complaining 
 to Blizzard that their payment options all involve losing you money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gobrowns17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft i a great game and can be enjoyed by many. Ok, firsts things first. there are 
 the horde and alliance. They hate each other. and all the classes are great. There are tanking, 
 healing and DPS classes. They all do there own thing. The Communtiy in WoW is great. People will 
 help you a lot. It's not to hard finding a group or ''party'' for a instance. There is also MILLIONS 
 of people playing, so its cool. It is pretty boring at lower levels, but when you get higher with 
 more dungeons and weapons/gear, it will amaze you. There are so many zones like Stormwind and Ironforge. 
 But it does get slow, like before you get a mount it takes FOREVER to go from place to place. Like 
 i said, higher levelas are really fun. There are a few glitches and bugs in the game like the under 
 stormwind glitch, but its nothing big.
  
  Buy world of Warcraft NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Yup thats right, I spent 13 hours straight playing this game. I literally couldn't get off of it. 
 It just pulls you in. Wether your're a fan of whatever kind of video game, pick this up. I personallly 
 was a huge fan of shooters and I picked this up and I loved it.
  
  You start off by picking you race. The 8 races are broken up into two groups, The Alliance and 
 The Horde. Each with its own unique races. After you pick you race you pick you class. They're 
 about 7 or 8 classes to choose from. Each containing its own abilities. After you pick your class 
 you begin customizing your character. You can customize your har style, hair color and many more 
 features of your character.
  
  World of Warcraft is split up into Realms, instead of craming everybody into one world. There is 
 4 Different types of Realms. Normal, PvP, RPG, and RPGPvP. Nromal is your're normal Warcraft Realm. 
 PvP is a Realm were players can attack you without asking your permission. RPG is a Realm were 
 players act like they're their characters. That means talking like their characters or doing things 
 their characters do. RPGPvP combine PvP and RPG Realms together. 
  
  After you pick your realm you enter the World of Warcraft. There is no tutorial but I reccomend 
 that you do the beggining quest of your race. There is no boundries so you may travel the beautiful, 
 vast world. You can make your own items. Oh, I forget to tell you about professions. In World of 
 Warcraft, there are things called professions. Professions are pretty much like skills. You can 
 only learn two professions at any one time. You can use your profession to make items and sell 
 them at stores, or with people. There is a combat areana. The PvP arean lets you fight against 
 the other faction. Which would be the Hrode or Alliance. You can also make a guild and have a guild 
 war at the arena. Sometimes there is problems with the arena and you cant fight.
  
  
  World of Warcraft offers many, many features. I reccomend that you pick this up ASAP. You will 
 be a addictied to the World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  You can get World of Warcraft and The Burning Crusade for about fifty dollars together. I would 
 recommend that if you can afford the monthly payment to go ahead and try out this awesome MMORPG. 
 This game offers great race and class selection, and if you are familiar with rpgs in general, 
 most likely you will love this game. A lot of people complain about the graphics of this game saying 
 that their not what they could be and that the characters look too cartoonish. Well this is based 
 off a game where the characters looked like that, so pretty much expect it and don't complain. 
 I will tell you that there is one thing that can enhance the World of Warcraft experience that 
 Blizzard can't supply. If you can get a bunch of your friends to play this game with you, well 
 you will have a lot of fun. No kidding, I enjoy this game and play it a lot more when my friends 
 are online with me. If you have World of Warcraft, pick up the expansion, you won't be disappointed. 
 If you don't have World of Warcraft and you are looking at this review, go ahead and download the 
 trial off their site and see how you like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiSphere
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft, you hear so much about it, but is it really that good?
  YES! Yes it is!
  
  You get to choose your character, and their appearance.
  You can be a:
  Gnome
  Dwarf
 
  Human
  Night Elf
  Tauren
  Orc
  Troll
  or Undead.
  
  This game is one of the most popular games of all time, and there is a good reason for that.
 
  
  You kill creatures to get XP. You can then loot from their remains to get items such as armor, 
 weapons and clothing to make your character stronger. You can also collect money from their remains 
 aswell.
  
  If you go to a town, you can buy armor, weapons etc from a vendor, learn new skills from your class 
 hunter, and most importantly, get quests from NPCs. When you complete the quest you get rewards, 
 XP, gold and more!
  
  Start off as a newbie, then level up, defend your town and your groups territory from the other 
 group. (Horde, and Alliance)
  
  There is also ingame chat, PVP dueling, trading, sending items to others, and loads of great monsters, 
 quests, and A HUGE AMOUNT OF AREA TO TRAVEL! You can run for hours and still, there will be no 
 end of the map.
  
  This game will keep you addicted for hours on end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joures
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  What can you tell about WoW??? I could sit here and write 20 pages for it as a review but the problem 
 is it wont be enough so i will sum it up in a few lines. First of all the gameplay is U-N-B-E-L-I-E-V-A-B-L-Y 
 diverse. Even after you reach the level cap, which to date is 70, you have hundreds of things to occupy 
 yourself with.... for example you can start to gear up at normal instances then you can play in 
 heroic instances which are only available at level 60 instances but you have to be lvl 70 to go 
 to them and are much harder and finally you can join a guild and start raiding, you can rack up 
 gold to buy better equipment from the auction house and mounts, you can choose a profession among 
 the many of the game and much, much more to do. Of course it is hard to reach the level cap but it 
 is not boring really. Also since it is an mmorpg it always gets updated with new content making 
 this game have a big duration. The graphics are a bit cartoon style but that doesnt mean they are 
 bad. On the contrary along with the high environmental detail they make for a very eye-enjoying 
 result. The sound is also pretty realistic with yells when you are getting hit from enemies or the 
 sounds of clashes with swords, although there is little music content. All these make for a really 
 addictive game and i strongly recommend you to play with measure. That's the only really useful 
 info i can give you before you immerse yourself with World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smsa2222
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I had fun playing this game for the first month but it wuickly got boring after that with the extremely 
 repetitive quests. the quests are pretty much all the same, with kill x amount of creatures and 
 collect x amount of items, the only difference are the npc skins really. as you advance levels, 
 the wuests don't get any different, they just get harder so they feel the same as the quests were 
 when you were a lower level. not to mention that the more you level, the longer it takes and more 
 quests you have to do to level up, at higher levels it can take 5 hours or more of just straight 
 doing boring quests over and over again just to level up once. in the early parts of the game multiplayer 
 isn't even worth playing unless your'e a twink, but if your'e not then stop wasting your time because 
 your going to be killed. everywhere in this game takes a long time to run to unless you have a 
 mount, but if you are low level and you die in some quest, you could be respawned like a mile away, 
 and you have to walk it all over again. if you are an experienced rpg/mmo player, then don't waste 
 your time with this game, it is just way too repetitive, if you are a knew player then you will 
 probably have fun playing it, but I would still recommend something else, like Guild Wars or Oblivion 
 or EVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft for the PC is a great game. The graphics are superb, as is the sound. The gameplay 
 is so addicting, complex, yet simple, that this game is truely a work of art only to be appealed 
 by extreme gamers.
  
  The main problem with this game is that for newcomers, this game is so hard that you immediatly 
 get turned off from the game before you even get a chance to get sucked in. The game should start 
 out a lot easier and gratualy get harder so people will understand how to play instead of jumping 
 into a world of difficult tasks and battles.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to anyone truely seeking a challenge and wants to be a part of the 
 biggest game on the internet. If you're not too
  farmiliar with how MMORPGS work, have no patience at all, or even don't have too great of a computer. 
 Then this game is definitely not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  What can I say about World of Warcraft? I've played other online games and haven't found the will 
 to keep paying to play them. WOW is a different story. This reviews kind of late in coming, but 
 it still should be relevant. I first got WOW when a first came out a couple years back. I didn't 
 have all that much free time back then, so I didn't get into it as much. Now I work 3rd shift, 
 so my social life is kind of dead at the moment. As such WOW lets me get my gaming in and socialize, 
 so it's a decent mix. I do wish mission structure were better though. Most of your missions are 
 of the "go collect a bunch of crap and bring it to me" variety. There are several missions of a 
 more fun variety, but these collect a thons tend to slow it down a bit. Still the sheer number 
 of things to do, skills to gain, loot to find, and places to explore make this a neverending good 
 time. With the current expansion and one on the way that fun time looks to keep growing. All in 
 all if you're going to play a mmorpg, this is definitely the best place to start. Newcomer friendly 
 (with the exceptions of a few poeple) and fun as hell, this game will definitely be worth your 
 15$ a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl_Pinches
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is the best video game Ive ever played. The only problem is its 
 too addictive and too time consuming. This is one of those games that you sit down to play and 
 next time you look at the clock 5 hours has just gone by.
  World of Warcraft has the one of biggest qualities I look for in a game and thats epicness. As 
 you play and progress through the game you really feel like its all leading up to something big.
 
  PvP is alot of fun, frustrating at times but fun. Raid bosses are over the top so fun you will 
 want to beat them over and over again.
  There are alot of imperfections in this game, but some how they dont seem to matter because the 
 game is just that good.
  I dont play anymore because in 5 years Id like to look at my life and think I did something with 
 it worth while. Thats not going to happen playing WoW.
  I dont recomend this game to anyone, if you value your life your friends and familly stay away 
 from it.
  Yeah and everyone I played with was just as addicted as I was, they say they play in morderation 
 but they were logging in any chance they could.
  Im giving it a 9.5 because its greatest fault is that its just too good.
  Remember a game is 
 a game and real life is real life, you cant substitude one for the other. I remember a house wife 
 telling me she thought this game was better then real life lol.
  The reason I say its hard is because beating the game is hard. The game progresivley leads too 
 killing raid bosses, which isnt easy. You need to be able to find a good guild and play as a team. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CokaColaKid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is the best video game Ive ever played. The only problem is its 
 too addictive and too time consuming. This is one of those games that you sit down to play and 
 next time you look at the clock 5 hours has just gone by. 
  World of Warcraft has the one of biggest qualities I look for in a game and thats epicness. As 
 you play and progress through the game you really feel like its all leading up to something big. 
 
  PvP is alot of fun, frustrating at times but fun. Raid bosses are over the top so fun you will 
 want to beat them over and over again. 
  There are alot of imperfections in this game, but some how they dont seem to matter because the 
 game is just that good. 
  I dont play anymore because in 5 years Id like to look at my life and think I did something with 
 it worth while. Thats not going to happen playing WoW. 
  I dont recomend this game to anyone, if you value your life your friends and familly stay away 
 from it. 
  Yeah and everyone I played with was just as addicted as I was, they say they play in morderation 
 but they were logging in any chance they could. 
  Im giving it a 9.5 because its greatest fault is that its just too good. 
  Remember a game is 
 a game and real life is real life, you cant substitude one for the other. I remember a house wife 
 telling me she thought this game was better then real life lol. 
  The reason I say its hard is because beating the game is hard. The game progresivley leads too 
 killing raid bosses, which isnt easy. You need to be able to find a good guild and play as a team. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zinta-S-Kurochi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 9.79 
  
  
  Many people have their opinions and I have mine. World of Warcraft ( (WoW) ) is a massivly multiplayer 
 ONLINE game. ( (MMO) ) The story starts as soon as you pck your faction. Alliance, basiclly like 
 the good side, are made up of Humans, Gnomes, Dwarves, Night Elves, and Dranei ( (The Dranei being 
 only available through the Burning Crusade Expansion.) )
  Then there's the awsomeness of the Horde, ( (like thebad guys) ) . The horde consists of Tauren, Orc, 
 Trolls, Undead, and Blood elves ( ( Blood elves onl in burning crusade.) )
  After you pick your faction and race you customize, the hair, face, skin tone, and ect.
  After 
 thisyou pick your skill as in, rouge, warrior, hunter, shaman, mage, warlock, paladin, and or priest. 
 Diffrent races have diffrent weaknesses and cannot use some of these classes. You may only choose 
 one per class, this ma detirmen which mount you get ( (riding animal) ) jobs and ect. you may get 
 in future. Choose wisely as some classes are hated. 
  You are on a adventure to level up to level 70 as you start lvl 1. It gets hareder to level up 
 nd you may want to team up.
  You will be fighting monsters, demons, hero's from the other faction, and more. Each race has a 
 king, if you're from the opposite faction you can kill someones king. Dieing isn't a big deal, 
 you'll become a ghost. Just run over to you're body and revive. But make sure no monsters and no 
 enemies are around or you''ll be screwed. Instead of killing monsters to level you can do quest, 
 these can range from dilering mail to killing a giant demon . 
  There are two worlds, Azeroth and the Outlands. Azeroth is where you start and should stay until 
 yo become 67 lvl . There are two continents, both are giant and you are slow. When you level to 
 lvl 40 you get an animal to ride on, they are quick. But if you buy the awsome Trading Card Game 
 ( (WoW TCG) ) some rare cards are mounts that you eter into a vendor for a rare mount. Such as the 
 spectural tiger. Another mount is a turtle it goes the same speed as you becasue lvl 20 and above 
 can use it. 
  If you enter the other factions territory youll be attacked so don't do it until you'r lvl 60 and 
 above.
  The Outlands is home to e toughest boss in the game illidan. He will take 20 level 70 to be taken 
 down.
  There are many weapons and some may be rare, some not, some available to some classes, som available 
 to all.
  There are secret places and things in WoW like the secret oss Nessy and the super fast chicken. 
 Many others as well. Even hidden quest! You can't beat this game, new patches come out with new 
 items and quests. So even if you beat every quest once the new patch comes start all over. This 
 game never ends, so the fun never ends. You can make parties to help level up or make a guild ( (aka 
 clan) ) . There are two main faction cities. Fore alliacne the almighty Iron Fogre. For the Horde 
 the invincable Orgimmar. I COULD GO ON FOR EVER! The only problem is you have to go a great distance 
 until you get to some PVP action. ( (PVP is player vs player.) )
  Remember to play in moderation.
  A tip: Use guides like JOANAs and BRIAN KOPPs, you'll get a 
 high level your first sitting. Buy the game, then download the ten day trial, use a guide and get 
 to level twenty. Then upgrade you're trial to rel so you'll start with a lvl 20! Make at least 
 two charecters of each faction. Don't hate the twelve year-olds on alliance, and don't hate the 
 40 years on horde. Both sides OWN. So make two chars on each faction and go on a medium filled 
 srever like silver moon. It is the best kind. Take these tips. I give this game a 9.79. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalErr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I am new to MMO's, yes I am a Noob. So please don't send me hate 
 mail for what I am about to say. I was talked into getting it by some co-workers and so begrudgingly 
 gave it a shot. I played the demo and bought the game for another 30 days free, I have not started 
 the subscription yet. Yes, I have actually put in between 40 and 100 hours in less than 40 days.
 
  
  The graphics are good, nothing spectacular, but that is probably why it runs so smoothly.
  
 
  The combat system is very simple, right click and start clicking on other skills. I am not necessarily 
 complaining about this, just mentioning it as a fact.
  
  Adding professions is pretty cool, mining, blacksmithing, herbalism, etc. Dueling is also a very 
 cool part of the game. I have not yet tried Battlegrounds as of yet.
  
  The game starts out fairly easy with tips that pop up to help you along; this is a good start to 
 those who are new to the MMO gaming world. Killing low level creatures and finding new equipment 
 is a lot of fun when starting out. As far as the quests are concerned, killing X number of monsters 
 here, or collect X number of items at this other place is pretty standard RPG stuff. 
  
  The traveling from one place to another can get very long and tedious. Even when riding a bat or 
 blimp. This is usually a good time to get snacks from the kitchen while I am waiting to arrive 
 on site.
  
  I have Soloed most areas, except some of the instances, which are a bit too challenging for one 
 person. I have enjoyed most aspects of the game, except, (here it comes) . I am very annoyed that 
 I will work really hard at killing monsters and am barely alive, when some Lvl 70 Priest comes 
 by and kills me. If this would have happened just once, it would not have been so bad, but this 
 person staked out exactly where I was and waited for me to come back. He did not kill me immediately; 
 he waited again, till I was very low on health and then killed me. For those who are asking, why 
 I went back if he was still there, I could not see him until after he killed me. I was only level 
 25 at the time, so this seemed so one-sided it was not even funny. There should be some kind of 
 skill limit on this. Blizzard needs to put in a 10 lvl max, that if you are more than 10 levels 
 higher than someone who isn't even willing to fight you, than you cannot attack them. I know about 
 the PVP servers vs the Normal servers, blah, blah, blah. How much fun can it really be to kill 
 someone 45 levels below you. 
  
  Overall, I have enjoyed and am still enjoying playing WOW, though more of a class differentiation 
 would have been better, and a tighter grip on the rules of engagement would also make the game 
 more pleasant for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Where shall we start. Okey this game has it ups and downs. If you want to get the most out of this 
 game. You gotta have a lot of time for this game. 
  
  This game consumes tons of your time and might effect peoples real life in a negative way cause 
 of its grinding system and peoples addiction to it. Trust me, many people will have problems cause 
 of this.
  
  This game is mostly made for most dedicated players In other words the Hardcore gamers will always 
 have an edge over a casual or semicore-player cause of they're equipment.
  
  The end game will be pretty much about grinding your gear over and over again and thats cause you're 
 character equipment gets old and you need to replaced in time for the new one. so practically you 
 keep doing grinding all over again to be able to stay on the top of the game.
  
  However If youre a casual player you can still have lots of fun and pick some gear "Time to Time 
 in a slower period" but you're characters are far more fragile and have less potential for higher 
 level instances and pvp battles and you will have less chances to get intoa strong raiding guild" 
 
  
  about other things
  WoW has a great gameplay. suits for teenagers and grown-ups. One of the best mmorpg ever made. 
 I'm retired of this game cause for me personally after many hours and repeating character leveling, 
 grinding gear all over again this game lost its magic 
  
  WoW was something unbealivble good when it came out, and You "raided Tarren Mill for the first 
 time and leveling up to 60 and clearing the Molten Core after that it was pretty much all the same. 
 Just with the new texture, skins and equipment with added stats.
  
  Good luck in the third expansion. 
  
  My ratings
  
  7.5 The burning Crusade 
  
  9.2 
 World of Warcraft Reign of Chaos (highest rating i ever given to a game so far) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genahzo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best online multiplayer game there is. it does cost 15 usd a month, but 
 its way worth it! there is also a discount if you buy like threee or six months. There are two 
 basicalyteams" the Horde and the Alliance. The aliance is basicaly good, and the horde is evil. 
 There are also differenty races, and each race can be a different class. I would say it has the 
 best PvP ( player vs Player) out of any game there is. The quests are super fun, you can fish, 
 mine, skin animals, cook, be an enggineer, craft stuff and a whole lot more. Druids can turn into 
 animals and hunters can have animal pets that help in battle. mages, shamans, and priests can do 
 spells and other stuff. there is alot of player interaction. you can do raids, dungeons and group 
 with each other. there are sweet looking items and the monsters are cool too. play wow.
  all in all i give this game a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeppher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  One of the best RPG's todate there is so many things to get like weapons, armor, items and much more. 
 There is two factions too pick from The Alliance and The Horde both with diffrent races. There 
 are many classes like  and Shaman each with 
 mant diifrent abilities and stats. The game is extreamly addicting there is so much to do with 
 your freinds like raid, Pvp, and quests. Yuo can Also pick what type of server you want to play 
 on like a normal one pvp and Rp all with diffrent names and guide lines. This game's comuinty is 
 so large the enviroment is lush and huge with many places to go and cost only 15$ a month with 
 two ways to pay it with game cards and credit cards. There is a xpansion pack for it giving even 
 more content and 2 diffrent races and capping the level limit at 70 and you get even more abilties 
 for your class! This game is defintly one of the best out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiMcHiMaN
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Anyway, i cant put alot into the review deck so ill just refresh the thing. so what i was saying 
 is that like all MMORPGs, and RPGs, they are... repetitive, you know what ime saying, like kjust 
 killing monsters, over and over again and there is a point were you just want to quit the game... BUT 
 something... something makes you keep playing world of World of Warcraft. And actually, thats the 
 ONLY con for World of Warcraft.
  
  Gameplay: the game is... wow... the gameplay of World of Warcraft is awesome. unlike other MMORPGs, 
 World of Warcraft is based on a RTS game called Warcraft. There are ten races that you can choose 
 for your character, Dwarves, Gnomes, Humans, Night Elves, Draenei, Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, Undead 
 and Blood Elves (notice: if you have the original., then you can't use the Blood Elves and the 
 Draenei, you'll need the Burning Crusade expansion) . There is also nine classes you can choose 
 for your character, druid, hunter, mage, paladins, priests, rogues, shaman, warrior, and warlocks. 
 Each race has its own list of option for the classes. For the quests... I don't know, A LOT, I'll 
 probably fill the whole review box. don't worry, your max level is 70 but you still can to quests 
 (trust me, even I cant finish them) OH and if your dead, go find your body (i hope you know were 
 you had been slaughtered) , don't just revive were you are by asking that white douche bag because 
 your character will suck.
  
  I'll just give you a head start for creating a character. I think the best playable races are Orcs, 
 Trolls, Undead, and Dwarves. Orcs tend to increase there attack so if you want to choose rogues 
 then choose Orcs because rogues needs attack and guess what, bingo. If you want to choose like 
 shaman or mage or even priests (troll cant choose warlock) , choose troll because they increase 
 the casting time and i forgot the other one but yea. now for the other classes, choose dwarves 
 and undead (warlock for undead)
  
  Graphics: i love just laying down on the grown and looking at the sky. like a screen saver and 
 just go do something else (again notice if you are in a area were the monsters are aggressive, 
 then its a pretty good idea NOT to lay on the ground.) I love the water texture when swimming on 
 the surface and under water fighting crabs.
  
  Sound: i don't know.. haha i dont pay attention the songs but the sound of like casting spells and 
 waking and other crap, its pretty damn awesome
  
  again the game is awesome and i think its the best MMORPG I've played. you can do many stuff in 
 the game. if your new then just try reading those guild line that people wrote or buy those at 
 stores and read them, it'll help you like by a long shot, and also taking all the fun away... if 
 your level70 and you think there is nothing to do, then try finding those really really rare weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captian-james
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  It is a graet MMO one of the best lots to do and lots to see. the graphics are not the best part 
 but the game play is good and there are lots of peolpe so u will always find some one to quest 
 with. the range of class and race make the game more diffrent and makes it so u will not see a 
 character like yours. if You are new to MMo this is one one to get and start with because there 
 is alot in it and it is not hard to start. so if You fill like getting an MMO get this because 
 it is easy to get around and by the time Your a high LVL you now the way around the game :) also 
 if u need help ppl will always help. the only down side is that u have to pay. if u what to under 
 stand the story you realy have to have played all the games but if your just in it for the game 
 play it is easy to under stand :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miradwyn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Combat is simple enough that just about anyone can play with their friends and family. You aren't 
 overwhelmed with too many skills/spells right away. I played with many husband and wife teams, 
 my own spouse and nephew, and even had two 60 year old women in my guild at one point.
  
  A huge range of excellent mods to alter the interface to your preferences, make information more 
 easily available and so on. Useful macro system. Good maps and abundant flight paths to make travel 
 less tedious. Some quests are fun and interesting, many are very boring and repetitive. Bugs are 
 always being fixed, quests, items and areas being added. Game is consuming, it's always "I'll log 
 off in minute after I finish this quest" and then you find another quest and hour later you are 
 still playing.
  
  5 man dungeons were fun to do cooperating with friends and family. Raids were a boring repetition 
 of learning the script and then trying to get 20 people to follow the script at the same time then 
 watching the same crappy gear drop from the bosses over and over to make you do the same raid another 
 75 times. If you don't have the time or inclination to group/raid you can queue to join a PVP (unbalanced) 
 game and still make progress on improving your character.
  
  Mostly enjoyed the game itself for the 2 years I played off and on. Hate the very immature community 
 who makes grouping with anyone but friends a punishment to avoid at all cost. Hate the wide sweeping, 
 painful changes Blizzard makes to the game, sometimes with no explanation or apparent reason, with 
 patches. Blizzard may decide to reduce my characters skills to nothing. Blizzard may decide to 
 completely change the role of my class, invalidating my play style and making my gear useless (never 
 mind that I spent months doing the same dungeons/raids a 100 times gathering that gear) for the 
 new role I must assume to contribute to a group and all you can do is bend over and take it or 
 quit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a great game (a bit overrated) but a great game. Now the people saying the game is the best 
 game ever made, well wrong. The people saying its a terrible game, well you dont know a good game 
 when you see one. Id give this a 10 for graphics a 9 for gameplay 8 for tilt and a difficulty 8. 
 I think WoW is the best computer game for a close second with guild wars and star wars, but I think 
 it is a bit overrated. Although overrated i think it is still a nicely done game and ill give a 
 solid 9.5. If you play WoW my name is errion lvl 18 druid in aggramar currently playing the game. 
 I think i put at least 6 hours in already but 1 hours was buying stuff and trading and the AH is 
 addicting too. When you put atleast 10 hours the game gets to its good part where you learn your 
 skills and abilitys (for example, hunters get pets at lvl 10 druids get morphing at 10 and warlocks 
 get there minons at 8 ect. ect. ect.) If your willing to work towards it the game gets very good and 
 only better from there on. I highly recommend it. The players are annoying. Yes i know that. I 
 try and stay away from the highly populated places that a basicly useless like goldshire. There 
 is 100s uppon 100s of quests but they share the same objective, killing a certain NPC, killing 
 a certain amount of npcs, getting a item from NPCs, but as you gain exp and lvl, you well learn 
 new moves and spells. Theres 8 different classes, palladin, druid, warrior, rogue, mage, hunter, 
 shamen, and preist and the alliance, humans, nightelves, dwarves, and gnomes, cant be shamens, 
 though the horde, orc, troll, undead, and tauren, cant be palladins. only taurens and night elves 
 can be druids, and there is a bunch of other resrictions on who you pick, though blizzard recommends 
 picking which race your more fond of. How you make money is simple. You pick 2 professions and 
 hopefully relate. Herbs and alchemy, alchemy require herbs, work well together. so while your makeing 
 potions, you will sell them and make some cash. Another way to make cash is simply by killing monsters. 
 they drop a certain amount of cash based on lvl. This cash will really pay in the long run when 
 your buying your first mount and will be completely bankrupt after it. Buying things willy nilly 
 will only hurt you in the grand scheme of things when your 100g short of your master riding skill. 
 The starting areas are short and steady and the higher zones will have more and more to kill = 
 better rewards and more money. The AH can be fun, makeing a bank toon to store all your extra loot 
 you coudnt keep otherwise. AH is a Ebay WoW style. The AH will be your best friend at 19 29 39 
 49 59. twink gear is easy to find there and when your pwning in pvp you'll know why. That brings 
 me to PvP, maybe the funnest aspect of the game. Theres 4 different ways to gain honor while pvping. 
 Go to warsong gulch, Arathi Basin, and alterac Valley. The other is going head on and running straight 
 into horde territory. honor points and medals will get you pleasent lvl 60 rewards, that you will 
 use in pvp to get more medals and honor. Warsong gulch requires you to capture the flag by making 
 your way into the horde base, grab it, then return it to your base before your beat down. Arathi 
 Basin is the matter of captureing bases and gaining supplies. there are 5 bases and keeping 3 is 
 matter of winning and its a constant go capture, move on and repeat. Alterac is the matter of captureing 
 bases by killing the people inside of them or the stuff its infested with. Personally id be the 
 horde in aggramar because the alliance are filled with 10-14 who seem to like to spam, beg, and 
 pvp at the lowest lvl possible. i ask, WTF is a lvl 10 gonna do with medals and honor? nothing. 
 But if your 13, id keep that mature chat filter on because the horde can get wordy at times. GoodLuck 
 on your quest adventurer, and may elune be praised. ~Errion-aggramar-serious roleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redt_man
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  decent/good game even to this day... still play it and have fun with it but i do def wish that there 
 was another title coming out that gave you beter graphics and more custization to your character... nowadayz 
 with the graphics and openmindedness of videogamers out there you just have to have that "game 
 that beats everyother game" we have the technology out there and people can do it.... whats stopping 
 it all? well ima stop blabbin about how they shuld come out w a new game in this series but hey 
 wat can i do ya kno? still this is a great game play it all the time and everything its just theres 
 only so much u can play of this game before it becomes ruteen and its way past that... even the 
 addons and everything are still ruteen now and wat ever hapned to warcraft IV and sequels?!?! ugh 
 this kinda ruins all hope of furture titles since it had so much "false succes" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion383
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  This isant as good a game as everyone says it is. If ur into doing the same thing over and over 
 again then cool, this games for you. All you do for quests is find items, kill a certain amount of 
 monsters, or go find someone. Boring. Plus the higher lv you get the harder it is to raise your 
 level. So you kill the same thing over and over again for like an hour trying to raise your level. 
 The skills like ,fishing mineing cooking, arent that cool either. The also repetitive. I believe 
 its not worth the 10$ a month. I suggest trying Silkroad or GuildWars insted. There free and have 
 basicly the same style of gameplay as WOW. I cant give an accurate difficulty rating because the 
 difficuilty increases the more you play the game so im gona put just right. It all depends were 
 you train. If you really want to try it just try the 10 day trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) created by Blizzard 
 and published by Blizzard Entertainment. The game takes place in the world of Azeroth, inhabited 
 by the most bitter of enemies and the scariest of creatures. There are two full continents to explore 
 and plenty to do in the land of Azeroth, so be ready to pick up your sword (or spellbook) and get 
 ready to fight for either the Horde or the Alliance.
  
  Before you jump into Azeroth, you must first create your own, customizable character. There are 
 two warring factions to choose from and four different races for each faction. Depending on which 
 server you choose, players on one faction are allowed to kill players of the other faction when 
 in contested territory. Anyhow, when creating your character, you have eight different classes 
 to choose from (which aren't available to every race, but may be to others) . Character creation 
 isn't too varied and is pretty poor when compared to other character creation systems for other 
 MMORPG's, like the Lord of the Rings Online which can get pretty deep. Other than the different 
 hairstyles, most players of the same race pretty much look the same. You're not even allowed to 
 change the body composition of your character, so Humans always end up looking like beefed up, 
 muscular guys on steroids even when you're a magician, so it's pretty saddening to say the least. 
 Also when creating your character, your not allowed to choose a name for your character that's 
 already been taken by another person, but that's typical in most MMO games to steer away from confusion. 
 To try and keep the game feeling like a realistic game world and to keep some sense of lore, World 
 of Warcraft also doesn't allow you to enter numbers into your character's name (but character names 
 like "LegolasOne" are abundant) . The character creation isn't too shabby, but it could definitely 
 use some updating to catch up with the times.
  
  After you're done creating your character, you're ready to begin your adventure. The first thing 
 you are introduced to in the World of Warcraft is quests. Quests are basically missions, where 
 you either kill a number of things, collect a number of things, or something to that effect, which 
 eventually yields reputation gains, monetary gains, experience, or new gear. Quests can get repetitive, 
 and there are a few instances where you'll be cursing the game wondering why a certain quest item 
 hasn't dropped off of a monster yet, even though you've killed twenty of them, but the game does 
 such a good job at sucking you into the whole experience that you don't even begin to care and 
 you just start thinking of the benefits. To add to the fun of questing, it is also possible to 
 group up with a pal or a bunch of buddies to tackle the quests together. Not only is it rewarding, 
 but it also creates new friendships with people and makes the game move a little faster and smoother.
 
  
  To help you complete these quests is a database crammed with thousands of different pieces of gear 
 to customize your character with. Depending on what character class you chose, some certain pieces 
 of gear may not be available to you (for example, mages can't wear plate armor) . The gear types 
 in WoW are cloth, leather, mail, and plate, and they can be classified as junk, common, uncommon, 
 rare, epic, and legendary. All gear from uncommon to legendary are considered magical, and produce 
 some sort of effect on the character. These effects can range from increasing the regeneration 
 of your health to adding more points to your overall health. Once these pieces of gear are removed, 
 the benefits go away. You will be able to obtain uncommon gear from the get-go, but that's only 
 by using the auction house, which I'll explain later in the review. You probably won't be getting 
 your first epic gear until at least level 40.
  
  Now that you're all geared up and you've been questing like a real hero, Blizzard knew that all 
 of that would get pretty boring after awhile so there are things in the game called instances. 
 Instances are areas loaded with "Elite" creatures (considerably tough monsters which are extremely 
 hard to kill unless grouped with other people) and improved loot. At different intervals in an 
 instance, you will be tasked with killing a boss monster, which is a single monster with extremely 
 high stats, magical abilities, and rare gear (which can only be found from that monster) . Instances 
 are fun additions to the World of Warcraft and can create even larger bonds between your friends. 
 Not only are they extremely rewarding, but they're also a lot more fun to do than quests, and they 
 can be done as many times as you'd like to.
  
  However, after your done gearing up some more, doing more quests, and have gained a considerable 
 sum of levels, now it's on to the big stuff: raids. Raids are basically instances but scaled to 
 on a much larger scale. Instead of running into instances with four other players, raids consist 
 of about 24 other players because they're so large and difficult. The enemies are tougher, the 
 bosses are meaner, but the benefits are enormous. You can only get the best gear in the game from 
 raids. Thankfully, as raids are x5 bigger than regular instances, it's also x5 the fun.
  
  After you get to Level 60 and have all of the best gear the game has to offer, there really isn't 
 much to do in the world of Azeroth other than improving your tradeskills or commandeering the auction 
 house to turn a hefty profit. Tradeskills are basically modern day jobs like mining or tailoring 
 that uses regents like ores or cloth to create new items. At higher levels, you can create higher 
 level gear, but the amount of regents needed increases with each level you go. Everything you make 
 initially increases your level by one point, but as you continue to rise in levels, some creations 
 will yield no level-ups, or it will be a 1/4 chance of it happening. If your not much into creating 
 objects though, you can always pick up a tradeskill and head off to the auction house. At the auction 
 house, players from your faction are able to trade all kinds of objects, ranging from useful gear 
 to useless junk. The auction house is very simple to use, and is basically self explanatory. You 
 can view lists of different objects or search up a specific one. When auctioning your own item, 
 you can have the auction last up to 48 hours after you set a starting bid price and optionally 
 a buyout price. Using the auction house can improve your gear drastically and without effort, or 
 you can become rich instantly by using it wisely.
  
  You will probably be spending a lot of time in the world of Azeroth, and for an MMORPG, it looks 
 pretty good. The game is intentionally cartoony looking, but they pulled off all of the visual 
 capabilities splendidly. The game still looks pretty good even at the lowest graphical capabilities 
 and resolution possible, but there is still a definite amount of lag when entering major cities 
 (as there are dozens of players in one city at a time, crammed between all of the buildings and 
 shops the city has to offer) .
  
  Yet, even though the graphics look great, the sound is even better. Monsters sound realistic and 
 rarely share the same sound effects between species. Weapons and such also sound great and to the 
 greatest degree of realism. NPCs will greet you when you talk to them, and they'll say good bye 
 when you leave. Even though there is a distinctive amount of voice acting thats lacking (all quests 
 need to be read, the quest givers don't speak rather than the typical greetings and farewells) , 
 to include audio for all of the thousands of quest would require an enormous amount of space. To 
 top it all off however, if you decide you don't really like the sounds in the game, you can easily 
 add in your own without breaking the Terms of Service.
  
  As I've said many times throughout this review, World of Warcraft can be very addicting. Arguably, 
 it may be the most addicting game ever created. Whether it's the size of Azeroth that astounds 
 you or the certain charm that the game lays upon you, you will constantly find yourself coming 
 back regularly. At a gamers point of view, the addiction of World of Warcraft may be it's biggest 
 flaw. It gives internet trolls' something to regularly bash the game about and it often deeply 
 affects the lives of the player. In recent times, people have actually died from playing this game 
 non-stop. If you think that you're not going to get addicted to the World of Warcraft, think about 
 it this way. Playing World of Warcraft is sort of like smoking a cigarette or taking a drug for 
 the first time. You say to yourself "I'm not the type of person that gets addicted, I can quit 
 whenever I want,". Unless you have some form of resistance to MMORPG's, WoW will most likely have 
 you coming back for more. Fortunately, WoW addiction is easily breakable, as you'll eventually 
 realize that you are essentially doing the same things over and over again.
  
  Fortunately for WoW, it was created by an outstanding team of game designers, and the game is constantly 
 updated through patches. Not only do these patches fix up game errors and bugs, but they also bring 
 about new game mechanics, instances, gear, etc. World of Warcraft just never ends. To top it all 
 off, the game is backed by thousands of modders, so there are always new modifications to try out 
 and make the World of Warcraft experience easier and more enjoyable to everyone.
  
  In conclusion, World of Warcraft is a game that appeals to just about everyone. You don't need 
 to be a lover of RPG games or fantasy to instantly enjoy WoW. Having complete freedom to do whatever 
 you want, talk to anyone, and to create your own hero is just simply mind-blowing. You just haven't 
 play a fantasy game until you've played WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shenanigans19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Not saying WoW is a bad game, I just don't understand the hype. Maybe its the fact that for a huge 
 majority this was their first MMORPG ever. I think I would have probably enjoyed this game a great 
 deal more also if it was my first, but it was my 7th, so I had already seen about everything a 
 MMO can offer. It did hold my attention for a while, and was better than most other MMOs I have 
 played. All that makes it a GOOD game, not a great or revolutionary game. With it being newer than 
 other games I have played it is expected that it would be better, yet it couldn't hold a candle 
 to Asheron's Call, which cam out 5 years before. 
  Overall its fun for a while, but a lot of the quests quickly become repetitive and boring. I will 
 never understand how it got to be as big as it has.
  Very overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitasV
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I played it for a while. Gotten real far into the game, killed all the badies (mostly) , leveled 
 to the higest and know I see it as a waste of precious time.
  After hearing about Star Wars Galaxies and what it has, I just had to give it a try and i did. 
 You should what it has. I'd classify SWG as the ultimate online game there is, literally. You could 
 build your own house and town, do hundreds of missions, ride a vehicle or animal and go through 
 space on so many spaceships which you could mod and customize. And the exact map size of one entire 
 planet was the exact size of the entire World of Warcraft world but you would be foolish to try 
 to cross it on foot. And no matter what class you are either Jedi, Smuggler, Bounty Hunter, Commando 
 or whatever, you can do any class mission in the game but doing a jedi mission when not a jedi 
 will be a bit hard. So yeah, read this message from a video game veteran, don't waste your time 
 with WOW. Doesn't matter if your a Star Wars fan or not, play it and you'll see how good it is 
 and once you play it, you'll be asking Blizzard for your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan9039
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a awesome game. First of all you get to pick what class and and race you want to be from 
 the two different factions the horde and the alliance. There is the classes which means you can 
 pick what kind of fighter you want to be such as a warrior which is a class with heavy armor and 
 great weapons but a lack of magic abilities. also there is the Mage who can shoot firebolts and 
 do alot of different magic abilites but can only wear cloth armor. every class has its goods and 
 bads. the two factions the horde and the alliance are at war and each faction has different races. 
 like the alliance has the night elves and the humans and the drawf and the gnome also there is 
 the draniei which you need the burning crusade expansion pack for but thats a different review. 
 and the horde has the orcs and the trolls and the tauren and the undead and the blood elves which 
 you need the expansion pack for. This game is very addictive ive played this game for 8 hours straight 
 one time. ;WARNING; THIS GAME IS ADDICTIVE lol. alright some of the cool things in this game is 
 the in-game postal service where you can send mail to your friends and family who play this game 
 its really cool because i help my dad out and send him weapons and armor which is cool. also instead 
 of walking places you can take the gryphon which a giant lion-eagle thing you can fly places with 
 if your on the alliance. my characters name is Reckage im a human paladin on the realm called Terokkar. I 
 recomend this game to everyone even if you dont like MMORPGS you owe it to yourself to try this 
 game its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best MMORPG that has been made so far. It is a very enjoyable game and 
 pulls you in. At the start you may think that it's not that great, but trust me - give it time 
 and you'll love it. Anyone that says it's a waste of time, don't believe them, this a great and 
 addictive game. You have alot of freedom when it comes to exploring and adventuring and it is very 
 interactive. I've had the game for about a year to a year and a half to this day and i have to 
 say - it is one of the best games out there. You also have the choice of fighting monster alone, 
 in a group or fighting other players. One thing you have to do in the game though is commit that 
 you're going to be playing it - otherweise your going to be wasting your money, because it takes 
 a while to reach the maximum level. No matter who you are, if you like fun, enjoyable games where 
 you can actually get into the game, definately try World of Warcraft - you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pico21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good in depth game. With the expansions Burning Crusade, and Leich King it has become 
 even longer. It is both good for experienced MMO vets and players just getting into the genre. 
 It has a great combat system, party system, and level of difficulty. Although it can be a little 
 slow at the begining it takes off very quickly. Soon you find yourself completely immersed in the 
 world of magic, strength, and friendly bonds. It is completely possible to get lost in WoW. I've 
 spent just over 1,000 hours in the game and yet I always come back for something new and exciting. 
 All in all it is a outstanding always evolving MMO that anyone should play if they enjoy MMORPG's 
 or are even just getting into them. I would highly recommend this game to anyone and everyone and 
 I hope I can see you all truding in Azeroth here soon. All servers are great and very well maintained 
 but Frostmourne is my persoanl favorite because it's populated, has a great economy, but is free 
 from millions of players all auctioning the same items.
  FROSTMOURNE FOR LIFE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best Fantasy Online RPG to hit shelves for the PC in a long time. This 
 game has everything any gamer could want from a game: Colorful graphics, acceptable music, and 
 a world where fun won't end any time soon!
  
  Now, WoW is by no means a perfect game. In fact, it doesn't even come close for me. I have only 
 played this for a short time, but I got what I wanted to see out of it. 
  
  Graphics are not too bad, certainly not "Next-Gen" if that is what you're looking for, but cartoon-ish 
 and very colorful. Voice acting isn't too bad, an improvement upon Diablo II. Music is good, nothing 
 that you will remember for the rest of your life. Some tunes are humorous. 
  
  Blizzard adds something new probably every week. You will NEVER run out of things to do in this -- unless 
 Blizzard stops adding things of course. Don't worry, I don't see that happening any time soon. 
 You may challenge others, get more magic and skills, do so many sidequests, and dance!
  
  I apologize I don't have too much to say about this game because, like I said, I only played this 
 for a little while. The reason is why I won't purchase it is I don't feel I could enough from this 
 game for fifteen dollars a month. I know I said "you will NEVER run out of things to do," but I 
 have yet to play a game that will keep me interested while paying fifteen dollars a month. Maybe 
 in the future, but right now, I don't feel this game is worthy $180 a year. 
  
  NOTE: malachi_27 is not a big fan of MMORPG's. Which, by reading this review, you probably realized! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlantisasv
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like World of Warcraft. I'd heard all the cliches - the whiney nerds who calculated 
 every possible odd and outcome of the mathematical problems of chance, to the power gamers who 
 buy and sell virtual gold on ebay. What was it about this game that attracted 10 million people 
 - half the population of my country - to pay 20 dollars a month (Australian) to grind away their 
 lives in the bright and colourful lands of Azeroth? 
  
  MMORPGs represent an area of gaming that could be considered controversial and not for the faint 
 of heart. Casual gamers are deterred by the prospect of paying money to play a game online, while 
 the hardcore don't bat an eyelid and just get on with the game.
  
  So, let it be said that World of Warcraft is not a bad game, but it isn't outstanding either. The 
 depth of the game is almost unfathomable; hundreds, if not thousands of hours could be expended 
 in Azeroth and you still will not have seen everything it has to offer. I wouldn't call it a game 
 so much as I would call it an experience. Contrary to belief, no, you cannot change the literal 
 "world of warcraft"; yes, you can kill the King of Stormwind, or turn Jaina Proudmoore in to a 
 pincushion for your crossbow, but 10 minutes later, the character will respawn, and nothing but 
 gloating rights will have been achieved.
  
  So, the best way to look at World of Warcraft is a tour of Azeroth. An impressively deep tour in 
 which you can earn many things and battle alot of people who represent epic creatures. Yes, you 
 may enjoy it, but getting to that point can take a very long time as you grind away to get to level 
 ten, and then twenty, and thirty, and so forth and so on until you finall manage to work your way 
 to level 60 (or 70 with the expansion) and start causing untold havoc on those around you.
  
  Is it satisfying? If the investment of time needed to get there is worth it for you, then World 
 of Warcraft isn't going to disappoint, but for this gamer, there were a thousand other titles in 
 the world that offered just as much reward, in a lot less time. Your reasons for playing could 
 be many; from the theme of medieval/fantasy combat to the story of warcraft itself, but from a 
 gaming standpoint, World of Warcraft feels more like a job than a game.
  
  If you're willing to spend alot of time with it, then jump in and appreciate one of the deepest, 
 largest RPGs ever made for the Computer. If you're a casual gamer, you might like to try something 
 which isn't quite so demanding of your time. If this is the case, then MMORPGs probably aren't 
 for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Right, World of Warcraft is the game that I have spent the most time playing out of all my others, 
 you can easily get 300 hours out of just one character and then you can make another character 
 of a different race and class and get a completely different experiance that is just as fun.
  
  The gameplay is a standard RPG but just somehow feels better control wise. Starting out is 
 very easy, it has a simple interface which is easy to learn; good for new players. Only from about 
 levels 10-20 is the game hard to level up at than after 20 level up is easier; you get more XP 
 and you can get more out of lower level creatures, with the Burning Crusade expansion
  you can get to level 70, but that's a different review.
  
  The world in the World of Warcraft 
 is ABSOLUTLY G-I-N-O-R-M-I-C and probably has the largest game space in any videogame to date, 
 it has beautiful environments even though the graphics are a little dated, but they still manage 
 to look breath taking.
  
  I would recommend this game to just about everybody; the game's system requirements are low which 
 isn't a bad thing all you need is 1GB of RAM and an average processor and the game will run fine, 
 the game is only $20 now and is only $15 a month which can be good for kids because World of Warcraft 
 is the cheapest babysitter you will ever find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I have played around 300 hours of WoW before. Those were a couple years ago when all my friends 
 started getting into it. It is a fun game if you play with your friends and quest. However, if 
 your friend pulls an all nighter and gets 5 more levels than you, most likely he will want to continue 
 what he is doing and leave you behind.
  
  If you start out as level 1, it will take you over 500+ hours to get level 70 for an average gamer 
 who doesn't play many MMORPGs. Probably when you try to do this, over 50% of your friends are level 
 70 and are busy doing their own thing. Usually they will help you a little but not all the way 
 through the game. So, I have to spend 500+ hours trying to get to level 70 so I can play with my 
 friends. How retarded is that.
  
  I also don't agree with this $15 a month crap. Just make it free now, Blizzard has enough money 
 to feed India 5 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHard63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the greatest Massive Multiplayer Online games I have ever played. 
 With 60 levels (70 with expansion) and tons to do, you cant go wrong with World of Warcraft.
  
  First off what many MMO's these days lack is end-game content. Warcraft does not lack end-game 
 content for sure, and has plenty to do on your trip to 60. You start off by picking a side, race, 
 and class. There are the Horde and the Alliance. The Horde races consist of the Tauren, Troll, 
 Undead, and naturally the Orc. The Alliance have the Humans, Dwarves, Night elfs, and gnomes. After 
 you have chosen your side and race you then pick a class. There are plenty of classes to choose 
 from depending on what you enjoy. (Archery, Melee, Magic.) The basis of all the classes. Then, 
 lastly you choose the apperance of your toon.
  
  After you are all set with the character creation you begin your journey. With hundreds of quests 
 you will be set for many levels. The downfall to the leveling in WoW is that it does get repetitive. 
 While you do have many quests to do, i ran out towards 60 and had to grind for many levels. 
  
  Leveling to 60 is only half the content you will experience. For as i said above Warcraft has 
 TONS of end game content. First off, let me start with saying that the end game content in WoW 
 is based on getting better armor/gear. You run instances or do Battlegrounds (PvP) to get better 
 armor. From 5 man instances to 40 or 20 man instances there are a huge amount of dungeons. Instances, 
 sadly, take from 2 to 5 hours depending on how fast your group clears through it. Yes, they are 
 very time consuming. If you do not have the time to sit for 2-5 hours straight, then your alternative 
 is PvP.
  
  PvP or Player Versus Player is the part of the game I personally participated the most in. Spending 
 hours in Battlegrounds racking in the honor. Honor, that is how the gear you earn from PvPing is 
 based. Everytime you kill someone, or win a battleground game you earn honor points, which you 
 can spend to buy better armor.
  
  Then if you ever get a little bit tired of the battlegrounds and instancing, if you are on a PvP 
 server you can go World PvPing. Just go into the random zones and you can fight horde. Whether 
 they are higher or lower then you. Note: PvE servers have World PvP as well, but you must turn 
 it on. Noone is forced to PvP on a PvE server.
  
  While Those of you who are going to buy just World of Warcraft without the expansion that is fine. 
 You can play the original world of warcraft to level 60 and then if you really want to experience 
 end-game you will most-likely need to get the expansion. As many people do have it and are level 
 70. For the contents of the game require many players and there are very few without the expansion.
 
  
  A Major fault in World of Warcraft is that it is hard to fight against other players unless you 
 have similar gear to them. As gear is a huge part of this game. (whether from PvP or Instancing.) 
 One with really bad gear going up against one with epic, or extremely good armor will most likely 
 lose to the epic player. While the PvP is very, very skill based, gear does play a major factor 
 in it.
  
  Rapping this up, World of Warcraft is a game for everyone. Whether you are a first-person shooter 
 gamer, or RTS, you will love WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeBattey
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I started WoW 2 years ago, my brother sat me down and made a Troll Shaman in front of me on his 
 account that I got to level 7. Though I didn't get into until I made my own character, my Undead 
 Warlock, on my own trial account, that I could make all my own. As I got in I noted that the game 
 played very well, the design of the interface was simple and useful, and I could communicate with 
 the environment well, which I need to feel immersion. The game started out as a simple, fun quest 
 and grind through the levels, but I'd meet people who'd be on at the same time I was, consistently, 
 and I'd make them friends, and I got to know them. The levelling aspect was greatly improved on 
 from Everquest, you can get to the top level by simply soloing, and quests were added, adding much 
 more to the endless killing of the infinite levels. Quests reward you with experience, money, and 
 occasionally weapons/armor, and quests are abundant and everywhere. They're sometimes menial tasks, 
 like gathering flowers, or sometimes hacking through a dungeon defeating a menace of the land, 
 and bringing back his head. Mods were an interesting development from earlier games. Games like 
 Diablo II frowned on mods, and thus were illegal, but WoW was set up for mods, mods to tell you 
 how fast you're gaining experience or money, to keep notes on your friends and even enemies, to 
 organize large raids, to track your tradeskills, to improve on overall gameplay. Not only are mods 
 diverse, they're player made, so there are TONS of them, the choices are limitless. Mods aren't 
 need to play the game and you can have just as much fun going modless, but for me, who loves complete 
 customization, it was amazing.
  
  - Quests, abundant, fun and rewarding.
  - Friends, easy to find, and fun to play with and develop.
  - Interface, very easy to get to 
 know, to customize and make your own.
  - Gameplay, incredibly improved from first gen MMO's, very malleable, and easy to manipulate and 
 feel.
  - Mods, legal to download mods that improve gameplay, track a certain tradeskill item, make your 
 interface completely customized, etc. Mods are also player-made, and easy to make, so there are 
 virtually an infinite amount.
  - World, incredible world, it's detailed, well designed and humongous. Great for the immersion 
 I love.
  
  All in all, WoW is a great, worth your time game. It's going to become obsolete, but the jumps 
 made in improvement on the MMO genre was a worthy feat to make this game a legend to gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad it is not funny. Point and click fighting. No real world exploration. These 
 people need to take a pointer or two from Oblivion and make WOW come close to it. I wouldn't play 
 this game if it was given to me for free and I was given a free account. I rated this a 1 cuz I 
 couldn't rate it any lower . People are hot on this game? If they played Oblivion they wouldn't 
 be able to stand playing WOW. The graphics are basic. There is almost no customization of character 
 so you'll end up looking like so many others. This game is similar Guild Wars but just not as good 
 and it's not free to play like Guild Wars. Waste of money and most of all TIME! If your a child 
 and never played a good game then this might be exciting to you, but adults who have played many 
 games could not stomach the simplistic nature of this game. The enemy's roam around in certain 
 spots in groups and come back in a very boring/repetitive way when you kill them. I think I'd rather 
 play monopoly on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION: World of Warcraft, commonly called WoW, is a game, that, pretty much gives you everything 
 you want in an MMO game. The Game's style is kind of like a combination of an RPG and an action 
 game. You can level up your characters and gain levels and new skills and equipment, learning new 
 abilities on the way like any ordinary RPG but also have this really fast pace combat that somehow 
 feels like an action game as well. At the very beginning, after you created your character, you 
 are given a short fly-over view of your character's starting area, as well as a narrator telling 
 you the history of the race you picked.
  
  The game includes 2 major factions, the Human Alliance and the Orcish Horde and in these two major 
 factions are several different races you can play, each with their own unique kind of racial skills, 
 and the types of classes they can become. Another you should also note that is that the Alliance 
 and the Horde are both enemies, despite the fact they teamed up back at the Battle of Mount Hyjal 
 back in Warcraft III the Reign of Chaos.
  
  THE FACTIONS: Both faction is unique in their own way and they sort of "own" a different continent. 
 most of Eastern Kingdoms is under the control of the Alliance and same for Horde in Kalimdor. However 
 there are a few races of the opposite faction that stays in the other continent. Night Elves of 
 the Alliance are in Kalimdor and Undead (Forsaken) in the Eastern Kingdoms.
  
  THE RACES: There are 8 races in WoW and 10 in the Burning Crusade (Which I won't be mentioning 
 about in this review) , each has their own racial abilities that though don't make a major difference 
 to the game, it does make the difference between life and death. Each race's racial skill has their 
 own use in or outside of combat. Like the Tauren's warstomp can stun enemies, interrupting spells, 
 or how the Gnome's Escape Artist allows them to escape snares and making escaping enemies a whole 
 lot easier.
  
  THE CLASSES: There are 9 Classes in the game, the Warrior, Druid, Rogue, Mage, Shaman, Warlock, 
 Hunter, Priest and the paladin, and each of these classes play very differently at the start, and 
 even more differently once you begin to spend talent points. Like, Warriors are Tanks, though they 
 can't as much damage as a rogue or a mage, they can definitely take a huge amount of punishing 
 without dying. Priest are not able take in alot like a warrior, but they can heal all of the damage 
 they take. And with talent points, your class can play very differently, like Druids and Paladins 
 are both hybrid classes. Depending on how you spend your talents, you can be very good at a certain 
 job without loosing you other ability. Like druid and paladins can both heal and tank as well. 
 puting talents into their tanking tree and they can become a very great tank but still being able 
 heal (but not as good as another paladin or Druid who put points to their healing tree) .
  
  GRAPHICS: WoW's graphics when it was first released looked sort of cartoony, it did not have many 
 special graphical effects, when compared to EverQuest II, which looked so much better in every 
 single way. Many patches have been released by Blizzard that slowly updates the graphics, one of 
 them is changing the Succubus' skin (The original was horrible) , as well as better water effects, 
 the WoW today has way better graphics thanks to the patches, however there are still many ugly 
 things lurking out there, especially the tauren cat form which they "fixed" last time. The real 
 thing that makes WoW so beautiful is the art. WoW maybe cartoony but the art is just so very good 
 everything from top to bottom is beautifully detailed even though it does not have all the great 
 graphical effects most games have.
  
  CONTROLS/UI: The Controls and user interface (UI) is extremely easy to use. Immediately after the 
 introduction cinematic, you are given a a small window that says, the movement buttons are "w, a, s, d" 
 and that's pretty much all you need to know because everything is just so easy to use despite the 
 fact that this game actually has a lot more to it.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Here's the major part, GAMEPLAY, the core of every game. Gameplay in WoW, as I said earlier 
 is pretty fast pace. Like most action games or shooters, every second counts. One mistake is enough 
 to send you to the grave and running back to your corpse. One thing is that the game can either 
 be played solo or with friends, though generally, as you progress through the game, you'll find 
 that there's a lot of quests that require groups to play so it is better you find a friend or two 
 who wants to play the game as well so you two can play the game. This game becomes very not solo 
 friendly at very high levels, where you will constantly need to find groups and enter dungeons 
 or find a lot of people to do raids, therefore, if you are not the kind of guy who wants to share 
 the loot or don't like team work, this is NOT your game, but that does not mean the game cannot 
 be played soloed, but it will be harder to progress, harder to level and you won't be able to obtain 
 all of the really great items and stuff if you only play it solo. Now that's that, on to the PvE. 
 PvE in WoW is fun to play when played with friends, you can take out several enemies at once or 
 take an elite mob. While doing dungeons is also great fun, the mobs there are going to be way tougher, 
 but it is very rewarding once the final boss goes down. PvP in WoW however, is probably the best 
 in WoW. It's fast pace that sort of make you feel like you are not playing an RPG, but like you're 
 playing some really cool action game. You can try to PvP 1v1 or take a team of friends and battle 
 the enemies' team. one of the coolest thing you can try is combine both raiding AND PvP together, 
 that is, to take a bunch of friends and wreak havoc at the other faction's major city.
  
  Other than that there also several kinds of professions you can learn, some can help you earn money 
 faster, or you can create potions, cook food, create armor, and other stuff that can be sold or 
 use them yourself. The interface for the profession is also very easy to use. you can bassically 
 jump right in, learn a profession and you can start to make whatever you want if you have materials 
 to do it, that is.
  
  SOUND: Sound for the game is pretty good, some of the music in certain major cities is really great 
 to listen, I actually like the Ironforge Introduction music the most.
  
  CONCLUSION: If you have the money and you have friends who are willing to join you as well, this 
 is a game you should definitely check out.
  
  PLUS SIDE: 
  -Large, beautiful, and seemingly endless world.
  -Both PvE and PvP is the bomb
  -Easy to use 
 UI and controls that you don't even need a tutorial
  -Best way to play with Friends
  -Very addictive
  
  NEGATIVE SIDE:
  -If there's anything bad about this game is the fact that 
 there is a monthly fee like most MMOs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeayea34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I dont understand how so many people can like this game, i thought it was alright until i was roughly 
 level 13-15 then it juss gets soo annoyingly repitive. Okay here are the problems i faced with 
 the game: The quests that are assigned to you will be one of the following, kill a bunch of guys, 
 kill a bunch of guys and pick up something they drop (sometimes they never drop the damn thing 
 your looking for) , kill a bunch of guys so u can get to something they are guarding, OR talk to 
 someone. so after a while the quests get annoyingly repitiive and the combat system isnt even enjoyable. 
 i mean u click some buttons but your essesntially just watching your character fight, i just wish 
 i had more control and it was more hands on. Another problem is that a lot of the time the quests 
 will lead u into hostile areas so that when u are attacking one guy you might get jumped by a whole 
 bunch of others. and the world is big, but its TOO big you spend way too much time walking around 
 and you cant buy a horse or anything until about lvl 30, but you can fly but thats costly and you 
 need to find the stations. Dont be fooled by the whole "raiding" factor. its rare anyone goes around 
 teaming up with a bunch of random people to attack other players but even if you do that wont happen 
 until about lvl 40-60. Some good things were that the world is very big and theres a lot to explore, 
 its very addicitive but you dont like it but feel like its going to get better... which it doesnt. 
 but for the most part of playing this game your going to have your finger on the W key to walk 
 around and you'll be right clicking every so often but i found i didnt have enough control over 
 anything like i said before. if your thinking about buying the game download the demo first at 
 www. warcraft. com but i dont reccomend this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because someone at work recomended it. I realy wish I didn't.
  
  This game was clearly made with one thing in mind, your cash. It takes FOREVER to do annything. 
 After playng it for a while I noticed that I spend most of my time running or flying from point 
 A to point B. It's just not fun IMO. 
  
  Sure the world is massive and there are some good moments in the game but you have to grind a long 
 time to get to the fun stuff.
  
  To me it began to feel like a real drag after I got to level 15. I thought that maybe things would 
 get more ineresting later but they didn't. It became even more of a grind because I needed more 
 gold to buy impotant stuff. Plus they make you do these stupid things like mine for metals or skin 
 beasts for leather. It would be fun if you could gain experience at those things faster. 
  
  If you have an obsesive compulsive nature you will like this game. I don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  MMORPGs, some just plain blow, others are average, and then there's world of warcraft. this game 
 has swept the world into a mass of addiction and craze. this game excels in many areas
  
  game play is the main thing about this game, and there is so much to do in this game. you start 
 off by selecting a faction to play as, there is the alliance, and the horde. Alliance races are 
 humans, night elves, dwarves, gnomes, and drainei. The horde has Orcs, Trolls, Undead, Tauren, 
 and Blood Elves. each race has their own little racial abilities, humans get increased rep gain 
 and stealth detection, dwarves get stoneform, gnomes get escape artist, night elves get shadowmeld 
 and whisp form, drainei get gift of the naruu. Orcs get blood rage, trolls get berserking, undead 
 get will of the forsaken, underwater breathing and canibalism, tauren get warstomp and extra health 
 and blood elves get mana tap and arcane torrent. after u have selected your faction and race you 
 select your class, there are nine classes to choose from. they each have three sub classes you 
 can spec into,
  here is a list of the classes available races and their specs.
  
  Druid- Night Elf, Tauren
  balance- nature magic DPS
  feral combat- meele DPS and tanking
 
  restoration-healing
  
  Hunter- Night Elf, Dwarf, Drainei, Orc, Troll, Tauren, Blood Elf
  beast mastery- focuses on your pet
  marksmenship- all about ranged DPSing
  survival- raiding 
 spec
  
  Mage- Human, Gnome, Drainei, Troll, Undead, BLood Elf
  arcane- arcane magic DPS
  fire- fire magic DPS
  frost- frost magic DPS
  
  Paladin- Human, 
 Dwarf, Drainei, Blood Elf
  holy- healing spec
  protection- tanking spec
  retribution- meele DPS spec
  
  Priest- Human, Dwarf, Drainei, Night Elf, Undead, Troll, Blood 
 Elf
  discipline- group buffing
  holy- healing spec
  shadow- shadow magic DPS
  
  Rogue- Human, Night Elf, Dwarf, Gnome, Orc Troll, Undead, Blood Elf
  Assasination- daggers
 
  Combat- PVE spec
  subtlety- stealthing and ganking spec
  
  Shamman- Troll, Orc, Tauren, Drainei
  Elemental- elemental magic DPS
  Enhancement- meele DPS
 
  restoration- healing spec
  
  Warlock- Human, Gnome, Blood Elf, Orc, Undead
  Affliction- focus on damage over time spells
  Demonology- focus on demons
  Destruction- focus 
 on shadow and fire magic DPS
  
  Warrior- Human, Night Elf, Dwarf, Gnome, Drainei, Orc, Troll, Undead, Tuaren
  Arms- two handed 
 meele DPS
  Fury- duel wielding meele DPS
  Protection- tanking spec
  
  as you can tell there are many combinations to play as.
  you can level all the way up to 70 if 
 you have Burning Crusade Expansion pack., and you need that to play as Drainei or Blood Elves. 
 If not you can go only to 60. there are two worlds to explore each with many different zones and 
 cities. each faction has four capital cities, Alliance has Stormwind, Ironforge, Darnassus, and 
 Exodar. Horde has Silvermoon City, Undercity, Orgrimar, and Thunderbluff. each zone is set for 
 a certian level for you to level up in, you gain exp by killing mobs and doing quests and discovering 
 new areas. PVP is high in this game too, on PVP servers you can attack anyone in contested teritory. 
 this may be fun but is a pain when high levels gank you when you are trying to level. otherwise 
 you do your PVP in BGs and arena, BGs are battlegrounds and you complete different objectives to 
 win against the enemy faction. arena is where you and one two or four people team up to beat teams. 
 PVP is one way to get gear, another is doing dungons, these are 5 man dungons you must team up 
 with others to complete. they also have a heroic setting where you must be a well geared 70 and 
 at the top of your game. there are also raids too. theres come in 10 mans, 20 mans, 25 mans and 
 40 mans. there is plenty of end game content to do, you can also level alts. over all this game 
 is highly addictive and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Now Wow is Awesome. Introduction
  
  Blizzard's immensly successful MMO must be doing something right, especially with the numerous 
 people it has playing online at any given time. World of Warcraft was also another one of those 
 highly-hyped games and apparently it lives up to its name... it seems.
  
  Story :::: 7/10
  
  The story varies from what race you choose, which varies from four different races on the two 
 different sides. The two different sides, of course, are the epitome of Good vs. Evil; The Horde 
 versus the Alliance. Point and case? One tries to eradicate the other. Does it get any more complex 
 than that? In a sense it does.
  
  Like a typical MMO, World of Warcraft is huge and thus in a huge world you will find many subquests 
 you can partake in. How base are some of these quests? Well, some of them range from your typical 
  to "please-help-me-find- (insert name here) !", except you don't 
 end up finding that person but a corpse or an ambush or another quests or something else... Yeah, 
 needless to say, most of the quests are just "kill rats!" I mean that figuratively, of course. 
 When I say that I mean that it's just a basic smash and grab, where you run into the area, kill 
 everything/everyone in it, and then return for your reward. Nothing extremely compelling.
  
  What might be the most interesting part of the story all depends on what kind of server you 
 play on. If you can, by some chance, join a role-playing server where the people are actually role-playing, 
 then the story increases, mainly because another intelligent person is making one up as he encounters 
 you or others as well. Though I will say finding a server like that where everyone or mostly everyone 
 is dedicated like that is quite the challenge. Yes, in a role-playing server there are rules you 
 must abide by, such as acting like you are role-playing, and there is punishment if you don't follow 
 the rules, but I had yet to see any punishment of any kind of some kid running and jumping around 
 in town saying, "WTB WTB WTB WTB (insert item here) !?!?!?!" Needless to say, if you persist well 
 enough with the role-playing servers, you might have yourself a good time, but playing on the regular 
 servers will just say, "What's the difference between this and Everquest?"
  
  Graphics/Sound :::: 7/10
  
  For a world that is happening all around you at almost every real 
 second, I would have to say the graphics are well done for an MMO. The sound, on the other hand, 
 really isn't. A lot of it is generic, including some of the voice acting (which is very little 
 to none) , but some of the emotes you can produce are actually quite funny. As a matter of fact, 
 the emotes you can produce might save this section, as they are usually the most commonly heard 
 thing.
  
  Multiplayer/Gameplay :::: 6/10
  
  Now let's cut to the chase; this is what matters about the game indefinitely. World of Warcraft 
 always has an immense amount of players roaming around the lands and I can't tell you how many 
 of them are imbeciles. Maybe a larger number then the Horde and Alliance combined? Who knows. What 
 is known is that if you're a new player you will be on the end of non-playful banter soon enough. 
 Also, as well, it's nearly impossible to run through a town without a cretin challenging you to 
 a duel. The game itself is all based upon other players, which, unfortunetely, you will have to 
 interact with if you wish to further progress in the game. Of course, like in other MMO's or casual 
 RPG's, after a while you actually might find some intelligent people, whom you quickly add to your 
 friend's list. Unfortunetely, that does not counteract the numerous simpletons running around and 
 doing the choo choo train until you yank the speakers out of the wall.
  
  Other than that, I must say World of Warcraft is actually designed quite well. Down to the immersement 
 you can find yourself in some times, to the customization of your pack, your equipment, and other 
 things of the like, that it's very interesting to play -- if you can stomach the community. Sometimes 
 it is quite fun to just run around in the wilderness and explore, especially on role-playing servers, 
 where you might find a band of players at a camp and a discussion might insue (or, if they're simpletons, 
 just a "go away noob!") . But, unfortunetely, things aren't always so easy. Some of the quests you 
 partake in are quite challenging and the part that irks me the most is that you don't have a clue 
 how hard it is until you've traveled half way across the map, get into a fight, and realize, "Oh, 
 these enemies are about 20 levels too high for me." So why didn't the lady who gave me the quest 
 mention this? Some RPG's or MMO's might put up level restrictions on a quest, or a little bit of 
 info at the bottom that says, "You should only tackle this quest if you are above level x." But 
 World of Warcraft doesn't have that. More than enough times I found myself, like the other newbies 
 around me, taking on this quest, getting beaten to a pulp, running A VERY LONG WAY just to get 
 to my body, revive myself, get a couple of hits in, and die once more. It's not until after the 
 umpteenth time of dying that the other players finally give in to banding together and sharing 
 the exp, mainly because that's the only real way to get through a quest. World of Warcraft doesn't 
 just encourage team play, but it's a requirement. That's actually a great thing, but not when the 
 majority of the community are reclusives who will stab you in the back if they get a chance.
  
  Despite the customizability when it comes to your skills when you level up (which are nearly 
 identical to the Diablo II system) , the customizability of your character in creation and class 
 as well, it still seems dry.
  
  Play Time/Replayability :::: 4/10
  
  It all depends on the player, really. If you can keep on churning the $10 monthly fee to play the 
 game just to usually repeat battles to level up and cope with idiotic players, then this might 
 be just for you. I will say though that it might just be worth it if you actually find some intelligent 
 people who show you the ropes of the game. It's then, and usually only then, that you find out 
 you will be killing many many rats if you ever want to get to the fun and exciting stuff, such 
 as taking in part of huge battles that storm castles or cities. Needless to say, Blizzard designed 
 it exactly like that, so that you would've spent enough money for them to have earned more than 
 a big share of a profit for you to have truely experienced the game and then to say, "Ok, now what?" 
 Knowing that that is the irony and the trap of an MMO, I relinquished my account only after a month. 
 Can it be addictive? Of course it can. Hell, Blizzard made it; take a look at their other games; 
 which one hasn't gone Gold or still doesn't have thousands of people playing it? So, in theory, 
 it all depends on you.
  
  Final Recommendation
  
  If the MMO scene is your thing and killing the same creatures over and over to ascertain a certain 
 level so you can finally be a challenge and partake in the next level of quests, then this game 
 is for you. It requires patience and time, which would be fine if it didn't have a pay to play 
 fee, but it does, so one must keep that in consideration as well. If you're willing to devote about 
 six or seven months into this game to finally getting to be a worth-while opponent and being able 
 to partake in huge battles, then go for it. If you're looking for a casual RPG then I suggest to 
 go back to Diablo II.
  
  Total ::: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  So the game has no bugs, for the most part okay server time and a combat system that works. that's 
 it. Now lets list all the things it's missing:
  1. A non-repetitive combat system ( I swear ot god just hitting buttons one through nine and clicking 
 the mouse button once is the worst idea ever)
  2. Good graphics ( even when it first came out they sucked and to this day they have yet to be 
 revamped at least EVE and Star Wars galaxies tried)
  3. A world you can immerse in ( You read lines of text and kill/ deliver/collect some item and 
 thats it for quests- and don't even get me started on the freaking character models and overall 
 lack of customization)
  4. A storyline that's worth it ( see quests - cause if there was a decent storyline in there I 
 missed it most of it seemed to be like they just put it in at the last second and thought if they 
 used abscure refrences to the real world no one would notice which is what happened unfortunatley)
 
  
  And for htese reasons it just appalls me to no end that ten million people activley play this game. 
 I tried for a few months and just couldn't take the lack of excitment. If I wanted to do somethin 
 g this boring I would pick up lint from behind the dryer everyday- at least that is actually accomplishing 
 something
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying that if you want to have an outside life, don't play World of Warcraft. 
 I have spent over 60 hours questing, grinding, twinking, and any other "ing" verb you can do in 
 World of Warcraft. World of Warcraft takes place years after Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne ends. 
 Both factions have separated and are independently fighting off the last remnants of the Scourge, 
 while still managing to fight each other.
  
  World of Warcraft has beautiful graphics and scenery that is nothing short of breathtaking. The 
 controls are decent for a computer game, and the use of add-ons adds to the experience by letting 
 the player "personalize" their UI to their liking. The characters look great, with the exception 
 of the minor glitches that all MMORPGs contain. Character dialogue is smart, and the differences 
 between the classes makes all the difference when raiding or questing.
  
  All the accolades that have been given to World of Warcraft were in good taste. It is a great game 
 that will "absorb" you almost instantaneously. However, there are some major setbacks. World of 
 Warcraft costs $15 dollars a month. This is 180 dollars per year! Some may say this is worth it, 
 because you are paying for a product that constantly needs to be refurbished and maintained, but 
 if Blizzard really has 8+ million subscribers, we can only assume how much Blizzard is raking in 
 per year. Secondly, I know this is their game, but suspending and banning players because they 
 accessed certain glitches and "old" material in the game is just plain lazy. Nevertheless, World 
 of Warcraft is a great game, but heed my warning, it's addictive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pip0027
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what it is about this game but once you start playing it you just dont wanna stop. 
 Its as if they used black magic on this great game. Truely the game that makes gamers lose there 
 lives. If you start to play this game I give you a fair warning for this is all you will do expect 
 lots of cans and old food wrappers and the gamers beard. This game is the game that well make you 
 never leave your house and leave your job. Its simply that good and very entertaining. Maybe its 
 the diffuctly that just makes you want to become better, or the thousands of quests to do, or maybe 
 its the fact that you just like to beat up other players and make them mad. Blizzard definitly 
 made a golden classic here and i expect it will be around forever. I can see ten years latter this 
 game still around and still kicking. If you have any spare time I would play this game if you have 
 a job and dont have much time to yourself i would recommend waiting to play this game cause like 
 i said before you wont want to stop playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robliander
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about World of Warcraft... I was a diehard Warcraft & Warcraft II fan, but Warcraft 
 III let me down. I was more excited about Diablo II and Starcraft and their possible sequels, and 
 I wasn't keen on the monthly service charge on top of paying for the game. 
  
  I made the jump when I read a blog post that made a good case for signing up for WOW: Blizzard 
 is constantly adding content to the game, the per month charge is less than a trip to the movies 
 these days, and millions of subscribers can't be (that) wrong. 
  
  So I signed up and jumped right in. I'm glad I did, since it's been wonderful time spent. 
  
 
  Starting in the game is extremely easy... Choose a side (horde or alliance) , a race, and a class. 
 The horde has the orcs, trolls, undead, and tauren (who are like huge sentient buffalo) . The alliance 
 is graced with the gnomes, elves, humans, and dwarves. The classes are mage, priest, warrior, rogue, 
 paladin, warlock, hunter, druid, and shaman. Not all races can be all classes, but the application 
 allows you to create as many characters as you like to try all the different combinations. 
  
  You start in a low level zone and are given quests to complete from the various NPCs. The quest 
 are geared to level your character, and you usually gain loot upon completion.
  
  Loot can become something of an obsession, because Blizzard does a really good job of putting variety 
 into the items in both abilities and look. (I've known people to carry around seemingly worthless 
 items just because they look cool.) 
  
  The death penalty in this game is pretty low. If you are killed, you're ghost appears at the closest 
 graveyard. You have run as a ghost back to your corpse and you resurrect when you're close enough. 
 The graveyards are never too far of a run, and you keep your loot (I've heard of other MMOs where 
 people can take your stuff... eghads!) 
  
  As you advance through the game, you'll level up and will be able to go to explore more of the 
 world. You will eventually are able to explore dungeons (known as instances) which forces you to 
 group up with other players of the game to have a good time. 
  
  The "world" in this game is absolutely massive, and there's always people on playing who are willing 
 to play. The coolest aspect of this game is that you can choose to group up with people and tackle 
 the dungeons, or just go through the whole experience alone. There's enough content in this game 
 to solo pretty much all the way through the max level (60 in the base game, 70 in the expansion) . 
 I think this is Blizzard's magic formula: they've put together a MMO that's compelling enough to 
 not require the "multiplayer" for gamers to have fun.
  
  One teensy downside: say goodbye to your free time if you decide to sign up for this game.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Oh WoW. I gave you over 2 years of my life, and I was rewarded with alot of fun.
  
  This game is everything a MMO should be. Easy to get into, easy to stay into, and aside from some 
 patch issues, is streamlined and remains generally problem free.
  
  I meant what I said about being easy to get into. Alot of people who wouldn't be caught dead playing 
 video games before WoW, spend 8 hours of their day playing this one.
  
  The visual appeal plays into that. It gives a sense of lightheartedness that's easily accessible. 
 Content is another. There's never a shortage of things to do. Very few people have actually done 
 them all. Hell, very few people actually complete all the quests in a single town, much less the 
 entire game. There are dungeons galore, which could range from a PUG nightmare to a very rewarding 
 2-3 hours spent exercising well conceived teamwork, and making friends while competing for top 
 spot on damage while you play.
  
  Also, the world itself is large, both physically, and metaphorically. There's alot of places to 
 go in WoW, and all of them are rich with lore. This lore, that has existed since it's conception 
 in the original RTS, to now is very fleshed out, and for the most part, exists and covers every 
 inch of the landscape.
  
  And, with over 7 million people playing, it's a great place for alot of people to socialize, which 
 I feel, is the greatest part of the game, and the reason people keep coming back to it. People 
 make friends here, hell, I've even known people who got married because they met through this game.
 
  
  Blizzard also does a commendable job keeping the content coming, and giving players new stuff to 
 look forward to, and a reason to come back.
  
  If you're looking for a way to spend your free time, WoW is a great social climate for people to 
 spend their time in. If they have alot of time, they can even find it a rewarding one.
  
  I did, and while I don't play anymore, I certainly don't regret the time I spent playing. It was 
 a unique experience, and a highly recommended one at that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megatuga
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Ok I've seen some players reviews and they're major complains, especialy the reviews classified 
 4.0/10 and above.
  
  Some of they're complains...
  
  1 - Story
  
  "WoW has got no story at all, bla bla bla". 
  
  Actually, it has the Warcraft story. With the 
 patches, the story is also advancing. But this game isn't meant to have a story like an offline 
 RPG, if that's what you mean.
  
  2 - Leveling
  
  Leveling is boring and slow, some say. Well, just play if you want to. I've tried MU Online, Knight 
 Online, Runescape, Risk Your Life, With Your Destiny, etc, etc, etc. A dozen of free MMORPGs. THESE 
 ARE BORING. WoW is NOT. Do you expect to reach level 70 in one month? No way! Work for it! There's 
 a huge map where you can explore and find different creatures and quests, so it is not boring. 
 Very funny indeed.
  
  3 - Combat system
  
  Openly criticised. I don't get it, C'MON! Do you prefer a combat system like Oblivion or what? 
 You have millions of skills, weapons, spells. How can you complain about the combat system? It's 
 right-mouse-click and it's done? And what's the problem? 99% of the MMORPGs are done like that. 
 Maybe you were not meant to ever play MMORPGs. If you don't like WoW, you can't like any other 
 MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durhamster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Its any easy to get game with a combat system you can pick up on very quickly. I taught my girlfriend 
 who knows nothing about a computer game, let alone an MMO, how to play WoW. That's because World 
 of Warcraft is not nearly as complicated as most MMOs. You start off with a few spells and work 
 your way up to eventually having around 25-40 spells on your tool bars, (depending on your class.) 
 In many MMOs in order to level up the first few levels you spend your time killing small creatures. 
 In wow you will be killing large  bandits etc. in your first sitting. 
 
  
  That is why I think it is by far the most popular MMO. Some  
 MMO gamers claim its for kiddies. Its not. It's for those who wanna immerse themselves into an 
 MMO with millions of other players from all walks of life, while at the same time keeping their 
 day job, wife, girl friend and dignity. You can play a little bit a week and you will do just fine. 
 I've played the game since it came out. I log on and play for 1-2.5 hours, 2-4 days a week and 
 I have very good gear and I'm still able to compete with those who spend 2-15 times more time in 
 WoW a week then I do. But you dont need to take my word for it, just ask the other 9million other 
 people who play WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammeh06
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft isn't just a game... it's a community. Once you enter the world, it becomes just 
 that! everyone is human in reality yes, but once inside, your a small unknown orc who's trying 
 to make a name for himself, make friends and forge alliances with people to progress.
  
  The main appeal about this game to me, is the end game material. Grouping up with 10 to 25 people 
 to raid dungeons for the rarest of the rare treasures, and the idea of continually improving my 
 character.
  
  I've been playing nearly 3 years now and have a raid specced warrior tank and a 68 mage and I am 
 still loving every single minuet.
  
  If you are new to the idea of World of Warcraft, and haven't got an clue what to expect. I will 
 tell you. You start as a nobody, and you become someone. This may be cliched and very cheesy, but 
 believe me... thats what happens.
  
  For the Horde! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightsaber_
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I must admit I was rather enthusiastic at the beginning, I fancied the idea of MMRPG, and I was 
 happy to learn that there are professions to learn which are more or less class-oriented. 
  There is an enormous number of people who find the game very addictive, may of which have become 
 more or less obsessed with it, but if we are to take a closer look and try to figure out all its 
 hard points which have made it so popular, we come to a very different conclusion.
  It's great to see yourself gain skills, increase in level and become ever stronger and richer, 
 it's what RPGs are all about, and RPG is my favourite type of game. It's also great to see so many 
 people that are as real as you and it's nice to communicate with them or even make friends but 
 if we look and the game itself well, please just take the following things into account:
  1. The game is so repetitive that you basically do the same thing every day, grind, grind and grind 
 some more, kill mobs in the exact same way, and hope that good quality items will be dropped, and 
 that you are the lucky winner in your raid group. Getting and excellent gear and highest quality 
 recipes for your professions takes YEARS and by the time you do so you realise all this effort, 
 huge effort, was in vain, you don't really enjoy all those items.
  2. There are 3 main types of quests: kill x number of people, collect x items, or go talk to some 
 guy so you get another quest in which you must kill or collect. No spoken dialogue, no story, no 
 feeling of "I can't wait what happens next" as good RPGs offer.
  3. Professions that help you build up your apparel are useless in the end as good stuff can't be 
 made, it can only be found in "instances" and at an extremely low drop rate. However, to level 
 up your professions to 375 it takes many months of intense boredom and non-captivating playing.
 
  4. Games usually improve your intellect unless REPETITIVE, which actually narrow your mind as 
 the brain is not challenged in any way, all you need to do is work and work and work some more, 
 do the exact thing over and over with no real strategies involved and no use of imagination.
  There are good quality games which can give gamers a wonderful time and improve their IQ, but enslaved 
 gamers of WoW cannot enjoy that, they are too busy grinding
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikodemus87
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I have allways been amazed at how this gaming marvel that is WoW could have gotten as big as it 
 is now.
  
  Sure, the almighty Blizzard made some of the 90s best games with the Warcraft and Diablo series 
 but could they singlehandedly take over the MMO business without previous knowledge?
  
  According too sales, yes, they practicly "own" the MMO market and yet, too my "gamer" eyes i fail 
 so see why?
  
  Is it the community? The same that finds it funny to jump while the rest of your "raid" are on 
 the way? The same that calls you newb and "l2p" if you dont play as you should?
  The same that plays the same dungeon two times a week, each run wasting 4 hours of hard earned 
 life?
  
  Maybe its the graphics? Sure, it runs on a whole line of machines but is the game pretty? Hardly; 
 Blizzard made the rather weird choice of making the game look like one of the worst gaming letdowns 
 of the 21 century ( Im looking at you Warcraft 3!) so you are nearly running around in a Disney 
 world that as "WAR" in the title.
  Could it be the animations? Your hero has three different attacks "animations" but atleast they 
 look well made.
  
  Can in be the sound? This is easily one of my biggest gripes with this game; the music has two 
 tracks... TWO!?
  Okay, the towns have a "unique" theme too it but that hardly makes up for it; If you make a game 
 about heroes then atleast make the music sound epic instead of "generic outback music"; i get the 
 point, i am in a desolate and unforgiving place but is everyplace desolate?
  
  Hardly it could be the lore and story part of it? Blizzard really tries too make what little story 
 there is good but too anyone who read Tolkien its a sad attempt too put some "weight" on it, nice 
 try but no dice.
  
  Okay so it has too be in the "fun gameplay" part then, only... that department seems too be missing 
 something... what is that word again?
  Ahh yes, fun, thats was missing from this game cause if "fun", in the eyes of the nine million players, 
 is the combat then please broaden your horizon; pushing button 1,2,4,7,1,2,4,7 should hardly give 
 you "fun"
  
  Could it be... no... wait, i run out of things too stab with my "Dagger of wittyness +3"
  IF anyone 
 gets addicted too this then please, sell you PC and stop gaming for if this is a "classic" or "masterwork" 
 game PC gaming is going down the drain, hard and really really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelilb2011
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game IS perfect. Never have I played a game with more features, fun, longevity, addictiveness, 
 or value.
  
  But how is this game the best value, you ask, if it is $15 a month? Read on.
  
  This game has 
 a super short learning curve. It took me about two minutes to get used to the interface (no small 
 feat in a MMOG) . Everything is where you would expect it, and you get to fight beasts within that 
 time frame. I hate games that are slow to start out with, but this game, while paced slower at 
 first compared to later on in the game, shows that you can kill things in less than two minutes 
 from the time you start!
  
  This game is so long, that I have easily invested more than 100 hours playing, and STILL haven't 
 seen it all!
  
  Not only that, but you can find me playing on the Arthas realm as Malinton on a daily basis. I 
 typically play for 2 hours, take a food/potty break, and play some more. Who said it was hard to 
 get your $15 dollars worth of fun a month?
  
  
  As for features, well, even after you are maxed out and done almost everything, there is always 
 more stuff added periodically, so you will never stop playing!
  
  SO what if u got tired of ur charachter: P? Just create a new character and enjoy! It is always 
 fun, and there is never a dull moment.
  
  World of Warcraft IS, in my opinion, THE BEST GAME EVER MADE! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is truely amazing and to really understand the greatness 
 of it, you have to play the whole game. Most people who want to "try" this game end up saying it 
 sucks after a few days of doing the same thing to get to level 20. You have to actually play the 
 game people. I read a lot of people's reviews that said the combat is boring, the characters look 
 like crap, you run too slow. All these are just looked at in anger. In order to enjoy the combat 
 you need to level up. With more levels comes more skills which means more fun. There are so many 
 different ways to customize your character (skill wise) to dominate the enemy. People complaining 
 about the graphics is just dumb, do they even realize how big the game is? It is huge, good graphics 
 means 10% of the people playing now could play with better graphics because of computer limitations. 
 Slow running in this game can be annoying but you get over it. It just gives you more motivation 
 to play on to get a mount which runs a lot faster. 
  All I want to say is give this game a chance if you are thinking about playing it. It is amazing 
 and it does waste lots of time but to great fun. I highly recomend this game to all who have lots 
 of time on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, aka "WoW", is a little above the Apollo program in terms of human achievement. 
 It is a shining example of what perfection truly is. 
  
  Perhaps in some uncivilized corner of our planet there remain some poor people who have never played 
 WoW. If that is the case, then it ought to be a mandate on our government to initiate a program, 
 such as the Peace Corps, of volunteers to travel there with power generators, computers, an internet 
 connection and WoW to give the greatest gift to these poor, impoverished people. 
  
  History will surely be counted not so much in terms of BC or AD, but rather BWoW, and AWoW, for 
 Before WoW, and After WoW. 
  
  This high water mark in human evolution surely signals the only possible direction from which we 
 can now progress -- down, into a new Dark Ages since all possible light from progress has already 
 dawned in it's ultimate manifestation and now we face the inevitable decline of civilization and 
 fall of mankind. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I love RPG's and MMO's. Really love them. I had my eye on World of Warcraft, from a far way 
 off. The day it came out, I bought it and the game guide and bid my friends and family, farewell. 
 
  
  My first few minutes in the game world were surprisingly revolting. Once I adjusted my graphics 
 settings I breathed a sigh of relief, but I was still troubled by how similar all the toons in 
 one class looked to each other. The character creation process, in terms of look and feel, was 
 extremely limited. The toons all looked rather childish too. But my thinking was, this would improve 
 in later levels with different gear and such. -This is what happened in my old favorite MMO UO. 
 As you bought colored dyes, and different armors and weapons, toons began to look less and less 
 alike. 
  
  Then the next strike came. The running speed was amazingly slow. As soon as I had to travel a considerable 
 distance I began to wonder... 1) Were the devs restricted by technical issues, or 2) were they 
 trying to drag the game out ? Either way, it made me feel like I was wasting time. -I told myself 
 "hey mounts will be faster", and soon found out, even mounts seem to be running in slow motion.
 
  
  Another big strike was the lack of option to team with toons of different lvls. I had buddies that 
 took a week off work to lvl up, and we could no longer team. It took a huge amount of value away 
 from the game that might have compelled me to play far longer. 
  
  Another problem I had, was with the monsters in the game. They seemed to be wandering around like 
 broken robots. While this is not uncommon in many games, City of Heroes added behaviors and interactions 
 among mobs that made them feel more legit. To step backwards to monsters staring into space and 
 re-spawning like wildfire (which later the devs adjusted I read) was really unsatisfying.
  
  The final death blow came with the spell list. At first it looked long, but then when I started 
 getting 50-11 versions of Fire Ball, and no very weird or exciting spells (e. g. UO has over 64 
 different spells) , I could go no further. 
  
  Adding all these factors together, Wow never hit my RPG joy button. Crafting and potions were not 
 enough to recover the game from these glaring let downs. Make no mistake, this is not a hater review. 
 I truly wanted to love WoW. But I couldn't. 
  
  Bottom Line: If they ever improve the graphics engine, triple the starting travel speed, add travel 
 powers for lowbies (like fly, super speed, teleport) , triple the spell list and dump repeated spells, 
 I will be back in a flash to give it a 2nd chance. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguy35
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is simply amazing. This really is one of the best MMO RPGs i have ever played. 
 The world is gigantic. I know you have heard this before but you dont really comprehend it untill 
 you are actually in it. There are 10 classes you can choose from, each with thier own versions 
 of ass kickery. Their are two sides Horde and Alliance. If you like cute little gnomes and hot 
 elves your probably going to want to be the Alliance. But if your the kind of person that likes 
 primitive blood thirsty jacked green people then your a Horde kind of guy. Also this is a never 
 ending game ( no wonder people get hopelessly addicted ) . This game is one of the best game syou 
 will ever play gauranteed, and seeing as how the new patch burning crusades has been out you can 
 pick it up for around 30 bucks. Now this is a pay to play game so you will have to fork out around 
 $15 each mouth, or you can buy the pre paid 2 month game card. But dont let this get you down this 
 is just a small price to pay for such a good game. If your still not sure you can go to worldofwarcraft. com 
 and get a 10 day demo.
  
  game on,
  ryguy35 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NetGod
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I went into WoW with an open mind and only expecting the best since it seems to be so popular.
 
  
  First of all, I must say I am used to playing another MMORPG. I'll not name it by name, but (it's 
 one with a Superhero theme) , so i'm sure you can figure it out. Anyway, my superhero MMO hooked 
 me with it's extremely social nature. It is extremely easy to find teams on the more populated 
 servers. So when i checked out Wow, I guess I just expected it to be a very social game. 
  
  ( ( (Crickets chirping now) ) )
  
  OMG! There is no one on the game to team with, and the people 
 that do play will not even consider teaming with you til your like level 30+
  What kind of cr*p is that?
  
  When I play an MMO, I want to 'experience' the massive social 
 dynamics of a vast online community. I want people to reach out to me and pull me into there teams. 
 Wow left me feeling alone in a crowd. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreadpaladin
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  First off, this game was not nearly as fun as I thought it was going to be after I bought it. Dont 
 get me wrong its not like it was utterly boring its just that usually when I get a new game I have 
 the feeling of awe or simply being impressed. I didn't get that feeling with this game, in fact 
 it was kinda just, meh. In fact, I can't think of anything that was particularly exiting about 
 this game, the only reason I still play is because my friends do and its nice to be online with 
 them. Not that it matters game wise because you rarely, and i mean RARELY, group up with other 
 people before lvl 55. The first time I played, which was about a year ago, it was only for about 
 2.5 months at that point I had become so bored of the incredibly boring, repetitive, uninspired, 
 kill X of Y and go talk to this guy quests, I found myself just logging on realizing that I didn't 
 want to play anymore, then realize I had already payed for that month, just run around in circles 
 and jump around, then just log off because I couldn't take it anymore. Fulfillingly satisfying 
 isn't it?
  
  I started playing again recently because more of my friends got the game after Burning Crusade 
 was released and I gave in to peer pressure figuring that the expansion might have changed somethings. 
 I have to admit, it is a little boring and repetative still, but having your friends online with 
 you compensates for the lack of entertainment the game provides. We're it not for them, I would 
 have just bought Vanguard or waited for Age of Conan to come out. (I would rather play a game thats 
 buggy and satisfying than a game thats stable but repetitive and kinda boring) .
  
  This is in part due to the fact that WoW doesn't actually bring anything new to the MMO table aside 
 from instanced dungeons and raids, which is nearly enough because you dont find yourself using 
 them all to often, and its focus on soloing. Atleast games like Vanguard and EQ2 offered player 
 housing, mounted combat, etc. but not WoW. In fact even Star Wars Galaxies had player housing, 
 but not WoW. As far as soloing goes, in WoW its pretty much all you'll be doing for a long, long 
 time. So if you dont like soloing you'd better start looking at a different game because you will 
 hate WoW. Soloing, though, is actually the sole reason why WoW has 9 million sum odd players, because 
 you dont have to play the game constantly so it fits in to whatever busy schedule you have and 
 I give it credit for that. The thing is that, and this is my own personal opinion not an observation, 
 solo is kinda self defeating in an MMO, you buy an MMO to play online with other people or you 
 would just play a single player RPG, which doesn't make you pay monthly, but thats just what I 
 think.
  
  WoW is also the first game, I think, that doesn't allow the player to be a clearly defined good 
 or evil. Non of the horde races are actually evil, you would think so, but no. The orcs are kinda 
 like Samuri, the Tauren are Native americans, the Trolls are just looking for a home, the Undead 
 are just trying to create a place in the world for themselves, and the Blood Elves are just looking 
 for someone who will love them. Not really anything evil in that list. The thing is sometimes its 
 good to be bad, you dont get anything in WoW that is evil and with no defined good and evil you 
 dont have a sense of meaning in the conflict between the Horde and the Alliance. Not even Warlocks 
 (the WoW version of the necromancer, I don't know why they called it that instead of just necromancer, 
 especially because a warlock is a male witch which is kinda wierd if you play as a female) are 
 that evil because Humans and Gnomes can play as them aswell for some odd reason and it doesnt affect 
 your reputation with any alliance faction.
  
  The biggest problem is that the game is aimed at kids and people who have never played any other 
 MMO before, just look at the cartoonish graphics, the actual people who play the game, and the 
 fact that everything is not only easy but is getting easier. WoW is becoming more and more nothing 
 but instant gratification as with each patch, mobs get weaker, better items drop off of mobs more, 
 you gain more experience from killing things and quests. I'm not even going to talk about the self 
 absorbed brats that play this game, by the way if your a self absorbed brat then play WoW so that 
 you dont corrupt the games that are actually good out there, aside from the lvl 50+ jerks that 
 go around killing low level people because they can and its easy on pvp servers and the Hunters 
 that use snake trap to do the same on non-pvp servers.
  
  All in all, if your looking for an enjoyable playing experience you should probably turn to some 
 other game because WoW will leave you dissapointed. All though I must say that the William Shatner, 
 Vern Schnyder, and Mr. T commercials are slightly amusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invis444
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  A remarkable game for people with no life, i mean you have got to be a big fat ass in order to 
 master the game. having said that, now lets get back to the game which i think is great, though 
 the graphic isn't the best but the gameplay kicks ass big time.
  
  If you'd like to get a better perspective of the game you could check out the big hit tv show "South 
 Park" s10 e08!! there you could find out how to be a game master in WOW, plus there's a big sacred 
 sword in the game which will be reveald for the very first time!
  
  On top of what i've said, I would like to thank everyone who made sucha bull crap game which made 
 me waste all ma life. imagine what could i have done instead of playing this dumbsheeeit.
  
  And God said to ibraham to sacrifice Isac
  Ibraham said could you speak more clearly, i cant 
 hear you from this crapy microphone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odersven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Blizzard's MMORPG experience built around ease of use, and customer pleasing. A good, and a bad 
 thing.
  
  First off, I want to say that the game's functionality is wonderful. I played Everquest for 3-4 
 years and I understand frustration better than the newer/average MMO player. The ingame quest management 
 system is great (only to be outdone by Warhammer Online's forthcoming release) . Skill/Spells/Abilities 
 are adapted well from the WC games. On the base parts of the mechanics, its well done and a standard 
 for other MMOs to match. UI Customization isnt limited to just changing the look of the interface, 
 users are free to make their own mods that enable extended functionality - absolutely great, and 
 something I hope that becomes common practice in MMOs. Net code is awesome. Graphics look really 
 nice without being too high poly. Performance is great. Grouping/Raid system is well done - 40 
 man cap feels right, 25 too. 
  
  But functionality and difficulty are two different things. WoW is an MMO on easy mode. Compare 
 it to Everquest's difficulty (as I am going to do a lot - *wink*) , and WoW is a chatroom. No exp 
 loss, no corpse runs, no long runs, no 16 hour camps, no epic quests, no meming spells, no spell 
 mem limit, no mobs that follow you no matter how far away you are, no trains, no AAs, no class/race/religion 
 specific items, no item loss on skill crafting attempts, no high chance to fizzle spells, only 
 a few world spawn bosses, no exp loss revives, don't think there are death touches. Its so different 
 on the difficulty plane its ridiculous. 
  
  I believe the ease of WoW is due to a problem that has plague the game since its conception - it 
 was made to be popular and thus, easy. It would be hard to convince over 9 million people to play 
 the game as much as they do if the game was much harder than it is. Leveling is easy, very easy. 
 Quests are short. You respawn from death with your armor, items, experience. Death in WoW is just 
 an accidental instant hearthstone click with rez effects. Mana is like air, mana regen is insane, 
 mana potions exist. Downtime doesn't. Raid encounters are scripted wonderfully, but are still too 
 easy. Though, I will say the Illidan fight looks very hard/complex - but thats because it had to 
 be so "epic" as the last fight of the expansion - a fight that players managed to get to very, 
 very fast. But the game stands too easy. And I am surprised that hardcore MMO players play the 
 game with the ease it has. I honestly believe that the main thing slowing down hardcore MMO players 
 in WoW is first-time MMO players. They are the thing that causes wipes in WoW, not mobs. 
  
  Blizzard gives into whines from players far too often. They are the ones that designed the 
 mechanics and they let the players alter them by giving in too often. If you can get 150 people 
 to complain about a single class being underpowered on the forum, they will buff the class. Which 
 causes others to do the same thing, saying that the newly buffed class is too powerful and needs 
 a nerf, so that class either gets buffed or the original gets unbuffed. Varent (Everquest's original 
 developer, later it was Sony (ew) ) didn't care about what you cried for because it was their game, 
 they were the DM. They were cold and silent, but fair. Giving in subtracts from developer/creative 
 vision, and will end up folding in on the game.
  
  The End-Game is short handed. You spend your time at tradeskills making novelty items in engineering, 
 or you make potions for raids. Then, it comes to the point that you are past content (nearly 1000 
 guilds have killed Illidan) and you have the top mobs on farm status, the game slows down and you 
 quit, or PVP, or play an alt. And if you aren't a complete PVE player, you PVP in world/BG/Arena 
 - which is nice, but the content on the PVP side is really, really limited. Lots of dev room in 
 PVP for different PVP game types (soccer type game comes to mind, along with general FPS scenarios 
 like bomb planting/disarming -adapted for WoW of course) , quests, and not to mention that they 
 could add 2 warring areas/zones that could be a capture the fort scenario for players (world tower 
 control is stupid and pointless as a PVP "draw" for players) . Armor for PVP is a great idea. Needs 
 more variations though. Which is also a hit against tier and season type armors... should have multiple 
 types in each tier/season - so players can create mixed sets based around their playing style in 
 PVP or just go for the regular set bonuses. I dont think PVP should be an actual end game type 
 of player goal like PVE raiding, but I do know personally skilled PVP players that almost only 
 PVP and hardly ever do raids on PVE servers. 
  
  Classes are not properly distributed to each faction. Before The Burning Crusade only 2 races on 
 the Horde could be Priest classes and 3 on the Alliance. This might seem unimportant, but the fact 
 that there are three racial traits to pick from instead of two skews the game's play balance on 
 raids and pvp because there is one more racial trait bonus to add to an encounter of Alliance characters 
 Priests. This then changed to 4 to 3 - same argument stands. Not to mention that the Alliance faction 
 had a hybrid healer with Paladins (Pre-TBC) . Its ridiculous to have a hybrid that can specialize 
 AS another class. I understand that the idea is to make it so the healing distribution isnt completely 
 destroyed when one cloth wearing priest dies (even when dwarf priests have stone form... sigh) , 
 but a better solution would have been to just copy Everquest and have Priests wear Plate, or just 
 have undead be paladins from the start. Blizzard made users wait a WHOLE expansion to at least 
 ADD one (one (one) ) Paladin class (basically, requiring a new race) to the Horde side - along with 
 adding another to the Alliance side (3 Alliance Paladin racials, vs 1 Horde Paladin racial - stupid) . 
 An argument against this is the shaman class, that was previously only available to the horde side, 
 which is neither a tank nor a specialized healer (aka better than a holy paladin) , nor is it a 
 efficient DPS caster (huge mana pool draw on offense spells) . So that argument fails. (Side-note-Shamans 
 seem extremely lacking. In Everquest they were one of the most diverse classes and a great shaman 
 would be able to do things no other class could in game. Its upsetting to think that the WoW version 
 is so lacking, unpopular, undeveloped.) 
  
  To add to the unbalancing act, Blizzard is adding Death Knights into the game, two releases too 
 late. They made an offtank DPS/healer with plate armor that was in the game from the first release 
 and now want to finally balance class equivocation with an offtank/DPS/DPS Caster plate wearer. 
 What a huge, huge, HUGE mistake this was to not do it before. Pvp/Arena/BGs have been so unbalanced 
 because of paladins - and as a result, too many classes have been altered in an attempt to balance 
 class abilities, INSTEAD of just balancing racial classes. And once the Death Knight is released, 
 I can guarantee there will be adjustment after adjustment trying to rebalance the game, not just 
 because of the Death Knight, but because each base class has been so altered to make up for Paladins 
 not having an opposition in classes. 
  
  To add more onto the complaint list for classes there are only 3 archetypes. Tank, Healer, DPS (caster 
 and melee) . Which means the abilities of the common fourth archetype (jack'o trades/ sometimes crowd 
 control) have to be distributed to the existing classes, retracting from the original role of the 
 class - and adding another task for players to be weary about while trying to do the task they 
 were designed for. 
  
  There are nine classes. That means one is unbalanced (and its Paladins, just stating it again) . 
 There should be more classes. Like 12. No, I don't know what they should be - but more classes 
 is more variability to game experience/utility. 
  
  The factions (Horde vs Alliance) is meaningless. That's because the game/lore shows both sides 
 as being naturally good, that exterior forces are the actual evil, and that its just a misunderstanding 
 that they hate each other. Which is annoying because you would think that naturally good races/factions 
 would be able to diplomatically resolve their problems and work toward a common goal- but no, its 
 always some stupid "But we're the Horde, they are the Alliance" crap. And even if a common goal 
 is ever realized in game by both factions, it wouldn't change the fact that "We're the Horde, they 
 are the Alliance." Pointless. The games suppose to be a real RPG, but you cant make character decisions 
 that let you meddle on the two base factions. Its in stone. Meaning if you were an alliance character 
 and were to give roses to each horde NPC/character, they would still hate you. Subtracts it from 
 being a real RPG type MMO. 
  
  And there are no evil classes/races in the game. WHY!?! You can be an Undead Warlock, but you're 
 still a Horde character - which isnt evil/bad/mean/cruel - its just a undead guy that can eat a 
 corpse... not evil enough. An evil Undead is the Scourge, and guess what? You can't play them. In 
 Everquest (going to compare WoW to EQ until you don't care... EQ was the proving grounds, WoW has 
 to answer to it) you could be a Dark Elf Necromancer, which meant you ate a baby for breakfast 
 each day and players knew it was a dark/menacing class. They are adding Dark Knights? Its still 
 going to be on one of the arbitrary faction of Horde or Alliance - so you get to be the "nice" 
 Death Knight. No evil alignment, no real player factions (since there is no playable duality - 
 its all good :/ ) .
  
  You can't pick religions in WoW. Blizzard missed on this I think. So much room for faction stuff 
 that might have been able to make up for the meaningless default factions. Again, no religion picking 
 subtracts from the RPG characteristic of the game. Makes it more like an adventure game. 
  
  Going to stop here. I had more, but I've made my point I think. Not to mention that the low 
 number of views of this write up is going to merit me writing more/sleeping less :)
  
  thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaldan85
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Huge, beautiful, seamless world High streamlined and conducive to short or long play sessions Exciting, 
 action-packed combat Elegant, easy-to-use interface Excellent music and sound. .. eerrrmm...... 
 No
  
  I played world of warcraft and to be honest its over rated. lets start with the graphics, coulda 
 done alot better with the graphics, and the pixel is awful, you wonder off in the wow world and 
 the graphics are just childish like they were drawn by a 5 year old. i mean you go to a tree its 
 like cut out paper, or then again even worse. 
  
  the game play sucks too, it even has bad when playing the game sometimes. oh sorry, most of the 
 time, it gets boreing very quick, i dont get why people play it for hours and some are even sad 
 enough to play it to death, seriously, theres nothing good about it and the add on packs that keep 
 coming out, just make it even worse. and now your probly going to argue with me saying yea what 
 ever this game is l33t etc, well guess what, open your eyes , its not, i mean for god sake, Guild 
 wars has better graphics and play then world of warcraft., so does fantasy online, or final fantasy 
 online, or even EverQuest 2. now i bet people arte going to argue with me saying theres nothing 
 wrong with the graphics or the graphics does not matter, pac-man is better then world of war craft, 
 and thats saying somthing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Online role playing. It is a genre already very heavily saturated with mediocre games that try 
 to be fun, and fail. But this game, World Of Warcraft is different. It has perfected rolepaying 
 and several other genres.
  
  World Of Warcraft offers you so many possibilities that it is actually quite mind numbing the first 
 time around. (In a good way) . Wether you want to be a mage, and hurl blasts of fire and ice, or 
 be a powerful melee warrior, World Of Warcraft has something just for you. You will also have to 
 choose a race, which adds more depth as each race has distinct abilities.
  
  Also the world is massive. very massive. and each separate part of this world is distinct and yet 
 Blizzard has managed to make all these different lands flow together seamlessly. Each different 
 part of the world also is home its own variety of creatures and monsters that may choose to kill.
 
  
  The game also features a rest system that makes the game fair to those who cannot play for long 
 periods. It works in the sense that if you log off in an Inn, the next time you log in you will 
 recieve a temporary boost to experience. This feature makes the game fair to those who play 10 
 hours a day or 10 minutes a day.
  
  This game is a definite must buy for anyone who enjoys gaming even remotely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  "This game SUCKS" thats what happens to me with almost every new game i buy in a couple of days 
 when i start to see it's flaws. Every game I buy only keeps me playing for maybe 3-4 days and nothing 
 more. The legendary games that have kept my intrest are Starcraft, Fallout 2, Warcraft 3 and now 
 I can add WoW to that list.
  
  Most mmorpgs want you to grind and grind and grind making it seem better, key word there is SEEM. 
 Well World of Warcraft takes away that whole sentence out of your mouth, you don't have to grind! 
 Quests are the major part of the game and this is what your leveling for the most part consists 
 of. They all follow the simple basics of mmorpg questing but sometimes they put them together. 
 In order to get item A from the house, I need to kill monsters guarding it to get inside, making 
 delivery quests a little harder to do. You can also grind if that is what you want to do, this 
 game gives you the option to do both.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for 2005 and aren't bad in 2008. Taking the engine from Warcraft 3 
 and using it to create World of Warcraft is for us fans amazing and appealing to all those whom 
 this is the first taste of Warcraft. Using this engine makes this game able to run a lot of hardware, 
 so you don't have to buy the newest Graphics card or anything like that.
  
  The sound is breathtaking, well it is in every Blizzard game! The music isn't anything that will 
 make you remember it for weeks and weeks to come but it fits with the part of the game you are 
 on, and that's becoming a lost art in games. The sound effects are pretty solid in terms of other 
 games which either doesn't give you sound or a sword slash sounds like a gun shot.
  
  For me the best part of the game are the instances and the raids. This is when you get a group 
 of people and you go to instances to kill bosses and so on to get better equipment and to get exp 
 easier.
  
  Overall this game is a great game that will keep you interested for a LONG time. 3 weeks and kicking! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  just like many people would say when u first start playing the game its highly addictive and a 
 whole lot of fun for all.... however what i noticed was ALOT of the quests are the very same... gather 
 10 of these and 10 of these... which isnt so bad but if it takes u 8 hours to kill the same creature 
 over and over again it totally destroyed the playing experience for me especially knowing that 
 not only did i spend alot buying the game and expansions but i'm also paying a monthly fee to be 
 bored and frustrated.... i was also surprised there isnt any cut scenes or anything like that to 
 make u feel like your really in the game... .the graphics are good but not great which at times 
 killed it for me as well.. slightly cartoonish at times... i do however recommend the game.. play 
 the demo first see if u like it and if the quests seem to drag and the action isnt that great dont 
 expect the game to get any better when u buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Waste of time. "The game is great, but it's too addicting + you have to pay a monthly payment. 
 Huge waste of life !!!" It had taken me 6 months and grade level a c to stop playing. Bit of advice 
 quit while you're ahead. The game is great and getting its bonus disc, only has its downfall. Only 
 good thing is two new characters and new worlds, level up to 70. It's not a game to recommend, 
 either than that the graphics are a bit weird. Sometimes the floor moves, when you're standing. 
 If the creators of WOC, Blizzard, would to make their games in High definition gaming then I'm 
 sure putting the 15 dollars monthly to play this game. Till then the game isn't that great to play 
 even though the new game for it expansion is coming out. Those people who would buy it on the spot 
 because of its name will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I am not usually a fan of MMORPGs, and unfortunately this game is no exception. I think the thing 
 that hit me the most was the tediousness of the beginning of the game. There is a lot of just running 
 back and forth and not really knowing where you are going. That may not be very different from 
 many other games, but it still got to me a bit.
  
  Anyways, just because I didn't get into it does not mean that I am going to give it a poor review. 
 The game has plenty of features to encapture many casual and hardcore gamers. The early missions 
 are ones that can be finished fairly easily and therefore deliver some quick sense of accomplishment. 
 The graphics are fairly good considering how immense the game is. The control scheme is fairly 
 intuitive, but I did get messed up with shopping and equipping items initially because the help 
 boxes didn't really help me.
  
  I know from talking to others who are addicted to the game that there is much much more to explore 
 in the game than I can experience in only 10 hours, so I know that it is an intensely enriching 
 game. On a personal note, I would give the game an 8 because it just did not get me engaged with 
 the gameplay. On a more neutral point, I have to give this a 9 because it clearly has been entertaining 
 other gamers for a couple of years now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivey_98
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  A Very good game from blizzard entertainment that makes all people use the skills of a warrior 
 and other skills such as farming, hunting etc. the Character skins are very sick, the spells are 
 awesome, armor is slickk & the quests are challenging. it's a good game and i rate it 10/10 because 
 of its performance, graphics (which are AMAZING) and response team. Blizzard has made a Great game 
 and people all over the world have said it. if you haven't tried it and say it looks stupid, TRY 
 IT before you judge it. another thing, the teleport system is ALOT better then the runescape's 
 teleport system because it makes it more challenging to get around. enough said. Good-Job Blizzard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The game kept me occupied for 2.5 years, but of that time spent, I reckon a good 6 months was spent 
 idling in IF waiting for something to happen. Raids require too many people and organisation, and 
 the gear from easily assembled 5 man groups ultimately isn't worth the hassle. Don't get me started 
 on the woefully imbalanced and gear-dependent PvP aspects. Still, as glorified chat programs go, 
 it was mostly a fun and engaging experience.
  I quit for good 3 weeks ago, and while I miss the banter in guild chat, I don't much miss the game.
 
  I think much of my current antipathy stems from the removal of any kind of enjoyment from raids. 
 Pre-BC some raiding zones (such as Zul-Gurub) were easy enough to play while drunk, and when there's 
 20 of you all on TS and having a laugh, without having to concentrate 100% it made everything so 
 much more inviting. With the advent of the 10-man Karazhan and its fairly unforgiving nature, requiring 
 total concentration at all times by all 10 people, the whole fun thing died off - shortly followed 
 by my desire to continue. I stuck with it for a year out of habit as much as anything, but yea, 
 its over /crymorenoob
  Oh, and the sheer unpleasantness and meanness of spirit of much of the player community won't be 
 missed either. But that's people for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTS_Pwnerer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  What I love most about open-ended RPGs is FREE CHOICE! With the great variety of activities available 
 in WoW, if this game seems boring or repetitive to you you have only one person to blame - YOURSELF! 
 Bored with grinding mobs? DO SOMETHING ELSE NOOB. (This is also known as LESS QQ MORE PEW PEW) . 
 
  
  Heres an example of the things you can do if you get bored with grinding:
  
  Develop your profession - get skill points or make some money.
  Browse the Auction House for 
 good deals or epic lewtz.
  BATTLEGROUNDS!
  Start a new character (try diff race/class)
  Respec! This is fun because each talent spec dramatically changes gameplay and combat.
  World 
 PvP, raiding, getting onto a roof in a small enemy town and killing lowbies.
  Duel someone.
  Buy a fun outfit and run around a main city.
  Go help your friends quest or 
 run a friend through an instance.
  Hang out in a main city and chat or interact with other characters.
  Befriend an enemy character.
 
  Join a guild or start a guild.
  Dance with, slap, or kiss other players. 
  Hit on a Blood Elf babe.
  Go fishing.
  
  The game doesn't have to be boring unless you make 
 it that way by grinding alone for 3 weeks straight.
  
  Be sure to pay attention to your TALENTS, the AUCTION HOUSE, and BATTLEGROUNDS. And most importantly 
 make it a point to INTERACT WITH OTHER HUMAN BEINGS WHILE PLAYING! Especially if they're RL friends! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cunhero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  WOW is a very good game in many aspects. The game world is HUGE, what in some part is good but 
 in others sucks, because you will need to spend like 30 minutes to get in some places. In the beggining 
 of the game it is so fun, you dont know nothing yet, but as soon as you get level 40 the game starts 
 to get repetitive, is all the same, quest, instance, quest, instance, Stormwind, Auction house, 
 quest. And you get very addicted to the game, you starts not playing it more for fun, but for a 
 obligation, some people like getting addicted, but some dont. Ah, I was just forgeting, the worst 
 thing of the game is that you have to pay for month to play it.
  But all this is just the bad part, actually the game is very good, you will get a GREAT variety 
 of items, and a GREAT number of people playing. The game controls are very easy, and if you dont 
 like them, you can get mods online to help you out. The game sounds are great, especially for the 
 old Warcraft players like me who played Warcraft I, II and III, these players will get a more confortable 
 experience, when talking about sound. The game has a MOUNT system too, you can get a mount to travel 
 faster, you can buy a big cat, a horse, a gryphon, and you can get even a Phoenix, this is the 
 funniest e coolest aspect in the game.
  
  WOW is a great game in all aspects but it misses in some parts. The game is great for MMO lovers, 
 but for people who likes sitting in the PC to play for a little time, im sorry this is not your 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  My view on this game is very biased as my one year stint in wow way back when was not a pleasant 
 one at all. The game itself is fine and actually quite recommendable and although I dont know how 
 it is now I can only guess it's better then it was when I played. I dont really care about that 
 now though because in an MMO there is a lot of other things of greater importance that were highly 
 lacking.
  
  Oh ya this game does have millions of players. That is no lie. When I played (probably still true 
 too) 95% of the players didnt know how to play cus they were to young to understand strategy, not 
 wasting other people's time, the concept of accomplishing something on my off time, etc etc. To 
 them if you get mad because they wipe your group yer an idiot. They kind of miss the point, though, 
 and it's quite common for misunderstandings to occur in the WoW gaming community because so many 
 of them have not reached maturity yet.
  
  Everything from immaturity to actual funny banter is present all over the Warcraft world and generally 
 the best places to not really have to see the stupidity is in higher level areas. Although that 
 was a long time ago so I dont know what it's like now. I suspect this is majorly true still even 
 today and you really just have to know how to ignore people cus arguing with someone online is 
 stupid and resolves nothing.
  
  Anyway, that actually isnt the worst problem in this game. Lots of kids play games in general, 
 as well as MMOs, and I have no problem with that. They are only slightly annoying, but even more 
 annoying is the help that the CSRs give you is incredibly retarded. I got hacked after a BWL raid 
 that I logged after (to eat) . I contact them to resolve it and have to wait like 6-8 hours for 
 a response which means I have to sit in game and do nothing for 8 terrible hours. I shouldve gotten 
 paid for this. Anyway, it was nice that I was a waste of the CSRs time but I personally think my 
 account being hacked is a pretty damn good reason to respond to a ticket ASAP. Biggest problem 
 with this was that I had to stay up all night then do school stuff that day with no sleep. Kinda 
 sucked, couldve been handled better.
  
  Other then that, Blizzard seems to love hackers. All they're games I have ever played they have 
 em (only MMO I know where they arent cracking down on em, or so it would seem) . Everything from 
 teleport hacks, allowing the gain of more money, as well as the huge problem they have with accounts 
 getting hacked. It's pretty rediculous and I dont think I could involve myself with it. Thats why 
 I quit and only wish things didnt turn out like that, I was actually having fun in the game before 
 all that hacker stuff happened.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nithl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  well my title sums up what i think about this game, it has amazing everything, except for the monthly 
 prices, its to expensive for the game, yeah its a great game, but its not worth the 15$ a month, 
 i playe for about three months and noticed that i havent gotten any games or done anything else 
 with my money and i was broke, so unless you have enough money for this (which obviously i dont) 
 i would not recommend this game, unless you get the cards and buy a month here and there when you 
 are board (which i do now) the other thing is I HATE LVL CAPS, i just do, lvl caps are my worst 
 enemy, they dont allow for you to get better, once you hit lvl 60 you just get elite clothing (lvl 
 60 clothing) get a few good wepons and kill stuff/people, i find no pleasure in that, so although 
 this game is basically perfect, it has some problems (which happen to bug the crap out of me) so 
 if you dont mind the prices and the lvl caps then this is the online game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I decided to get this game a wile back, alot of my mates played so i figured "Why not give it a 
 try?" i decide a ten day trial wasnt enough so i brought them game ($30) , a 60 day game card ($52) 
 and the expansion ($60) . The worst $142 i ever spent.
  
  It started off fun i was thinking "This is cool, a whole place to explore and i can see some of 
 my favorite places from Warcrat 3 (a great game by the way) ."
  
  Then it became stale, the game place became the same, you just sat back and watched a character 
 attack some stupid look thing, it dies, you looted it for stuff wile people spammed you with stuffed 
 to do with Chuck Norris and Murlocs (it started out funny but very quickly became a pain) .
  
  I got bored of the realm i was on so i tried a PvP realm, i though because Territory was called 
 Contested there was actual contest for it, like you could take it from the enemy side, i was wrong, 
 its just a fancy way of saying "If you see a group of Allies or Horde comeing towards you RUN!"
 
  
  Now let me get into the technical side, the graphics are absolulty terrible, i cant believe i payed 
 to look at some poor quality, poorly animated character fight enemies that were just as bad. The 
 sounds were terrible, if some big demons hits you you wouldnt go "grr" like the Orcs do, unless 
 you were tripped out on Panadol or asprin, so i guess that means all WoW characters (not the players, 
 just to clear that up) are druggies. 
  
  All in all, this game is pretty poor my my standerds, thats my opinion, you may have your own and 
 i have no problem with that. Sure you can do almost anything you want, but thats if you can be 
 bothered paying for it, and i cant, i'd rather be useing my cash to by new, action / blood filled 
 games. (authors note: the prices mentioned in this reveiw are correct on Monday the 31st of December 
 2007 (happy new year :P) and are in Australian dollar)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate7004
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  WORTH READING BEFORE BUYING
  
  This is my first online multi-player RPG i thought at first it was jus alot of hype until i finally 
 got it, im not easily swayed when it comes to games but this game is so fun, when you start off 
 its a bit rubbish cos you dont have many abilities until you start earning money and doing quests.
 
  but this game is good because of the interaction you get with other players its an all around 
 fun game and quite cheap.
  i suggest you get the 10 day trial off thier site but its a 4GB download
  and if u like it then 
 subscribe.
  
  
  ---------------------------------------
  
  Update this review....
  
  
  After playing this game for a while if you are like me and dont like repeating gameplay 
 then this is not for you...
  
  The game is fun when playing with a friend that you make online or you actually know, after raising 
 40 or 50 levels you will start to notice the quests start repeating themselves but they just get 
 longer and sometimes more boring.... as you level the more xp you obviously need... but it just gets 
 silly...
  the quests usually involve killing various types of monsters to get the items thats fun the first 
 few times you do it but as the percentage goes down from like 50% to like 0.25% it gets very long...
 
  
  I did recommend this as a new comer to it but after playing i would say stick to what you know.... CONSOLE 
 GAMING IS THE WAY FORWARD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  You start WoW.
  First, you have to pay every month to play. 
  Then, you create your character, choosing is side ( alliance - horde ) then you choose your race 
 and your class. Dont mind the appearance, as WoW is not the best game in graphics, its like a cartoon 
 but very shaped.
  In WoW, you have 70 levels to achieve, simply accomplishing quests, killing monsters, forming groups 
 with other people ( World of Warcraft is a MMORPG with 8 million ppl playing it now ) , etc...
 
  Simple. Except, theres alot of contrast with the levels. If your level 32, against a level 20, 
 baah, you own him. But against a level 35, you gotta be skilled.
  WoW also depends alot on gear and class. Theres a better class for each type of monster. Alot of 
 people discuss that rogues are the best in every way. 
  They're right. I hate Rogues.
  
  So, if you want to play WoW, fine, get your money and become addicted to it, or maybe just hate 
 it and dont play it.
  In my experience playing WoW, i started September 2005, played there until February 2007. I was 
 addicted, got bad grades, then became bored, as i was a pure switcher, i never got any of my thousands 
 of characters to level 70.
  World of Warcraft was good, but it isnt now, with all the changes that dont really change anything.
 
  
  PS: It may look cheap on the market, but you pay every month. I payed over 299 $ in total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft with over 8.5 million subscribers is one of the biggest MMO's out there. Why 
 it is this big, well you'll find out.
  
  World of Warcraft is probably one of the most addicting MMO's I have ever played. While you are 
 leveling, you're always waiting to get to the next level to get that talent point, equip that new 
 gear, or get those new skills. When you're at max level, you're always after new gear, raiding 
 spots and PVP. This game can keep you busy, no doubt.
  
  The latest expansion packs have made everything before it useless, so once you hit 60, buy BC, 
 do a couple quests, you have better gear then you could get in Molten Core.
  
  Although this game has gotten a lot of attention, and Blizzard is a well respected company (who 
 is making A LOT of money now...) I would recommend you monitor your time on this game. It isn't 
 worth sitting on forever, because this is one long-ass time consuming game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiuju
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  well i bought the game back when it came out then delete it from my computer cause was fed up.. then 
 the expansion came out burning crusade.. went back and bought the game again.. wrong move.. why? here 
 why:; JESUS ITS TO LONG TO LEVEL IT UP!! i mean hit the monster.. get a little experience.. go back 
 and do the same thing.. i mean if your a no life person with no work or life well this is your game 
 .. i rather wait to buy age of conan more mature and thinking of buying lord of the ring online... too 
 much hype this game got.. if your a teenager under 11 !!
  
  i mean all you ever do is same thing over and over and over and 
 
  
  
  
  
  i dont see myself spending 24 hres non stop just to get that next level up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlygamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The controls for the game are quite simple and take about 10 minutes to learn. Really, the controls 
 are a little too basic in my opinion. But the game still plays well which is good.
  The graphics at the default settings are pretty bland but after bumping up the quality to the maximum 
 settings it looked better though some things still looked low-quality. 
  The character customization is at the beginning quite limiting but there are some good customization 
 options. You can change what style face, skin color and hair you have. You can also pick from the 
 Horde and the Alliance (each side has 5 differrent races to choose from) and you can choose a "profession" 
 for each race (such as Hunter, Druid, Paladin, etc) . In addition to these options, the equipment 
 you get in the game will change your character's appearence which is a nice addition to the customization.
 
  
  As for story, there isnt one. You travel the land taking on quests from NPCs to level up and get 
 cool weapons and items. You can also take part in PvP battles but the PvP was a little lacking.
 
  
  Overall, the game is a good FORP (Fantasy Online RPG) but not incredibly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehearted
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  It would be utterly nonsensical to even attempt to cover the scope of what this game offers, so 
 I'll do my best to keep it short and to the point.
  
  As a game, World of Warcraft colloquially called WoW, is a paint by numbers experience that can 
 and will vary greatly with every player. Depending on the people you know, the faction you choose 
 (Horde or Alliance) , the server or "Realm" you choose, and your expectations, this can be a game 
 or a chore.
  
  Quests are mostly kill or gather "A" and return to "B" who will then tell you to go someplace to 
 talk to another person to perform what is essentially the same task with a minuscule variation. 
 You will repeat these task constantly, which can take an inordinate amount of time, and can do 
 so with friends or alone. The lone players or "soloers" as they're called have it harder than the 
 group players, wherein the group players are often experienced, imbalanced by their levels (a lower 
 level player being in an group with a higher level player escorting them is common) , and they tend 
 to find greater rewards such as better gear much more often and a whole lot faster. The upside 
 of playing alone is that you can avoid undesirables that you will assuredly encounter as you play.
 
  
  This brings me to the social aspect of WoW, and it is a totally social game, like it or not. The 
 WoW community is older and well established by online game standards. There are all manner of people 
 behaving in all manner of ways. In my time I've met families, children, teens, adults, married 
 couples, pretty much any caliber of human being you might expect to meet walking down a busy sidewalk. 
 Online though, people are often selfish, harshly critical, and downright nasty, and Blizzard, the 
 folk behind the game itself, can and will do little to police these players. Expect racism, slander, 
 profanity (which can be filtered) , any sort of bad online behavior possible. Since no one is personally 
 accountable here, no one has to worry about what they say or do, and they will say and do things 
 you can and at times probably never have imagined. It is the peril of a game of this type, and 
 should be expected by anyone that chooses to take it up.
  
  A lot of the game really boils down to socializing with others, and "grinding", which is essentially 
 nothing more than hard work for skimpy virtual rewards that may or may not help you as you play. 
 Want armor to offer a whole 2% more defense for your character, be prepared to spend four or more 
 hours grinding away to get it. Grouping up can get things done faster, but there's always the chance 
 they will want it as well, or worst yet they will "ninja" (steal) it.
  
  Not a lot of story. Lots of broken lore can be read in the form of "gossip" windows, which look 
 like a piece of old parchment upon which quest information or tidbits of story are conveyed through 
 non-player characters. There are some varieties of other experiences out there. In-game events 
 will occasionally charm or bore you, and there are dungeons which require groups (like it or not) 
 that will even have spoken dialogue.
  
  All in all, there are encyclopedias of information about this game all throughout the internet. 
 Do not be intimidated. While there is much to see and experience you will be eased into it expertly 
 by the game, though the other players will likely criticize you for being a "noob" (new to the 
 game) and they will at times offer to race you through the game with their help. I would not recommend 
 this for first time players as it can be tougher to adjust than it sounds.
  
  Overall I would not call this a game so much as a virtual community. Play is limited, and a lot 
 of it is about what you expect to get before you start. Research the game a little if you like, 
 the official forums are a good way to gauge the sort of players you will find on any given server. 
 Bare in mind though that they will literally decide how the game unfolds, so your game play will 
 in fact always be determined by that screechy elitist teenager that lords over you and others, 
 or by that nice circle of friends looking for some fun and fantasy.
  
  There are lots of balancing issues, Warlocks being very powerful while Druids (Balance Druids or 
 damage per second (DPS) magic users) will be rolled fairly regularly on player versus player (PvP) 
 realms, though on player versus environment (PvE) realms will feel friendlier and more accessible 
 for all.
  
  There are miles of other things worth mentioning, but this is hardly the format for doing so. I 
 recommend www. wowwiki. com as a good recourse for beginners and pros alike.
  
  Good luck, and try not to get too hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseCanadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Online role playing. It is a genre already very heavily saturated with mediocre games that try 
 to be fun, and fail. But this game, World Of Warcraft is different. It has perfected rolepaying 
 and several other genres.
  
  World Of Warcraft offers you so many possibilities that it is actually quite mind numbing the first 
 time around. (In a good way) . Wether you want to be a mage, and hurl blasts of fire and ice, or 
 be a opwerful meleeing warrior, World Of Warcraft has something just for you. You will also have 
 to choose a race, which adds more depth as each race has distinct abilities.
  
  Also the world is massive. very massive. and each seperate part of this world is distinct and yet 
 Blizzard has managed to make all these different lands flow together seamlessly. Each different 
 part of the world also is home its own variety of creatures and monsters that may choose to kill.
 
  
  The game also features a rest system that makes the game fair to those who cannot play for long 
 periods. It works in the sense that if you log off in an Inn, the next time you log in you will 
 recieve a temporary boost to experience. This feature makes the game fair to those who play 10 
 hours a day or 10 minutes a day.
  
  This game is a definite must buy for anyone who enjoys gaming even remotely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game, Is terrible. The combat system? It could've been designed by monkey's. Really, The combat 
 system wasn't thought out well. All you do is click hit a few buttons, And either your dead or 
 its dead. Not much to it, Another thing is how slow the game is. It goes smooth for awhile then 
 level 40. It seems like it takes hour's to just gain 10000 xp which isn't even enough to get you 
 to level up if this was blizzard's idea of making a game last long try again, and quests. WHERE 
 DULL. I don't find it fun going to someone and them saying go get 10 things and kill 50 of those 
 things. after about 3-4 weeks of playing I said man things are going to drag on forever. Another 
 thing is GM's dont do good at anything except fixing bugs. (Which I have to admit I hav'nt seen 
 much bug's while playing) But it was amazing how much stupid 14 year olds living in there parents 
 basement where playing. (Or atleast really immature and stupid players) Cursing and other things. 
 Also the changes from WoW (original) To bc. They made hours of raiding worthless, And replaced 
 Epic items with Green items.. God way to go blizzard! Another thing is the enemy's where pretty 
 stupid. They'd sit around slashing. Casting a spell or two. Not much. anther thing is character 
 customization was pretty limited (on appearance) Whenever I made a character I could probably find 
 at least one person that looks like me. And now time for the good things. The game lasts awhile. 
 There's lot of armor. and of course many people. I give this game an overall 3. (cause there's 
 only 3 GOOD things to think off) I recommend Everquest lineage Or Final Fantasy XI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi7007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a never-ending online RPG, out only on PC. When you first join you have to 
 create a character. In WOW there are two sides in general. The Horde and the Alliance. In Alliance, 
 you can be human, gnome dwarf or night elf, and horde can be Orc, Tauren, Troll and Undead. More 
 are available in thhe expansion. When you have designed your character, you move into the vibrant 
 world of warcraft. There are two islands. The Eastern Kingdoms and Kalimdor. Each class has there 
 own city, which are always incredible. There are vibrant online players, shopping flying bidding, 
 chatting. The graphics are amazing, there is detail in everything, from the floor to the sky. When 
 you advance levels, you are eventually able to take part in Instances, and Battlegrounds. In battlegrounds 
 it is a horde versus Alliance battle for honor points. In instances you fight against computerised 
 people in Long Dungeons, taking from 1 hour to 6 hours. What is incredible about the game is the 
 vast detail of Everything, not just the graphics. This is the must buy game of the 21st Century 
 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Azeroth has been shattered by ages of war between the many races of the world. The lands overflow 
 with the ruins of past glories and lost empires. Power has splintered into two camps called the 
 Alliance and the Horde that have become locked into seemingly perpetual conflict. Neutral cities 
 and factions exist, but are few and far between given the scale of the ongoing conflict. Evidence 
 of centuries of war are everywhere. Shattered ballistas and trebuchets litter the wilderness and 
 suburban areas alike. Cities catalog the rich history of the world, which stretches back so far 
 as to become myth and legend.
  
  Great bastions of power still exist in the fortress metropolises of some races, such as Ironforge. 
 The city is hollowed out of a mountain, its core a massive, everflowing forge of liquid-hot magma. 
 It overlooks the Dwarven lands of Dun Morough, Loch Modan, with views as far as Blackrock Spire 
 of the distant land of Burning Steppes. Thousands of dwarves and gnomes inhabit the mountain fortress, 
 selling weapons, spells, educating travelers in their trades, offering brew and a place to rest, 
 and even selling pies in the streets. As if Ironforge were not large enough to explore itself, 
 a tram built and maintained by the technologically-savvy gnomes is available for free at anytime 
 for travelers and residents to take to and from the allied city of Stormwind to the south, the 
 last stronghold of humanity.
  
  You begin as a young, promising member of your race in either faction, selected from Dwarves, Gnomes, 
 Humans, Night Elves, and Draenei for the Alliance and Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, Undead and Blood Elves 
 for the Horde. Selecting faction - and server, for that matter - is crucial because you can only 
 speak and interact with other players of the same faction and on the same server. If you have friends 
 that you would like to either speak with, play with, or both, be sure to select appropriately. 
 In fact, the race you select will also have a profound effect on your gameplay experience, because 
 someone starting out as a Night Elf will not be able to meet up with a Dwarven friend until they 
 have traveled and "leveled-up" quite extensively. For example, Dwarves and Gnomes begin in the 
 same protected new player area of Coldridge Valley in Dun Morough, while humans begin far to the 
 south in Goldshire and Night Elves in Teldrassil, which is on another continent entirely. It takes 
 time for players to reach a level where they can safely travel through those areas necessary to 
 get to each other.
  
  Once players have logged in, selected their race and server, and chosen a name for their avatar, 
 they need to select a character class; Druid, Hunter, Mage, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Shaman, Warlock, 
 or Warrior. Each class has its own specialty, such as Priests are great at healing but can only 
 wear cloth armor, while Warriors are effective melee fighters but cannot heal or fight well at 
 a distance. Further, certain races are restricted to certain classes, and are better at specializing 
 in particular classes over others. Only Night Elves (Alliance) and Tauren (Horde) can be Druids, 
 for example, a class that allows the player to shapeshift into animals. Users looking to change 
 into animal form are restricted to those races, as a result.
  
  Once the player has selected their race, server, character class, whether they wish to be male 
 or female, and modified their appearance, they begin in their designated starting area. The interface 
 is detailed, but intuitive. By default a minimap appears on the top-right showing nearby landscape 
 and character positions, a health and mana (used for magic) are shown by default for most races 
 on the top-left, and a bar on the bottom allows for the selection of talents, abilities, professional 
 constructions, spellcasting, and other actions. The majority of the display is the three-dimensional 
 world in which the character travels and interacts. By default, the avatar is moved via the WASD 
 keys, as well as being able to strafe, jump, swim, etc. Everything, however, is customizable, from 
 movement to display and chatting options (which appear at the bottom left) . Other actions in-game 
 can be made via the command line. Typing the forward slash key, "/," brings up options for speaking 
 to other characters, those around you, and various "emotes" that allow the character to dance, 
 growl, slap, fart, and pretty much do anything else that people do once you have learned the proper 
 commands.
  
  Within viewing distance after characters first log-on should be several quest-givers, NPCs with 
 exclamation marks over their heads. The majority of time in-game is spent completing quests, such 
 as thinning out the wolf population or bringing back sufficient boar entrails for a recipe. Other 
 quests are more involved, taking out a gang leader threatening the area, retrieving a sentimental 
 item for an NPC that lies in a protected area, or even vanquishing a dastardly princess. Completing 
 quests gives characters three things: Experience, rewards, and reputation. The first helps players 
 gain levels, improving characteristics such as strength, agility, and intelligence to make combat 
 easier and opening up new armor and weapons for use. Rewards are just that: items or money that 
 can be used for whatever the player desires. Lastly, reputation bonuses affect their perception 
 with various races and groups, which can lead to bonuses. For example, a dwarf completes a quest 
 on behalf of an NPC or Stormwind, thereby increasing their reputation with the human race. Enough 
 reputation and goods from human retailers become less expensive.
  
  Game developer Blizzard has truly created a world for its Warcraft franchise. The wilds and settlements 
 of World of Warcraft are large, rich, detailed, and require significant time for exploration. Although 
 the game is an online, multiplayer role-playing game, players need not enjoy the game only with 
 other human beings. The environment is overflowing with sentient and wild characters and creatures. 
 Taking away the other players populating a city such as Ironforge, for example, leaves hundreds 
 of NPCs (non-player characters) to talk to, trade with, and learn from.
  
  However, taking away the other players would remove half the experience. Certainly, World of Warcraft 
 offers an amazingly deep single-player experience, with thousands of quests for adventurers to 
 undertake that span both continents of Azeroth. The player can grow their avatar via leveling-up 
 with battle and quest experience, as well as through practice such as fishing and skinning to learn 
 trades. However, without the help of other intrepid explorers the player will be unable to brave 
 particular dungeons and strongholds, and is typically restricted from the best armor and weapons 
 as a result.
  
  In World of Warcraft you can speak with other players verbally and nonverbally, through the gestures 
 your character makes and the actions you have him or her perform, such as helping another player 
 that is overwhelmed or, conversely, stealing their loot. Gamers can join up into temporary parties 
 with others to accomplish quests or other goals, or even join up more permanently inside guilds, 
 which are semi-permanent registries of groups that play together.
  
  There are benefits to the multiplayer aspect. Gamers meet new friends online, are able to level-up 
 their characters at a more rapid pace (by taking on more difficult enemies and completing their 
 quests more expeditiously) , and have more options available to them. For example, users that opt 
 to join a guild then have access to the guild bank, which shares items between players. Of course, 
 comrades and combatants alike have the option of using the auction house, an in-game trade system 
 that works like a medieval eBay. Post a good at the auction house for sale for a specified period 
 of time and at a small fee, and either earn a quick gold piece or get the item back - sans fee 
 - in the in-game mail system. Players can also dual one another, which is like a virtual sparring 
 match where neither character dies, but where honor among peers is the spoils.
  
  Want an undisturbed gaming experience without encountering random users? World of Warcraft offers 
 events called "instances," that allow gamers to enter a prefabricated dungeons - be they above 
 or below ground - without enemies respawning or other players entering besides the party. A group 
 of three friends might enter an instance for a two-hour play session uninterrupted. Instances also 
 typically offer the best rewards in equipment and experience, as well.
  
  If it sounds like World of Warcraft is a complicated, layered game with limitless combinations 
 and aspects available for exploration, it does. Besides the huge world, rich, detailed history, 
 collaboration and challenge system, multitude of items, and stunning landscapes, World of Warcraft 
 offers pets, conversation, and relaxation. A player is as likely to find a group of high-level 
 characters camped out around a fire at the Lion's Head Inn as they are to see a group adventuring 
 in the field.
  
  Despite all of its assets, World of Warcraft is sometimes hampered by its own design. Twelve hours 
 into playing one might reflect back on the six hours they spent running from Loch Modan to Westfall. 
 This is mitigates somewhat by the griffin taxi system, but they can sometimes be few and far between. 
 Gamers get access to a mount when they reach a certain level, but until then they have to hoof 
 it, and running can feel interminably slow at times.
  
  There is no saving system. This can be a boon and a bane at the same time. On one hand, it makes 
 the player consider twice certain decisions. Selling that magical axe will mean that the player 
 will never be able to recover it, and taking on a villain at a higher level cannot be retried by 
 reloading at the last save point. The death system is still fairly generous. When a player dies 
 they respawn at a nearby - being a relative term - graveyard. They then need to run back to their 
 body, otherwise they can immediately respawn with a damage penalty to all of their equipment, whose 
 repair can be expensive. Running back to the body can be just as bad, as the player often died 
 in an area where they were overwhelmed, meaning they may just die again once they are resurrected.
 
  
  The quests that make up a majority of the game prior to "maxing-out" a character can feel pointless. 
 In order for the game to function, enemies respawn to allow other players to complete the same 
 quests for themselves. This means that if a player were to stand in one location too long, the 
 enemies they thought were previously eliminated will spring back into existence. This can break 
 the role-playing atmosphere particularly when it was a key opponent, such as a rogue that has been 
 plaguing the village. "Thank you for saving our village," feels hollow when you know that rogue 
 is right back where you left him, despite having dispatched him or her yourself.
  
  Finally, as with any multiplayer game, there are the other users themselves. Vulgarity is not much 
 of an issue, as it is likely to get users banned. However, it is not unusual for lower-level players 
 to be spammed with in-game messages from other users to visit web sites to download game plug-ins. 
 It is also not unusual to be exploring the corner of a tower and find two characters engaged in 
 biblical and non-biblical relations. Gamers have become disturbingly adept at getting their avatars 
 into key positions of adult activity.
  
  Despite some minor flaws, World of Warcraft is an immense, challenging, and entertaining gaming 
 experience. Growing your character, dressing them, teaching them new skills, and pouring all the 
 energy necessary into a game of its depth feels validated by the impressive community of users. 
 A new flaming sword is likely to elicit gawking from peers. A revealing holiday outfit (seasonal) 
 will do the same. Many gamers are likely to be just as content to travel the visually inspired 
 world of ice-capped mountains and evergreen trees, rocky tundra and sandy deserts of Azeroth. Still 
 other will enjoy fishing, cooking, and learning the multitude of skills that World of Warcraft 
 offers. For everyone there is something new to learn and discover that will keep them coming back 
 to learn, grow, and adventure. World of Warcraft is an impressive title, even three years after 
 its initial release.
  
  Disclosures
  The reviewer played the two-week trial as a Dwarf Hunter. In that time, he leveled-up to 18, acquired 
 and trained two pets, learned engineering, mining, fishing, cooking, and first-aid, as well as 
 explored several higher-level areas by means of Level 70 friendlies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkinfool
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is awesome. If you are a teenager you should definetly get it. It is worth the 
 money if you have it. But besides the fifteen dollars a month this game is amazing. It has great 
 graphics for a computer game. It also has gret views. You can chnge the view to nyway you want. 
 You could even make it a lame 2D view. 
  
  It is one of those games where you can play for hours and hours on end without getting bored. Unlike 
 runescape where you play for ten minutes and your bored as crap. There is said to be blood and 
 there is but it is very unnoticable. When you hit them with your sword there is a small amount 
 of blood but it disappears alomst immeadiatly. 
  
  If you are a parent of someone who is wanting to start playing World of Warcraft I would let them 
 play as long as they have the money and Are older than the age of eleven. I have been playing for 
 a little while and besides some blood, use of alcohol, and some sexual themes it is an appropriate 
 game. The only sexual themes i have noticed are when female night elves dance it is inapropriate. 
 But you can just walk away if they start dancing.
  
  If you are teen looking for a game than this is the game to get. You have probably tried other 
 games like runescape were it was fun for a while but gets od quickly. Console games are also pretty 
 godd but i prefer the online multiplayer tybe with world of warcraft. Online players are usually 
 kind and try to help newer players out. Sometimes there are rud players who say mean things but 
 you can report abuse and a mod will take care of them quickly. Besides sayig mean thins just ruins 
 some of the fun out of multiplayer.
  
  Also with multiplayer you can jion up in groups to work on quests together. You could also get 
 involved with a raid group. Raid groups so you can go kill other online players. There ar two different 
 groups in the game called the alliance and the horde. The alliance are considered the good guys 
 with knight elves, dwarves, humans, gnomes, and draeni. The horde are considered the bad guys with 
 blood elves, tuaren, Undead, and orcs. The games is reat and you should probably get the 10 day 
 free trial first. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whizeguy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  There is a reason why no MMORPG released since World of Warcraft (WoW) can seem to really get off 
 the ground, and that reason is that they just can't do it like Blizzard does. Blizzard patiently 
 sat back and watched as the lucrative MMO market was born and thrived. They saw the potential, 
 but waited, and watched. They watched has numerous MMORPG were released and took careful note as 
 to why one succeeded and why another failed. And as the dust setted on the first generation off 
 MMO titles Blizzard dropped it's juggernaut of a game. Filled with all the detail, lore, and charm 
 Blizzard is known for, World or Warcraft is the MMORPG polished to near perfection. Graphics:
 
  
  Blizzard took the right approach in regards to the games visuals, keeping things on the low poly 
 side allowed soild game performance across a variety of player systems, because you shouldn't have 
 to own a super computer to play an MMO. While the technical side of the games visuals was and is 
 dated, there is nothing that can compare to the sheer quality of the games artistic design. Care 
 was taken to make each zone breath with subtle life. From spralling plains to vast deserts, to 
 sunken ruins and dense forests, to plague ridden countrysides and lush jungles, from sleepy coastal 
 villages to snow covered tundras, every single zone is in and of itself a true work of art. The 
 games charming and colorful storybook styling lend it a unique feel in a genre further and further 
 obsessed with hyper realism.
  
  Sound:
  
  An epic musical score and soild sound effects all around, there is not whole lot of voice work, 
 but what there is is top notch, player emotes expecially, and some very memorable foes.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's here that Blizzard succeeds where others have failed. They took the grind, 
 the repetitive killing of enemies for exp, and designed a fun and rewarding quest system around 
 it as to all but completely mask the grind and make it actually enjoyable. Be it collecting animal 
 pelts to line the floor of a Dwarf pilots Siegetank, to rescuing a kidnapped princess, ending a 
 band of thieves reign of terror over a seaside village, to solving the mystery behind the corruption 
 in the Human capital city, to exacting revenge on the creatures who devistated the Gnome capital, 
 to discovering the secrets behind the origin of the Dwarven race, there is always a well written 
 and expertly crafted reason behind what ever you do in the world. It's this reason that makes WoW 
 stand head and shoulders above it's rivals.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  It comes down to if you are even remotely interested in the MMORPG genre, there is no choice better 
 than World of Warcraft. From the ease of early play to the epic strategy of high end raids and 
 pvp combat, WoW is simply the total package. What ever you looking for in a MMO, WoW has it and 
 does it better than anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mushroom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Now, ive played World of Warcraft since 2005, Dont ask me why, I have no clue. The thing about 
 world of warcraft is really that its fun when your in the low lvls, But when you get to the high 
 levels like 60-70 you kinda start to see the greater picture. There is no end game content. Whatever 
 you do youll end up either killing alot of players to get better gear so u can kill even more players, 
 Or youll be killing monsters to get better gear, so you can get better gear, to get that even bigger 
 monster and so on. It goes on and its an evil circle.
  
  World of Warcraft does have its moments of fun, But that is mostly within the lvls of 20-50. And 
 when you get to 70 youll end up getting revoked here and there due to your gear simply. If your 
 gear aint good enough, you mgith aswell pack ur bags and leave. Now with my first 2 chars i got 
 lucky, good guild with good people. Granted be access to good gear. But then with my others didnt 
 work out that well. I wouldnt really reccommend world of warcraft to anyone. Id rather tell you 
 to go outside and play some ball. World of Warcraft is a addictive game, and not in the good sence. 
 Now that im off the hook i feel better, not so out of focus and so forth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_overdose54
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Say bye to humanity, because this is the World of Warcraft. The game that everyone is talking about 
 still goes on, and for a good reason. World of Warcraft is Diablo on steroids with as many quests 
 as Michael Vick has dogfights. OK , he may not has nearly 500 puppies but that's not the point. 
 The point is those quest will make you play this game 5 years from now. You play as the Alliance 
 (Good) or Horde (Evil) . The Alliances races are Humans, Night Elves, Dwarves, and Gnomes. (Well, 
 there just loke Hobbits!) The Horde races are Orcs, Tauren, Undead, and Trolls. Wow, (No pun intended) 
 but this is sounding like The Lord of the Rings. But just like Tolkien's world, the magical world 
 of Azeroth is astonishing. There is ALWAYS something new to find here, even if you have spent 12 
 or more hours of your life playing this game. But if you have lives and don't play all day, every 
 day, there is always the Rest system. When you rest at an inn and log out, when you log back in 
 you get an experience bonus for a short time. See? You can get laid and STILL play this game! But 
 when you die, it's not a big deal. You'll respawn at a graveyard as a spirit. But then you'll have 
 to find your body and that'll take a while. Here's a rap chorus I made from the song Welcome to 
 Atlanta :
  
  Welcome to World of Warcraft Where the nerds shall play
  And the Alliance and Horde fight
  Like everyday
  In Azeroth the number of quests
  Will cave 
 a mall in
  Where it'll make you play Til 10 in morning!
  
  It sucks, but that's all I could do. Well, anyway, hundreds of quests, stimulating creatures, and 
 hours being sucked in to the online sensation will make this one of the best games of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an amazing game. Those are the few words which summarize everything left in 
 this review.
  
  World of Warcraft got me addicted within hours. A friend of mine insisted to get this game and 
 try it out, so pulled out my piggy bank [haha not really =l] , and bought this game. It was well 
 worth it. My friend showed me the ropes, how everything works, he taught me the skills that will 
 help me survive in the World of World of Warcraft [haha you will find lots of lame jokes in this 
 review] .
  
  When creating your character you have the choice of 8 races and 9 classes, involving :
  
  Orc, 
 Undead, Trolls, Tauren [Horde]
  Night Elf, Dwarf, Human, Gnome [Alliance]
  
  Hunter, Warlock, Druid, Mage, Priest, Shaman, Paladin, Warrior, Rogue [Classes] .
  
  My favourite 
 class was the Hunter, the fact that you get to have a pet just made me like em =) . Hunter is a 
 ranged class, where they can attack from a distance with bows &amp; arrows, or guns &amp; bullets. 
 But Hunters aren't just ranged attackers, they are also close-ranged thanks to their pets =) . Every 
 class has their own pros and cons, which makes the very best class... Everything. World of Warcraft/Blizzard 
 [the creators] have made all the classes as even as possible. So you don't really need to worry 
 about which to choose to be the best, choose your favourite, and stick with it =) .
  
  The scenery of WoW [World of Warcraft] is amazing. The amount of detail into everything around 
 your character is really astounding. The effects of all the skills, attacks, spells are magnificent 
 [im using alot of adjectives ;) ] .
  
  One of best things about WoW is you can talk to your friends through a microphone on your headphones! 
 [If you actually have a microphone on your headphones] .
  
  This game got me addicted, even though if you reach a road block throughout the game and quit for 
 a while, you'll come crawling back like me =) . This game is amazing on its own, and with online 
 play to make a real community, its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow the king of mmorpg's. thats what everyone says at least. This game is not only the single worst 
 game i've ever played, but its also the biggest waste of time. My friend gave me Wow. I played 
 for a month and 15 or 16 days. Then i stopped and said what the **** is this???? Graphics- Bad 
 graphics, because women should look like women and not men with bumps on their chests. Graphics 
 are clunky , ugly , cartoony graphics. The game has some nice glowing effects but besides that 
 everything just looks bad.
  
  Gameplay- In wow theres lots to do, quests, pvp.............. grind. Wow to be honest has no story, 
 and the little story thats there is dumb followed by, confusing and repetitive quests. go west is 
 an example of a command you will get, but it doesnt say how far west, or if theres any small turns. 
 For all you know your quest guy is underground and you might never find him. The PvP is the worst. 
 You can duel people i suppose, but the slow paced combat, and long skill recharge times makes it 
 boring and no fun to do. Raids are even worse because of this because imagine, crowds of bad graphics, 
 having one big slow paced fight. Its a weak pvp, and raids are only done at high levels. Classes 
 are extreamly unbalenced, some useless, some insanely powerful, and some will one hit kill you 
 without any kind of skill. Lets not forget that Blizzard nerfs the game with every single glitchy 
 patch. Overall the game is weak and is something that will consume years of your life into grinding 
 to lvl 70.
  
  Sound- Its ok, ok music and overall sound effects. Some sounds are slightly muffled .
  
  Final 
 words-
  I wouldnt play this game if its free, and id never pay monthly for it. Wow is only needed for survival, 
 you can burn the long useless manual for warmth and play friz-be with its discs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanninsei
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a pretty intense experience for any mmo-lover. Although nothing incredibly 
 innovative or amazing, it's unique storyline and rare blend of gameplay make it a pretty interesting 
 game, to say the least. And when they said online game, they meant it. The massive amounts of players 
 and tasks to complete will keep you running around the glorious lands of Azeroth for quite a long 
 time. The game's easy for beginners, difficult to master style makes it great for any roleplaying 
 fanatic. And they were certainly right about World. The magnificent areas and places to visit are 
 mind-blowing. Even when you're not fighting off vile enemies, you can spend time to enjoy the beautiful 
 view. The graphics may not be state of the art, but they are indeed admirable.
  This game really doesn't have many flaws, but it has one big one. Repetition. The entire game is 
 reduced to doing the same things over and over again. There's an excruciating lack of variety. 
 Let's face it, after you take out a few enemies, you've defeated them all. The basic point of the 
 game is just to run around and kill enemies at such a dreadfully monotonous pace. Unless you've 
 got several friends to play along side of, it's really painful to deal with the drudgery of fighting 
 all these boring enemies as a lone wolf. The game has great potential to be considered legendary 
 in the world of video games, but with the excruciatingly monotonous gameplay, it falls short of 
 the greatness it deserves. I recommend this game to just about any mmorpg fan, but I don't suggest 
 sticking with it for too long. I wouldn't suggest playing this game for more than a couple months.
 
  Worth checking out, but I wouldn't recommend any long term experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It never ends-there is always something to do and it is great
  
  Patches are always updating the game so new things are constantly around the corner.
  
  Fight 
 the enemy or do quests alone or in groups
  
  go on raids with MANY people
  
  AND MORE-lol
  
  but seroiusly its cool and the game truly never ends and all should buy it.
 
  
  Its A game that has so many different choices and things to do you will be WoWed! 
  
  I cant wait for the next one to come out! 
  
  Me, perrsonally, I suck but I DONT CARE because 
 even crappy people can have fun! I usually dislike gaMES i suck at but no this one because it doesnt 
 matter there are nuchn more ways to play and have fun other than pwning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Micro-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an overall incredible game. The game is similar to all other to MMORPG, but 
 unlike them (excluding Final Fantasy) this is on the computer. The game takes you throughout the 
 land that is referred to as Azeroth (and Outlands with the Burning Crusade Expansion) completing 
 quests with your character and gaining new gear and items for them. This game can get boring, but 
 once it does you'll find something else you can be doing which leads you to more. It never really 
 stays boring. 
  
  You have a choice between 8 classes. Paladin, Priest, Warlock, Warrior, Rogue, Mage, Shaman, and 
 Druid. Instead of explaining what each classes abilities are, allow me to explain their pasts. 
 This should give you a better idea of what they can do. Paladin is considered to be a disciple 
 of holy light. They heal, melee, and are able to provide themselves with special aura's to enhance 
 themselves and blessings on themselves and opponents. Most Priests are healing, but they have a 
 damage class known as Shadow. The name "Priest" should be self explanatory when I say it. Warlocks 
 are the essence of demonic mastery. They are considered to be evil and heartless. Warlocks are 
 pretty reliant on their pets unless they are full destruction spec, which basically turns them 
 into a fire mage. The Warrior is the tough class. Warriors are allowed to use all types of armor 
 and are based for damage or tanking (Which is the ability to hold enemies onto them for hits because 
 tanks tend to have more health and armor then other player, but sometimes do less damage) . They 
 require no standards of mana or anything that requires regeneration except health. They rely completely 
 on "rage" which builds up as the warrior attacks or gets attacked. They use rage to do special 
 abilities. Rogues in my opinion are the easiest class when it comes to PvP (Player versus Player) . 
 Rogues are also the hardest to level. The ability of the Rogue is simple. Stealth, stun the enemy, 
 hit them a lot, stun them again, hit them more, blind them, they die. That's the basic concept 
 of the rogue. They're particularly good against Warlocks, Mages, and sometimes Shaman. Mages are 
 the magic class of the game. They shoot fireballs and frostbolts and have all kinds of magical 
 tricks. If the Mage runs out of mana though, they don't have many other options. The Mage can however 
 do many abilities such as polymorph the enemy causing them to turn into an animal unable to attack 
 unless attacked first. Shaman are the nature class of the game. They shoot lightning bolts and 
 have all sorts of special abilities. The primary function of the shaman is an equal combination 
 of all classes in World of Warcraft (excluding the druid and warlock) without making it too powerful. 
 The Druid is another type of nature class. The Druid can form into different animals such as a 
 cat (attacks fast) , bear (a lot of health) , aqua (swims fast) , and flight (flying) . There is also 
 travel form which isn't used much after level 40. Travel form increases speed by 30%. 
  
  A lot of good things can be said about this game. The main thing is that you're able to stay interested 
 if you don't mind paying $15 a month and know people who can help lead you through. Without, you'll 
 need add-ons to keep the game interesting for yourself.
  
  These are a few things you may want to know about World of Warcraft.
  
  Classifications of 
 classes:
  DPS or Damage per Second (Provides all the firepower) : All Mages, Warlocks, and Rogues. Some Shaman, 
 Druid, Priest.
  Healer (Makes sure everyone stays alive) : Most Paladins, Priests. Some Druids, Shaman.
  Tank 
 (Holds the aggravation) : Most Warriors, Paladins. Some Druids.
  
  So if you pick a Priest, you may be asked to heal the tank so he doesn't die. The tank holds the 
 damage.
  
  So the game is an overall mathematical equation. It's extremely fun, but once you are level 70 
 you may not have the same urges to play as you did before. You might want to wait for a future 
 expansion, knowing your gear will become out of date soon if you get too far into it. The game 
 is also lowered by its lower quality graphics for its time and the fact there is no offline mode.
 
  
  World of Warcraft is worth a try for anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hengif
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I never hought to have a liking to world of warcraft because i thought i would be awful but once 
 i played i got right into it and i almost instantly understood because i have played mant MMORPGs 
 and for those of you who don not know what this it is a Massivly Multiplayer Online Role Playing 
 Game. The class, profession, and race selection can be very tricky because it is hard to decide 
 on which to pick but eventually i found the right combo. As said before in some gamestpotting TV 
 programs this is like a bar and you can meet all kind of people and as on the Thanksgiving Blizzcon 
 07 that Gamespot presented many people can play with many family members and become better friends. 
 As in my other reviews i always give some chacrter info I am currently a lvl 11 undead mage in 
 the light bringer realm and i am enjoying this and can't wait to get to higher levels. 
  
  From a fellow player Hengif 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Wolrd of Warcraft, and especially the new expension, are polishing existing flaws in the MMO area, 
 and they bring them 1 step further.
  
  If you polish a flaw, it shine all the brighter.
  
  Here is a summary of what should have been changed/improved and was merely polished, making 
 it perhaps even more painful:
  
  - Raiding enforcement. Most players don't want to raid or don't want to see it enforced at the 
 end of the grouping gameplay, regardless of what the majority want, they enforce it to please a 
 few geeks who show them unending loyalty back, as you reward the unworthy.
  
  - PvP is broken. Take DAoC, remove most features, and polish what you kept.
  
  - Balancing 
 is overdone, diversity is almost unexistant. Every group you make there will be at least 2 characters 
 that will be clones of each other. yeah players are balanced, at the cost of diversity.
  
  - Traveling is slow/immersive. You want to cross the world... it would be a long, uneventfull, boring 
 travel, when you do it for the 473905 times.
  
  - Few characters models of significant differences.
  
  - Easy to understand, easy to master. 
 It is sweet when a game is easy to understand, when it is clear what you need to do to improve... but 
 when it is easy to master (compared to any other MMO out there) , this is bad. I am all for a casual 
 game, but at least, make it hard to master, so there is a reason to play it beyond a point.
  
  That's been said, it is not a complete disaster. As you can read in other reviews, the games 
 has many strongpoints and I won't waste your time about these, I rather focus on what should have 
 been improve and wasn't. We are talking about Blizzard, not going to welcome a product they do 
 as if if was done by some Indie devs, but considering it is done by Blizzard... I have higher standards, 
 and they where not meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraivyne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  I have played World of Warcraft since its beta stages. Its one of those games I have attempted 
 to "quit" more times than I can count. It always pulls me back, eventually. The game just has so 
 much atmosphere, even if you are playing with no objective of end game content, you will still 
 get so much pleasure from playing World of Warcraft.
  
  The game has a class for every type of gamer and since the recent 2.3 patch the game is alot more 
 accessible to casual gamers. You can get your self from 20 - 60 without that much effort or grinding, 
 all you require is a knowledge of where to go for quests, if you need any help check out the very 
 informative www. thottbot. com 
  
  For the sole few that have yet to play this game, give it a go... but don't play it for 1 or 2 
 hours and expect a fully polished game, the game only starts to shine as you rise the ranks, once 
 you hit 20 most of the classes start fulfilling their rolls.
  
  I'm sure you will enjoy this as much as I have, like the motto says "its not a game, its a world"
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky_ninja
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best MMO (massively multiplayer online) on the market and one of the best games. 
 Continuing the story of the earlier Warcraft games, WoW introduces eight playable races and a huge 
 world of wonder and monsters. With a level cap of 70 and more to do after you hit the cap, this 
 game will entertain for years and years. One thing missing is the gamish feel, it feels less like 
 a game, and more like a program. You have to play the game to feel what i'm feeling. Constant patches 
 being released introduces thousands of things to do., but most of them you can't do if you aren't 
 a high level. Leveling is very hard for people who don't use guides or are an experienced MMO player. 
 Overall this game is a fantastic in depth experience with very little missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tychoSIX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is curiously, though not surprisingly, addictive. If you haven't started playing 
 already save yourself: go find some single-player game that won't completely absorb your time.
 
  
  Be warned... in Wow, Power Equals Time: time spent leveling and trying to get better gear. But, 
 if you're just looking for huge world where you can play together with friends and have a good 
 time killing imaginary monsters for imaginary loot then this game is for you.
  
  The thing that tends to ruin this game probably won't be the simplistic graphics or repetitive 
 gameplay but other people. You may find people who try to tell you how to play or customize your 
 character. But by then you'll probably need to take a break and do something a bit more productive 
 with your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqareenixfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a great multiplayer game, period. As soon as you start off you can tell you're in an entirely 
 new world.
  
  Gameplay: Basic RPG play. You select a target and right-click to attack it. The game will tell 
 you if you're too far away to attack, so you have to move closer. You can click on spells on your 
 sidebar to activate them, or hit the number on the keyboard the spell is assigned to.
  
  Graphics: Not the greatest looking game ever, but it's certainly not the worst. I play this with 
 a 6600 video card, and it looks fine. There will be some lag in high-population areas, though. 
 That's normal.
  
  Sound: the game sounds great. It's kind of weird how you'll notice all the little sounds around 
 you, and the sounds of your footsteps as you run. It really makes it majestic.
  
  It's also cool how each class really plays differently. I have a Dwarven Paladin and an Undead 
 Warlock, and both really feel like their own characters. And with the upcoming expansion introducing 
 Hero classes, there should be even more differentiation. 
  
  The worst part about WoW is the price. A monthly fee of $15 can be hard for some people, but I 
 find it more manageable to buy game cards. There's also the fact that a game package only works 
 for one player. So if you're living with someone else you would have to buy two copies. Same thing 
 with the expansion. Another way that Blizzard is hosing us out of our money.
  
  Besides pricing issues, I really have nothing bad to say about this game. It's a great game, I 
 just don't see how people can get addicted to it. This is the best MMO I've ever played, though, 
 and the only one that's kept my attention for this long.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I'm still not even half way though WoW yet and I've spent so much time on it.
  
  I've just turned lvl 34 and the rewards are worth the wait.
  
  If you have no idea what WoW 
 is.. basically it's a an online multiplayer game with loads of other people playing and differant 
 types of characters, Elves, Dwarfs, Knome's and Human's for the Alliance and Blood Elves, Tauran's, 
 Undead, Troll's and Orc's for the Hored side.
  
  Basically you run through that game completing quests and leveling up.
  When you level up you 
 gain more spells and armour and weapons, also PvP battles which is battling vs the enemy side (Alliance 
 vs Hored)
  Gameplay is great, but it is a bit fustrating running for hours to places which is the only bad 
 thing about WoW, it has a massive MASSIVE map, lots of freedom and exploration to do so its kind 
 of a "damned if you do damned if you don't" situation going on there.
  That is all kind of relieved when you add fly point to your map, so you can get to your destination 
 quicker.
  
  Pay monthy is fustrating but it's a must and what you get for your money it really isn't wasted!
 
  
  great game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Like all the other mmorpgs... its very solid and ull get used to it pretty quickly 10/10
 
  
  Graphics: You won't need a high end graphics card to play it, in fact you just need a decent recent 
 one. The textures are a little blocky, but they look very nice anyways, and the enviornments around 
 u is pretty breathtaking.
  9.5/10
  
  Sound: Ehhhhhh. its wat youd expect. 8.75/10
  
  Entertainment: Fun at the beginning, fun when you actually meet other ppl, and extremely fun when 
 ur in a guild filled with Azeroth's elite.
  10/10
  
  Value: Cmon its kind of stupid paying 20$ to buy the godam game, and paying another 20 for another 
 month? bs.
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WerewolfRebel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  The first time i laid eyes on wow, i got scared , could this be so good has everyone was expeting, 
 well after all this time , i have to say, it his, the best rpg online ever, and it can always be 
 better, cause of its high potential. This could be a never ending story, so much to explore yet 
 :) . You can imagine how many traits races and classes could be added to this game, not to mention 
 worlds and time vaults.
  You must try it, no matter what.
  Be afraid my friends, cause your live, will never be the same after this experience.
  By the 
 wayFor the Horde....." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daydestroyer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a game thats extremly popular. A game that wastes lives, a game that makes your right index 
 finger stronger than John Cena. World of Warcraft.
  
  Yes corny intro but what the heck! :P
  Lets start the review. I've wasted my life playing WoW. 
 I used to own 1 level 70 that I strictly worked on only besides a shaman and a warrior. The games 
 graphics... They seem pretty toony. and I don't mean TF2 toony but kind of in a bad way. It's not 
 really that cool and could of actually look better if done in a more realistic approach. But of 
 course since its low graphics that means more PC's can run it right?
  The items look really cool. Mainly the EPIC and the LEGENDARY and a type I don't know the name 
 nor ever seen one RED. there all sperated by color on there name, from worse to best quailty: Grey, 
 white, green, blue, purple, orange, and red. The desigin on the last 3 look awesome. Like this 
 giant firey mace from a boss in a raid dungeon in Molten core.
  Same goes for armor too. Speaking of armor, thats how the best of the best goes. Not a lot of skill 
 needed. All you need is the best gear (tier sets) and you can beat anyone. Not much skill needed. 
 Go ahead and look it up. I've seen on youtube a fully decked out level 1 beating all levels ranging 
 from 1- 14. Its crazy.
  Anyways, the world is massive. HUGE. BIG. Lots to explore with some nicely designed areas. But 
 of course you need to be a certain level to get there without getting slaugthered. Since during 
 the higher levels 90% of the enemies will attack at will.
  Combat is cool too. But gets dull after seeing the same animation over and over again. Especially 
 the warrior, UGH couldn't countinue him and stopped at 45. Like you will get bored when you see 
 the same shaman lightning bolt for about literly for the trillionth time. Sometimes you may be 
 overwhelmed by like 30 diffrent powers but you'll get used to it.
  There are 10 races and 2 factions, Blood elves, night elves, Tauren, Orcs, trolls , humans, undead, 
 dranei, dwarves, gnomes. (8 without expansion) with pretty neat captiols. There dancing is good 
 too :D . Too bad the customization in't to awesome. But good enough. But still possible to find 
 a almost clone of you.
  Moslty a black Tauren
  
  Mounts are also cool. and useful. But seriously expensive. Raids are also a life killer. That take 
 HOURS to complete. Thats also the only way to get the top gear. Top players need top gear. Not 
 much skill needed.
  Leveling also takes forever. 1-70 is a pure nightmare and may actually take a YEAR. Or a ittle 
 bit less. Every even number of levels (starting at 10) you get new powers that cost cash ( copper 
 silver and gold. Need 100 copper for 1 silver 100 silver for 1 gold) 
  
  
  WoW is an intresting expierence but not awesome. It gets dull after a while (I quited after 2-3 
 years) and the game takes no skill. Except the skill of being able to sit on your butt all day. 
 But it might be worth it. Go ahead and get the trial and let GS here your opinon :)
  
  ~Day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkas2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a game for nearly everyone to play. You can be anyone you want to be, such 
 as the small yet thrifty Gnomes, the savage Orc, the mysterious Night Elves, the mana addicted Blood 
 Elves, and much more. Classes are what they say they are, rogues are sneaky little rascals, warriors 
 are front-line fighters, mages hurl balls of fire and ice. But the classes and races aren't what 
 all the games about, there's PVP (Player Vs. Player Combat) instances (Dungeons) or you can just 
 admire the scenery of the beautiful world around you. If you are new to mmo's download and try the 
 trial for WoW, you WILL like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most fun game i'd ever played up to level 40; then the grind begins, and it's 
 a relentless one. First you grind for your mount, then you grind to level 60, and then you grind 
 dungeons in the hope of getting epics. And whats worse, you can see everyone else's gleaming armour 
 and weapons, and even view their stats by clicking on another player when they're near you, so 
 your immediately suckered into playing long hours trying to become fit for PVP, which you won't 
 be unless you get good items. 
  I spent a good two years playing the game, even leveled a second character up to 66, but in the 
 end I realised that Blizzard have just created a game whose main purpose is to keep you playing 
 at all costs by creating an environment of constant competition and rivalry at the expense of enjoyment 
 and creativity. If you can resist 'epic envy ', and limit yourself to playing only a few hours 
 a week, i'd say this is one of the most fun games you can play. If you have an addictive or competitive 
 streak, I'd say avoid this game like the plague. There are other MMORGS out there that'll give 
 you satisfaction without demanding endless hours of grinding to achieve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellgater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  It's an very good game... but after some time you might just think it's boring. It's very boring 
 if none of your friends plays because the game is about working together. And addiction if you 
 every get addicted to a game you got to see a psychiatrist. you should have other things to do 
 like a sport or something so you don't become a total nolifer, it's okay to play often but think 
 about that you should have a life too. It's a great game no matter what other people say, only 
 thing that sux is the monthly fee it should have been free so that you don't have to use your money 
 on a game even though it's a great game like WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_nick118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Wow i remeber the first time i played this.. i was bored downloading game demos off gamespot. and 
 the ad popped right up 14 day free trial. i was intsantly hooked and bought an english copy of 
 the game. i played for hours on end and did get very very addicticted. I made plenty of friends 
 on it and thinking about it makes me feel a little nostalgic. Once you pop you just can't stop 
 should be the catchline. I got to level 40 after much grinding. I got a mount and was so happy 
 but then most of the people i met online stopped playing and i got bored and didn't do any more 
 leveling. I stopped paying and said i would go back to it. I bought another month and never used 
 it due to me being out of the game for so long. 
  
  Tip: if you want to stop, starve yourself of it for a month and try other things, then your out 
 of the flow of it and just won't be bothered unless ure a complete nerd. I stopped at level 41, 
 i was in the english european server "emerald dream" and i was a dwarf hunter named "Galfender". 
 was amazing i might even go back to it one day if i get bored again. but i'm busy now and have 
 too many other things going on in my life so i think i will just let it be for now....
  
  get it if you have the time and money because it is fun to play with friends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  After replaying the game with the new patch 3.0.3 (echoes of doom) the game has had some significant 
 changes. Before TBC it literally took me a year just to get to 60 (this casual play time, couple 
 hours a day, a little more on weekends) . Now after coming back to it two years later, I was able 
 to hit 70 in a little less than 2 months with the same amount of playtime. I'm glad Blizz finally 
 decided to lower the xp needed to level, cause really the meat and potatoes in the game is when 
 you do Heroics and 10-25 man raids to get your end-game gear. This was one of my past gripes, I 
 hated having to grind for sooooo long just to reach max level. It was tedious, boring, and expensive (well 
 we are paying monthly for this) . So when I got back in, I was surprised to see I hit level 50 in 
 about a month, which anyone who remembers pre-tbc, that is actually pretty good, well for me it 
 is anyways compared to before. 
  
  The game can be quite fun while raiding and doing instances, letting you learn new ways to beat 
 bosses and get epic loot, but the times when you are not raiding can be a little stale at times. 
 Of course their is PvP which is a fun distraction, that rewards those who committed with pretty 
 good gear, but it seems like no matter what side you are on, you will lose. Granted this isn't 
 always the case, but for me I play an alliance Mage, and Many alliance people just don't seem to 
 work together on many occasions and allow the Horde to just trump us. 
  
  Now with the new Expansion on its way, I can't wait to see what new features and loot Blizz has 
 in store for us. I just hope PVP balance is attained (or maybe it can't be unless players actually 
 want to win =P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danlinenberg10
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  A long time i've been looking around in the MMORPG genre, trying all sorts of free and non-free 
 mmo's. a long time i've been pushing the limit for how many games i can play at once. a long time 
 i've been saying "omg this is fun!" about a game, and after 3 days quitting it saying "nah....".
 
  A long time, i've been trying to find a game that reenacts the feeling of WoW.
  Like many other users, i've agreed to sell my soul for blizzard, quitting and coming back every 
 few months. it seems as if no matter how hard i try, simply no game, from no possible genre can 
 make the trick.
  But still, the race for innovation seems to have destroyed the magic that was once known as WoW; 
 it's now only a game that struggles to keep whole of it's 9 million users player for the remaining 
 month.
  I was excited when TBC came out.; i thought that now i can get back to my beloved server community, 
 start PVPing again and maybe even get back to a little late-night ZG run. but i found out it wasn't 
 so.
  When i got back, not a single friend was there, everyone was replaced by migraters and gliders. 
 the old guilds were gone, and sadly - the thing i enjoyed the most in this game (PVP) was dead 
 as well.
  Most people are saying that Arena is fun and new, but i think it's ruined the very foundations 
 of the game.
  Think about it - the entire game is now balanced and changed in order to fit with the latest Arena 
 updates... since when MMO's are only about 1 aspect? 
  It completely messed up the organized structure of the game - PVErs farm PVE and come out every 
 now and then to demonstrate their awesome gear; on the other hand, PVPers were to farm PVP and 
 demonstrate their skills whenever they felt like it. 
  But now PVErs and PVPers farm PVP as one, because no other gear in the game can match up to Arena 
 gear, can it? and by that the PVE (and battleground PVP) is left un-manned.
  I'm not saying Arena has destroyed the game, but the fact that blizzard are so enthusiastic about 
 1 simple and not so clever idea, made them dedicate the entire game for it, and turned world of 
 warcraft into world of arenacraft; and now, with WOTLK in the horizon, no telling what can they 
 destroy next.
  
  Still i hope one day to witness a brand new MMORPG, that will capture us from the moment we create 
 our first character in it, and will be able to return the once lost feeling of perfection, that 
 we got from playing WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadenman123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  O. k, I walked into best buy with 20 dollars in my pocket. So im thinking, "Gee, what am I going 
 to get today?" Well, if you go into best buy and dont plan on buying a computer game, then your 
 screwed, because their games SUCK! So then I had this crazy idea, "Hey, why not get a computer 
 game?!" So I looked through all their games, and one caught my eye. World Of Worldcraft. I heard 
 about this game, and was interested in it, so I bought it. When I got home, I instaled it, and 
 loved it! There was not one thing I hated about the game! Amazing-ish graphics, great monsters, 
 and a million quests! Whats not to love? By the way, when you get this game or already have it, 
 add me. My character I use the most is kadenman. When you add me, whisper to me. But yeah, get 
 this game. I need to work on my character now. Later! : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DagothUr512
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game has died. It gone the way of SWG with NGE. It used to be great but then they ruined it 
 with the terrible community and the customer service. When you can get to lvl 60 in 2 weeks there 
 is a serious problem with that MMO. Not to mention with all of these stupid expansion pack they 
 release for it. I'm all for an MMO that can get that kind of fan base but when you have 10 year 
 olds running around, and all the gold farmers in the game. Its sad that a game like this had so 
 much potential and to waste it all away with the awful community. No one is nice in the game, everyone 
 is looking out for themselfs. There is also no role playing what so ever. Doesn't MMORPG stand 
 for Massive Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game? Last time I checked it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hstera
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When i begun to play World of Wracraft, i thougth i never was gonna lose my entire life into a 
 game like this... i was thinking this about the guys who did play before me: "LOLZ, mother-f*cking 
 losers!!!"
  And... look at me now, an full epic 70 rogue xD
  
  Graphics: The graphics does really suck for the PC-games today, but in WoW the graphics is bot 
 an elemnt wich is so important like the gameplay.
  
  Sounds: The music is great, the sounds are great... can't simply say more.
  
  Gameplay: The 
 game is balanced, and gets pacthes all the time, wich makes the world (of warcraft) , updated all 
 time, new quests, weapons instances etc.
  
  Solution: maybe the best game i have played in my entire life... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yelgath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has for the past few years been known the best MMO out there.. And there is a 
 reason for this. I'll try to split this review into a few groups and then sum it all up at the 
 end. 
  
  Firstly lets talk about the PvP. In pretty much every MMO out there PvP is either a hit or miss 
 situation. Blizzard hit dead on with World of Warcraft's PvP system. If you prefer a fast paced 
 get in there and kill stuff PvP style, WoW has battlegrounds just for people like you who want 
 quick paced PvP. Or maybe you prefer your PvP over a large area? Just go out into zones find some 
 players of the opposite faction! Of course you can't just go kill whoever you want. There are however, 
 different realm styles. In a PvP realm there will be more players who want Player vs. Player action, 
 and also you will be able to fight other players in more zones than a normal server or an RP server. 
 And that brings me to Role-playing and Guilds.
  
  Maybe PvP isn't for you? Maybe you would rather work on making money or Role-playing with friends? 
 Well World of Warcraft is still the game you want. In a Role-playing server you can go into your 
 local inn and have a friendly in-character chat with your fellow players. In any type of server 
 you can join a guild, which is basically a group of people who have similar interests in the game. 
 So WoW can be used to get into the PvP action and pwn up on some noobs, or you can choose to just 
 use the game just to be social and hang out with friends. 
  
  Or maybe you don't care about PvP or talking to people and just want to watch your character kill 
 monsters, progress in level and skills, and explore the world? Well WoW has that also. With many 
 classes to choose from and different ways to play each class you'll be able to make your own custom 
 character to explore a massive landscape in the world of Azeroth. Your character can learn up to 
 two professions, which offer huge amounts of things to do. You can be a miner and search around 
 for mineral veins to mine, or maybe you want to be a leatherworker and make armor out of the skins 
 of your foes? Either way WoW is the game for you.
  
  To end my review I would like to say that no matter what you want in a MMO, World of Warcraft has 
 it, and has a better version of it than any other MMO on the market. There have been many games 
 out come out to rival WoW, and although some have gotten rather popular, none have ever done what 
 World of Warcraft has. 
  
  World of Warcraft has been, is, and continues to be, the best MMO on the market. 
  Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first theres alot to do when making your character: Theres all your facial features. Then after 
 that you can choose your class! Theres Shaman, Warrior, Rogue, Priest, Druid, Paladin, and Hunter 
 (They get cool pets at low and high levels!) . Then you can choose your race. Theres Undead, Orc, 
 Troll, and dark elf on the horde side. On the alliance side are gnome, wood elves, night elves, 
 and dwarves. Then you enter the world. Theres millions of other players that you cn chat, group 
 and kill other things with. And theres battle grounds and PVP. There is so many more things too! 
 I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME! It is one of the most awesomest and best game i've ever played in 
 my entire life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster_limo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Not the hardest of mmorpg's I have played, but it's clear to see why it has attracted so many subscribers. 
 The entry level and learning curve are very much reduced, the graphics are bright and the interface 
 and combat system are easy to pick up. 
  
  That's not to say there's no challenges, for the casual gamer you will often find yourself in limbo, 
 running back to collect your corpse or running from the mobs. Not to worry though, there's a wealth 
 of resources found on the internet when your stuck on that quest, need to find that npc or just 
 wondering where a location is.
  
  Warcraft is quite possibly the most addictive game I have ever played. I enjoyed Everquest and 
 Vanguard, but Warcraft adds a magic and depth that competitors just can't match.
  
  The subscription fee has become a regular occurrence in the mmorpg range so it's no surprise that 
 this game also requires a monthly payment. I actually consider this a money saving scheme as the 
 time spent on warcraft is time I could be spending on things I don't really need. If you're a regular 
 game buyer then the monthly subscription equals 1 game every 3 months which is not so bad.
  
  So, any negative points...
  
  ... like any other mmorpg, gameplay can be affected by other 
 players. You may be unlucky and meet the server idiots, or your gameplay could be enhanced by a 
 few great players. Either way, your experience can greatly influenced by these factors.
  
  Updates, patches and addons can make your build, equipment and items obsolete. Many end level gamers 
 found that their hard earned gear was quickly replaced when the first add on 'The Burning Crusade' 
 was released.
  
  The game can be extremely addictive, I played game to level 60 originally and took part in many 
 raids. I went a little bit too deep into the game that when I did need a break I made sure it was 
 a long break.
  
  So, 18 months has passed and I'm back playing again and I'm fully enjoying my questing. I tried 
 several more mmorpg's in between but whilst I was playing them I was constantly thinking "that 
 looks like a wow feature" or "I don't remember this many problems on wow!"
  
  Expect there to be a warcraft clone released every month. And a clone is what they will be... so 
 buy the real thing and...
  
  ... be prepared to lose friends, partner and your job!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antisma08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  i've played Final Fantasy, i've played wild arms, and i've played a classic like Runescape. but 
 i've never played such a detailed RPG like WoW you have literally thousands of ways to dress and 
 arm your character, hundreds of ways to play the game based on your skills, armor and weapons. 
 and i only had one thing to say when i started to play it for the first time, "WOW!"
  
  I picked up the game about 2 months ago and i havn't been able to put it away i enjoy the virtually 
 limitless options they give you to customize your character, i enjoy all of the different enemies 
 you have to fight, i enjoy the variety of the quests, the sheer vastness of the environments are 
 breath-taking and the detail put into each environment is by-far the best i've ever seen in a game 
 like this, now i havn't played alot of MMORPG's but i'd have to say by looking at other's that 
 are available i think i'm gonna just stick with WoW. it is the first RPG that i have ever stayed 
 interested in for more than a week or 2.. RPG's never made me want to continue playing because 
 it always took too long to lvl up and i was almost guaranteed that someone else had the same armor 
 as me and i could never actually look forward to the next quest because the reward were always 
 extremely wimpy and never worth the effort you put into the quest to complete the stupid thing 
 and most likely the quests were usually exactly alike only with different enemies.. no story to 
 the quests just random tasks to the point that you just felt like you were mindlessly slaughtering 
 things for a small amount of exp or money and never actually accomplishing things. i think probably 
 the smallest detail but one of my personal favorites is the emote's (movements/actions) being able 
 to clap, dance, point, and laugh among other things in a game and actually look like you're doing 
 it, i think that needs to be put into all RPG's it makes the whole game seem even more life-like, 
 especially the dancing. :P
  
  but overall i think WoW is an excellent MMORPG and the best RPG i've ever played and i will enjoy 
 it for as long as i have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargammerzs
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Now, this is a game that I would strongly tell anyone NOT to play. Not because of the graphics 
 or gameplay or communtity, but because of the addiction. I played a total of 14 days. My brother 
 44 days. (total play time on computer) . The game ruined my life, made me anti-social, ENTER A DEPRESSION, 
 spend precious time on the computer that I terribly regret now because that could have been with 
 my family and friends. BUT!!! long story short I quit, got help, and now as happy as can be! BUT 
 PLEASE! do not think that you can do what I did. I know for a fact that some people DONT get out 
 of it. I know a friend that has never quit it yet. and i feel he will never come out of the addiction. 
 Sure your a person of stature in WoW but out of it your nothing. SO please do the world a favor 
 and dont waste your precious ONE life on this game. dont even try it! but of course i cant make 
 anyone do anything, it is all up to your decision that will help who knows out there. IT IS ALSO 
 AN ENDLESS GRIND  NO POINT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflying
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Awesome and classical like other Blizzard games. World of Warcraft gives you an opportunity to 
 throw away everything of you life and create another self in that world. It defines the highest 
 peak a multi-player game can achieve. The only thing to complain about is that we don't have enough 
 time to play it since we all have our real lives to live.
  I spent months playing this game long ago and made many friends there. Playing with friends together 
 in wow is really really addictive. I used to raid dungeons with them days and nights, fight side 
 by side on the battle field for alliance and sometimes just wander around the world. That was a 
 very enjoyable time. However, WOW is still just a game; we cannot live by it. My friends and I 
 left this game long ago. We still keep touch with each other and download every new patches, but 
 since then, we have never got another opportunity to play together like before. 
  If you have friends who can play WOW with you, that will be a wonderful time that you will never 
 regret in your entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zagori
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the best online RPG ever !
  U can choose out of many races and classes and go on the battle alone (online) or -what i miss 
 in other games- going as a group to support each other. The graphics aren't bad IMO and it even 
 works smoothly on windows vista! 
  You can also do various quests to obtain more money and some rare items.
  (what is also a little 
 more real is thatyour weapons are worn out in a while and you have to repair them)
  
  If you are a fan of online RPG's , BUY IT! No matter what you are! xD
  
  The only down is that 
 you have to pay per month/2 months but it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  WoW is simply the greatest game ever created in the history of forever. It blows out every other 
 single RPG, MMORPG. The graphics are amazing in this game and thats what I fell in love with, the 
 gameplay is superb and the whole concept of the game is unreal. The Races and characters you can 
 play as are vast like The Horde and alliance. The clans are awsome and the quests and weapons and 
 armor is awsome. You can spend hours playing it. Even though i do not have it I am getting it and 
 it is the greatest game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper-shadow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best MMORPGs ever. it has so many people playing all the time so there 
 is no shortage of people that are on, and often times doing the same quest as you. The people are 
 also friendly to new people too, yesterday i had a level 68 come up to my level 15 character and 
 offer to help on a quest. The game has seemingly endless quests and the levels are not easy to 
 go up in once level 55+ is reached, making this a long lasting experience. even after you complete 
 every single quest and get to level 70 the game still never ends because of player vs player battles, 
 which are always challenging and changing. there are also thousands of caves to fight and get elite 
 armor for your high level character, which can be really fun, especially if you are in a party 
 with friends. so overall this game is a good buy, there is almost nothing wrong with it and its 
 only 20 dollars, plus a free 10 day trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coakroach
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is without a doubt the most successful mmorpg (massively multiplayer online role 
 playing game) in history.
  Its beauty lies in the fact that it gives you so much choice, the classes are incredibly varied 
 and it wont take you long to find one you love.
  The world is also massive, plenty of places to roam around and quest, make friends, find treasure, 
 craft items and if you like to explore you'll fall in love with the game instantly.
  Blizzard has done nothing short of a spectacular job of creating a world that can be as fun and 
 happy or as grim and challenging as you want, it really lets you set the pace.
  The dungeons are intense and challenging and teamwork plays a massive factor but you can really 
 have some truly epic moments with people you've never even met and before you know it you'll never 
 want to play solo again. If your a nice guy and decide to make friends and join guilds you'll find 
 yourself in plenty of chances to work together and really socialise as much as humanly possible 
 without actually meeting them face to face.
  The game while fun to play socially (assuming you meet some decent people to play with) can become 
 tedious when soloing, while with any luck patch 2.3 will help address this issue with faster levelling, 
 you may find yourself killing the same mob over and over again to level or desperately trying to 
 find a new quest to do and be rewarded with mediocre experience points.
  All in all when it comes to fantasy mmorpg's world of warcraft is really the only option, and a 
 fine option of that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sax215
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I Love This Game. Its def. the best mmorpg that i have ever played. its hours of non stop fun. 
 I think everything about is it just right and i cant stop playing it. Its my favorite game of all 
 time. I played other mmo's but they dont compare. If you like mmo's THIS IS A MUST HAVE!!! Im always 
 stressed with school and stuff so after homework and projects this is a big stress reliever because 
 its so fun!! There are a great choice between classes and races, u can change the hair and color 
 and accesories. The classes give a nice variety for all players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is more than a game, it's an experience. One which will last you, well, however 
 long you want it to last. I was never really into MMORPG's before WoW, and to be honest I probably 
 won't play another one even after WoW, because in general the genre is very tedious. However, with 
 WoW, while the gameplay can be tedious at time, it's the people that really make the game amazing. 
 It's hard to describe, but after playing it for a while, it gets to the point where you log in 
 and have 3-5 people whispering you with YO or HELMSDEEP!!!!!!!! (that's my name) , or FISH! CHEESE! 
 TACOS! NOW SING TO ME ON TEAMSPEAK! It's just completely random, and you really meet alot of great 
 people. My playtime of the game is now limited, due to University and having to work when I'm off 
 from school, but even then, I still find it hard to resist logging in just to chat with the people. 
 They're really a blast to play with.
  
  It's funny, because I could write an entire review on this game without talking about gameplay, 
 graphics, audio, story, or any of that stuff. Because really, what is the gameplay? Well, it's 
 pretty fun, especially when you get into groups of 5, or even larger groups of up to 40 if you 
 want to raid an opposing faction's towns, but in the end, it isn't the gameplay that keeps you 
 playing. It's something more, something that can't really be described in words. It's the people. 
 It's the lush and seemingly endless environments to explore. It's the free updates from Blizzard 
 that add hundreds of hours of new content every couple of months.
  
  The game is basically designed to let you play as long as you want. Hey, that new Final Fantasy 
 comes out, well chances are if you play it 10 hours a day you'll beat it in a week. Hey look, a 
 new Grand Theft Auto, a new Mario, a new Zelda... but then after a few weeks, they're done, and 
 you move on to another game because it's just rare for most console games to last for a hundred 
 of more hours. But with WoW, you can play 50 hours a week, and still be playing it a year or two 
 later. There's no limit to the amount of time you can play. Get bored with one character, well 
 just hop onto another character. Log in at any time of the day and there will literally be tens 
 of thousands of others logged on at the same time.
  
  This review is very strange - it's not divided up into categories, with me talking about the gameplay, 
 and then moving on to the graphics, and then the story, but really it's because these things are 
 irrelevant to the WoW experience. The game is simply designed to keep you having fun for a long 
 time. So should you buy WoW, well that really depends on how much time you have. If you're always 
 pressed for time, lucky to get even an hour or two in on the latest Zelda even though it just released 
 that day, chances are WoW won't be the right game for you. But if you notice yourself with alot 
 of free time, playing games or watching TV or whatever, but are looking for some longterm commitment 
 that you can really sink your teeth into, well I think WoW could be what you're looking for. It'll 
 take a while to meet the right group of people and find where you fit in, heck my first year with 
 the game I think I averaged about 50 minutes a day, but once you find the right group of people 
 and the right stuff that you like to do, you'll find yourself logging in for hours just to chat 
 or kill stuff or to just plain have fun.
  
  Anyways, whether or not you should play WoW depends alot on your lifestyle, but just known that 
 it's a very deep game that's got a ton of meat on its bones. I myself have put over 2,000 hours 
 into the game over the past 2 and a half years, and I cherish every moment of it.
  
  Great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_nastase
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  About WOW you can only say whoow!!
  
  Been playing the game since a time when the areas of mid-end game were still virgin so to speak. 
 Still playing it at least 20 hours a week and i find hard to think of anything bad about this game. 
 Everything is just spot on and every frustration was due to my own failures and to the fact that 
 i'm a casual player and i dont have the meanings to achieve more in the game. It is indeed addictive 
 but only because the real world's intrusion in the game through its most dedicated players. Day 
 by day people you met in RL are in the game as well: greedy , in haste, friendly, sharp, bad or 
 kind, serious or childish you name it and you'll find them there. Same for all known events and 
 celebrations. I have now friends that i've never met and probably never will. It is fun and annoying, 
 it is incredibly large and still feels homely.
  And what matter the most -beyond the on-line features and everything that comes with it -is the 
 fact that the game itself has a very good interface and best gameplay i've met so far. I must give 
 it a rating of 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndru01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good: This is the vision of fantasy roleplaying fully realised. The RPG mechanics have been 
 streamlined down to the Diablo I &amp; II system, which made those games popular. The effect is 
 that you still get a decent feeling of progress. Opportunistically cooperating with other players 
 is fun, and assembling a raid is exciting, too. The consequences of dying in PvE are not so bad 
 that you'll punch you fist through your LCD screen but it is a sufficient deterrent to encourage 
 you to act cautiously. The World part of WoW is absolutely huge, and the online material created 
 by the fanbase is equally massive.
  
  The bad: Grind is a good analogy for WoW. You'll spend most of your time travelling between locations. 
 If you're not doing that then you're endlessly running a fight monster-heal-loot cycle to spend 
 loot on improving your armor and weapons so that you can get a higher level of fight monster-heal-loot 
 cycle. The interface is busy at first, and it takes a while to get used to the chat system for 
 interacting with other player. It took me hours figuring out how to turn of the City Defence and 
 Trade chat channels.
  
  As for the addictive quality, the endless grinding combined with the occasional adrenalin rush 
 is something similar to what gambling addicts face when they sit in front of a poker machine for 
 hours on end. The social aspect is there. Its faceless, so its no substitute for interacting with 
 real people in real life, unless your real life really sucks. WoW is a great pastime for those 
 with too much time to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  There seems to be a growing trend in the MMORPG genre when it comes to revolutions. Ultima Online 
 did well by providing worlds we could explore that also had decent graphics. Everquest took us 
 into the concept of "team roles" by providing a MMORPG that did well with co-op play in a 3d environment. 
 Dark Age of Camelot took the basic idea behind Everquest's class system and went in a new direction 
 that focused on endgame RvR. The MMORPG genre is going through a constant state of evolution. When 
 World of Warcraft was released, you could say that this was the next step in line.
  
  The difference that WoW brings to the table is it's ease of use. When picking up this game, I noticed 
 that the inside cover said you could learn this game without the use of the instruction manual. 
 This was very true as WoW's UI makes just about everything simple to pick up. You can tell that 
 a lot of love went into the creation of this game, with a solid code structure backed up by streamlined 
 gameplay. Sure there were bugs that still needed to be addressed, but this was one of those MMORPGs 
 that launched without too many major problems.
  
  Endgame is not very different from Everquest. This is a game that puts focus on raiding instances 
 to keep players going long after hitting the level cap. This is where WoW can be a double-edged 
 sword to some players who felt the first 70 levels were a breeze. This is not to say that the level 
 game is bad, but raiding will be your main focus at endgame if you wish to obtain the best gear.
 
  
  I feel everyone should at least try WoW even if they don't plan on sticking around long. It is 
 a great game for people who are new to the MMORPG genre to pick-up and play. It's very hard to 
 make a game that is easy to pick-up, hard to master. WoW is one of those games that managed to 
 do just that when it comes to keeping it fun while making it for hardcore gamers. 
  
  UPDATE: By far one of the worst communities I have ever experienced in an on-line rpg. Where I 
 once gave this a score of 9.0, I must lower it due to the lack of mature players. The new score 
 will be 8.0. I feel that a full point drop is worth it for the lack of community, which is the 
 reason to play an MMO in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I'll admit i'd rather it be in another realm of Blizzards excellent selections. Diablo would have 
 been my preference, but then again i'm just one customer. I'm also still looking for an excellent 
 mmorpg in the space realm, so just imagine what Starcraft could have been. But i've finally taken 
 the plunge and given WoW a try with one of those Walmart 1.99 trial cds. Of course the full day 
 of patching from version 1 all the way to 2.2 could have been avoided, but at least now i'm up 
 and running.
  
  And running, and running, and running some more. You die, you run back to your corpse. You run 
 from town to town, etc. etc. It's not that I mine running, but once i've discovered something, 
 give me a means to get back to a town or vendor quickly instead of just running. Just a pet peeve 
 but i'll deal with it.
  
  Other then that, the game is visually pleasing for 3 years old, as well as generally bug free. 
 It still amazes me to run up on the counters to talk to traders and the like, but allows for one 
 to try to climb shear cliff faces just to see if you can reach the top. Still not in Oblivions 
 visual realm, but there again I don't want my latency or frame rate to have the same effect either. 
 running along happily at 60 fps on my widescreen at highest resolution got me spoiled. I can't 
 hardly stand to drop back down when I move to my laptop anymore. Overall a gaming experience everyone 
 should try even if only with the 14 day 1.99 Walmart trial discs. Or better yet, download straight 
 and hopefully get the latest and greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fire_god93
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Hi, I know alot of people play World of warcraft, I used too also i had 2 accounts 5 lvl 70s and 
 i didnt realise how much time i wasted on this game until i looked at my priest at how much stuff 
 i got on him, I didnt close my account im playing guild wars now and i've saved alot of money , 
 i just wanted my life back i wanted to be with my friends not on a virtual world but in real life, 
 i'm Glad i quit WoW and i hope i never go back to it, Im rating this game High because of the quality 
 they have in it. im not trying to be mean about the game i still like it but i just dont wanna 
 play it anymore. so thanks. - Fire_god93 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  My friends had played this game for a month or so, and I finally gave in. So there I am, a tiny 
 little level one without the slightest idea as to what the hell I was supposed to do. Luckily, 
 the beginning levels do a good job of teaching you how to play the game and at the same time make 
 you feel important to the workings of the world. That's part of what makes this game so great, 
 you feel like an important hero, but at the same time know you're not the only one out there. In 
 fact, the farther you advance in the game, the more you start to work with those other people, 
 making you feel more and more like a soldier or drone than a hero, which kind of took away from 
 the fun of the game for me. Also, the world and scenery are perfect. Its familiar enough for you 
 to relate to it and make it believable, but different enough to make you feel like you're in a 
 whole new fantastic world. They also give you enough rewards along the way to keep you leveling 
 to 60, like my favorite, the mounts. i had an awesome raptor for my troll. Once you hit level 60 
 your journey is far from over, there is PvP, raiding, professions and more. So there is something 
 there for just about everyone, although I did a little of everything. I give you one warning, if 
 you plan to get to 60 and make something of yourself like become high warlord or down Nefarion, 
 prepare to take the time out of your social life. This game had a lot of heart put into its development 
 and it shows, there's just some kind of magic to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectroFire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Theres way too much good stuff to say about WoW and a few flaws but over 10 million people have 
 a account and have or are in this world. The graphics still holds up and the communties are awesome 
 altough some realms (servers) dont have a great friendliness rep. The monthly fees could put you 
 off, but if your seriously interested you'll probably break even considering u'll be playing this 
 game for a long long time. WoW is perfect but it needs alot of patience, it isnt amazing at the 
 beginning when your overwhelmed which stuff your clueless about but a couple of hours in you'll 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimera1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game thats negative that doesnt effect every MMORPG thats out there, 
 yes theres a grindfest in the middle of it, yes there are the immature players that just want to 
 get on your nerves. But go play EQ and its exactly the same.
  
  This game changed the face of MMO's all around the world, with amazing free loading graphics, and 
 effects and action that was never before seen in an mmo.
  
  If you dont play this, your missing out. Constantly updated and with seasonal quests and events 
 all year round, this game has something for everyone.
  
  PvP: Well with world PvP and battlegrounds this game has something for everyone, Team based combat 
 or fight alone, the choice is completely yours.
  
  The question you should be asking yourself is why are you looking at this..... when its time you 
 could be spending in the most immersive online RPG to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdVader
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Completely changes the MMO feel and adds a new brand to the MMO series. MMO's literally feed off 
 of this game to create their own features. The Good: Well, first off... Never played an MMO? Well, 
 so much as looking at this game will make you want it. PvP could be better, but the PvE system 
 is great and can make up for PvP flaws in many ways. The Bad: Badly planned economic decisions 
 can result in a long gruesome recovery, and thats about it. But even that pitfall is controllable 
 and avoidable. If you are a fan of any MMO's you will instantly love this game. Seems to do everything 
 right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltora572
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of MMO's.. so i decided to go out and buy WOW.. just to see what all the fuss was 
 about. I noticed this game was getting very good reviews.
  My first nag is the length of time it takes to install and upgrade.
  Quite frankly you might 
 aswell freeze yourself for a few years while you wait for it to install. And once it is installed 
 you think.. OH GREAT!! LETS PLAY.
  Um.. No.
  You then have to go and update it all the way to the latest version.
  Time to get back in the 
 freezer.
  
  Once you do get it installed it keeps you entertained!
  For about 1-2weeks. Then it starts getting really boring. You have to level up to about 20-25 before 
 the game starts getting good again.
  And lets be honest, depending on the time you play, this could take forever.
  
  I think, once 
 you get far enough into it, it's pretty good.
  But i think its not worth the wait and lets face it, tthe graphics arn't top notch either.
  
 
  DELTORA572 =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathandDecay13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  ok lets get straight to it gameplay: the gameplay was good many different skills abilities and 
 different classes all with unique gameplay every class could deal exelent damage but some more 
 than others healers melee and ranged combat made this an exellent game to play. The quests got 
 repative end game exepierence was a change but ended up getting to repative but nether the less 
 the pvp was good capture flag resource collecting and arena exelent.
  Graphics the graphics was good for an rpg game nether really faltered so well made in that perspective.
 
  Interface: not complicated at all easy to understand talents quests and skills and abilaties overall 
 this was an exelent game to play my favourite class was a mage so much damage fun to play andi 
 loved playing gnomes small little damage dealers this game is worth playing but can get boring 
 in some stages instances fun with people so if your looking for a good rpg this is one to go for 
 :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPG121582
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is fun at the beginning when you are just learn but then when all you do is just 
 go look for stuff and kill it gets really boring. They should have implemented some kind of mission 
 system where you actually have fun and the quests don't get old. I personally think this game is 
 a waste of money and a waste of time and it is highly overrated. Also I don't like the fact that 
 you can't customize your character the way you want and you'll end up running into someone who 
 looks exactly like you. Well to sum it up it's an okay game solo and can be a little fun with friends 
 but I still think it's overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uk_beny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  well i can say im plesently suprissed by this game im not usally into mmos but this one was good 
 allthough i dont own this game my computer not powerfull enough to play it ive played it on number 
 of accosions and each time i find my self wanting to play more wanting to finish the next quest 
 or wanting to get the next level normaly i see addictiveness a bad thing for a game to have but 
 this is some how different normaly i feel im just wasting my time getting addicted to a stupid 
 little mmo like runescape ugh i hate that game but this is well fun very very fun even more so 
 if you can find mates to play with that is probley what i enjoy most about this game even more 
 so then the stuninig environment and very addictive gameplay probley what suprrises me about this 
 game is that well its big and that an understatement think big then times it by ten then square 
 times it by pie then your bout a quater of the way there. yer that big well if your computer is 
 powerfull enough go buy it if not well go play runescape or somthing a draw back for this game 
 is the price i know 5 bucks a mounth isnt that much but in a year you could have like 60 bucks 
 then you could go buy call of duty or something in my opinion is better.
  
  so in conclusion if you have the money time and a good enough computer to play this game go out 
 and buy it actully you dont even need to just download yet anougher good side to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaoweiqiang
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft. What can I say? It's fun.. at first. I've been playing for 10 months and I, 
 not boasting, know quite a lot about it. Basically, the end - game of this game is definitely fun 
 ( Team work and of course, EPICS! ) , but it tends to be a chore if you overlook it. Believe me, 
 logging in at the same time of the day everyday ( Depends on how hardcore your guild is. ) tends 
 you make you wonder if this is the game you should be playing. Neglecting your family and work 
 and most importantly, your life. Elitisms. The game is broken. Arena ruined the game. Most classes 
 are either well-loved or forsaken. Take the paladin for an example. ( Yes, I rolled a paladin with 
 no knowledge of the class. ) That is far by the worse class you want to choose to deal damage with. 
 I avoided healing. I ended up doing it. I gave up what I want to progress further. Team work? In 
 life, I have no say. In a game, I have a say. I lost my life during the 10 months of game-play. 
 Believe it or not. And yes, I've done 25 man bosses. Not just Gruul's, but higher. If you have 
 been to BlizzCon ( I haven't but I watched a video on it. ) when Blizzard Staff mentioned Retribution 
 Talent Tree ( It's a damage specialty for Paladins. ) the crowd laughs. I found that.. insulting.
 
  
  Most people treat this game as life itself. It is a very group-orientated game. The group consists 
 of 5. A raid is a group of more than 5 individuals. If you have no one willing to group with you 
 for a dungeon run, be it quests or whatsoever, you'll find yourself sitting in a town spamming 
 the trade channels for a group. Not forgetting the ninja-s ... Solo-Play? Fine. You'll get bored. 
 Finish all the quests? You need dungeon runs and parties. If people ( In the game ) do not agree 
 with your comment, they'll go like : QQ moar noob e. t. c. Why do opposing parties always say that? 
 I have no idea..
  
  Easy to learn but hard to master. If you are still unclear, experiment with it.
  
  Gave it 
 a 5.0 because I've met a few unforgettable friends but many are just.. the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIMMYMAINES
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Ok so many people say this game is good and alot of people say its bad. I have to say im not addicted 
 but i do play sometimes and also the fact im only lvl 42 and ive been playing time to time for 
 2 years compare to people getting to lvl 70/60 in 3 months.
  
  People should just get the free trial if you like it then handover your credit card and welcome 
 but those who hated wow from teh free trial then never play this game again i dont really care 
 that much. Word f advice if you choose a pvp server than watch out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all for the 5 people out there who have been living under a rock and do not know about 
 WOW, get a computer, install the game, and join in all the fun. This game has got to be the best 
 of the best in terms of multilayer. You can play as the Alliance (Human, Night Elf, Gnome, Dwarf) 
 or the Horde (Orc, undead, troll, tauren) . Once you spend all your time customizing your player, 
 get ready to enter the biggest world you have ever seen in a video game. The best part, only one 
 quick loading screen, and you will be able to move seamlessly from one area to another, anywhere 
 on the entire continent. the only exception to the loading screens is dungeons and going from one 
 continent to the other, but those screens are even faster. First off, let me dispel the rumors 
 about WOW. One that i hear alot is that it is a grinding game, or that is is a questing game. Both 
 views are wrong, because you can choose to grind or quest, you are not forced to do one or the 
 other. Second rumor is that it is highly addictive. For some people this might be true, but for 
 me, i usually don't play more than a couple hours a day at most. Some days i don't even play. This 
 is not to say the game isn't awesome, because it most definitely is. It is also a fairly good looking 
 game as well, though far from top of the line graphics. This is also a fun game to play with some 
 of your friends from the outside. I've done it alot and i always found it most entertaining. I 
 cant possibly tell you all the good things about this game, you just have to play it for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thundarius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  If you want to experience the golden age of MMO's then you need to pick up your self a copy of 
 World of Warcraft or download it from on-line. It's simply part of the 21st centuries pop internet 
 culture and with over 9 million people or more playing it on-line you'd feel stupid thinking back 
 one day in your old age and say... I never did that. Cause the fact is your life wouldn't be complete 
 if you haven't experienced the latest on-line sensastion. And once you've leveled every class to 
 80 and conquered every instance will you be ready to move on. So before you dust off your nintendo 
 you need to play World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best mmorpg i have ever played. It succesfully combines role-playing, 
 skill, strategy, and run-for-your-life situations into an all out jawdropper. I never expected 
 this game to be this good, but it proved me wrong. The first thing I loved about this game was 
 how in depth it was. Making character is very detailed, so much as to choose the piercings he/she 
 has. This is a plus. The quests and monsters in this game are also very challenging, in some points, 
 and can take none to a whole lot of skill to beat. No matter if you're alone or with 50 other players, 
 there's alot to do. The music is also good, containing alot of fantasy like tunes that get stuck 
 in your head very often. Overall, this game is great. From the gameplay, to the quests, to the 
 piercings, it's more than you bargained for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlad02
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the best game ever. The best mmorpg ever made. Of course it has some bugs, but 
 still... It has a huge world with lots of monsters everywhere, and the level system is pretty well 
 made. The races, the ideea of two opposite forces the alliance and the horde, everything is just 
 perfect. The interface is very well made. And the battle system is great. I think this game is 
 the best, and the two new games are great two... i totally recommend this game to any mmo-rpg's 
 fan... And now i'm just writting... just writting... i think i have 100 words... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I will tell this for when I first started playing World of Warcraft. I was in the beta and got 
 the game when it first came out in 2004. Back then this game was simply amazing. There was a lot 
 to do and creating a new character and brining it to 60 and getting gear and all of that jazz was 
 the thing. Sence Burning Crusade came out.. eh.. all they really did add was new area's which is 
 good. But they added 10 more levels and added what you would have to do back in World of Warcraft 
 and that would be raid, raid, raid, and more raid.
  It does get boring after a while. If they added something that would keep you very amused in the 
 game without raiding then I would most likely go back. Cause I am sure not the one to tell you 
 that you won't have a good time when you first start playing the game.
  
  Yes, it is addicting to some people if you have herd that from someone or a friend then you are 
 100% right. You can get in a gamer way Addicted to playing it on trying to succeed in the game 
 and get everything better then anyone else.
  
  But overall I liked the game back then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  How do you write a review of a game so massive, so fun, and so nearly perfect as World of Warcraft? 
 Seriously, this game is awesome. For veterans of MMORPG and for newcomers alike. Hoping into the 
 game is very easy for beginners. The starter quests are fairly easy and obvious and there is no 
 penalty for death in the beginning. As you do quests and fight monsters, you gain various skills 
 and level up your character. You will even find professions like blacksmithing and alchemy to make 
 you useful items, not to mention a profit.
  
  Speaking of which, the economy in this game is pretty amazing. The Auction house system is very 
 convenient for selling things for you while you go out and quest, if you are willing to give a 
 bit of your profit up of course. The house always takes a small slice of what you earn. However, 
 as you go up in levels you will earn more and more money, which is good. The higher level you are 
 the more money you will need to upgrade your abilities. Special items like a mount you can ride 
 to increase your speed, or weapons and armor also cost a pretty penny.
  
  This game is fairly easy to pick up and play, but if you want to get to the hard core stuff you'll 
 have to devote a significant chunk of time into it to get to a decently high level. Fortunately, 
 for those who don't have that kind of time, there are the battlegrounds, PVP games that pit horde 
 against alliance. These are based on the level you are at, so if you're a 40ish character you'll 
 be fighting other 40somethings. Of course this spawns the twink character. A character someone 
 leveled up to the maximum allowed level for a certain before being moved to the next higher tier. 
 These twinks are given the best gear you can get for that level and they just pvp all day long. 
 For those of you more into PVP fighting and less into questing, this is for you. Of course, twinking 
 does require a bit of money, so good twinks will have a super high lvl character supplying them 
 with money and equipment.
  
  That being out of the way, this game is awesome. The storylines, the quests, the plots, the sheer 
 amount of control you have over your character. It's amazing. Far superior to anything that I've 
 played before. Feel like shooting some spells? Mages and Warlocks are your ticket. How about being 
 able to walk into a room and take all comers? Warrior or Paladin is your path. How about healing 
 the masses? Priest. Shapeshifting? Druids. Sneaky? Rogues. You can basically tailor any character 
 you make to suit your style. The game is actually very well balanced. No one class has a clearcut 
 superiority over everything. Every class has someone they are weak against and someone they are 
 strong against.
  
  That being said, not all the servers are balanced. Some servers have more alliance than horde, 
 and vice versa. There are those that are fairly balanced however. For those of you who don't want 
 to bother with being ganked killed by enemy players PVE or RP servers are for you. For those of 
 you who are into beating the hell out of other people, PVP servers are more your style.
  
  Whatever kind of gamer you are, you'll probably find something entertaining in this game. I highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8nasty
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  When Blizzard announced that World of Warcraft was in the works, I was rather skeptical as to how 
 the company would really immerse the player into Azeroth. One would think that the rather cartoony 
 graphics, for lack of a better word, could make the player think they were in this living, breathing 
 world. After playing the final product, I was dumbfounded as to how wrong I was! The combat was 
 smooth and fast-paced which at times make it feel like an action game! Unlike Everquest, it has 
 a rather limited class selection, but the detail and quality put into making the classes truly 
 unique was such an accomplishment. Blizzard did exceptionally well bringing the lore from the popular 
 RTS games and putting them into an RPG format. It was always nice to come across towns and people 
 that were accessible in strategy predecessor. If your new to the MMO genre or Everquest 2 is getting 
 on your nerves, you should definitely pick up WoW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  really dont believe all the hype this game gets .. and the 9.5 its just one word do describe it 
 all .... (ADDICTION) this game really gets you addiction but not me no not me i didnt waste my 
 money on this i tryed the 14 day trial and just said wow why is everyone so adicted like comeon 
 its not even that good of an rpg game if u really like rpg games try some thing like oblivion which 
 has amazing graphics and better gameplay .. i give this a 7.5 cuz it gives u that feeling that 
 ur in the game and makes u wana play this forever but its not great geting addicted... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadCritic92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Never thought that it would be possible but some how Blizzard Entertainment Inc., has found a way 
 to implement crack into a game. I've found this game to be extremely addictive, despite all of 
 the running around from town to town, city to city, world to world, World of Warcraft is amazingly 
 fun to play.
  
  If you buy this game then you wont be mad or upset with your decision to purchase this game, although 
 everyone else around you will. What do I mean? Well, you spend no time what so ever with your family 
 / friends any more because, World of Warcraft is your life, friends, food, and also your oxygen. 
 You walk World of Warcraft, You talk World of Warcraft, You breathe World of Warcraft, it gets 
 to the point were, your whole life revolves around World of Warcraft. Now don't think it's too 
 addictive and you don't need to buy it, it's just it can take you over board on weekends, weekdays, 
 and just about any other day on the calendar. I bought the game and it lasted for about a year 
 or maybe less and I quit, not really wanting to I guess you could say. Gone to vacation and came 
 back and remembered it was frozen because I didn't pay the bill, so therefor I never did renew 
 it. But I am going to be starting back on Oct. 26th of this month, come on out and join the online 
 sensation of World of Warcraft. Some people quit it because of some of the newbs on World of Warcraft, 
 the things they do, the things they say, you kinda fall in love with the social interaction with 
 the game. But there is some people on there that can make the gaming experience not worth playing 
 any more, just hang in there, remove that person from your friends list or add them to ignore, 
 which is great features of World of Warcraft. Without it World of Warcraftt would have thousands 
 quit it daily. WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR????
  JOIN THE ONLINE SENSATION OF WORLD OF WARCRAFT!!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  This game can sometimes 
 be overrated. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Hey
  
  This is my latest review, that has come a wee bit late, and of course, as you have proberbly guessed, 
 it is on WoW, be warned though, this is also partially on WoW BC, and WoW WotLK.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics on wow are really, really REALLY!!! good. If you have EVER played 
 Warcraft 3, you will agree with me, as it captures the warcraft universe perfectly, and just makes 
 you feel like your part of the actual world. Which is nice.
  
  This effects are also ver nice, example, i never get bored of watching my warlock summon ANYTHING, 
 i mean seriously, the effect is amazing in my opinion, and even if it takes a little while to cast, 
 just watching the animation is sweet. To help make the game look EVEN BETTER! There are LOADS of 
 different weapons and armour's, that look similar to begin with, but as you progress, you will 
 notice how sweet, and ultra cool looking you will look. Overall, it looks fantastic, the minor 
 problem is, it can be very laggy on a slightly dated PC, as the spec is rather high, so i recommend 
 having at least 1k of RAM, for the best results speed wise.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Simple WASD movement, camera is moved via mouse and right/left click, auto run is default to num 
 lock, spells/skills are put onto quick select keys, 1-0 or something. Simple, any moron can pick 
 up and play. Using a Z-board WOW edition is advised for the best control method as it is made to 
 play wow.
  
  SOUND
  
  Great sound track, some funny lines of short dialog from the characters jokes, and some cool sound 
 effects just help add to the experience.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The best part of the game, and also the worst. WoW is not only addicting, it is also frustrating 
 slow paced, even though combat is fast. Thanks to quick leveling, you are led into false secrutiy 
 that leveling up is always this easy... WRONG! Getting to lvl 60 for a casual gamer may take many 
 months... which is bad. Also, many quests force characters to use teams, this isnt bad, but some 
 people hate it, and with the nooby leaver, it doesnt really help much. Another HUGE flaw is the 
 Alliance. I am a UK/European gamer, and i do not like to stereotype, but i have asked many people 
 on this, via questionaire, and 80% say that: Alliance are either 8-13 yr olds thinking there grown 
 upo cos they can swear online, or ignorant Americans who cant stand dying, horde, or anyone who 
 doesnt agree with what they think... Personally, i agree in some ways, but like i said, i hate stereotyping 
 and i do no many cool american gamers, but meh... alliance does tend to have many imature gamers.
 
  
  Grinding.. the worst part of the game... seriously, i hate grinding, its boring, and no matter how 
 cool the game looks, sounds or how great the community CAN be, it doesn't stop the fact that it 
 is truly a bore. Story... now i people will be like YES! It has a story... whilst people who polay 
 it already will be like What theres actually a story? where! Dont lie you trickster! Seriously, 
 there is no story what so ever, its amazing how popular this game is lol.
  
  Good parts now: The SIZE of the world!!! Its HUGE! You can run from 1 end of a contenant to the 
 other without ANY loading screens, the only screens i can think of are: Battle Grounds (PVP) transport, 
 contenant travel, Instance travel and the initial game log in loader. Amazing...
  
  Dungeons: There are loads of mini dungeons, and Instances (MASSIVE DUNGEONS) , ranging from lvl 10 
 6 man party dungeons, to lvl 60 40 man raids... loads of fun, but will often find yourself playing 
 through them over and over to get 1 item, that you then will sell 5 levels later lol... what a waste.
 
  
  HORDE: As a huge horde fan, due to the fact that they are far more trust worthy, more 'good' and 
 just plain cooler than the chaotic, treturous and back stabbing alliance. Story wise of course 
 (from WC3) . WC3 vets will no what i mean... But they also have a much better online comunity, less 
 haters, flamers, noobs etc. Its also got a great starter instance that alliance don't have a equivalent 
 to, which makes horde a better side to start with. RACES: There are many races to wow, each with 
 there own str and weakness's. they include:
  Human
  Night elf
  Dwarf
  Gnome
  Orc (yes it IS spelled Orc, not Ork)
  Troll
  Tauren
  Forsaken (undead, that are more trustworthy 
 than humans... and im being serious)
  
  And with the addition of BC, you get Blood Elf and Draenae or what ever there called. Which means 
 you have LOADS of variety. Which is always nice.
  
  Thats about it really... apart from the mounts, flying mounts and classes. Oh yeah the classes are:
 
  Warrior
  Paladin
  Shaman
  Druid
  Rogue
  Warlock
  Mage
  Priest
  Hunter
  
  And i think that is it... i think...
  
  OVERALL
  
  With the new lvl 70 cap, and the comming 
 of lvl 80, this could be a curse, or aid depending on whether you like grinding.
  
  Either way, this game will most likely take loads of time and effort, and if you got nowt better 
 to do for a month, i adivse buying it just for the 1 month free trial, its cool.
  
  Even with all its weakness, and all the times i have quit (5 to be exact) i still recomend this 
 to those who like the genre, or want to get into it. But if grinding is not your thing, or you 
 want a more tactical, skill based, story driven experience, i recomened Guild Wars, which is better 
 in some ways, and worse in others... read my Guild Wars review for more info.
  
  Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I only played the demo, but WoW shocked me and made me truly wonder what Blizzard had done to me... 
 I have played Mmo's before, and I have enjoyed them, so this isn't coming from a reformed anti-mmo, 
 but unlike other games I was able to feel as if I had truly accomplished something in very few 
 days. The game allowed me to do almost anything, even though I had done nothing. My first character 
 was able to mine and smith for a long time and create a 40 person raid to hang out . With 2 level 
 60s and mostly level 30's, another one of my characters was able to form a guild with over 25 people 
 in it in less than an hour. I only played the demo for 3 out of the 10 days and I felt like I had 
 truly done something with it. I got 2 characters to level 10 and I was able to travel from one 
 end of the alliance territory to the other. I truly did enjoy playing the game. I would suggest 
 this to anyone who has free time on their hands, maybe share an account with a few other people, 
 but I'm not suggesting you get your own account to yourself, you'll spend too much time on it if 
 you do, but I definitely suggest this game to anyone. Absolutely amazing, still shocks me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably all around the best video game ever made. It is for sure the most addicting 
 one ever. I was shown this game by a friend of mine and only played for about 20 minutes before 
 I had decided to completely update my computer and start playing. That was 2 and a half years ago 
 and I have played ever since. The game world is so expansive and full of depth. The controls and 
 UI are incredible. The stories and quests are top notch. And there is just something about this 
 game that will not let you stop playing. It literally almost takes over your life. Many times I 
 stayed up all night and played, or called in sick to work so I could stay home all day and play. 
 Blizzard did everthing right and set the bar very high for mmos and video games in general. I have 
 yet to see anything even come close to how good wow is, and im not sure i ever will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  It's hands down the best Massive Multi Player Online Game I've ever played. It addicted me with 
 ease and I enjoyed its addiction. A game where experience (player wise, not character) is gained 
 by playing it, and learning the tricks of the trade . The profesion, and classes are fun to. Areanas, 
 Instances, Dungeons, Raids all great. The graphics are awesome, and the quests are so much fun. 
 Joining a guild can make it even better to, if you do choose a descent one.. some are just obnoxious. 
 The only downside of the game is the amount you youngling who talk their mouth off, but besides 
 that its all fun and game!! ENJOY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Where can i start from this garbage
  
  1) Graphics are like cartoons
  2) Gameplay is ordinary Hack and slash until your reach level 1000000
  3) Sounds are nothing 
 special
  4) Pay money for subscriptions
  
  So no thanks Blizzard
  There are way better games out there and without asking me to monthly pays
  by the way
  
 
  This thing is so much overrated and so overhyped that concludes me that Blizzard has made good 
 work at the marketing department of this game
  
  So as i said no thanks Blizzard i surely can enjoy my times with games that have better graphics 
 and better gameplay and that have both Single player and multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakmaster13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow is pretty awesome. the fact that this will run on most rigs is sweet. The fanbase is very deep 
 and the community couldn't be better. The only cons are the outdated graphics (even though i like 
 the cartoony style) and its addictiveness. I personally am not too addicted to it, i play maybe 
 2 hours a day. Maybe. I would usually stop and go hangout downtown with some of my friends that 
 don't play wow. You would be surprised how unnerdy this game really is. Its just time consuming 
 and lightens your wallet. PvP is kinda wierd, but fun in its own right. So all in all, seriously 
 great gameplay and cute cartoony graphics make this game a must have for anyone that won't become 
 TOO addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to MMORPGs World of Warcraft is the deffinition of the genre, albeit numerous games 
 came before, it is World of Warcraft (here on out called WoW) that perfects on the concept, and 
 the game play.
  
  You get to create a character from a variety of races, then you have to choose a class, then a 
 couple of professions! So many choices, and then in your class you have three talent routes to 
 choose from! The sheer mass of choices and the sheer mass of game play can be startling at first, 
 which is why I recommend you do some research before you purchase the game as to not be so overwhelmed, 
 it will help you and help the other players trying to help you complete quests.
  
  Sure the system is easy to use, but the rest of the saying is that it is difficult to master, which 
 is true. To truly make a useful character for questing or PvP or both, is quite the task. You must 
 select a class that suites you in a way, to keep your own interest, then pick the proper talent 
 route. You can search all the terms and such on the WoW website and thottbot (the google for WoW 
 players) to familiarize yourself with the game, so you are not deemed a noob, which is a horrible 
 title to be named.
  
  Because remember, at 15 bucks a month, you better be having a good time : )
  
  The graphics 
 are solid, they are eye candy without being too preachy during game play and are effective with 
 the online play. You can up the settings if you have a nice strong computer and the highest possible 
 internet connection, but that is not recommended, optimal game play is the best choice here, it 
 is the choice above graphics when it comes to MMOs. Don't get me wrong, the graphics are PC quality 
 however some textures get real up close and personal while walking through the forest and it looks 
 somewhat cheesy.
  
  The game play itself consists mainly of point and click, then using the wasd or arrow keys to move 
 around. While many players don't like point and click games, this system optimizes game play (like 
 the graphics) so you can get around the world and your spells/moves list with ease.
  
  The quests however, are repetitious and so are the battles. Each quest will consist of either killing 
 vast amounts of enemies, killing vast amounts of enemies for items from them, running errands, 
 collecting items and etc. Each quest is the exact same, but disguised by a different character 
 or different monster. All monsters and enemies in the game fight the exact same way, you are taking 
 turns hitting each other even though the game has these time delays to make it feel like it isn't 
 turn based, even though it truly blatantly is. Each monster is just a carbon copy of the other 
 but with a slightly different style and the higher the level, they just have a higher attack and 
 HP.
  
  That isn't to say that it isn't fun. The first 20-30 levels are great (as I am level 30) but it 
 really does suck up time, I'm at a point now where a good 3 hours of solid gaming will level me 
 up once, but 3 hours for me is one good sitting, and I can not always do that. The problem lies 
 in the monthly cost, which if you go away for a week on vacation with your family, your 15 bucks 
 is still ticking, and your month is still running out. While you are sleeping, you are wasting 
 money. While your at work or at school, you are wasting money on a single game.
  
  The point is this, if you love RPGs, or like addicting repetitive games, then WoW is most definitely 
 for you. I have enjoyed it, but the thought of purchasing another game card (I only bought one, 
 and with the first month free I had 3 months) is agreeing with me. I would rather get a 360 and 
 pay less then half for xbox live which would let me play every 360 game online (that has online 
 play) .
  
  You need to have commitment, you need to be really bored and have some money just burning a hole 
 in your pocket to get this game, because after you pay, theres no turning back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabathamax
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I do not know what I have been waiting for but I finally purchased WOW with the Burning crusade 
 expansion. All the reviews are right this game totally rocks. I have a regular life (job and all 
 LOL) but after work the past nites have involved me staying up way past my bed time playing. I 
 have played EQ2 and Guild Wars and I now see a lot of similarities in the games, but obviously 
 they copied WOW. The only complaint I have is I cannot move my action bars or have more than one 
 showing, I dont like scrolling to use an ability. Im sure there are mods out there to fix this 
 but Im still learning. So I give this game a perfect 10, if you have not played it yet what are 
 you waiting for ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  THis game is allrigth i do prefer other rpg's because i think this game cna get boring some times 
 after the quests its the same just all over and over again Cause most of the monsters look the 
 same AKA: murlocs , Gnolls and so on they say this game has really gd graphics i think different 
 because most of them... they can be mucked sometimes
  
  I do not hate this game i just dind that it get boring sometimes Yes i have not gto a level 70 
 character : ( thats probbally why its not that much fun for me because i watched level 70 videos 
 on yuotube and yes it looks fun i just dont have the Patients to get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It's a great running program, I've never even seen a bug in questing or any aspect that didn't 
 look polished. It runs good even on older hardware. Every server seems to have enough population 
 to make groups easy to find and the economy feel stable.
  
  It's just that after reaching level 30 at launch and every time thereafter I've tried to play again 
 I just loose interest. I haven't found any game subsystems that I feel I could master or focus 
 on that would be any different from what 100,000 other people haven't already done. After a short 
 time all the locations look the same. All the toons look the same. Everyone uses the same armor, 
 same foods, same pets, ...
  
  All that being said I hope it continues to prosper and keeps the people that like it involved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  This was, hands down, the game that really got me back into gaming again. I had gotten pretty busy 
 with things and just didn't have as much time to get back into gaming. I picked up a few roll-playing 
 games and then this came to my door via some friends for my birthday. Many months of playing later 
 I found myself still overjoyed with this game. I will admit, I DID get bored grinding along after 
 a while and the quests just got old but, overall, the game is an amazing experience through and 
 through! As graphics continue to get better and better with online games of this caliber it will 
 be a pretty awesome experience for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Hi guys! I'm gonna try to be fair here.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are cartoon like so you can't really say they are old and worn off. They're 
 fun. I just don't like spell effects. Environments are very nicely designed and armors too!
  
  Sound: The soundtrack and everything from effects to voices is great. Fits the lore and the 
 game's attitude
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is that of a typical mmo sadly but with added Z-Axis. (you can jump around 
 which really adds to the control) . Player skill recommended but not required in pve, pvp-
  PVP: The world pvp is not exactly fun except when it's organised (aka raids at towns villages etc) . 
 PVP is not really balanced between classes. There are classes that beat classes but get beat by 
 other ones. PVP arenas are fun but combined with the grind-to-get-honor-points attribute, stay 
 out of my interest.
  
  PVE: The pve is nice but could have been better. I mean i really love the idea of 25 people gathering 
 to kill some massive boss even with the stupid DKP system on BUT i think that creature AI doesn't 
 even exist and raid fights are a bit.... Dull... I mean i don't find it really fun to assign tanks 
 that go and take all the damage, priests and many druids to heal ONLY, mages all cast the same 
 spell so as not to get aggro etc etc.
  
  DKP: This is the worst system ever implemented in a game. I mean ok, users implemented this one 
 in WoW but it exists and is the basic Loot Style in raids right now. It is just unfair. Attendance 
 rating?? This is a complete Joke. Let's just say you have studies or relationships you have to 
 take care. You can't be online 24/7 as this requires. But at the same time if you don't play at 
 least 10 hours a day you'll never get those high-end armors and items you've been asking for.
 
  
  Quests: Typical MMO quests, go there kill that bring the essence. With a bit of fun added in quest 
 texts etc.
  
  Trades: The trading system is just not good. There's no trading for the best items. Just essences, 
 materials and low items.
  
  OVERALL: This game is great in design, great in fun at points, has a HUGE community (good and bad) 
 and generally good. But as you get deeper and deeper into the game either you switch your life 
 for it and continue playing
  (meaning you don't go out that much anymore and make this a high priority in your life) or you're 
 gonna stay a mediocre high level player and that's the worst characteristic of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Okay,
  
  The thing that I like about WoW is that it is an MMO. There are actually other people on it whom 
 you can talk to. Sure, some of them are noobs, but most of them are good people
  
  Sure, the gameplay is good, but not fantastic. There is a large variety of spells and abilities, 
 which vary from class to class. But most of these seem to do the same thing, and half of them you 
 never use, anyway.
  Also, the combat gets a bit repetitive, and the game crashes a lot.
  
  The graphics are actually quite bad, and as for the 'seamless' world, hardly. There's almost 
 constant lag and like I said the game crashes. Also the price. $15 a month? That is daylight robbery. 
 They really ought to introduce an hourly charge. That'll also stop people playing 18 hours a day 
 and slowing down the game.
  
  For some reason, though, this game is highly addicting. It's a good game, but I don't recommend 
 it unless you want to get reeled in and find it almost impossible to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been aiming to review WoW for a while now. Having played FFXI, and City of Heroes, I feel 
 I have at least some experience in the field. Additionally, unlikc official reviews, I can tell 
 you the state of affairs in the long term where really any MMORPG has to show well.
  
  WoW is undeniably a huge commercial success for Blizzard. It has more sales under it's belt at 
 most single player games, and unlike them, Blizzard gets a monthly fee from their player base. 
 It has been touted as the best in the genera, and really has set a new, seemingly insurmountable 
 bar, for future MMO's to attempt to match. I wish them luck, but I don't see it happening any time 
 soon.
  
  WoW does a lot of things right, which is no doubt where it's popularity comes from. It is very 
 casual friendly, with an easy going leveling system, very forgiving early combat and with a fast 
 allowing even those with limited time to advance quickly. Graphically it stands up very well in 
 the genera, and besides a cartoony feel which some dislike, it is more than adequate to the task.
 
  
  It also has some good hardcore appeal with many end game instances, PvP, and an extremely customizable 
 interface. This gives you some nice options late game, and some nice challenge, no matter what 
 your tastes.
  
  However, that does not mean it is without it's problems. The economy is a total mess, and the focus 
 on solo play early on has hurt the overall community. Stability continues to be a problem to this 
 very day and there is no signs of any near future fixes. Possibly most importantly, the game has 
 become totally focused on endgame content, leaving those leveling left out, and forced to grind 
 their way to the top to really experience the MMO aspect of the game. Class balance is still in 
 heavy flux, and patches are often unacceptably slow to come.
  
  The long term is also an open question. With the intro to BC, the first expansion, Blizzard did 
 a lot to correct issues with sparce quests, useless rewards, and poor itemization in general late 
 game, but they did not attempt to rebalance previous content which in effect rendered the entire 
 original endgame worthless. With the next expansion on it's way along with another raise in the 
 level cap, many wonder if WoW is going to repeat this, leaving BC endgame content in the dust, 
 and at this moment there is nothing to say that is not exactly what will happen.
  
  Overall, I have little doubt that the popularity of WoW is mostly due to it's casual appeal. While 
 definitely a strong member of the MMORPG club, I feel many blissfully look over it's many weaknesses. 
 It still ultimately is a traditional MMO at heart, just made a bit easier. You still grind, you 
 are forced into groups to experience the game completely, and you still use up huge chunks of time 
 playing it.
  
  If you're an MMORPG fan, and you haven't tried out WoW, it's probably a good idea to do so. If 
 you're uninitiated into the world of MMO's, then WoW is certainly a good start. However, if you're 
 been into the MMO world before and weren't impressed, I would say you're not missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a immersing and time consuming game from levels 1 through to 20 with kill-quests, 
 class specific quests and gear, and ton of armour.
  
  But the end-game and constant grinding after level 20 and beyond deem this title to be a bit extreme 
 and a tim sink. The community is immature to put it quite simply. No matter where you are, you're 
 constantly spammed with level 70 LFG and LFR in General Chat and the when it comes to asking questions... 
 let's just say it leaves a lot to be desired. All in all, WoW is a good n00b MMOer's game, but 
 for the lore-seeking elitist PvPers and PvEers among us, WoW just stands for Waiting ON Warhammer 
 .
  
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aow0526
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I've played a couple different MMOs (SW and EQ) but neither kept me entertained for long. My son 
 wanted to download and play the trial so we did with both of us creating accounts. I'm having a 
 blast playing. You can definitely go solo with the game starting out and get to know the controls 
 and gist of obtaining quests, etc. I like that a lot as I don't want to be the dude squealing to 
 join a group and then getting killed first every encounter. I prefer to get a basic understanding 
 of how to use my character to the advantage of whichever class I choose and then join groups. The 
 difficulty scales up very well so far in the early levels (level 12 only) with great diversity 
 between the classes and races. Have to switch gears in playing style when changing between my human 
 rogue , undead priest and troll hunter. Graphics and sound are decent with lag a problem only in 
 high population areas. Not sure if the lag is more my computer and laptop or the server. Purchased 
 two 60 day cards in addition to the base game for both of us. Ultimate proof of how great this 
 game is if I purchase any time beyond December 22nd when my time is up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossguyy94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I personally was a WoW addict not to long ago....
  I had great experiences with this game. Now they are coming out with a 2nd expansion to the game 
 called The Revenge Of The Lich King Well
  thats what I have heard. This game is your casual MMORPG. It has a story about the massive wars between 
 the Horde and Alliance, and many storys of the uniqe races in each faction. The game is much more 
 enjoyible if you have friends that play, or if you meet some friends on your quest. The Pvp and Guild 
 systems are great. The land is massive!! Especially if you have bought The Burning Crusade expastion 
 pack. Which unlocks a whole new world...... The Outlands! The Outlands are just massive!!! It also 
 unlockes a new kind of mount, other then the normal land mount, you can have a flying mount which 
 can only be used in The Outlands. The expansion pack unlocks over hundreds of new items and quest 
 as well. I hope you enojoyed this quick review.
  
  Ross 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llama_713
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Well look what we have here. An MMORPG. Except this one is new and innovative! How? Blizzard managed 
 to formulate crack into a computer disc. The game can hardly be called that good, and the only 
 thing holding it up is it's addictive-ness. Once you've hit the highest level, done the raids, 
 and gotten the high level armor sets the game will get vvveerrry boring. But that takes a while! 
 So in the mean time, throw the disc into the fire. It's too freakin' boring to begin with. Even 
 if you manage to sustain your fun time long enough to actually play through about level 20-30, 
 you'll be longing to throw it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeeeman3000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful MMORPG. I know i'm probablly the millionth person to review this game but i 
 want to any way. This game is the best RPG i have ever played. There are so may possibilities that 
 the number is unimagineable. Just to let you know, i'm basing this review on what i have played 
 which isn't much. I've played it at my friends house on his lvl 58 char and i loved the game and 
 being able to pwn noobs. I got the game and installed it ASAP but sadly i didn't have enough RAM 
 on my compooper. I installed anyway and got to about lvl 12 in about 16 hrs straight. Sadly, when 
 i got into the real world and finished all the starter quests in the noob zone as my friend calls 
 it, the whole thing froze, kicked my butt off the server, and i havn't been able to get on since. 
 Anyway, the game is hella addicting, the graphics aren't too bad (espically for a MMO) , and there 
 is a ton of things to do, not even counting the Burning Crusade. As many before me have probablly 
 said this game kicks ASS !!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coyote_sprit
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 4/10 - Although 3D being released 2004 they could have done much better their are several 
 games that have better graphics engines and graphics period that were made before or at the time 
 of WoW's release
  
  Music - 9/10 - It is nicely composed none of the music never dies on you.
  
  Gameplay - 4/10 
 - Having to charge spells is stupid and the profession system is boring.
  
  Value - 4/10 - You dish out $15 a month for it along with the box price it's not worth what you'll 
 pay for it in the long run it gets old easily, servers are crowded or they aren't crowded enough, 
 and it's surreal style makes me vomit especially the trees 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft For PC
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  The Good : The Gameplay is absolutely 
 amazing ( Do what you want when you want ) , The sounds and music just add to the amazingness of 
 the game, Actually come to think of it PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING.
  ===========================================================
  The Bad : The King Of Stormwind 
 ( That little kid, he just annoys me and I wanna kill him ) , Timecards are a bit to much, not enough 
 levels and the graphics could be a bit better.
  ===========================================================
  
  Blizzard has came out with many 
 games in the past. Starcraft and Warcraft were both R. T. S. type games., but this is Blizzard's 
 first attempt at the MMORPG genre. In 2001, Blizzard announced that they would be releasing a game 
 of that genre. In 2004 they came out with the new game, World of Warcraft. Many people think unanimously, 
 that the game has been extremely successful, and was well worth the wait for many reasons.
  
  Although the story of Warcraft is good, you can't say the same about the story of World of 
 Warcraft. However, this doesn't change the fact that World of Warcraft deserves a perfect 10. The 
 reason for this is that MMORPGS aren't designed to convey a good story, and WOW still conveys this 
 element, making the experience even more enriching. The basic story is the Conflict between the 
 Alliance, which consists of the Humans, Dwarves, Gnomes, and Night Elves. These races are in a 
 constant struggle with the Horde, consisting of Orcs, Trolls, Tauren, and Undead. World of Warcraft 
 is centered around the conflict of these races, and fighting for their dominance.
  
  Gameplay : An MMORPG is Gameplay, without that, the whole purpose is defeated, and make no mistake, 
 the gameplay in WOW is flawless. There are a wide variety of weapons, each with their own effect 
 and names. As you go up in levels, the equipment, naturally, gets more and more advanced, and rare 
 items are classified Green items and are rarer than their plain white counterparts. When a player 
 starts, they can pick a race, each with a few fairly important differences between them, and more 
 importantly, a class. A class basically defines how you are going to play the game. There are 9 
 classes, Druids, Hunters, Mages, Paladins, Priests, Rogues, Shamans, Warlocks, and Warriors . The 
 Classes are limited to certain races, such as Orcs not being able to become mages, and Dwarves 
 cant be shamans. Another thing you decide when you enter the World of Warcraft is the kind of server 
 you play on. The 3 servers are Normal, PvE (or RP) , or PvP. Normal is the server you play on if 
 you want to get a feel for the game, you can attack enemy faction NPC's, and no other people can 
 attack you if the PvP function is not on. PvE is for players who want to assume the role of a particular 
 character, and venture around as them in the expansive world. Lastly, and my personal favorite 
 is PvP! PvP is Player versus Player, which best describes PvP. PvP is the battle of the Alliance 
 and Horde, and in contested areas, anyone can attack you at any time, providing the biggest challenge. 
 Most of the time on WOW you will be completing quests, which reward you with items, experience 
 and money. Quests are assigned by allied NPC's, and in PvP, enemies can kill the NPC, making you 
 wait 15 minutes for the re-spawn! Money in world of warcraft translates well, and the three currencies 
 are Copper, Silver, and Gold. 100 copper makes 1 Silver, 100 silver makes 1 Gold. I haven't even 
 begun to describe the full amount of gameplay in World of Warcraft, you'll have to play to find 
 out!
  
  Graphics : The graphics are nothing less than revolutionary in this game. A huge variety of lush 
 environments dot the world of warcraft, and it amazes me how much minute detail Blizzard programmed 
 into the game. Every race is programmed and designed differently, and their worlds and cultures 
 and all worked into the parts of the game. Every one of them has a different design, and the individual 
 characters models can be changed when you create the character. The equipment is amazing. Every 
 single piece of equipment is excellently designed and amazingly innovative, each with it's own 
 name and design, providing an enriching experience. Things like the shopkeepers reactions after 
 talking to them, or the various emotes that are programmed into the game. The best parts of this 
 game that astound me most are the cities, from snowy Ironforge, to the plains of Thunder Bluff, 
 all the way down to the city Stormwind. But the Graphics of a game are not all about environments, 
 they are also in the arrangement of screens, such as the toolbars, and the interface. These elements 
 all combine so perfectly together, making the interactive world, and helping you to feel all the 
 more into the game.
  
  Sound : The sound in this game is honed to perfection, everything that makes a sound, for the most 
 part, turns out exactly as it would in real life. A sword will slice, and arrow will twang, a hammer 
 will smash, and a gun will bang. The music in this game is also perfect, as it was in Warcraft, 
 and the tracks are different for every city, like the constant pounding War Drums of Orgrimmar, 
 or the gentle singing in Chapels.
  
  World of Warcraft has been keeping fans waiting for several years, and in those short years, WoW 
 has created a masterpiece that, in my opinion, is absolutely nothing short of perfection. If you 
 are new to the MMORPG genre, then get this game first and foremost. It's the first MMO I've ever 
 played that didn't feel like I was at work! Overall, WoW is an astounding achievement that will 
 be remembered for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Wow Is Exactly What I got to say about this game and not in the good way, But I mean it as Wow 
 I spent $65.00 in total (including card) for this game.
  Ok ill admit this game is pretty fun but that is such a rediculous price, and I am getting sick 
 of the fact I cant do pretty much anything cool until Lvl 30 and I am only lvl 15 and Im not going 
 to kill 10 000 guys to get to that its to much time until maybe some great fun, I want the Fun 
 and greatness now not in 15 more lvls, I still like this game but its a on and off Game I cant 
 play in long bursts anymore and I bought it two weeks ago. Now I cant sell It because no where 
 would except it and I would lose more money then I spent. my little word of advice if your going 
 to get this game get ready for your spare time going into this game just to lvl up. If I could 
 bacK I would have just gotten Two Worlds or Stranglehold for Xbox 360 then at least if I didnt 
 like them I could sell them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeMasta93
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  its just an addicting game that sucks you into playing for hundreds of hours just to beat somebody 
 else... the controls are hard, the gameplay is repetetive, and the characters look the same. anybody 
 i know has played at least a week of this game not playing anything else and not even going outside 
 or using his phone. all this game is is an overrated mmorpg that is loved because you can do trivial 
 tasks for no reason whatsoever. you kill a big enemy, level up after a week of playing, kill another 
 big enemy, and do the same thing. its just used to get money from paying to play this game every 
 month when you can play another game on the same lines thats free... like maple story or believe 
 it or not legend of zelda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukentj123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  There may have been, and most probably will be, a gaming moment in you're life that you can compare 
 to only the rarest, unwordly and most amazing phenomenons that this kind Earth offers.
  
  World of Warcraft is one of them.
  
  Step into the world of Azeroth, and your sealing the deal 
 - you've just sold your spare time to Blizzard.
  
  But seriously, anyone, and I mean anyone, could enjoy this game. MMORPG have the stereotype of 
 attracting lifes dregs. Lifes losers. But why? Gaming is for everyone! And if ever there was a 
 game for everyone it is this!
  
  Overrated? No.
  
  It is difficult to describe what goes through your head as you are levelling your first character 
 in World of Warcraft. You'll find yourself drifting off at work, school or college, thinking about 
 'that quest you need to hand in' or 'that item you need to put on the Auction House'.
  
  It is actually difficult to extracate yourself from the gaming environment and get on with your 
 life sometimes. Not all the time. I'm not suggesting that this game eats up you're entire existence, 
 but for the first 6 months of playing, it goes without saying: the vitals are eating, drinking, 
 sleeping and playing World of Warcraft.
  
  In any other situation a Psychiatrist may be in order, but with WoW its completely normal.
  
 
  You can potentially get years of fun out of this game and if you consider yourself a true gamer, 
 this really is the pinnacle of gaming at the moment.
  
  So gamers everywhere - put down your control pads, take off your headsets, leave your consoles 
 and claim your computer chair as your throne - the PC as your queen.
  
  For the time you play this, nothing else matters.
  
  I don't play MMORPG games - they're not 
 for me! I hear you say.
  
  Not yet you don't, but buy this game and I promise you, you'll find a part of yourself that you 
 never knew existed.
  
  But in all seriousness. This game is brilliant for anyone, any age. Words can't describe how good 
 this game is.
  
  I know, this isn't really a review. Its more like a chronicalling of its existence. Its the voice 
 of so many. This pseudo-review is what many are dying to say but never have.
  
  And let it pursuade you, to give it a try.
  
  Embark upon the Epic Odyssey that is WoW!
  
 
  So what to score it, what to score it, what to score.
  
  I think any game that deserves my time and effort to construct a masterpiece of literature simply 
 to accentuate its excellence is worthy of no less... a 10 through and through - and 1 of the only 
 10's I can ever give to a game without feeling like a sell out.
  
  Luke Thomas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I still don't understand how people can be positive about this game. It seems like it's one big 
 conspiracy or something. It's really nothing but a just below mediocre game and here's why;
  
  Cons:
  
  - Gameplay is broken and has some serious problems of general gameplay imbalance 
 and certain classes definitely have big advantages over others
  - Buggy. Yes, it still has bugs all over the place. From graphical glitches to crashes, it's not 
 a polished game and at times it looks downright unfinished
  - It's slightly a matter of taste, but the game also looks like it was meant to be played by 10 
 year old kids - Not much fun to play, the quests really aren't all that interesting
  - The whole game feels like it's some sort of virtual chatbox (which is exactly why it is so popular, 
 but the game itself is boring like hell)
  - Because of the artstyle there are a lot of 12yr olds playing, this completely ruins the depth 
 of this game (if there even was a real depth) and it also ruins the social aspect if you pick your 
 friends wrong
  
  Pros:
  
  - In-game cinematics
  - Character designs are good
  - Concept art looks cool
  - Uhhh... it has Warcraft in it's name
  
  Conclusion:
  
  It's 
 definitely not worth looking into when you aren't a fan of all these overly colorful toony graphics 
 and like to play games with a substantial gameplay and some depth. It lacks depth, all there is 
 to it, is level up, level up and level up some more. Sure you'll go visit places, but most of them 
 are pretty uninspired actually and feel as if everyone's dead or something. To counter the balancing 
 issues Blizzard tends to add high level enemies to prevent people from coming to places they should 
 not or solve other problems. It's an ugly way to make sure all levels of players are spread across 
 properly and in PvP they still have big problems.
  
  It was hyped because it's part of the Warcraft franchise, but it's not worth spending your money 
 on every month. This game is very expensive for what you'll get for it in return and although it 
 might be fun for a few hours (all is new, getting used to the game, explore a bit etc.) , you'll 
 regret your purchase within days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianaAway
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Basically I would rate the game as an 8 until TBC was added, which did fix a lot of things. The 
 upper level Instances in WoW (not TBC) are TOO long for the average person. You basically give 
 up your night doing just that 1 thing. PvP was dominated by Raiders and was much better before 
 the server cross overs.
  
  My only real gripes with the game are...
  -- the some time extreme measures of getting keyed for dungeons (which you need lots of help) which 
 shortly after become outdated.
  -- PvP that is basically pointless. Less exploits (i. e. AV battleground for example) would help
 
  -- The amount of ill mannered people. Makes you wonder if most people have any real social skills 
 and if these people really act that badly behaved in real life.
  
  Beyond that, can be a very addictive game, if you can find some nice people to play with. Just 
 remember that you should play WoW to take a break from Real Life, not let it become your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Since Xmas 2006, i have been playing this game called *World of Warcraft* in case youve lived on 
 the moon for the last few years, World of Warcraft is a MMO based on the Warcraft strategy series. 
 At the moment it has 7 million users playing so youll always find someone to play with. the game 
 is based on 2 factions, horde and alliance (like the old strategy games) , against the Burning Legion.
 
  The game has a lot of different characters to play as to keep you engulfed in azeroth for hours 
 and hours. graphics wise the game is still top notch after these last years, and is still the best 
 MMO out there, with patching every month at least.
  I cant describe the gameplay, because it has its ups and downs. the plus is that you can do a combination 
 of quests, group quests, instances (5 man dungeons) to help you progress to 60. The downside to 
 the gameplay is that at certain moments, you just want to turn off the game cause of the grueling 
 and painful leveling. And most people say that once you hit 60 its when the fun begins (PVP. raiding, 
 end game bosses. etc)
  Another few downsides to this game is that you do not need any skill or any knowledge of the game 
 to reach a 60, and get decent gear as well. And of course like most MMOs, this game will take over 
 your life if you are not careful. seriously.
  This game is for anyone with a PC, who likes video games, i was skeptical too about the monthly 
 fee, but trust me, youll enjoy it people. However i dont recommend this game for anyone who has 
 an addictive nature, because it is a hard game to just sit down and play for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Whether you are just a casual gamer wanting a breathtaking experience or a hardcore gamer wanting 
 to kill everything in sight WoW is for you.
  
  World of Warcraft is set on the planet Azeroth, a landscape ravaged by the war between the undead 
 scourge and other factions of peace. Azeroth is split up into 2 continents, Kalimdor and the Eastern 
 Kingdoms. Both feature exotic locales and blood thirsty beasts ready to be put to the sword. When 
 you first create your account and set up your subscription you will find that the character creation 
 process is alot more user friendly than other subscriptions and within seconds you can have designed 
 your perfect character. On the creation screen you will also need to choose your faction, species 
 and class/profession. The Alliance species being Dwarf, Gnome, Nightelf and Human. The Horde species 
 being Tauren, Troll, Orc and Undead. Unfortunately when my turn came to play WoW I got stuck with 
 Alliance and a Nightelf druid seen as the rest of my friends were on the same side. Although the 
 graphics of the world may not be as detailed as some other games, eg Guild Wars, World of Warcraft 
 is truly on a much larger scale. It can take you up to 2 hours to scale the entire map just by 
 running, and even then that is by using my druids travel form (a luxury that I was able to enjoy 
 whilst my friends panted along behind) . Huge dungeons face your characters at different levels, 
 some containing loot of huge values. Money that will come in extremely helpful when you reach level 
 40. Prior to persuading my parents to let my pay 8.99 a month using their credit card my life pretty 
 much revolved around Guild Wars and my XBOX. Now that WoW is on my shelf I find myself becoming 
 obsessed with the game. I talk about it at the table, read my instruction manual whenever possible 
 and discuss tactics at school. I even have the teachers talking about the upcoming WoW film. This 
 game is arguably the best multiplayer game the world has even seen and it will stand the test of 
 time in years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nattylt
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is it... the ulimate MMO above all MMO's. This game has it all and allows you to become emersed 
 in a vast land and tremedous game play. Ther are no weaknesses to this game. Character development 
 is everything you want in a RPG. I have not gotten to the expansion packs thus far but when i hit 
 50 I will witout thinking twice about. Be warned that this game is highly addictive and will take 
 over a portion of your life. Granted there is a monthly subscription but it is well worth the 14.95 
 a month. Can 9 million people (subscribers) be wrong?... I highly doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  I had massive expectations from this Game. Firstly, Blizzard, secondly, a massive audience, thridly, 
 great reviews. Having clocked up 24 hours of solid play I can see no reason to continue any further. 
 It seems rather like Fable only with interruptions in the form of other nagging players. I understand 
 that I was playing on a general public area rather than a strict role play area but I think it 
 was enough to experience the essence of the game.
  
  My major criticsms are:
  
  1. Game features are cosmetic only eg: Occupations
  2. Game quests consist of run here, do this 
 .
  3. Sound is dull and unimaginative.
  4. Constant requests for PVP.
  
  The pluses:
  1. Humourous outbursts from fellow players.
  
  As the first major arrival on the advanced graphics 
 MMORPG front, it clearly has broken some ground. But its DEFINATELY not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsqmko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  When the first warcaft was launched it was a blow....
  Blizzard continued to expand the series of warcraft producing warcraft 2 and the big beset seller 
 warcraft 3 with expansion later....
  When Warcraft 3 was launched Blizzard thought about creating a Warcraft World that many players 
 can join togheter in a great adventure...... in a great MMORPG...
  The wait time was fair because it was worth and not a joke...
  When World of Warcraft was launched 
 after some days the shops where out of stock and Blizzard knew it was a great game...
  Wow is the best selling game of all times and has 9 million players on their servers......
  To 
 play World of Warcraft u need to pay and after that create and account and starting your adventure 
 in Azeroth......
  
  World Of Warcraft:
  
  After Creating an account and installing the game u enter the Big World of Warcraft......
  First 
 option is to select a server and languace.... servers are PVP (Player vs. Player) ... PVE (Player vs 
 Enviroment) .... Normal.... RPPVE..... RPPVP
  Normal ones are PVE and PVP combined and let's u decide if u want to chose ( be it PVP or PVE) by 
 activating from a cursor click...
  PVP ones concentrate more on Player vs Player combat as PVE concentrate on Player Versus Enviroment, 
 like putting your character in a great story or fantasy world.......
  After chosing your languace and Server next is the character screen..
  In World Of Warcaft are 
 2 Factions.... Alliance and Horde....
  Alliance has the following races: Human, Night Elf, Gnome and Dwarf
  Horde has the following 
 races: Undead, Orc, Tauren, Troll
  After chosing yor faction be it alliance or horde u must select a class.
  Every race has it's 
 own class, not all races have the same...
  The classes in World of wacraft are: Rogue, Warrior, mage, priest, paladin, warlock, druid, hunter 
 and shaman........
  After chosing the class u can dress yor character from head to feet.....
  And at last u need 
 to give your character a name and ready to enter the World Of 
 
  From the first time when u enter World if warcraft your are lvl 1 and in a newbie or lvl 1 zone..........
 
  maximum lvl cap is lvl 60...
  And every race has it's own zone so it will be different kind of quests....
  Like i we says World 
 of warcraft is MMORPG so we start with a quest by the nearby quest giver.
  By doing quests the character levels and it will be the time to chose 2 primary profesions when 
 meeting a profesion trainer........
  In World of warcraft u can learn maximum 2 primary profesions and all secondary.
  There are 2 
 types of primary profesions.... gathering and crafting.
  Gathering are: Herbalism, mining, skinning.
  Crafting are: Blacksmith, Enginering, Leatherworking, 
 Enchanting, Tailor, Alchemy.
  Also by leveling u need to visit a class trainer to learn some new skills...... and entering new 
 zones that the NPC's send u after u reach the requiered level.......
  In World Of Warcraft are quests that can be completed by 2 or much players in a party and that 
 can be searched through LFG (looking for group) sistem.... or LFM ( Looking for more) if there are 
 needed more than 2.
  After reaching a high level your character can do raids with many players for collecting some gear...
 
  Gear is divided by: poor, common, uncommon, rare, epic, artifact items....
  More higher the item u find it more harder...
  Quests in World of Warcraft are relaxing to do 
 and sometimes puting u in an adrenaline condition...
  
  ...........
  Graphics:
  The Graphics in World of Warcaft are fair, like the world is perfect with them and works great, 
 zones are SPLENDID, and very good created....
  The graphic engine is inspired by Warcraft 3 game and is a great decision..
  
  Sound:
  Well 
 the sound fits to the zones and are very relaxing and loved to listen, Every sound is World of 
 Warcraft is real and put in the right way.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is like in every MMORPG, do quests or instances by leveling or doing other activities, 
 World of Warcraft has a cool emo sistem that is fun to do..... like type /dance to dance or many 
 more...
  Gameplay fits great and it no problem with him
  
  .......................
  World of Warcraft is a BIG world that can't be explained in words it can be only by palying it 
 and it will be worth at the same time.....
  World of Warcraft is great in everything, and the pay fees are not so big to be honest......
 
  In World of Warcaft u can make many friends that u helped or helped u and having fun at the same 
 time.....
  Blizzard made the right choice........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: japon1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm quite sure that almost every gamer has heard of World of Warcraft (WoW) and judging by the 
 9 million people that play WoW currently I'm sure most have played it. If even after all the great 
 reviews that WoW has gotten and your still not convinced that you should jump on the WoW wagon 
 then look around your community and you're bound to find people who play, and now you can try it 
 for free by going to their website so you might as well give it a shot. There are so many things 
 to do in this game its like its a mix of many, many games and if its the monthly fee thats throwing 
 you of then at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is huge. It is one of the most anticipated games of all time. Everyone plays 
 it, shouldn't you?
  
  Sure. It's a great game. You'll get in the jive in no time, and start leveling up your character 
 and embarking on thousands of quests.
  
  You have plenty of unique races/classes to choose from, including Humans, Blood Elves, Night Elves, 
 Undead, Orcs, Dwarfs, blah, blah. You can learn quite a few trades in the game as well, in which 
 everyone one provides a good source of income if you do them correctly.
  
  The cost is $14.99 a month. Blizzard's customer service is quite poor, speaking that I signed on 
 a friend and never got reimbursed for it. After countless of emails with Blizzard, all I got were 
 automated responses..
  
  You'll quickly start to spend hours and hours in this game. It takes quite a few moons to get your 
 character to level 40, which is your mounting level (where you could get your first mount to ride 
 around on) .
  
  Let's get clear that WoW isn't for everyone. This game isn't a game where you could spend 30 minutes 
 before bed on. You have to set aside a half day to get anywhere, because of the slow game pace.
 
  
  WoW to me, even after two level 50 characters, is a pretty damn slow pace game. It just consumes 
 a lot of time getting from place to place. Even the battling is very slow, but it's average for 
 a MMORPG. This won't appeal to everyone, that's for sure.
  
  After months of play, you'll look back on yourself and wonder where it all went. Likely, you might 
 get bored, because the entire gameplay revolves around the same old model- leveling up, getting 
 stronger spells, leveling up, getting stronger spells, leveling up, getting stronger spells, etc.
 
  
  Not to say it's just like Diablo , but Diablo is a very fast paced game. I can spend 15-30 minutes 
 in the Diablo series, and get somewhere, and stop playing and live my life. You just cannot expect 
 that with this game.
  
  After awhile, WoW is the same old story. You might get tired of it fast like I did.
  
  I, personally 
 love single player games. Quite a lot of runs in this game, you must have a party. And with parties, 
 there are certain rules you must follow to get drops. Don't expect to solo the game, it won't happen. 
 This is a downside I believe, because first, you must wait for a group to form a run , that could 
 take anywhere from 30 minutes to 2 hours. It's just very time consuming is what I'm getting at.
 
  
  All in all, it's a great MMORPG. Great, in that it's accessible to most people. It provides the 
 epic story of Warcraft, so there is actual meaning behind it all. But, if your a busy person like 
 me, you'll likely get bored of it after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  WoW is a great game and is the best but if you're willing to pay about $15 a month be my guest. 
 I suggest do the 10 day trial and see if you like it. I think that paying an amount of money which 
 is quite a lot for an online RPG game is pretty dumb but it is worth paying for. But the game is 
 still good but I never bought it so I'd rather get Guild Wars instead because it has no cost which 
 is awesome! Being able to choose your class and gender is cool on WoW and the gameplay is just 
 incredible. I'd give the graphics a 9 becuase the background scenery looks good. The gamplay 10. 
 The sound, a 9. The installing takes about 2 hours to complete on my computer because I have Windows 
 2000 and when registering they ask for your home details which is pretty rude! Overall its a great 
 game and if you are planning on getting the game, get the 10 day trial on the website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is really that type of game that draws new players into the genre and then they 
 move onto something abit more complex and harder. However the problem with the mmorpg Genre is 
 theres really nothing to offer at the moment worth paying for other than EVE Online. So on one 
 hand you have Veterans like me that miss the good old days on mmorpg gaming before companies like 
 SOE ruined the game. For example EQ and SWG used to be both great games but SOE just completly 
 changed them into something we didn't want to play. EQ got turned into a high level raid grind 
 game and SWG got turned into a buggy version of WOW. So us Veterans are going on to the newcomers 
 that WOW is nothing new and crap but then every previous good mmorpg has been ruined now so they 
 wont be attracted to anything else.
  
  WOW is probably the most polished and bug free mmorpg i've ever played however and Blizzard did 
 set a new standard with this. Also it has such a great seemless world which is very large and beautiful. 
 Most mmorpgs out there have alot of zoning which kills the game as it doesn't feel like a world 
 then, so Blizzard did a good job here too.
  
  I love the classes in WOW too with eachother being sooo different from eachother and unique and 
 they're all fun to play and well made. Most class based mmorpgs just try to go for we'll create 
 24 unbalanced and bland/boring classes and that makes them no fun. So WOW has the classes done 
 perfectly IMO with my own personal fave being Shadow spec Priest. Only problem is i don't really 
 like classes in mmorpgs and i prefer to make my own one like SWG used to offer so in a weird way 
 it's a upside and downside.
  
  Really after these 3 points WOW really just had nothing else to offer...
  
  Cons:
  
  - 
 Grind Grind Grind.
  - Fed ex quests or kill quests are just all the same and boring so the quests in the game arn't 
 as good as say EQ2.
  - Character customization lacks with everyone looking the same.
  - No player housing.
  - No real player economy in the game.
  - No real crafting in the game, 
 what they have in place is very lackluster.
  - PVP is very repetitive and boring because theres no risk involved, it's all reward and no death 
 pen.
  - Draw Distance and Viewing distance are both very poor with things just popping up on you.
  
 
  etc etc.
  
  I'm going to leave it there and say the problem with WOW is all you do is grind to end level to 
 be able to play with everyone else and be able to play the proper PVP game. This is where levels 
 are flawed in a mmorpg because a mmorpg should have no end game. Also onces you've spent the whole 
 boring time grinding you soon realise theres nothing to do at end game and you have 2 choices...
 
  
  Raiding the same instances over and over again or fighting the the same PVP Battlegrounds over 
 and over again because you need better gear. And WOW is all about no skill but just the gear your 
 in really. Once you have all the best gear then whats the point in playing anymore? Theres no risk 
 what so ever so you can't lose anything and thats very very boring.
  
  You soon realise grinding was the most fun thing about the game and what does that say about the 
 current state of mmorpgs, because they're all like this and grinding is more like work and not 
 fun.
  
  The graphics while not the most polygons you've ever seen in a mmorpg do look really nice because 
 Blizzard have done a fantastic job on the artwork. Also while the sound effects are pretty standard 
 the music is fantastic and right up there.
  
  So overall WOW is one of the best mmorpgs but that just speaks for the lackluster genre really, 
 doesn't mean it's a good game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Croatiam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so try to make it short and clear.....
  
  I am not gonna talk about the graphics or the story of the game because most of you who'll read 
 this will know all about that. World of Warcraft is game that many people grew up with, learned 
 to communicate with people and it still keeps amaze people around the world to play it. The game's 
 story is a combination of the legendary Warcraft series combined in one of the most superb games 
 of all times who is still alive and my the judge of the selling of the game it will be for many 
 years to come. One of the things that amazed most people when it came out to actually walk with 
 their chars trough the areas they once fought in Warcraft. Think Blizzard has made one of the best 
 games in history of gaming that will server as an reminder and as an idea for many more games to 
 come that will try to be as close as popular as World of Warcraft. As many of you know that a new 
 expansion has been annouced an expansion also related to the Warcraft series called Warth of the 
 Witch King .Most people think that will be the end of World of Warcraft mostly because the Warcraft 
 storyline would be completely depleted so to say then no more story to tell no more expansions 
 but i think that the game will continue to amaze many people during the years to come maybe in 
 not so many numbers.
  
  I hope i have written something worth reading......
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I heard this game long ago, years before but was never into since it was paying to play kind of 
 game. After I tried this game taht a froend of mine showed me and several other. I was amazed at 
 how Blizzard made this game. There were so many things to do and many places to explore. The sound 
 and FX's are simply amazing, the stroyline is also amazing. It makes you want to know more and 
 discover the secrets taht were never revealed in the Warcraft series. The graphics are bit chunky 
 in terms that it looks more like a toon rather than a real-life being. But then again, not everything 
 is about graphics. There so many things that just drags you into the World... of Warcraft! Blizzard 
 keeps adding new stuff and new challenges to players that had been preparing for the end-game events. 
 There is no end to this types of games. It's more like a second life. I've received positive feedbacks 
 from this game and now here I am giving my review about this game. If you like to explore, adventure, 
 quests, challenges, and such... then this game is most likely for you. Most people say that those 
 that play World of Warcraft don't have a life. Well, those people are wrong, I'm a person who has 
 a life and play sWoW whenever I have time. So seriously, there's nothing wrong with playing WoW. 
 Doesn't make you stupid, doesn't make you immature (there are older people playing this game) , 
 doens't make you a geek/nerd. It's simply a fun game that can be enjoyed at its finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  In this game u can become ten  the alliance and 
  the hord. in this game u can fish, cook, make potions and much 
 more profession's. You can duel players and kill people from the other team. The monsters in this 
 game is absolutley remarcable even if its big or small long or short these mosters will raise hell 
 in this game (not litterally) . oh i must of forgotten to tell u the classes they are
   and Hunter. all of the classes get diffrent abilitties 
 for example the druid can transorm into animals based on there lvls and hunters can tame all diffrent 
 sorts of pets to help them.
  
  Well i think i told u every thing.
  
  IF U DONT HAVE WOW GET IT  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (PC) Review
  
  World of Warcraft is a MMORPG set in the Warcraft universe. You can choose to be on the Horde's 
 or the Alliances side. The game is good. The game features many familiar places from the Warcraft 
 universe and is almost a perfect conversion.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Its from Blizzard
  + Its Warcraft
  + Great Character Customization
  + Many many items, weapons, etc.
  + Many 
 and great enemies
  + One of the most addicting games in the world
  + Millions of players playing always so you'll never feel alone and will always fit in
  
  Cons:
 
  
  - Hefty monthly cost ($12-$15 depending on where you purchase)
  - Too addicting : (
  
  Great game, and anyone with lots of free time should check it out, but be warned if you don't 
 have a lot of free time and decide to play you might lose your jobs, your grades will suffer, your 
 social skills will decrease, and many other sideffects will occur (most negative) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memynameandme
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game is great, just not for me. I like story and depth, this feels too much like 
 work. Monotonous hordes of, Kill this many of (insert monster here) style quests. There are a few 
 highlights, especially if you have some friends that play the game. Just too much of a chore.
 
  
  Seriously I sit down make a new character play for 10 hours and keep track of the quests I do. 
 At the end of the day I had completed 28 quests 23 of them involved me killing X Y times. That 
 is crap! I pay $15.00 month for that? If you want a good MMO try Guild Wars, if you are willing 
 to pay a monthly fee try Dungeons and Dragons or City of Heroes, at least there you start off DOING 
 SOMETHING. As opposed to population control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceeplusplus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  So you've have seen the episode of South Park where the gang gets addicted to a computer PC game 
 called World of Warcraft. Chances are, if you haven't been living in a cave for the past few years, 
 you have heard of this game before. But what sets this game apart from other Massively Multiplayer 
 Online Role-Playing games (MMORPG's) ? I have been playing this game for well over 2 years, have 
 put hundreds if not thousands of hours into it and I can easily recommend this game to anyone with 
 a computer. Whether you are a novice of MMO's/ RPG's or a veteran, this game has more than enough 
 to keep you satisfied and coming back for more every day. This brings us to one... I don't want 
 to say problem, but thing you must consider before buying this game. If you are already busy all 
 the time, whether it be family, job, or other things, this game is very addicting so it could end 
 up pulling you away from those. If you have self-control and know your priorities. then I would 
 definitely recommend this to you. As far as game content goes, the base World of Warcraft game 
 has easily 300 hours of playing time if you do a lot of quests, dungeons, PVP, and End Game Raids. 
 However, now that The Burning Crusade expansion pack has been released, the gear the original World 
 of Warcraft is soon outdated, you will replace gear you spent 3 hours in a dungeon for in a matter 
 of minutes once you step into the Outlands. Blizzard, the company that made WoW, constantly puts 
 out new patches/updates that add new free content to the existing game, such as new dungeons/raids, 
 gear, spells, weapons, stuff like that. Now I will talk a little about the art in this game. The 
 graphics in World of Warcraft are simply amazing, in a different kind of way. If you want super 
 duper ultra extreme 3D graphics, then you are looking in the wrong place. This game is 3D, however 
 the feel of it is much different than any game I've ever played. Things seem vibrant, alive, and 
 not to sound cheesy here, but it really does feel like you're living in this epic world at times. 
 So, in conclusion, this is simply a game that should not be missed by any PC gamer. If you think 
 it may be too complicated for you, you're wrong. It has an intuitive user interface that even a 
 complete idiot could use and understand. Do yourself a favor and pick up this awesome game. See 
 you in azeroth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  For the small time I was actually motivated to buy the game and then shell out 13$ a month in order 
 to play, WOW was very enjoyable. One of the few MMO games out there where soloing was fun, although 
 you still felt like you were missing things. There are still plenty to do for the soloer, but if 
 you are intent on soloing and not being involved in the community too much, then there are other 
 ways to play.
  
  The world is opened to you either through quests, or by actually getting out and walking around. 
 As the quests get harder, and your levels go up, the more distance travel, and the more lands you 
 explore. The game does a good job of making sure you are not confined to a single area for too 
 long.
  
  You also have a chance of getting two professions, anything from mining and crafting, to herb collecting 
 and potion making. Usually you get the two professions that go together so that you can profit 
 both ways. There are limitless amounts of slots for any number of your skills, and sometimes, especially 
 at the higher levels, it's daunting trying to remember where a specific skill is that you don't 
 use too much in the heat of battle. Maybe limiting the skills slots (not as much as Guild Wars) 
 would help increase the strategy, and make each character more unique.
  
  Gameplay: You can go anywhere, and I do mean anywhere. You are not limited by invisible barriers 
 to keep you safely within the compounds of the game like other MMO's. It's third person view, straightforward 
 real time battles. It gets boring when you need to travel, the Wyverns and horses help alleviate 
 travel issues but the option of an instant travel to places you have already visited would help. 
 Lag sometimes gets in the way of the gameplay, especially during peak times. More times than not, 
 I would quit playing because of lag.
  
  Sound: Each weapon makes their appropriate sound like you would expect, grandeur music plays at 
 appropriate times, like when you enter a large city. Magic sounds different, but still sounds appropriate. 
 Sometimes sound FX are delayed or don't play at all if you are in the middle of some serious lag.
 
  
  Graphics: They were decent for it's time, the characters are simplistic with enough differences 
 to feel like you feel like you have a unique character, but more times than I like I would find 
 a character just like me. The graphics need an update too, they haven't held up over time.
  
  Bottom Line: If you like MMO's, and don't mind paying 13$/month to play, then WOW is where 
 it's at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWolff7774
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is FUN it has so much to do to fishing to fighing you can pick out of alliance 
 or horde and every class and race has their special uniques like hunter when you reach lvl 10 and 
 do a certain quest you gang the ability to have any pet help you! World of warcraft has cartoon 
 type graphics but is still very fun!!! You can just walk all around the world without having to 
 do one quest ( you would die fast if a high lvl beast attacked you) . World of Warcraft is really 
 worth buying the only down side is that you have to pay to play it: ( I give WOW a 10 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domot
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  on e of the best games ever i mean one of the best MMORPGS ever i cant play it till october which 
 is my bday so ill be getting a pc then the one im on cant run it i used to play it on another comp 
 but it got a virus so i hae to w8 till my bday in more than a month
  so good its a really good game gamespot probbaly like it themselbves lol
  
  im a lvl 26 night 
 elf warrior on it got a virus just b4 27 : ( so im gonna get it back really soon its amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeb127
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The game has it all, Excellent graphics, combat system, fantasy world we all wish we could visit. 
 I have always loved Dungeons and dragons and that sort of genre. This game was a dream come true 
 to me.
  On my way to becoming a level 68 Hunter, I realized the one thing the game dosent have, thats alot 
 of more mature players. Atleast in my experiences. I have tried for a raid so many times, got in 
 a few groups finally and then people acted like idiots, left the group, whatever the case was.
 
  All I can say is that I wish there were some instances specifically designed for 2-3 high level 
 people. Its hard to get 5-10 people that are going to commit fully to hours of dungeon play, let 
 alone 20-40. Blizzard please add some 2-3 people high end dungeon instances. Other then that the 
 game is perfect. Oh, a few more customizable faces, which I believe are coming in the new expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceuk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  WORLD OF WARCRAFT:
  In Azeroth you go with the Horde or Alliance. Pick your race, class and customize your character. 
 Gain respect, friends and enemies. Complete quests, level up your character and get equipped with 
 some of the best gear. Master your combat skills and with your comrades take on mighty bosses and 
 even dragons!
  
  For an online game, the system requirements are low, yet the graphics are decent. There are many 
 landscapes to explore. As you travel to different areas, you will notice the background music will 
 also change. The themed music can range from being creepy to relaxing, depending on your environment.
 
  
  At the start, you are given simple tips which help you understand the user interface. You can set 
 out and kill things for random loot and experience (xp) which makes your character stronger. It 
 is better to pick up some optional quests along the way as these provide you with guaranteed rewards 
 and xp.
  
  Quests usually involve tasks where you have to kill a certain number of things, or collect some 
 items. Enemy mobs are at various levels, the higher the level, the harder they are to kill. If 
 you see skull level enemies - stay out of their sight - if they spot you, you'll get slaughtered.
 
  
  The highest level your character will reach is 60. With TBC expansion, this limit is increased 
 to 70. Even reaching the highest level, there will still be many elite enemies who can defeat you 
 easily. So watch your back!
  
  Traveling around the world will take you through many dangerous zones. The Horde and Alliance are 
 not friendly towards each other, so don't think you can freely walk into enemy territory on your 
 own. If you get killed, don't worry, it's not Game Over.
  
  Your character can gain certain skills and professions that may be of benefit to them. Later you 
 gain Talent points which let you amplify abilities that you have. For example a fire spec Mage 
 can gain new or more powerful fire spells.
  
  In Warcraft, you can team up with other people to complete difficult challenges. You can also join 
 or make your own guild. Guilds are generally large groups of people known for helping players in 
 instances and raids. An instance is a special area that only people in your group can access, and 
 a raid is usually where a very large group gathers for a certain event.
  
  You can take part in organised Battlegrounds at different levels, it's very fun teaming up with 
 40 people and going head-to-head against an enemy group. You gain honor points which allow you 
 to purchase special equipment. There is a player driven economy. Getting gold at first may be slow, 
 but later you will be making loads! You can buy, trade, or sell almost anything you have with other 
 players. You can use Auction Houses in major cities, or visit vendors all over the world.
  
  ISSUES:
  One major problem that proved to be frustrating were social negatives, associated 
 with most online games. In WoW, you will constantly see people spamming chat channels with buy 
 gold . There are people who try to invite you into their guilds for no reason. Some people just 
 want to be pests and follow you around. There were also thieves (ninjas) , trade fraudsters and 
 people calling everyone 'noobs'.
  
  The game, being an MMORPG, is open ended - there is some form of a story, however there is no solid 
 story that you are being made to follow. There are too many repetitive quests which are often stupid 
 and pointless. Progressing further into the game felt slow.
  
  Quest details can be poor at times - you have no idea where to go. Often you'll need to switch 
 to the web to find answers, and also make use of mods, such as coordinates which will make navigating 
 around the world easier.
  
  A majority of time in Azeroth, you are traveling or grinding. Grinding is a boring, unsatisfying 
 and time-consuming process where you will be spending hours killing things for xp and little loot 
 rewards.
  
  Killing certain mobs rewards items randomly. If you are in a big group, the chance of you getting 
 something you need is decreased, as other people may be after the same thing. This often means 
 having to go through a process again until you are lucky enough to get what you wanted.
  
  In instances, you and your small group can spend hours clearing up a path full of mobs so you can 
 fight a boss. If by any chance you die, you can only start at the entrance, and often all the mobs 
 you previously killed have respawned.
  
  Attunement quests are also annoying. You must spend weeks doing quests so you can gain access to 
 an instance so you can fight a new boss. If your going in there to kill everyone, why can't you 
 just break the door down?
  
  There are several technical related issues. There are many bugs and glitches found in Warcraft, 
 and patches are released very often. People who install Warcraft for the first time will find they 
 must download large patches before they can even play the game.
  
  Every Wednesday, there is a maintenance session that lasts several hours long and this can be extended 
 anytime. Also while playing Warcraft, there are often World Server Shutdowns without notice, and 
 this can be extremely frustrating for people in instances, since everything is reset.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  This game could have been worth playing if Blizzard implemented a major story that 
 people can follow easily. Instead, they flooded the game with thousands of pointless quests to 
 drag time on. More than often, you will think, why the hell and I doing this for?
  
  In half a year, I managed to level up my Mage to 70 and Rogue to 41. After all those hours of effort, 
 it was unsatisfying and anti-climatic. There were still many things to do, but it was the end for 
 me.
  
  I could see the future only consisted of more endless grinding. The fun factor was gone. It was 
 ultimately a time and money sink. Just days after getting to level 70, I flew all over Outland. 
 I told my guild my reasons for leaving, passed on items and gold to friends and said goodbye.
 
  
  I was addicted to the game, I only realised after I quit. Well, thankfully it didn't destroy my 
 real life in that time. I think this monthly subscription game does not have great value for money 
 - it's only fun playing for a short time. Well, feel free to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xterminator77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game took about 70 days of solid play time from me in the past year and a half, in the end 
 I must say that it really is incredible, no other game comes close to WoW, I mean a really long 
 game takes 40 hours to beat, it took me over 1700 hours to finally put an end to WoW and there 
 still is so much I havn't done!!
  
  Incredible The graphics are simple yet effective, incredible memorial landscapes and designs.
 
  
  The play style and controls all work so well together and you get complete control of your character 
 for any dueling exc.
  
  The game starts off easy and goes in a perfect increase of difficulty, slowly teaching the player 
 how to become better and stronger.
  
  Overall you can't give it any less then a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AN RPG's DREAM COME TRUE! Anyone who plays any type of RPG whether its from the Far 
 East for from Across the Pond, World of Warcraft will suck you into a whole other world, and its 
 hard to escape. The only things that i had a small problem with was the character development in 
 features of facial and other anatomical differences. The quests are amazing, as small as running 
 an errand, to slaying a Red Blood Dragon in the Seering Steppes. The MMORPG is filled with helpful 
 fellow REAL players as well. Even if you are a n00b , you will find friends, its a lifestyle not 
 just a game. The only problem is trying to get away from the PC screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steviedambo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I first got this game back in early '05 after it had just been released and was initially blown 
 away by it. I'd never played an MMO before and was immediately sucked in. The world is bright and 
 beautiful, the backstory and lore well written and involved, characters interesting, etc, etc, 
 BUT, having played a number of classes into the high 40's and maxing one char's level I can honestly 
 say that this game gets very, very BORING. It never really develops into anything different and 
 is pretty much the same at level 10 as it is at 70. Quests mostly consist of, go here, collect 
 x number of these then return to me, or travel here, kill this person, steal his diary. The same 
 basic quests are retained right through the game, with only a handful of different ones. Also if 
 you have any kind of life, you can't play this game as it's more or less impossible to find the 
 time. You will need to be glued to your PC for 2hrs minimum to achieve anything worthwhile. I was 
 only able to play this game whilst I was at university, with not too much to do during the day. 
 However, as soon as I graduated, I found myself with no time at all to play it, so it had to go.
 
  
  Shame. Overall it's a good game that rewards those who are able to give it the time it needs, but 
 if you can't, I wouldn't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  this game has become more of a trend than a solid MMO.
  
  just because a lot of people play a game does not make it a masterpeice. have tried many other 
 MMO's and have found little worse than this game.
  
  to start, the graphics were not near what can be seen. it is understandable that they bring it 
 down to let everyone play but the revamps in the original everquest make it look bad. the sound 
 in the game wasnt to great either. just turned off the sound and put on some music. some animations 
 were nice and there is a lot of freedom in the game. VERY little loading times which is a big plus 
 towards the game.
  
  still the game itself is not fun. It is way to easy for any type of MMO and for younger audiences 
 it might appeal or for people who havent played anything else, but for those who have spent years 
 on other MMO's to get to where they were and then do the same thing on WoW in a couple months? 
 not nearly as satisfying. overall the game is far overrated and i was very dissapointed by blizzard 
 this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erez_marinov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  i have played the trial version and 10 days and i cant wait to buy the game its so much fun to 
 play with so many people from all around the world..... and to share your adventures with them.
 
  i am a gamer for about 15 years and i have never seen anything like this, anyone who hasnt tried 
 this MUST download the 10 day free trial and see for himself.... i promise you wont be disappointed.
 
  i have also played Ultima online 5 years ago and its not nearly as good as WOW, the slogan that 
 says that its not a game, its a world is so right!, i mean to only travel this immense world will 
 take you a month or so and without fighting or questing at all!, its amazing how much thought was 
 put to the design of this world and the design of the quests and the design of the cities and number 
 of continents it is such a rush at first to only comprehend the sheer volume of this huge game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  When i downloaded the trial i first got dissapointed for the graphics. Then i had to turn off the 
 volume cuz the sounds where really annoying.
  Then i got bored after i played it for 45 wich were really a waste.
  And...... this game is so 
 hell overpriced!!!!!! it costs less to buy the game than to play it for a month online man!!!!!!!!!! 
 Also the jobs are bad and the combat motion socks so......... this is really a bad game. 8 million 
 people doesnt mean this is a masterpiece wich is what most people think.
  
  Many people like this game and many dont so its ur call if you want to play it but i reccommend 
 u to avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbulentpine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  I joined WoW in November 2006, so i got in at a good stage where the new expansion pack was about 
 to be released. I was previously novice at this type of game (WoW being my first MMO) . But i found 
 this game easy to pick up and not really complex even though the content is staggering. Once you 
 first buy and this game you'll need to create an account and put a subscription or gamecard on 
 the account to activate it. Once you begin playing you choose a realm (server) , its a easy choice 
 if you have friends on a certain realm, if not go for a recommended realm. You need to create a 
 character by fraction, race, class (all unqiue and exiting in their own way) . The interface is 
 easy to pick up and is flawless, the content is alot to take in but you will really need to commit 
 but this the most rewarding game. I agree with the gamespot review. You cant get a good feeling 
 from this game from a screenshot or quick 20 minute play, if you dont like what you see at least 
 get to level 10 and talk to people in the game , i bet you will totally change your mind, plus 
 if you looking for a game you want to commit to this has to be it over 9 million people should 
 agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rontor
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I came to World of Warcraft from a guild in Star Wars Galaxies. We were a collaboration of exiles 
 from SWG who were tired of being pushed around by SOE (Sony Online Entertainment) . My expectations 
 were high and 2 and 1/2 years later I can safely say that my time with World of Warcraft has been 
 a great one. The game is so immersive and addicting that it just keeps you playing for hours on 
 end. I found myself devoting alot of my freetime to this game and eventually I stopped buying other 
 games in general. It saved me alot of money in the long run on game purchasing. The setup for WoW 
 is great and pretty much follows the formula of every MMO but perfects it to a stage that no one 
 has ever come close. Every class has its own unique, distinguishable abilities and they all fit 
 together nicely. The game has so much polish and it was from the beginning. Blizzard has done alot 
 to improve on the game and it considered near-perfect for my standards. I will probably continue 
 to play World of Warcraft until they stop making expansions for it. Its just so much fun to play 
 and gives me something productive to do in my free time. I highly recommend trying it even if you 
 do not like MMORPGs. WoW makes MMOs fun and easy to get into. Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabisu999
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  It's a very adictive game and plays well
  But I'm telling you what blizzard hides:
  -Most of the players doesn't have a clue to how to play theyr class, so you wait like 2 hours to 
 get a full group, you enter the dungeon and after 10 min the group disbands, or someone just leaves, 
 or someone steals your loot;
  -You need enchants or some bind on equip blacksmith weapon/armor, well you take a lot of time or 
 waste a lot of gold to get the materials, you find someone who can make it, but well that someone 
 trades you the materials and logs out, and you've been scamed;
  -You want to do a dungeon or a raid, well you'll have to wait and wait and if you loose the roll, 
 wel you have to go again, find people, kick noobs, get some more decent people, and you waste a 
 full day to run like what 2 or 3 instances and wipe a lot on the raid
  
  The wole game is excelent, the lore very explained, each area as it story, it's a very good game, 
 but players, wait time and the way you should be at that hour to go to a raid, well it really damages 
 the factor fun in the game. So it's defeantly a bad choice for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomanez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, more known as WoW is one of the best games I have ever played. IF you have a 
 PC with decent specs, just go pick this game up. Sure it might be 15 dollars a month, but it seriously 
 is worth it. When I first got this game i was like psshhh, this game can't be as good as everyone 
 says. Then i installed it, which sadly took noting the games vast continents and worlds. The game 
 is really fun, though it may be full of grinding, the interactive experience with other players, 
 as well as great graphics, held for any decent PC, is just amazing and will keep you hooked for 
 hours on end. You probably wont spend as much time playing any video game more than this one. The 
 only con about this game, is that it kind of takes your life away. Not literally, but you will 
 spend tons of time on it. Other than that its an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatorballer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Hours and hours of endless fun playing this game. I was a little hesitant about getting this game 
 and forking out the $$$ to play online when I probably would get sick of it and put it down, but 
 i must say this was money well spent. At first I was a little lost, but once I got the hang of 
 what was going on, i got hooked. I used to play alot of the FF series and Oblivion, but I will 
 never touch those games again. WoW has everything you could possibly want in an RPG. The scenery, 
 charactors, and effects are just awesome. I would suggest to any RPG gamer to go out immediately 
 and get this game and at least try it for the trial period. I promise you wont be disappointed. 
 The only downside to this game is you become so addicted to it that you find yourself playing it 
 on your downtime and time that you should be using to do something constructive with your life. 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorNisse
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Sure the game looks fancy at all... sometimes... I have never seen such brutal differences between 
 graphic qualities in a video game. Some things looks really great, while some things looks like 
 they just didn't bother to make it 3D. Where you best can see what I mean is to look at the Ogrimmar 
 walls. Are the spikes intended to look like they've been onto the walls? or is it just real lazyness? 
 They did not even devote any time to create their own stuff. You can find almost EVERY Icon and 
 EVERY model witch they have used in WoW on this webpage www. wcsear. ch witch is a website to show, 
 or let people use, your work for Warcraft III. WoW has almost NOTHING original about it self. Sure 
 blizzard made the graphics slightly better and slightly worse on some places.
  
  Another thing thats bothering me is the second thing you do when you are gonna play for the first 
 time. Choose your race. Ok, nice feature. If it whould not have been so EXTREMLY limited. I mean 
 come on, Diablo 2 gave the feeling of a huge variety, while there was only 5 to choose from. WoW 
 has 8 races on the original and 10 races on the expansion pack the burning crusade. Thats the doubble 
 amount, but still it feels like its less then diablo 2. Warcraft 3 had a huge variety of units. 
 Espacially for the undead race. Instead of just being able to choose zombies for the undead, why 
 not allow a higher variety, like ghosts, ghouls, skeletons, necromancer style. No we have to limit 
 ourselves and why can't you choose the burning legion or the lich king. None of them has been utterly 
 destroyed. Arthas took over the throne as the lich king, I whould love to serve him. Or why can't 
 you be a naga? Serving Illidan can't be that bad, can it? And why can't you run around like a crazed 
 demon killing everything in your path? Theres so many things they never bothered to put into the 
 game witch only makes the game ever more of an rip off. Blizzard CAN make good RTS, RPG and MMORPG 
 games, if they put time and effort into it. World of Warcraft was NOT worth time I spent on it 
 (even if it was a 10 day trial) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxDarkheart555x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this agme and everthing about it. What i find most addicting is when you level up and learn 
 new spells!! This game never gets old and plus its only 20$ (but you have to pay for being online,15$ 
 a month) but its still so0o0o0o0o worth it, highly recamend it!!!! Awesome and addicting MMORPG, this 
 game will keep you glued to your computer for hours!!! (until it starts to lage) : p....... YOU have 
 to get this game!!! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get 
 it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get 
 it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power4ward
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I played this game for a long time but i stopped about 6 months ago. It is, with out a doubt, the 
 best game of its genre available right now. Its nearly perfect for the type of game that it is. 
 The only real downfall is the 15 dollars a month fee, which most online gamers are willing to pay 
 anyway. I stopped playing only because I found myself playing it more often than I wanted to, and 
 I personally didn't feel like getting into the expansion. I made it to level 65 then i pretty much 
 stopped playing. Before the expansion came out though i loved the game and I recommend it to anyone 
 who has the time to play an addictive game like this. If you do have the time and money then this 
 game is definately the way to go, especially when you get to the higher levels and can start raiding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simmo007
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys,
  I played this game from day 1, i. e. release day... as a casual player at times (3 days a week) 
 to a hardcore raider (raid leading) . I have to say, the game has a lot of content when leveling 
 from 1-60 and what is now 1-70 and soon to be 1-80... but once you reach this cap, you are left 
 with 3 ways of gaining 'end-game' gear. These three ways come through, PvP, PvE or quest/reputation 
 grinding. All of these way have interesting sometimes intuitive ways of keeping you interested 
 in the game, however, when you have experienced this in a multitude of ways that just seem too 
 similar the content does not seem as vast and from experience a lack of interest in the game is 
 created. When you PvP, you have a choice of a mere 4 different scenarios, which in essence don't 
 offer anything more than killing horde or alliance, and if u are playing alliance you can defiantly 
 count of having next to no co-operation with your fellow alliance players, and as such you will 
 9/10 times lose. As such, PvP becomes fairly monotonous, once you have killed your 100,000 horde 
 players... PvE was something that I was particularly interested in in the pre-BC stages of WoW, 
 this was because it was completely new content to everyone. Post-BC raiding leaves in my mind a 
 lot to be desired, it is still this monotonous cycle of log on at 7:00pm, get your pots, blow 100g 
 a night on raiding and get a sense of PURE boredom out of the game, you then log off incredibly 
 frustrated that you just lost 100g for nothing, or to have some new guild member take your epic 
 item. Once you have then gained you 8/8 or what is now 5/5 tier set, you then wait three months, 
 continuing to kill bosses which you have killed many times before and Blizzard then releases a 
 new instance, something that has the same concept, but is just that little harder (not strategically, 
 everything boils down to gear) TRASH --&gt; BOSS --&gt; TRASH --&gt; Loot, spend hour upon hour 
 wiping till you have it on farm status and then the vicious cycle comes back to bite you on the 
 butt. Reputation grinding is a part of the game that now in BC does allow you to gain decent gear/rewards 
 and I have to commend Blizzard on that fact, because Pre-BC factions offered much to be desired. 
 The bottom line is, that if you grind reputation, you will be bored... and thats it... purely bored, 
 because reputations are just a bunch of quests, or gathering some items which you can only hand 
 in once a day.
  
  This is a great game, when you are leveling from 1-60/70/80 but, if you delve too deep into this 
 game you will get bored of it and truly be disappointed in the game that you spent many, many hours 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyrocks24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so ive been playing WoW for about 2 years now. Let me tell you ive played games from Battlefield 
 1942 to Rome Total War, But this game is by far the most addicting and fun game i have ever played.
 
  
  First off when you are new to the game it honostly takes 30 minutes to start to understand the 
 game and once you begin its just a great experiance all the way through.
  
  Ive been reading other peoples reviews and they say Its boring cause you have to grind and do quests 
 ........ Well thats kind of the point of a MMORPG if you dont like leveling or actully takeing some 
 time to become good at a game then this isnt for you also you dont HAVE to grind all day everyday 
 if you want to take a break there are other things to do such as Instances which you get in a party 
 of 5 or more depending upon level and kill bosses and get nice items from them Also you can do 
 Battlegrounds where the Horde play against the Alliance Very fun Warsong Gulch is a CTF type of 
 event. Arathi Basin is like a take other points and defend them and Alteric Valley is a small instance 
 in a sort you have to fight and kill the others teams Commander to win. Lastly there Eye of the 
 Storm A Warsong gulch/Arathi Basin Mix which IMO isnt that great.
  
  For the bad ive played for such a long time i have noticed some bad things. First you MUST have 
 a good computer to handle such a demanding game if not you will get frustrated by low FPS and high 
 Ping. Second some times quests and instances can get bugged for long periods of time which can 
 be a pain for those who need that item/NPC.
  
  All in all this game is great for MMORPG fans and fans who want to try a new genre! Goodluck 68 
 Mage Gandolfer Aggramar server! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infect999
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  During this review i will focus on the core content of WoW, and not the features of the expansion.
 
  
  By now you should know what World of Warcraft is. WoW is an MMORPG set in the world of Azeroth, 
 which was the home of the series' three predecessors as well. Azeroth features four huge continents 
 to explore, seperated into different zones . First you will have to pick what type of server you 
 will be playing on. They range from PvE, which will make PvP combat completely optional, PvP, which 
 will focus heavily on both the PvE and PvP aspects of the game, and RP, in which players roleplay 
 as the characters they have created. You will then take the role of one of 8 races, which are seperated 
 into two warring factions, the Horde and the Alliance. Fighting for the Horde are the Orcs, Trolls, 
 Tauren, and Undead (also known as The Forsaken) , and siding with the Alliance are the Humans, Dwarves, 
 Gnomes, and Night Elves. There is no real evil side in the game, since both factions are merely 
 fighting to support their way of life. Each race and faction has it's own rich backstory (playing 
 previous Warcraft games will help in understanding the story within this game) .
  
  Once you've selected your faction and race, you can customize your appearance. The customization 
 features are a little limited compared to some other games out there, but they do help to provide 
 your character with its own unique look. The next, and probably most important, step is to select 
 your class. Your class will decide from here on out what skills you have access to, what armor 
 and weapon types you can use, what your role in PvE and PvP combat will be, and how your character's 
 appearance will change as you progress. The game has a wide variety of classes that are pretty 
 well balanced (though some may seem a bit overpowered) .
  
  Then, once you've given you character a name, you're ready to play! You will start off in a variety 
 of environments, depending on the race you've selected. The first quests in the game will serve 
 mainly as tutorial, though the interface is pretty simple to start with. As you progress and gain 
 experience and levels, new opprotunities will appear. You will gain access to different Battlegrounds, 
 which are team-based PvP scenarios. These range greatly and are a lot of fun. You will also adventure 
 in new environments and see what new quests and items the game has to offer. You will be able to 
 learn professions, which allow you to make hundreds of items to sell to other players or use for 
 yourself. You can only have 2 professions at a time. You will be able to purchase a mount, which 
 allows you to move at greater speeds. You will have access to new and powerful skills, weapons, 
 items, and armor. There are also massive dungeons to unlock and explore with others. These dungeons 
 require a group of people to complete it. Some may require a mere 5 people, while others require 
 up to 40.
  
  You will also have access to a talent tree, which allows you to customize your characters skills 
 as you progress. Talents allow you to make your character stronger in certain skill areas for it's 
 class, allowing you to play the class the way you want. The characters of the world are also brought 
 to life by rich text-dialogue, though voice acting is minimal. Players can interact across a wide 
 variety of chat channels, as well as using tons of emotes, or even making their own custom emotes. 
 There is also a great guild system that allows leaders to customize ranks, privileges, and a guild 
 symbol, which is featured on a guild tabard. The auction house (basically ebay) is a nice feature 
 as well.
  
  While these things come together really well, i had a few issues with the game, mainly the quests. 
 There really isnt any originality with the majority of the quests. It's usually the basic kill 
 so many of these or collect so many of that or take this to this person . Quests can also be incredibly 
 hard and annoying, and almost feel like they arent worth completing. And if you don't want to do 
 these quests, prepare to grind. Grinding is still an incredibly boring task if you have to resort 
 to it. Nasty lag may occur in heavily populated cities. Graphical textures and armor designs are 
 clearly reused throughout, and don't look like much effort went into them (most effort for the 
 armor went into higher-level items) . Some of the graphics look beautiful, while others look a bit 
 sloppy. Also, if you're playing on a PvP server, doing quests in higher level areas may get frusturating 
 as players of the other faction may come along and kill you.
  
  So, all-in-all World of Warcraft is a great MMORPG. While it may not come up with many new ideas, 
 it executes them well. It has its lows, but it is still definetely worth trying. A free trial is 
 now available if you want to try the game. The price of full admission may be high (subscriptions 
 start at $12.99 per month) , but it's definetely worth it to experience the game.
  
  NOTE: be warned, this game is highly addicting. it is reccommended that you keep control over how 
 long you play the game. have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobnado777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the 10 day trial and the game itself looks amazing environment looks awesome just 
 its get kind of boring sometimes. this is coming from a CSS and BF2 player but WOW is fun sometimes 
 when you start killing things and dueling people, but people going from online game such as BF2 
 or CSS wil be in for a surprise with WOW. The game is pretty easy to learn which is good since a 
 lot of people are really good. Some guys on there are really, really good so don't be mad if a level 
 10 guy kills you when your like me and a level 2 guy. Just respawn and life goes on. The death thing 
 is good too. A lot of games think dying is bad this one is just like whatever o well get back in 
 there and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WOW) is Blizzard Entertainments Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game 
 (MMORPG) that has been nothing short of a runaway success. After spending some time with it, its 
 pretty easy to see why and how this monstrosity has ensnared over nine million gamers and growing. 
 What separates WOW from other online games such as Diablo 2 and Guild Wars is its massively multiplayer 
 nature. What this means is that unlike other online games, when you log into WOW and pick a server 
 to play on, you are playing in the same game world as all the other players currently connected 
 to that server. You can see all of these other players and interact with them in real time, which 
 is pretty cool to say the least the first time you experience it. There is no need to go back to 
 a lobby, or town, or anything like that to get people to play with since everyone is in the same 
 field pretty much all the time.
  
  Players do need to pay a monthly fee in order to play the game beyond the first month. The standard 
 fee is fifteen dollars a month, but there are also three month and six month bulk packages available 
 as well. With these plans you pay a larger sum up front every three or six months respectively, 
 but the overall cost to play per month is cheaper than the standard month to month plan, which 
 is nice since it saves you money in the long run. There is a lot of speculation regarding games 
 with monthly fees, and MMORPGs in particular. The reason players have to pay an additional fee 
 after they have purchased the game is that because MMORPGs are living breathing digital worlds. 
 They require constant maintenance and continually need to be watched over so things dont get out 
 of hand, kind of like a group of small children. In order to do this people have to be employed 
 to watch over, monitor, and fix any problems that may come up around the clock. Plus, in order 
 to keep the game world a dynamic seemingly living place, new content has to constantly be created 
 for it and implemented. Not to mention the servers and networks the game is running on require 
 time and money in order to maintain in addition to the game. All of this stuff is what your subscription 
 pays for. Is it worth it? The short answer is yes. It is most definitely worth it. Please, continue 
 reading to find out why.
  
  Players can choose to play either side of the fictional war raging in the World of Warcraft. These 
 two sides are the Alliance (composed of Humans, Night Elves, Gnomes, and Dwarves) and The Horde 
 (made up of savage Orcs, the mighty Minotaur like Tauren, Trolls who speak with a Jamaican accent, 
 and the creepy Undead) . Players can have several characters per server, and can have characters 
 in both the Alliance and Horde if they arent playing on a PVP server. Characters can be male or 
 female, and there is a variety of different things to choose from to make your character aesthetically 
 pleasing and unique. When creating a character, players also choose their characters class from 
 the handful the game offers. Players can be a backstabbing rogue, light wielding paladin, bloodthirsty 
 warrior, power hungry warlock, totem and element manipulating shaman, divine priest, nature powered 
 druid, pet assisted hunter, or magic flinging mage. Some classes are race specific, such as the 
 druid class that is confined to the Tauren and Night Elves. Other classes, such as the paladin 
 and shaman, are faction specific if you dont have The Burning Crusade, which is WOWs first expansion 
 pack. After players have gone through all of this they must name their character. If you are having 
 difficulty with this, or are just lazy, Blizzard has included a random name generator in the game. 
 Its located under the box you type your characters name into, and simply clicking on it will generate 
 random fantasy Warcraft names for your character.
  
  Upon entering the World of Warcraft for the first time players are treated to a race specific cinematic 
 that sets up their story and places players in their appropriate race specified starting area. 
 From this point forward there is no waiting around. Players simply play by exploring the world 
 around them, killing monsters, and completing quests. By default, movement is controlled by the 
 WASD keys much like a first person shooter. However, if you prefer to point and click your way 
 to victory fear not, because the controls can be turned over to the old point and click method 
 in the options. Theres really no need to switch back to point and click controls though, since 
 the WASD controls are quite fluid and provide for a much more hands on feel, further drawing players 
 into the game. The default interface is a bit standard, but is clean, clear, and provides players 
 with good visibility, and never really gets in the way. Players start with a dozen hot keys for 
 their attacks and items, and if for some reason this isnt enough, there are four additional hot 
 key bars that can be made visible through the options. These run along the bottom and right side 
 of the screen, which can make things feel a bit cluttered if you dont like to keep the camera 
 zoomed out. This is nothing game breaking though, and is only a minor annoyance at best. Players 
 start with a backpack to keep their loot in, and can equip up to four additional bags or backpacks 
 to increase inventory space. Between the hotkey bar and inventory bar on the bottom of the screen 
 is a small section that contains all your characters vitals, as well as a bar that shows your latency. 
 Here players can open their character screen, talent tree once they reach level 10, friends list, 
 and so on, which is very handy. If for some reason you dont like the default interface for WOW, 
 have no worries, because the interface is totally customizable. Blizzard has mod kit available 
 for download of the World of Warcraft website that allows you to make the interface however you 
 want it to be.
  
  Graphically WOW is nothing to write home about. It has a cartoon look and feel, but that is no 
 reason for the game to look as ugly as it does, especially when games like Guild Wars can run on 
 much less powerful systems than WOW can, and sport better graphics. On the default settings WOW 
 is simplistic, bland, and a bit grainy in appearance. If you can run the game on max settings, 
 you will be treated to much more smooth and detailed environments and character models. However, 
 this doesnt relieve WOW of the problem that it graphically looks and feels quite dated. This is 
 a problem that is only becoming more prevalent as time moves on. Its surprising that after being 
 out for almost three years with one expansion already available and another on the way that Blizzard 
 hasnt announced any plans to deal with this issue, or done anything to address it already. In 
 terms of appearance, WOW was tolerable when it launched, but desperately needs a face lift today.
 
  
  WOWs audio is top notch. Each NPC in the game has a fully voiced greeting that plays when you 
 click on them, much like your units did in Starcraft and the old Warcraft real time strategy games. 
 There isnt a whole lot of variety in these greetings, as it becomes very apparent early on that 
 the game just cycles through the same pool of some thirty sound bits. However, these greetings 
 never get old, and its always entertaining to see what comes up when you click on the NPCs too 
 many times and make them angry. WOW supports a fully orchestrated sound track that plays on and 
 off in the background always keeping the mood, and never ruining it. During battle players will 
 be treated to the boom of magic, whap of maces, and clatter of steel as they fight over life and 
 death. Its worth noting here that some of the original sound effects for things such as the rogues 
 backstab ability have been replaced. Sadly, the replacements are less than stellar in comparison 
 to the originals. The end result is that while these attacks can certainly pack a punch, because 
 of their weak sound, they feel underpowered. Its also worth noting here that if you die in combat 
 there is no loss of experience points or items. Likewise, players wont have to worry about other 
 players looting their corpses. Players can resurrect at the spirit healer in the graveyard and 
 will suffer from resurrection sickness, which grossly lowers your stats for a short time. Resurrection 
 sickness also deals a 20% durability loss to all of a players equipment, which requires a trip 
 to the blacksmith to fix. If players dont wish to resurrect in the graveyard they can have a friend 
 revive them, or travel back to their corpse and resurrect where they fell at no penalty. This is 
 a drastic change from the older style of MMORPGs and veterans may argue that it makes the game 
 too easy. However, Blizzard made it this way because they felt that such features would turn more 
 people off to their product than on to it, and they wanted to create a game that everyone can play 
 and enjoy, and that is what they did.
  
  In terms of overall content for an MMORPG, WOW has a lot to offer and certainly justifies the monthly 
 fee. Free content updates arrive to give players new features and things to do every couple of 
 months or so. Players seeking to battle other players can duke it out in either global free for 
 all PVP, or one of the many battlegrounds. There are countless quests to undertake and places to 
 explore for players interested in that sort of thing. There is a wide variety of professions for 
 players to choose from, master, and switch between at their leisure. With nine base classes and 
 eight different races split between two sides of a war without end, its easy to say that this 
 is a game you can easily invest thousands of hours into.
  
  Despite all the positive things, WOW isnt without its flaws. The dated graphics aside, WOWs biggest 
 problem is that it is shallow in the sense that the game never evolves beyond doing quests, killing 
 things, and hunting for treasure, which usually involves the first two things just mentioned. Players 
 looking for something beyond this will most likely not be too fond of WOW, since they will see 
 it as a shallow grind-fest, which is ultimately all the game is. Also, WOW lacks several basic 
 and key features found in practically every MMO that has come before it, which doesnt help matters 
 any. For instance, you can not customize the appearance of your character after you have made him 
 or her. You can not change your characters class after you have made the character. If you want 
 to play another class you have to make a new character in that class. There is no player housing, 
 no guild halls for guilds, and no guild bank for guilds. When a player chooses to pick up a new 
 profession their old one is abandoned, which reduces their level in that profession back to zero. 
 This is both an annoyance and doesnt make a whole of sense if their character ever wanted to go 
 back and pick up that profession again. Another major problem with WOW is its end game content. 
 For whatever reason, Blizzard hasnt been able to move this part of the game beyond the same shallow, 
 dungeon running, item hunting raiding, rep grind that it was in when WOW launched. There is a ton 
 of different fun things to do as you climb the ranks to the top, which keeps the game interesting, 
 but once you reach the end game the game falls flat and looses its appeal. At the end game players 
 are left with two options, they can either dungeon run/raid for hours on end for new equipment, 
 or they can PVP for honor and PVP equipment. Both of these things require you to be in a fairly 
 well coordinated guild in order to get anywhere. Also, unless players are playing on a new or low 
 population server, they will find that if they arent already in a guild like this by this point 
 in the game then they are out of luck, and will have nothing left to do. This is because most people 
 have settled into regular groups they play with by this point in the game. This makes getting into 
 a group, or picked up for a raid or PVP battle a challenge, because people usually arent looking 
 to add more members to their group.
  
  All that said, WOW is a great game, and is still the best all around MMORPG on the market. It is 
 casual so you dont need to dedicate hundreds of hours to it in order to advance. The controls 
 are fluid and very simple to just pick up and play, and its fun to play, which is the most important 
 thing. There is enough content here to justify the monthly fee. WOW will keep you occupied for 
 hundreds if not thousands of hours without end. Also, given the dynamic nature of the game, it 
 will keep you coming back for more, or just to see how its changed, after you think you have seen 
 it all, and then youll fall in love with it all over again. Blizzard has a free 10 day trial available 
 for those who arent sold on the game yet. It is free and will allow you to check out WOW and find 
 what the hubbub is about. If you like RPGs, or you like online games, or are a fan of Blizzard 
 Entertainment, or are just looking for a good time, you owe it to yourself to check out WOW. If 
 you dont fit into any of the categories just mentioned, you still owe it to yourself to check 
 out WOW, because this game is a true masterpiece and deserves at least a looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King - PC
  ====================================
  v. 1.10
  ====================================
  I am revising my review to be more up to date 
 with the release of Wrath of the Lich King. I've been playing Warcraft for a few years with breaks 
 in between cause of lack of content. Blizzard releases a patch, I run the new raid for a month 
 or two, get my good gear and then I stop playing for a bit...
  
  Graphics: 7 / 10
  Warcraft has improved in graphics as it has gone on, and I know the graphics can't get much better 
 has Blizzard doesn't want to make you have to go out and buy a new computer just to play. Avatar 
 and NPC graphics have not improved much, if at all. The only noticeable graphic changes would be 
 when you first get to Northrend; after that everything just starts looking the same again.
  
  Music / Sounds: 5 / 10
  Most of the time I don't have the music in Warcraft on as it gets 
 horribly repetitive and annoying; battle sounds are cool for the first little bit, and unless you 
 are raiding or even care about the lore, you will only really ever have the sound on when Arthas 
 is around so you don't have to read.
  
  Difficulty: 3 / 10
  World of Warcraft use to be challenging, it USE to be fun; but thanks to everyone **** and moaning 
 about everything Blizzard does to make this game just a little more challenging, they remove it. 
 Warcraft has gotten to the point where you can just shout in town and get a raid group for just 
 about anything. The only problem is, people either go just to screw your raid over, or they are 
 complete idiots and don't listen to boss strategies. If Blizzard made this game hard where you 
 could only raid with a guild then it would be fun.
  On that note, raids and dungeons are beyond easy now. A tank that just hit 80 could tank heroics, 
 a tank in blues could tank Naxx. The difficulty in this game is just to low to keep me interested.
 
  
  Player vs. Player: 6 / 10
  The PvP in Warcraft is fun, you got your World PvP on PvP servers, battlegrounds, and arenas.
 
  World PvP: Annoying, unless you want to be killed a lot while questing don't roll on a PvP server. 
 Ganking is the worst thing in World of Warcraft.
  Battlegrounds: This is where I spent most of my time, the battlegrounds are teams of players, up 
 to 40 vs 40 with multiple game types like Capture the Flag, King of the Hill, a mix of the two, 
 and Base Defense / Assault. This is defiantly one of the funnest things to do in Warcraft. Arenas: 
 I can't say much here as I don't go into the Arena often, but it has teams of 2v2, 3v3 and 5v5 
 battle it out until one team is left. If you win you get awarded with Arena points and your team 
 rating goes up, the points can be used to buy gear.
  
  General: 4 / 10
  This is just covering everything I can't put into it's own category. There are Trade skills you 
 can take up, you can have two different skills but most skills have a dependency on another skill, 
 so you can really only have one. Warcraft has an expansive lore you can research in game and a 
 vast world to explore, but the downside is, most people in this game don't really care about the 
 lore Warcraft has to offer.
  
  Overall: 6 / 10
  Warcraft is suppose to be the best MMORPG out there, now don't get me wrong, Warcraft is fun but 
 it gets really boring really quickly once you are stuck raiding, or having to grind off of mobs 
 for hours, or doing the same quests over and over. I would recommend Warcraft as an entry level 
 MMO to people who want to try it and see what it is like; but there are much better MMOs out there.
 
  
  Shortened Version:
  + Great PvP
  + Decent Environmental Graphics
  + Unique Boss Fights
  + Large World
  + Excellent Lore
  + Have up to 50 different characters 
 
  
  - Same quests over and over.
  - Grind fests get old quick
  - General and Trade chat isn't used for General or Trade chat
  - Lack of Difficulty - Mediocre 
 character graphics
  - Dungeons and Raids get old on your third or fourth time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfox2239
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  If you have never played this game before or have at a friends house you should buy it for 20$$$ 
 its a deal and easy to install took like 25min and downloads took 10 min. I cant wait till it is 
 up, right now and every Tuesday it is down for like 10 hours. I am a hunter and it is fun playing 
 with my brother who is a Priest. Level'ing up is fun and what the game is about its easy to get 
 to level 20 but after that it starts to get a little tricky not to much harder but a little bit. 
 The first couple quests are easy but then it starts to take longer to complete them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyndwr87
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Now well into its midterm, Blizzard Entertainment's World of Warcraft is undoubtedly the best selling 
 and most successful game franchise in the history of electronic entertainment. Furthermore, the 
 series keeps expanding and whilst nine million people are already playing within WoW's borders 
 plenty more are interested in this phenomenon. Therefore this review is for those unsure whether 
 all the hype is really reflective of the games credentials. To begin, WoW was released in late 
 2004, this means it is in no way a cutting edge piece. In fact this game really can look rather 
 dull if you have been playing recent high end games or even the equally aged Half-life2. The system 
 I am running has all the settings in this game on full, yet I still come away wishing there could 
 be a little more draw distance and sharper textures. For example, if you zoom to close in behind 
 your character say when running you will notice that most of the textures in the game world are 
 muddy pieces in which nothing is really sharp enough to make you think they could be real, which 
 in a game that strives for immersion, can bring you right out of the experience. The styling of 
 the game is also rather nubile, in that whilst it is pleasing to the eye and works within it's 
 own context once you have played the game for a while (which you inevitably will) and have found 
 many of it's flaws you feel reminded that everything is a little to childish. However it's art 
 style manages to work effectively around the games graphical flaws to give at least a passable 
 attempt at a living breathing world. Graphics aside, the character will spend a lot of his/her 
 gaming time talking to non player characters. In WoW these are various characters inhabiting the 
 game world that have lovely golden exclamation marks above their heads, whom when right-clicked 
 upon will relinquish a quest or two for you to go and complete. The writing in WoW is very good, 
 for the sheer number of quests available it remains compelling and often amusing as various Geek-culture 
 references are mentioned or odd requests are acquiesced. This however is where the first crux appears, 
 the entire, and I really do mean entire, player versus environment portion of the game is based 
 around these quests. This may not be such a bad thing, but reflecting that it will take on average 
 three hours to achieve a single level, and considering that you will have to travel by running 
 (at a slow pace to begin with) and that nearly all these quests align to the following conventions: 
 Kill X number of Y to achieve Z, Take X to Y, then bring Z to X., Escort X to Y, Collect 
 X number of Y from Z by killing W number of Z; the game becomes a painful and boring grind. At 
 present with The Burning Crusade expansion pack the level cap is at 70, soon to be 80 with the 
 release of The Wrath of the Lich King expansion. By a simple piece of arithmetic you can clearly 
 see that you will be investing some serious time in this game. Furthermore, if you have any cognitive 
 ability I am almost certain you WILL become bored with this game. The monotony of the level grind, 
 even when broken up by Player versus Player combat and the various professions available in the 
 game (such as Tailoring, Blacksmithing, Engineering and the likes) wear thin and one cannot help 
 but wonder if there is more to life than killing little monsters for a bit of purple experience 
 bar. I have played with numerous types of people in the World of Warcraft and it is truly great 
 to see such diversity within an on-line game however I have also seen a darker side behind WoW. 
 This game can become addictive, and I have seen very intelligent people fall to it's sirens call 
 and become grey skinned alarmingly unfit behemoths, who's once witty and astute senses of humour 
 have withered into nothing more than a line of game based jokes that really is the precursor to 
 a politically correct version of substance abuse. This of course is the extreme example but I feel 
 obliged to warn people as it really does happen. Once you have, if you can, gotten through the 
 levelling, or feel like a break from it, WoW has plenty of Player Vs Player combat available. Whilst 
 there is the option to play on a PvP server, if you are less into being killed numerous times by 
 much higher levels on your adventures one can relax in the battlegrounds of the WoW world. At present 
 there are only four battlegrounds, which for a game this size does seem a little few however they 
 work well and are great places for controlled PvP between the Alliance and the Horde. Ranging from 
 Capture the Flag, to resource collection to a version of Battlefield's conquest mode there is enough 
 here to keep most happy. There is also the Arena system, a high level tournament aimed at pitting 
 pre-made teams against each other to earn points and tokens to spend on armour, weapons and bragging 
 rights. At present only level 70 players can compete in the competitive arena whilst lower levels 
 can just go in for a friendly joust. In all honesty the arena system feels just like a way to keep 
 the level 70's from freezing their accounts until the Lich king expansion comes out, however it 
 must be remembered that this game is there to make money, and by golly has it done that. The combat 
 system in WoW is, in all honesty, simplistic. There is a simple hot bar system in which skills 
 are placed into it, a button is pressed and the skill goes off. There are plenty of skills for 
 each of WoW's classes and plenty of variety in levelling with it's ingenious talent system, whereby 
 once the player achieves level ten they receive a talent point each level to place into various 
 new skills to enhance their character. However because of the lack of interaction in the combat 
 system, ergo the button pushing, it does tend to feel as though you are simply watching a battle 
 unfold rather than being an integral part of it. You will see many discussions about what the best 
 skills are to beat other classes however if you actually take a long hard stare, everything is 
 a glorified version of rock, paper, scissors. This is a game that is simplistic, however it is hidden 
 behind a veneer of carefully crafted spin and player punditry that makes the player feel a lot 
 more skilled than they really are. A great example would be, that usually the best PvP players 
 or guilds are those that can invest the most time into the game and therefore learn nearly all 
 it's combat combinations. This I feel is a crying shame. I could, essentially continue this review 
 for hundreds of pages, there is literally that many things to talk about with this game however 
 I will conclude it with a simple statement. World of Warcraft is a sensation, it is a game that 
 has taken the world by storm for some of the very reasons I wish it hadn't. It is simplistic, therefore 
 caters to all ages and non-gamers. It has a colourful and inviting world, that is until you scratch 
 the surface and see that most things are the same but with a shiny new paint job, therefore makes 
 people feel welcome. Warcraft was already a well established series and had an excellent lore, 
 however this lore has been used to send characters to find eggs for an omelette for a hungry guard. 
 There are plenty of great things about the game, and it really is worth a try, however the problem 
 is, that even if you download the trial you will probably end up buying the game, and at &pound;8.99 
 a month it is not a cheap thing to run. You will probably have a great time, maybe join a guild, 
 get to level 40, buy a nice horsey. However it does become boring, repetitive and altogether saturated 
 by endless monotony. If your into rpg's try it, if you like action, try it. Please try this game, 
 however remember to keep looking at it instead of allowing your mind to go all warm and fuzzy and 
 accepting everything that it throws at you. I played this game for nearly two years (all be it 
 with plenty of gaps inbetween) however now I will never play this game again.... I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpse_Vanishes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I could probably write 3 or 5 pages about this game but Ill try to keep this as short as I can.
 
  
  Gameplay: Sure it can get boring and repetitive at times but most of the time (especially if you're 
 in a group) its tons of fun and can keep you glued to your computer for HOURS. I've played this 
 game for 4-7 hours straight before and for a person whos usually tired of playing a game after 
 an hour thats A LOT. A lot of the quests are very similar, kill X amount of these, bring me X 
 amount of this, go talk to this guy, bring them this, etc. But they still manage to hold your attention 
 and keep you playing. I've heard a lot of people complain about this being a grindfest but I've 
 gotten through most of the game without doing hardly any grinding. There are so many areas you 
 can quest in at a time that you should always have something to do and as long as you stay in the 
 right zones for your level it shouldn't be too hard or too easy.
  
  Graphics: Sure they're dated and rough in places but the world is just so HUGE and there's just 
 so much detail put into everything that you can't dismiss the graphics. The creatures and landscapes 
 all look great and although things are cartoony I think it works well with this game. I dont think 
 it would be as good if the graphics were more realistic. Sound: Music is good and atmospheric and 
 sound effects are pretty good too but I usually just play it on mute and throw a CD in.
  
  Value: To date I've played this game for a total of 352 hours and it only cost me $35, I've paid 
 $50 for games that have given me less then 10 hours so it may have a monthly fee but its completely 
 worth it, there's just SO much to do. Reviewer's Tilt: Amazing game, it IS very addicting but it 
 can't steal your life unless you let it, my social life hasn't suffered any because of this game. 
 This is one of my all-time favorites and I give it a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fouceky
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun when you first start.
  But if your like me , you get a character to level 10, and you make a new character. I managed 
 to get a warrior to level 40, and then got bored of its repetitiveness. I've been a fan of all of 
 Blizzards games since the first Warcraft. But I think they should have sticken to RTS games. You 
 start off, kill 10 monsters, turn in your quest, get a new attack, kill 10 monster, turn in you 
 quest, and it keeps repeating from there (but keeps you addicted long enough to stay with this game 
 forever) .
  I play City of Heroes/Villians and guild wars now,
  but have played Ultima Online and FF11.
  I am very surprised of the large fan following of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needgameinfo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people go around saying Oh to play WoW you can't have a life and you will be forced to 
 raid MC every day ha ha your a no life This is NOT true. I Swim and play a bit of Basketball and 
 Football around my neighborhood, not to mention school work, between that and other things I do 
 at my house everyday, I play WoW about 1-2 hours per day and have a level 51 Paladins.
  
  The game has great graphics, a nice array of music, and gameplay almost never gets old (depending 
 on how you play) the game takes a while to really heat up play 1 character to 15 or 20 and if you 
 like the game then keep it. Though you may get tired of the game once in a while it is pretty hard 
 to quit it completely and totally. With the Burning Crusade out and Wrath of the Lich King on the 
 way, it's going to be even better. So if your patient, and you like multi-player role-playing games 
 you should definitely pick this one up, a heads up first: It costs 15$ a month = ( but don't worry 
 its well worth the money. And another heads up: The game is pretty dang addictive so limit yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  I've heard many good things about this game and not so much bad. So when I decided to pick it up 
 I was expecting a lot and maybe a bit to much. Lets just say it was fun for the first 10-20 levels 
 and then really got boring. I just found each quest I did wasn't that fun and there wasn't really 
 a good storyline or anything. It may just be my interest in game but this game is definitely not 
 worth paying over $10 a month for. Maybe if they updated the graphics and gameplay it would be 
 half decent. If your going to play an online game go with Guild Wars or City of heroes or something. 
 Stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  At first I was a bite skeptical about giving this game a perfect 10. My account expired about 5 
 month ago because I didn't want to pay for this game any more. After letting it expire I realize 
 that I miss this game alot. In that 5 months other great games came out that I bought. This includes 
 Halo 3, Assassins Creed, Call of Duty 4, ext... all were great, but what I realize is that I didn't 
 spend nearly as mush time on these games then I did on wow. To be perfectly honest wow took over 
 my life. When I hit 70 i felt so accomplished I never wanted it to end. I must of played that game 
 at least 3-10 hours a day. It was so much fun. I didn't think computer games could be so much fun 
 until I played wow. There was so much to do. So much to see. The giant opened ended environments 
 were, and still is the biggest environments I have ever seen in a video game. The people playing, 
 the cities, the never ending quest. It was fantastic! I can't tell you how exciting this video 
 game was. Wow is by far the greatest game in history. If you have a life don't play wow. To everyone 
 else this game is highly recommended. If you don't like this game at first just get to level 10. 
 That is where the fun begins. I guarantee you the people that gave this game a bad review are the 
 people that didn't get to level 10. So if you are second guessing this game, think again! You shouldn't 
 have to guess at all. This game is a drug, and it is the best drug I've ever done!
  
  Oh and take a look at this news report:
  
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=K8hfK3RQs2g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1988
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? First of all I have read a few reviews saying you can only play this game if you 
 haven't got a life.. not true. I work 38 hrs a week, and maybe play wow about an hour to two hours 
 a day. I'm not addicted and I still have alot of fun playing wow.... but I will say this, if you 
 want to get to a high lvl like 50-70 (the higher the lvl the stronger you are, and the more stuff 
 you can do) fast, then you are gonna need a lot of time on your hands, but thats not what it's 
 about for me and I think if you don't stress about trying to be a high lvl then you are gonna have 
 more fun.
  
  The gameplay can get repetitive from time to time, but if you mix it up a bit and do a few quests 
 here then lvl up your professions and muck around a bit, it will makes it more fun. The story is 
 a little hard to follow as there is no real main quest, well if there is I haven't come across 
 it yet.
  
  The sound is neat, fits the mood of the game just right. But a little too epic at times. Graphics 
 aren't the best you have seen, and has outdated a bit since its release. The graphics are fun I 
 think it keeps the gameplay less serious and easy on the eye. Overall I think its a great game 
 but Its not for everyone. Try it at a friends place or check out some game videos and see what 
 you think before buying it, because you either love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F0R3V3RM0R3
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, a MMO with millions of players online. Is it fun? Depends if you like MMO's 
 or not. Personally, I find MMO's boring. And after a months playing of WoW, I decided to call it 
 quits. Lets put it this way, if you're sick of Guild Wars, and other MMO's and want to play the 
 monster that is WoW, then go ahead. But be prepared, somethings might get a little repetitive after 
 awhile. I personally don't have the patience to do all these quest and grind mobs.
  
  Graphics:
  Well, since the game came out in 04', don't expect it to have amazing visuals. The 
 graphics are unique in a way, but in no way are the revolutionary. Some games don't need stunning 
 visuals to pull it off like Starcraft, and WoW falls under the same category.
  Sound: The sounds are alright. I mean, I really don't know what a good sword sound, or fireball 
 sound, sounds like so.... They all sound believable nothing seems out of place which is nice.
  Gameplay:
  Lets see. If you're into the whole MMO experience like I said before, then this game 
 is definitely for you, it has everything you need and a little more. One of funnest things I had 
 doing back when I played was doing instances with a bunch of friends. We'd all go over to their 
 basements, bring PC's, and just play for hours on end, doing raids, quest, PvPing, etc, etc. But 
 now, its mostly CS: S for us. There's a TON of things to do in WoW, I'm not even going to get into 
 them. I can see why people love this game, but it's just not for me. Overall: Great game if you 
 love MMO's, if you don't well then, whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 121212121211121
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Looking for a new game on the PC that has great online play and is good to last for months and 
 months to come. Well look no further because that game has arrived. World of Warcraft for the PC 
 is an MMORPG game made by blizzard which follows the events after Warcraft 3: Frozen Throne. Basically 
 it's an MMORPG. You create your own character with it's two classification systems. You can either 
 be a member of the Alliance which consists of Humans, Dwarfs, Knomes, and Night Elfs. Or be a member 
 of the Horde which consists of Orcs, Trolls, Tauren, and Undead. These two kingdoms fight againist 
 each other which sets the stages for castle raids, battlegrounds, and more. Once you select what 
 race you are you get to select what class you are. There are Paladins, Hunters, Warriors, Warlocks, 
 Mages, Shamans, Rogues, and Priests. Once you create your character the way you want it to look 
 you enter a World where the map is fulled with almost endless areas to explore and the best graphics 
 you can find in a PC game to date. There is a lvl cap in this game:60 but there are expansion packs 
 being made to increase the lvl cap. In the end WoW is a game that you can literally sit down at 
 9:00 A. M. and to stop playing at 7:00 P. M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (known as WoW) is a pay-to-play massively multiplayer online role-playing game. 
 It is Blizzard Entertainment's fourth game set in the fantasy Warcraft universe, first introduced 
 by Warcraft: Orcs &amp; Humans in 1994. World of Warcraft takes place within the world of Azeroth, 
 four years after the events at the conclusion of Blizzard's previous release, Warcraft III: The 
 Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment announced World of Warcraft on September 2, 2001. The game 
 was released on November 23, 2004, celebrating the 10th anniversary of the Warcraft franchise.
 
  
  The first official expansion pack of the game, The Burning Crusade, was released on January 16, 
 2007. Blizzard announced a second expansion pack called Wrath of the Lich King on August 3, 2007. [14] 
 The release date of Wrath of the Lich King has not yet been announced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamanlord117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  It does] nt take much persuasion to get that WOW box cover of the shelf, rip that baby apart and 
 play that thing, and the only thing that might stop you would be your shortage of cash, but other 
 than that, you absolutely MUST play this game. It might seem a bit boring in the middle of the 
 game, but after awhile, you start to realize how much effort had been put to the gameplay, graphics, 
 content, menu system and almost everything any MMORPG has been lacking at. Graphics are of a very 
 high quality, considering it can hold over 5 million people. It may not look nice on a low-end 
 computer though. The soundtrack fits in very nicely with the the background and atmosphere, and 
 you could just stand there and lose yourself in the music.
  Overall, this is a game that must not be missed. If you dont have the money for it, go play it 
 at your friends house or something, and maybe *accidentally* bring it back home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamizureyx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is extremely well made and very enjoyable to play, the gameplay is varied due 
 to the huge amounts of options and overall leaves you wanting more, which can cause you to become 
 addicted if you're not careful.
  The graphics are often jaw-dropping for an MMO as everything is detailed despite the unbelievable 
 size of the world.
  The sound, whilest slightly boring and sometimes repetitive succeeds in setting the right mood 
 for such an epic fantasy world.
  However, WoW does have a few flaws that need to be pointed out.
  If you want to unlock the true 
 potential of this game, you have to be patient. The first 15 levels will be slightly monotonious, 
 its a fact, you'll go around doing pointless quests and slaying unamaginative monsters for not 
 much reason. It's only when you aproach a level that is acceptably higher that you can begin to 
 explore the wonders of Azeroth, customize your character further and truely enjoy the full experience 
 of WoW.
  It may not be a flaw but still, be careful, this game is VERY addictive, if you buy it make sure 
 you dont get absorbed by it, you will lose your social life easily. Set your limits or become a 
 recluse...
  Money is an issue, at around 8-10 pounds a month, it can be a bit expensive to keep, personaly 
 I think it is worth it but can be a bit of a rip off.
  The sheer variety of playing styles, features, classes, races and events makes the game unfinishable 
 and will keep you happily adventuring for months on end.
  But this game is not for the inpatient, look elsewhere if your not already in to this sort of game, 
 if you are though, this is undoubtfuly the best of its type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I've read so many reviews on this game from players, and i read some of the bad reviews by players. 
 SO i figured i woudl write my own review on WoW.
  
  This is probably the best MMORPG i have ever played. Theres over 9 million people in the game, 
 so you really wont be alone when it comes to quest and raids. Not to mention they are always updating 
 the game, adding quest, there are so many ways for you to customize your guy or girl, the classes 
 are alright... could be more.
  
  When it comes to the graphics, you really can't givea PC game a score when it comes to the graphics 
 because it all depends on what you have on your computer. I've seen WoW on so many computers that 
 the apperance is never the same. You could have your standard computer and WoW wont look amazing. 
 But if you have your computer updated with the latest graphics cards and plug ins, WoW will look 
 beyond amazing.
  
  There is always something for you to do, wether its meeting with friends adn talking or, going 
 to the battle grounds and arenas or, going on raids. So if you actually decide to step into the 
 World.... of Warcraft, you wont really be bored.
  
  I will admit the only thing that sucks about this game is when you first start out... you will have 
 no idea where you are going due to the size of the game world but thats why you have mods you can 
 download where you can just look the cords for a quest up on thotbot and just set those cords to 
 your ingame map. But once you get past the first 10 lvls for your guy, its smooth sailing.
  
  One thing i like about this game is that its hard. Yeah. i put very easy because... it gets 
 easy when you get better weapons and armor, but starting out, it can be very hard and annoying 
 at the same time. And even when you hit lvl 70, there will be times when you will need more then 
 5 players to beat just one guy.
  
  The classes are alright... there could have been more though. Like they could have had a Job system 
 similar to Final Fantasy Tactics. But besides the little things that could have been done but werent 
 WoW is a game that you owe yourself to play if you are a fan of MMORPGS and it gets better as each 
 day passes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Game is very good, story is amazing. But graphic is not best This game puts you in warcraft world 
 its amazing for all warcraft fans, that you can after long time walk in stormwind or darnasus be 
 part of that world
  all warcraft fans always wanted to do that ,so i think that this game took many social lives including 
 mine xD. I play this game 2 years and i like it very much
  because im big fan of warcraft lore. I think that i will play this game very long.
  The only bad 
 thing is graphics but i think they will improve it in the time.
  
  The new games are coming ,people think that they are wow killers ,but i think
  its impossible 
 to kill wow, because wow have amazing background story and other games not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a game that cant be classfied as bad. The only reason others prefer WoW a 
 herendous game is because it truely can take over your life. Thats the meaning of RPGs OR MMORPGs 
 so live with it. If you dont want a game that might take over your life then dont buy WoW, if you 
 know how to control youself and know when and when not to get off the screen well then this is 
 the game for you. Overall it is truely the most fantastic game out there in every quality except 
 the not-updated graphics which arent perfect but hey it came out a while ago. So yes buy it is 
 what i say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  World of war craft is a big game in content and in the world. It has a learning curve that is short 
 but steep. You feel overwhelmed when you first start to use the interface. Then if you stick with 
 it you find its quite simple. You are then thrust into a game world that is enormous and one that 
 can make you lose hours of your life. The graphics and sound are both great, with colorful graphics 
 that never over do the cartoon look. Its like a balance between a hand drawn cartoon and a realistic 
 visuals spiced up with some cool graphic effects that translate into a big beautiful open ended 
 world that is just massive. You'll see gobs of cool details and a world thats just as varied as 
 earth. With creepy forest, open fields, farm lands, and tropical locations too name a few. The 
 gameplay is cool but this is where the problems start to really show. The leveling up, gaining 
 skills, and learning trades are all cool and add lots of depth. The only thing about this is the 
 later levels can start to test your patience, and you realize its like that so you'll have to pay 
 more money if you don't get your guy up there enough before your card or subscription ends or rolls 
 over too another month. This is unessasary because I would continue to pay to play with friends 
 and in pvp battles, and even bring another character up. You'll find that if you have too work 
 and got kids and just can't dedicate your life to the game for the meantime you'll be spending 
 money that might make you feel like your getting the short end of the stick. I mean for a game 
 that cost around 30$ a month they should not be so stingy and thats what you feel like they are 
 doing, To put it better it feels like you just bought a product from scrooge. Not all people feel 
 the same way but I can't help but feel a little ripped off at times. Another thing about wow is 
 the traveling, I've heard people complain about morrowind but let me tell you this world is huge 
 and you can fly and take a train but the flying takes time and gets old as does running and walking 
 and it gets old pretty fast. You can get a mount at later levels but it take time to level up and 
 more time too get the gold. Its worth it so you can get around faster but this is another money 
 making scheem thats really not needed. I tell you that people would continue to play if you could 
 get around and level your guy up just a little faster. Some will agree some won't but I've even 
 heard my hard core wow playing friends complain about these issues. Which brings me too my next 
 issue, friends. You need friends and people too play with, if you don't have someone reliable too 
 play with let me tell you the game gets really boring and very frusterating at higher levels so 
 be for warned. You can join a guild and sometimes the people are helpful other times you'll run 
 into people with low self esteem that now have the chance to bully you or just laugh at your predicament. 
 These people bring wow down a notch in my book. You can't get mad at people for not helping you 
 with something simple that a lazy player does not want to do, which is often the case, but it hurts 
 those who are really stuck and can't get help and will often make a player not want to play any 
 more. Wow has problems but if you take the time too learn the game, and have patience you can play 
 this game for a while with out getting sick of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursedhopes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft at the time of this writing is almost certainly known by everyone, gamer of not, 
 unless of course they've been hidden under a rock for the past four years. That fact is almost 
 certainly enough to pique any gamers curiosity enough that they give the game a test drive. For 
 those of you who aren't gamers, and need to make a more informed opinion, read on.
  
  Before the WoW the MMO had become quite stagnant. Most developers of these games had become, I 
 don't know, uninspired. They stopped trying to innovate and just kept on rehashing. MMO's were 
 insane time sinks, relied quite heavily on grouping to do any and everything. They were very single 
 player unfriendly, and quite unforgiving of player mistakes. World of Warcraft came along and changed 
 all that. Here is an MMO were a player can create a character, and level it the level cap ALONE. 
 They can engage and a great PvP portion of the game, learn valuable and rewards Professions to 
 craft armor, weapons, and other valuable items. They can do this all by themselves if they'd like, 
 and have alot of fun doing so. That's not to say that Blizzard, the developers of World of Warcraft, 
 have completely forsaken group based play either, because they haven't. Azeroth is full of dungeons 
 and monsters that require a group of hearty adventurers to conquer. The best part, is the very 
 balanced races and classes. All the races have a flair and attitude all their own. No two classes 
 feel distinctly similar, or underdeveloped. They all have a clearly defined purpose, races and 
 classes alike. But Blizzard goes even farther, with the Talent System. Each class has a Talent 
 Tree, which divided into three groups. Each time a character levels from 10 and above, they are 
 rewarded with a Talent Point. These can be used to enhanced certain class abilities, or learn completely 
 new ones. Because the tree is divided into three specialization groups, it allows for a large degree 
 of customization. No two of any class will typically have the exact same Talent Build, which by 
 it's nature creates a great deal diversity among characters of the same class. This is something 
 completely unheard of in typical MMOs. As your adventures continue in Azeroth, you'll gain a loyal 
 Mount, Riches, and powerful weapons and armor. The best part is that each step along they way is 
 fun and rewarding. Yet another aspect of World of Warcraft that helps it to trancend the genre. 
 Blizzard created something truly special with World of Warcraft. When most had considered the MMO 
 genre stale, and on the way nowhere, World of Warcraft came along and revitalized the genre. Not 
 only that, it's sales proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that PC gamers do exist. In doing so it 
 not only revitalized the MMO genre, but the PC gaming Industry as a whole. In closing, if you haven't 
 played World of Warcraft yet, you most certainly should. It's incredibly easy to just pick up and 
 play, as well as infinately rewarding. You don't have to devote hours per day inot the game to 
 get anywhere, or to feel a sense of accomplishment. The game is an amazing seamless experience 
 that no gamer, or fan of fantasy adventure should miss. A truly landmark acheivement for Blizzard, 
 and the entire video games industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotchicken29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just really a good game. To enjoy it you have to make friends and help each outher 
 out. Other wise this game will be kind of difficult. This game has dungeons were you can go with 
 a group and kill things till you get to the boss. Bad thing is this game gets addicting I go to 
 school and my grades were falling so i had to step off a bit. Oh and make sure you got a good computer 
 with good ram, Otherwise you'll be getting monster lags.
  (point in game were it freezes a bit gets annoying)
  This game is arguably the best MMORPG in 
 the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't any other online RPG that can compare to WoW. I've played a few other online 
 MMO's like Everquest ll and City of Heroes, but none of them seem to pull together the whole package 
 in such a crisp, original manner like Warcraft does.
  
  You'll get sucked into a fantasy universe and spend numerous hours leveling up and upgrading your 
 armor and weapons. And the best thing about Warcraft is this, you can be a casual gamer and still 
 have a great time. If you enjoy just playing an hour or two here and there, then go ahead. It's 
 also a very solo-friendly online RPG. Many others in this genre focus on grouping which in return 
 makes it hard to have a successful campaign while fighting only by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foritxxar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is, really, a great game, even if it does have some faults. When my friend told me to buy 
 it, I cautiously agreed. I downloaded it, installed it, logged on, and immediately thought to myself 
 WTF is this? Ah... I payed for it, so I'll give it a chance... It turns out this game was a TON 
 of fun, and I played it for nearly a year. There were always people to quest with and talk to, 
 always a quest somewhere to do, PvP was great fun, leveling was fun, and I loved it. Until level 
 60. That's when it all went down hill. Now, many people seemed to enjoy it, but I really did not 
 find the idea of spending 6 hours of getting yelled at, getting no loot, and dieing fun. That's 
 what end game dungeons are like. So I made a new character and got it to 50. And another to 40. 
 And then I got one last character to 30, and decided to quit (which was horribly hard, since I was 
 addicted) . All in all, it was a GREAT game, and I had some of my most memorable gaming experiences 
 playing it, and I recommend it. Bottom line?
  Fun and addictive for a while, but may lose appeal to some once you hit end game. Lots of people 
 to have fun with, but also a TON of bullies, grievers, n00bz, ninjas, etc. to ruin some of the 
 appeal. Support from Blizzard is okay, although it sometimes takes mods 10+ hours to respond to 
 your tickets. PvP is wonderful, especially battlegrounds. Lots to do, many ways to customize yourself, 
 and anyone looking for fun should try it. Hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderer
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot to say about a complex game lot WOW and the MMO genre. There's so many ways to play 
 it that a lot depends on what the gamer is interested in. So I can only give my personal experience 
 from having been a level 70 warrior. This was my first MMO game and also from Blizzard. Prior to 
 this I was use to playing RPGs like Final Fantasy, Baldur's Gate 1-2, Fallout 1-2, Oblivion, etc 
 among other genres. First, I will evaluate how this game is as an RPG. When I began the game, the 
 quests appeared somewhat interesting. They helped understand the story, learn the game, and the 
 world. However, you realize after a few levels the incredible repetitiveness even the quests are, 
 which are meant to give variety to RPGs normally as oppose to grinding. The WOW quests are purely 
 numerical in nature like fulfilling an order rather than actually furthering a storyline. Because 
 of this, I would say WOW has less of a storyline as oppose to non-online RPGs like Fable. Now on 
 to other issues. First off WOW is a great social game. I've never played a better online game that 
 allows you to do so many things with other people. But its also designed to be incredibly addictive. 
 Alot of gamers are in denial that WOW addiction exists, even gaming addiction for that matter. 
 I'm here to reassure everyone it is a reality. And this game more than any other I believe takes 
 advantage of our own basic human tendencies to become addicted to it. Things like wanting a sense 
 of achievement, acceptance by others, even gaining power this game feeds on by always having something 
 higher you must accomplish. That's why in many ways this game almost feels more like a job after 
 a while than a game. Theres far too much emphasis on leveling and getting good gear as opposed 
 to just enjoying a storyline which I rather enjoyed from non-MMOs. Every game Ive played had an 
 ending at some point. At first I thought it always sucked, but in retrospect its quite healthy 
 for games to have an ending much like a movie. You move on with your life afterwards. WOW and other 
 MMOs are redefining the purposes of games, to the point its no longer even a game. It becomes a 
 virtual social life. And in many cases WOW has in fact replace the social lives of a lot of people. 
 On to the technical aspects. I picked up the game for the first time in winter of 2006, a month 
 before the expansion. My reaction then was this game is insanely dated graphics wise, and it is. 
 Many wow addicts will probably be in denial about this, as much as the repetitiveness of the game 
 but being addicted essentially makes you blind to the trust often. But the art is great. The game 
 play is superb. The most in-depth Ive ever experienced. I would learn something new literally 
 ever day while I leveled and after capping. Overall WOW can be a fun experience if kept in moderation. 
 But this game is not really designed to be played moderately. It can take hours to get anything 
 accomplished at times, even to just move locations. As a result, peoples sense of time gets warped 
 and the game can engulf you. I think many people once they finally cap, look back at the time spent 
 on this game and deep down inside realize theyve lost a lot of their own lives to fake progress. 
 Maybe some of us need a sense of progress or an alternate social life, even artificially. But now 
 I feel I rather enjoyed the thematic experiences of the non-MMOs and being able to put it down 
 once the story and game were over. Blizzard is going to make a ton of money on this new drug. Its 
 only a matter of time before game addiction gets recognized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyRamon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  I really can't express in words just how enjoyable World of Warcraft is without repeating or even 
 plagiarizing the favorable sentiments of the hundreds of other Gamespot users who've chimed in 
 with their own reviews, except to point out that this is now, and has been since I purchased it 
 several months ago, the only game I play.
  
  To highlight the significance of this, look at my profile and see how many games I own (all legally 
 purchased over the last 2 decades) . The games I'd been playing until I purchased WoW are now relegated 
 to back burner status indefinitely, and new games that I intended once to purchase have now been 
 much less coveted to the point of veritable apathy; I may pick them up when they're in the value 
 pack bargain bins, if ever. That's how revolutionary and compelling I find WoW . I've no MMORPG 
 experience besides several years (late 1999 through early 2003) spent in Ultima Online, so I can't 
 tell how WoW compares or contrasts to the others, but I do know that I've this feeling like I've 
 hit the jackpot on my first try (so to speak) , so regardless of what features or innovations the 
 competitors offer, my gaming attention remains fully fixated on WoW. Speaking of fixation, while 
 the game does reward the casual player (indeed all players) with an experience bonus for a duration 
 that depends on how long he was offline, it nevertheless is so exciting and attention-grabbing 
 that many people put aside their important engagements and responsibilities. While that's obviously 
 not the fault of Blizzard's talented developers, it is something to keep in mind for anyone of 
 a waivering willpower for whom acquiring a new addiction could prove quite insalubrious. But if 
 you've got your priorities in order, classes attended, homework completed, and occupational obligations 
 fulfilled, and have some time to devote to cultivating a new online hobby, then you should find 
 World of Warcraft a most rewarding pastime. I know I do, at least! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: promisebreaker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago I became interested in Wow so i ended up getting it a few months later and wasn't 
 disappoined. The gameplay is good, you can quest, make friends, instance, and one of my favorites; 
 the profession system. So far i have 6 characters; my highest is level 26 (right now) and i never 
 get bored each time I play WoW. If you were like me and looking around to see if this game is good 
 then yes, that is if you are into MMORPGS (Massively Multiplayer Online RolePlaying Game) and are 
 into putting a few minutes of your time into this game then this is definately the game for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxboy125478963
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start... this game will make you feel like you have completely reborn! 
 8 races to choose from, 9 classes to chose from, you decide what your gonna be! i really can't 
 say anything else, but if you like MMORPGs your gonna love this. This is like the king of MMORPGs! 
 im just gonna type a load of nonsence now just so i can get this review on the website without 
 goning on, and on, and on. 
 
  
  
   
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g gg g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  this is a pretty great game in its rights but after the BC expanion came out its even better the 
 hole game follow these words make your charcter kill stuff get items gain levels but you can do 
 quests and cool things called instances wich are dungeons where you fight elite creatures that 
 do alot more damage and have mutch more armor and health then there are raids samething but mutch 
 harder and you need lots of players to do it
  i have maxed my charcter at 70 and i am starting another charcter who is at 25 at the moment its 
 fun when you start and it gets better if you try the other faction or another class
  
  classes
  druid
  warrior
  pallidan
  warlock
  mage
  priest hunter
  shaman
  
  
 
  
  factions
  
  horde and alliance
  
  as you see this game is really good and it gets better if you play for awile i suggest it to almost 
 all gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foleygra
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  At first i used to be one of those people who are always making fun of people who play World of 
 Warcraft and World of Warcraft itself. This was before I ever played it. My friend got a free trial 
 and i played for maybe about 10 minutes. Even after only that long, I knew that this game was great. 
 Stunning graphics, unmatched sound and the best gameplay I have ever seen made the 15 dollar a 
 month game card worth every penny. It is those things that cause me to give World of Warcraft a 
 perfect 10/10! If you have not at least tried the game go to www. worldofwarcraft. com click on 10 
 day free trial and create your trial account download the version right afterwards, it'll take 
 you straight to it after it creates your account. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oOoShyGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics engine.
  The gameplay is some times slow but the game is overall Amazing!
  the quests can sometimes be 
 very easy or a mild hard.
  This game is always fun to play to me it never gets old.
   is fun in this game.
  The music is good I'm 
 not really a fan of orchestra myself but the sound is great. It's sometimes hard to get your money 
 up for better gear and attacks.
  In the new Burning Crusade Bloodelves and Dranei are two good add ons.
  Also Jewelcrafting is 
 a new job that you can do.
  This game is Great!
  
  P. S.
  If anyone wants to lvl with me I have a lvl 10 Bloodelf Rogue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it was going to be the greatest game ever like everybody said. So I got 
 it installed it, logged on and played.
  My first thoughts were the graphics and animation is pretty bad but maybe the game play is excellant. 
 So I played on for about a week, and gotta admit i was enjoying it and then it just got boring 
 really quickly the game-play is the same thing over and over. The Sounds is terrible.
  
  It's just not worth the monthly fees.
  
  I advise all people to stay well clear of this game, 
 but hey just because I didn't like it doesn't mean you won't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  wow i started playin this game in january. i should prolly be reviewin the xpan but oh well. i 
 play a lvl 70 orc hunter... (for the horde) and i love it... i havnt played recently but i def 
 reccomend this game for any1 who loves big time MMO's cause this is your game for sure. graphics 
 are up to par if you got the CPU and gameplay is phenominal. its a neverending game. on my first 
 char it took me 25 PLAYED days to get to 70. so i would def play this game. GL and for the horde 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alxon1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Some ppl may thing that World of Warcraft is too addictive and Guess what, They are right, WoW 
 ate my life. I can't find myself in a day that im not playing WoW when i can. The good thing is 
 that is fun, and the best game i've ever played. Im not saying its the best game in the world, 
 cause there may be other games that i've never played that are better, But to me, its a 9.4. Its 
 Simple enough for even a kid to play. Its also really fun, I have more fun playing WoW than doing 
 almost anything else. Also its Challenging, some Instances or Raids require a really good strategy, 
 also some quest are really hard to figure out. i give it a 9.4 cause u get lots of lag in some 
 computers, also the graphics ain't that good. But in overall, there are more good things than bad 
 things is WoW. No wonder its As addictive as Crack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, I can't really say much about this game since I did not even pass through level 10. Started 
 many races and I can say I am pleasured by the many stuffs you can do within each of them. Fishing, 
 mining, blacksmithing, thus everything requires tools, creating first aid kits (with some cloth 
 linen in my case) . Well, as for the overall, this game packs good action together with some good 
 PVP combat, altough I must say that even for a low level citizen you can get surprised with the 
 dynamism presented in a PVP. Graphics are great if you turn most options on, raise the resolution 
 a little bit and that's that, even tough for enjoying ou do not really need a big powerful computer. 
 The sounds make it thru ok, I may say this is better than most effects out there, nearly for sure. 
 Gameplay is easy, easy, you get acquainted with it within the few 30 minutes you play it, basically 
 speaking where later you will find out what else you can do to help you in combat. The quests withing 
 the game are well placed, you level-up within them and goes for another one where you should be 
 already placed on that level, so I mean that the quests make you level up actually well, having 
 fun, just do not abuse only making quests as this is an interaction game, where you must find other 
 people in order to have fun. For people who live outside the U. S. and North America (which is my 
 case) it is really freaking hard to acquire this game, where a method can be digital download too. 
 But, otherwise... Now in general we can say this game packs a great value for what it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis320
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  The words that i will use to describe the World of Warcraft are the following, Addictive, Fun, 
 Awesome, Fun Again, Beautiful, the list goes on. I have spent many Months in game travelling through 
 Azeroth, and i don't regret any of it! there is only one thing to remember while playing... there 
 is a World OUTSIDE of Warcraft. My personal suggestions are that you have a computer that can run 
 on Full Blast (The only exception to this is while inside of Shattrath City) , Get addons (if any, 
 that show coordinates) , make friends that will help you out when needed, but don't become dependant 
 on them. Be careful while on the Horde (Greater of the two Factions) , because if you start to kill-spam 
 lower levels, they will call in their LVL 70's. And one last thing, Play the origional before purchasing 
 the Burning Crusade, if it turns out that you are one of those strange few people who don't care 
 for World of Warcraft, you don't want to waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacalypse20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is just like it initials WOW. It is basicly a runescape or Guild Wars but with 
 diffrent types of races and your not just a human. The races are spit up into alliance and hored 
 (good and evil) . On the hored side there are Orcs, Undeads, Thorens, Trolls, and if u get the upgraid, 
 blood elves, now i think im missing one =\. On the Alliance (good) there are just plain old humans, 
 night elves, ummmm i think its dwarfs and something else (all my charicters are on hored =P) and 
 i have no idea wat you get on there side after the upgraid, after all i dont have it. Some of the 
 races have diffrent types such as warriors, hunters, mages, warlocks, priests, duids, shawmans, 
 and rouges. These i am not going into full detail simply for the fact they all do alot of things 
 and its midnight here..... Also there are many things to do, such as quest, battle, explore new 
 areas, and much much more. I was recently introduced to wow by a friend of mine and i find it very 
 addicting, even as a low lvl. thats all i can tell you for now. if u try the game you will love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladeshock
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft brings together all the foundations and elements of standard RPG's and gives 
 them new life. From slaying orcs, to exploring vast dungeons with countless bosses and treasure 
 to exploring the biggest game world ever created. Choose from 8 classes and several different races 
 as you start out as a wannabe hero and watch as you unfold into a braving legend. World of Warcraft 
 also brings together the rich and highly inspiring lore from it's very popular Warcraft series. 
 World of Warcraft is the most popular, highest grossing game with an amazing 9 million world wide 
 subscribers. World of Warcraft is unmissable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriumphOfGnomes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Im a man of Pure Blood and Gore FPS's and TPS's. Yet my friend showed me this game, and I said 
 hey, i'll play. So i did.
  
  I come home with the game, and install it. Play the game. Made myself a Horde Character. Class? 
 I forget. Race? Who cares. Anyways, i start to play. And out off all my curiosity (sp?) I certainly 
 enjoyed it. Within seconds, i made friends. I was lvling and doing my thing. Learn all the emotes, 
 and short forms. But i checked the time. I had been playing for over 4 hours. And i couldn;'t stop. 
 I was addicted. I just kept on going. Saying: Gotta reach 60, gotta reach it! But i couldn't. I 
 felt and my friend too said: Dont go that class. So i rerolled. And soon rerolled again and again 
 and again. I could never find my class.
  
  But anyways, besides me personnal never getting used to the Class thing, because of Elder Scrolls 
 4: Oblivion, i just couldn't do it.
  
  The graphics, were excellent, due to the fact that it is an MMORPG, and are known to have not so 
 great graphics. The sound, was perfect. But the gameplay..... HOLY SH*t! It was freaking amazing. 
 All the stuff u could be and do! My it was truely the site.
  
  I love this game. I love it so much, i can't stop. Personnal i dont care, because its freaking 
 awesome. I seriously recommend it.
  
  And by the way: I finally found my class, and race after 150 rerolls: a Blood Elf Paladin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRodvy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. You quickly get into it, it's fun, you meet interesting people and such. 
 I don't play this too much for 1 reason, I don't find it as addicting. I can never play one character 
 for more than an hour, I quickly change my mind and make another, that's why I have never even 
 been to lvl 30...
  
  Gameplay: 10. It's very easy to understand, and yet, it's very hard. You can learn how the game 
 works really fast, but when it comes to skill, you have to think a lot, for example, a Mage or 
 Rouge take a lot of skill to play well, you have to choose the correct spells or abilities, like 
 freezing an enemy in it's place as a Mage while you cast a more powerful Fire Spell, or becoming 
 invisible as a Rouge before backstabbing an unsuspecting enemy.
  
  Graphics: It could just be my graphics card, or just Blizzard's style, but to me, the graphics 
 look meh, they look childish, especially the Orcs or Humans, I don't think Blizzard has any Idea 
 how humans look like in real life, to me, they look very unrealistic, not that it's a bad thing. 
 But I feel like they could have done a better job with them. Sound: 11. Yeah that's right, 11 out 
 of 10. The sound is amazing, every footstep, every shout, every musical piece just fits, some people 
 say they need their own music to get them pumped, but really all I need is the game's excellent 
 music, good job Blizzard.
  
  In the end this was a very good purchase (yeah, including the $15 monthly fee) I do not regret 
 it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The great parts of this game is the massive amount of people online. this game is classified as 
 a mmorpg (massive multiplayer online rpg) and this game fits all those categories. Also, this game 
 has some of the best scenery ever, the terrain is detailed and very colorful. the many characters 
 you can choose from is really nice amount and different varieties. The land is very, very, very, 
 large, i have herd that it could take up to a year just to walk around this whole world. If you 
 log out, it save right where you were so that you dont have to worry about it. The amount of spells 
 that you can get is also, a very nice amount. The bad parts of this game is if you die, you have 
 to go to this cemetery and go all the way back to where you died, and that can be so far away. 
 If you have a old computer, it is likely that you have a this game to where this is very laggy, 
 and that is one of the main problems sometimes if you have a lot of lag, it would almost be unplayable, 
 and it will be hard to play, so if you have a laggy version, the only thing i can say is, try to 
 get a new computer. Overall, this game is very great, it is one of the better games i have played 
 in my lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystalmethod
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  You've probably read everything about WoW by now so I won't write a massive essay explaining my 
 view.
  
  The only good thing in WoW, in my opinion is the raiding. During the majority of the game you're 
 simply wasting time trying to level at get to 60; fair enough. And that's the only reason why you 
 feel like you're playing this game, to get to the max level.
  
  At level 60, the game gets a whole lot better with raiding. That is, it was better until the expansion 
 came out at which point your whole aim is to get to 70. Sadly, once you get to 70 there is no rewards. 
 The raiding is terrible and mediocre and that's basically the only thing you can do at the level.
 
  
  So since the expansion was introduced, WoW has been converted into a meaningless game. You basically 
 play to level to 70, and... that's it.
  
  WoW, what a waste of time that was. World of Warcraft was a good game, but if you're into heavy 
 grinding again and again and again doing instances again and again and again, and levelling again 
 and again and again then you should get this game.
  
  If you're looking for a brilliant end-game experience... then sorry you've missed out on it, there's 
 no such thing anymore in WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acyberexile
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Before World of WarCraft, there really weren't any choices. There was EQ, Asheron's Call or Ultima, 
 which if we exclude the last one, are pretty same. Make no mistake, World of WarCraft did not create 
 diversity on its own, no, but if today unorthodox games like Pirates of the Burning Sea, Age of 
 Conan or Guild Wars are able to gain followers that is because World of WarCraft attracted a whole 
 new generation of gamers to the MMO genre. Look around in the forums of those games, even in EQ2, 
 you'll see that almost every topic references and compares the game to WoW. Because most of the 
 guys who open those threads are WoW drop-outs. Why did they quit WoW? Let me explain.
  
  World of WarCraft changed the genre in three aspects: it added Diablo-esque item collecting, never-before-seen 
 user-friendliness and actual option to play solo if wished.
  
  I have played many MMOs till this day, including Ultima Online, EQ2, Matrix Online, City of Heroes, 
 Lord of the Rings Online, Star Wars Galaxies, A Tale In The Desert and of course WoW. And I believe 
 I am finally able to define what made WoW the king of MMOs. One word: connection.
  
  Connection, of course, in various meanings. First: guilds. In EQ2, there were guild houses, in 
 Guild Wars there are guild wars (hence the name) , in A Tale In The Desert you could houses and 
 cities with your guild, in Star Wars Galaxies you could (before SOE did some changes ) run a government. 
 But in WoW, you actually had to connect with your guild mates, because of a never before seen raid 
 system: raiding with 40 people. Yeah sure you could make raids in EQ2, but they really didn't need 
 any connection did they? No more than needing a connection for entering a dungeon, but coordination 
 in a group of 40 people? That means you must understand what your GM means when he says Gah . He 
 means Warlocks, more DoTs. .
  
  Second: Quests and zones connection. In LotRO, which I am playing, there is no information or connection 
 quests about other settlements. For example, you are level 28, you are wandering in North Downs, 
 do you know how you can find out that there are tens of solo quests that will get you to 31 quickly 
 in Othrikar? By asking someone where it is. Not good. See, I couldn't think of asking anybody where 
 the new quest guys are, because it sounded stupid to me ( Excuse me, I want to know where I can 
 get quests? ) . I found it by accident two days later, two days of boredom and total two hours of 
 playing. After finding Othrikar? It took me two days to level up to 31 from 28. In WoW however, 
 you were led to new places by quests. They pointed out the exact location of the new settlement 
 which was filled with quests of course.
  
  Third: The Connection that the player forms with the game. I'm sorry, but the most important thing 
 here is graphics, but not in the orthodox way. Take EQ2 for example. It has probably the best graphics 
 a MMO can have, but does it pull you in the world? No. It makes you feel like you are playing a 
 film, not a video game. You have to make the graphics just right, not too creepy, not too bright, 
 not too cinematic. Not too good or not too bad, just right. WoW did that .
  
  And another thing about the third connection the most important thing: items. Let's admit it, we 
 are greedy. We want tier 531 squared raid sets, we want PvP rank award sets, we want it all. Blizz 
 showed that it can tempt us that way in Diablo, and they tempted us once again in WoW. We stayed 
 up all night making MC raids, ever stopped to think why? Why am I spending my night with 40 people 
 I don't know? Because I want a friggin epic, that's why. I want to show the real members of this 
 fictional world that I have succeeded, I rule and I am number one. I want to beat them in PvP because 
 of my buffs. That was what WoW did (I heard GW was pretty succesful in this area but I've never 
 played it) .
  
  But what WoW failed is the urge to please the players too much. They screwed the lore over and 
 over again to make changes that will make the players happy. Dreanei Shamans were one thing, but 
 Blood Elf Paladins? That's when we need to stop.
  
  Overally, there is only one more thing left to say: If you have never played any MMO, play WoW. 
 If you have played many MMOs but now you want to spend some time playing only casually, play WoW. 
 If you want to play a MMO with your friends, play WoW. But if you are a mature man/woman who wants 
 some serious game, NEVER play WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  When World of Warcraft came, I never really paid much attention to it, until almost all my friends 
 started playing it and got basically addicted to the game. So since I heard so many good things 
 about it, I went to the store and purchased the game. When I played it, I got so disappointed. 
 The first things I found myself doing was killing some creatures, taking X amount of stuff, and 
 getting X amount of stuff back as a reward. This is basically a game where you kill X many things.
 
  
  Quests are so lame, no fantasy at all, theres nothing that will make you say, Wow this is something 
 I really wanna do again .
  
  although it is an MMO, the graphics are still really bad. You really feel bad when you look at 
 the textures, even with highest resolution and highest textures, I was still unable to enjoy the 
 Warcraft world.
  
  Sound is basically OKAY, nothing you will say WOW to, but whatever!
  
  I just dont understand, but people get addicted to a game that is so horrible like this one, 
 theres nothing interesting in this game at all! If you are a geek with no life, no babe, then maybe 
 this could be a game for you but people who have a life should stay away from this terrible game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say that my 67 year old English teacher plays this game and so does his 20 year 
 old daughter. Few games have that sort of impact so already it says something about the game's 
 appeal.
  
  It's an mmorpg, you'll have to do quests, kill monsters and collect loot. Simple right? Well not 
 really. You can either choose to solo quests by yourself or to team up and fight enemies in a group. 
 Each choice has its benefits. Soloing is very possible if you pick at enemies one at a time, and 
 you get to keep all the treasure and money you find for yourself, but the bad thing is that you'll 
 take much longer to finish quests and you won't have backup. Doing your playing in a group will 
 make things much faster, but you'll have to roll die for items, remember choose greed, not need, 
 or people are going to get angry at you =/ Less exp but if you kill monsters at a much faster rate, 
 it doesn't matter much. The quests range from the trivial delivery to a rescue of some sorts, generally 
 blizzard was very imaginative when it came to this aspect. Gameplay is definitely solid.
  
  Graphics are wonderful. After a few years, it still holds up very well and the environment is believable. 
 From the sprawling forests, to the golden farms, the waterfalls, mountains and etc, you'll love 
 the environment
  
  Sounds are neat, from attacks, to the sound of money made (or lost) in transactions and all sorts 
 of regular activities. The music however doesn't stick in your mind all that much, but that can 
 easily be remedied with a dose of your own music. It's an mmorpg, if you wanted to you can play 
 this game until you die. Value is proportional to how much of your soul you sel... i mean how much 
 time you play. All wow consuming your life and replacing your girlfriend /boyfriend /bestfriend 
 /parents /social life/ jokes aside, wow is a genuinely fun game that can entertain you for a long 
 time. Moderation is key and while you may be tempted to get lvl 60 characters for each race, do 
 it over a period of time. Don't be like OMG I want to squeeze the game as much as i can for the 
 monthly payment. It's counterproductive to saving money if you get your ass fired at work for playing 
 this game. So in conclusion, wow is harmless until you set yourself up to make it warcrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addicting I dont think I need to say more. The instances are all good. The leveling 
 system is perfect. Marketplace is very well made. One thing is the mounts. Too expensive for anyone 
 to afford whether when you first get one or when you get your epic mount. One thing bad about the 
 game is it takes no skill, just time, lots and lots of time. This game took a whole summer out 
 of my life, Im glad I quit. But overall I'd have to say it's a pretty good game. If I were making 
 a character, make it a Horde though, because alliance is filled with immature little kids, while 
 the Horde is more grown mature players, and they are usually better at PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moehamster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game. There is lots to do and tons of different ways you can do it. 
 There is a charge to play the game but it is well worth it. Being online and being able to talk 
 to 1000s of other players is great and keeps the game interesting. Once in a while you will come 
 across a jerk.. but it usually just makes for a good laugh. Usually you will know if you like a 
 class by level 20 so don't hesitate to start a new one if you aren't having fun with your first 
 choice. But prepare to lose all yourself in it.. this game takes over. You may not think it will... 
 I know i didn't. But it will, and you will need to learn to control your self. But other than that 
 is is wicked fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2393
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  First off, World of Warcraft is a great game. It has all the makings of a game that will amaze 
 you in its integrity and depth. The graphics are under appreciated. They may appear to be cartoony 
 to some, but they bring life to the game and are much more colorful and compelling to look at. 
 The intent was not to be realistic, because that would make the game appear dull and less vivid. 
 The sound is wonderful and fits perfectly for each enviornment. It uses an orchestra for its background 
 music and even adds in small things like thunder or screams of other people. No one can criticize 
 these elements of the game, if they do, they have not played it.
  
  Leveling is a fun part of the game. The motivation is to get to the next level. Whether it be new 
 armor peices, new instances, or new spells, you will always be motivated to play on. You will get 
 to experience new areas and the complete change in detail from one region to another. Quests, however, 
 lack a lot of information on what to do, leading most players to use thottbot, a site dedicated 
 to informing quest information. You will feel great as you gain experience, and as you continue 
 to level, you will become a more mature player with more knowledge about the game, making you feel 
 superior to those below your level.
  
  When you reach 70, everything changes. You have now seen most of the regions in the game. Your 
 motivation to play on is to get better armor. However, to get better armor, you must raid. In order 
 to raid, you must have a hardcore raiding guild, considering the fact that your chances of picking 
 up a drop in a 30 person raid is pretty low. Hardcore raiding guilds are very selective of who 
 can get in. They will accept you based on your armor and stats. The flaw with this is you cannot 
 get better armor unless you are in one of those guilds. There is a lot of pressure put on you at 
 70, and many people will expect you to play at your highest potential. You will get belted with 
 crticism due to a simple mistake. The people at 70 could have been 70 for 4 years, or 4 days. They 
 have donated a lot of time into playing the game, so much as to say they have no lives. They take 
 the game more seriously than players at any other level. You, who have reached 70, could still 
 be considered a noob. Getting to 70 is basically your view at the real world, almost the same as 
 graduating school and moving on into the real world to see it was not as you had seen it before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insanest6849
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well the reason so many people play this game is because its addicting. Sure at first it seems 
 cool but then your just trying to get to a high level doing the same quests over and over again. 
 These quests only have slight differences. This games like nicotine, you don't actually like it 
 and its bad for you but your addicted. Same with this game, and they are charging you to waste 
 your time so its basically like nicotine. Theres no real reward for getting up to a really high 
 level anyway. And with games like these its annoying because someone can kill u in one shot that 
 is absolutely terrible at video games even if you are a really really good gamer. The way you get 
 skill in this game is by spending your time on it. So if you have a lot of time you can get really 
 good. But if you don't have a lot of time to play its pointless. Thats what it all comes down too, 
 who has more time to play. But enough of that time to talk about the game itself.
  
  gameplay
  
  Very addicting, but the quests are recycled making gameplay very boring. Enemies 
 give you barley any xp making quests the only real way to get xp and level up fast. So the gameplay 
 pretty much comes down to just doing a ton of recycled quests, that are just plain boring. And 
 even though they put a ton of things to do in the game like fishing, cooking and things like that, 
 a lot of these things have the same animation.
  
  graphics
  
  For the time the game came out they wernt that bad the cartoony look is actually a good one for 
 wow in my opinion.
  
  sound
  
  A lot of the sounds are recycled which is very annoying hearing the same sound over and over again 
 even though your doing different things. The background music when you go to some places is pretty 
 good though.
  
  value
  
  paying for the game and paying monthly is deffiently not worth it. really if your going to charge 
 people $20 a month canadian to play this game then at least don't use recycled sounds and quests. 
 and make a better combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyfaze
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best online roleplaying game I have ever played, period. The graphics in this 
 game aren't the best, but they aren't the worst, it seems to add to the feel of the game so it 
 isn't half bad. The gameplay is spectacular, with all the various classes and enemies and skills 
 there are just so many things you can do!
  
  The sound in this game isn't half bad, the sound of the skills being used is great and the sound 
 of the environment really feels like it gets you into the game. Many will say $15 a month is expensive, 
 truly it is, but the thing is.. it's worth it!! You get a free month at first so you can decide 
 there whether you want to stick with the game or not, but with all the fun and enjoyment you get 
 from this game I'd say it is worth it.
  
  If you want an extremely good, extremely populated, and extremely well done MMO, World of Warcraft 
 is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elhoodie
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  At first, because of how easy the game is to learn and play, you'll have fun. Soon you'll be addicted, 
 and realized your basically doing the same thing over and over just with different quest names/mobs. 
 The only fun part of the game is creating your character and playing for the first time. Soon the 
 game becomes much less fun, and more of a grind.
  
  The one thing I love about WoW is the cartoon like art style. It's the only game I know of that 
 can pass with these kind of graphics.
  
  Sound wise, the game has great quality. Nice music, and funny character jokes. Although I think 
 Blizzard should have spent less time making jokes and more time doing voice overs.
  
  Because you get addicted, you keep paying each month. $14 a month for a boring game sounds like 
 a rip off to me. I did play WoW for over a year, but once you get to the highest level, you've 
 seen everything. The raid content isn't even worth it because of how bad a shape the PvP system 
 is.
  
  Even though I gave it a low score, I would recommend it for some casual fun if you are that kind 
 of gamer. But if you're hardcore (somewhat like myself) I would not buy WoW, it gets too boring 
 too fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a solid game that will last you a long time if you are into MMORPGs.
  
  I'll start off by saying that this is the most fun MMO that I have ever played. I've been playing 
 for about a year now and I have enjoyed my journey in Azeroth. Attacking is similar to games like 
 Guild Wars, Neverwinter Nights, and the like where you have an action bar at the bottom of the 
 screen tied to the number keys on the keyboard. However, you'll have more skills than this bar 
 can hold, so you have the option to turn on more bars when you need them. The spells and attacks 
 are varied, and you purchase upgrades and new spells every 2 levels until level 60 and from then 
 on you get new skills every level. The attacks and skills fall into three types per class (ex. 
 Fire, Frost and Arcane for mages) and you gain a point every level starting at level 10 to put 
 towards talent trees in one of these three types, which give you bonuses towards related stats, 
 spells and attacks. Putting a certain amount of points in a talent tree unlocks new talents to 
 use your points on. The talents improve in power as you reach the end of the tree and there are 
 certain skills that you can only use if you have the corresponding talent that gives it to you. 
 Over the course of the game, you level up by taking on quests or clearing the enemies from instanced 
 areas (which also drop loot) . You also have the opportunity to participate in PvP, where you can 
 fight the opposite faction. PvP consists of world PvP, which is non- instanced and can take place 
 almost anywhere, and some instanced PvP which becomes accessable as you level up. The world PvP 
 is voluntary on Normal or RP (Roleplaying) servers, but it is forced when you are in enemy territory 
 or contested territiory on PvP or RP-PvP servers. It is worth a mention that you cannot create 
 characters of both factions on a PvP or RP-PvP server, you can create up to 10 characters on each 
 server, and a character cannot change servers at will. (there are some free server changes but 
 most of the time you have to pay to switch servers) Overall the difficulty is usually good, except 
 for some quests which have vague instructions and some quests to collect items that have a low 
 drop rate. The graphics are passable at best on a high-end PC. They definintely are the games weakest 
 point and could use improvment. The sounds are ok but, there is almost no spoken voice in the game 
 and some background music can get on your nerves after hearing it for hours on end. In the end 
 the game is worth it because 15 bucks a month costs the same amount as buying a new console RPG 
 every 4 months and while it lacks the strong story of a console RPG it has its own additions to 
 the formula.
  
  Overall this game is one of best MMOs out there and if MMOs are your thing its at least worth trying 
 the free trial. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad134
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  When I first chose to get World of Warcraft, I was a bit sceptic. I thought i may not like it. 
 I may not enjoy it. I may hate it.
  
  I picked it up, installed it, downloaded the multiple updates needed to play, all the time thinking 
 I hope this is worth it... 
  
  It was. This is a fantastic game, that no-one in their right mind should say no to playing. Even 
 if it turns out that you don't like it in the end, I beg you, try this game and play it.
  
  The graphics aren't the best, but if they were any better it'd run slower, and besides, you don't 
 need graphics if it's an incredibly fun game anyway.
  
  The sound suits the game just fine, the music gives you a feel of what's going on and when.
  
 
  This game is truly priceless. I mean it. No game has achieved what WoW has done so far. No MMORPG 
 has worked so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaku
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  First of all, this review is for the elite gamer, probably already a WoW player, and just browsing 
 reviews out of boredom (probably waiting in a raid, lulz) Anywho, I played WoW from launch, and 
 I'll never deny that i had a blast, i was young and stupid, I made a few friends, My first instance 
 experience was amazing, and i leasurely made my way to level 60 in a month or so. And only then 
 (because i am loathe of forums) did i learn about Endgame raiding. Naturally I was a very very 
 good rogue, and made it into the servers premier guild and began to hit MC hard (When it was released) 
 And there my life ended. Hours and hours were poured into the game, and i was hooked, the game 
 leeches your life and you love it. Theres one other place that does that to someone, Las Vegas. 
 Both steal your life and drain you of the comodity they each demand (Money/time) and they both 
 make you feel SO GOOD when you get that reward, that payout after hours at the pokies, or that 
 UBERSWORD OF WTFPWNAGE, and you do a yaydance of joy, grin like an idiot... and go back to having 
 your life consumed. Back to WoW. Now once you get that phat lewt, its like... then what... do you 
 do ANYTHING differently? Nope, has your life changed in any way? and again, no. Now, some poeple 
 will say Its not about the loot, It's about the experience Great, go back to your corner and plug 
 yourself into the game, your a lost cause, The fact is the 'experience' is increadibly dull. And 
 after the 1st 50 raids. If you arnt wondering what the hell happened to your life... and the point 
 of this waste of money called a game. BUt all t hat can be put into perspective, and even made 
 fun. FInd yourself a great guild of friends, dont try and be awsomewinnerBEST ON THE SERVER! and 
 ignore the fact idiots with less skill than a level 30 1st timer are getting stuff just as good 
 as you, or better... because they have time... and thats it... on WoW, Time=sucess on warcraft. BUT... here 
 comes the WoW killer, what destroyed the game UTTERLY, and destroyed the point of the MMORPG... PVP... People 
 piss each other off, for rewards... even easier to get than PVE. But this is all well and good, 
 PVP has its own following and they are fanatical, they NEED to spend every hour of free time on 
 it to berewarded, its a tradeoff. They cnt make it in endgame (and thats bad) so they just pour 
 time into the game, and are equally rewarded. Now if the two were kept sepperate that would be 
 fine. However, PVP was unbalanced, some classes were steamrollered by otherers. So classes were 
 retooled, and they just CANT get it right, everythings always unfair for someone. ANd of course, 
 this devastates some classes in PVE but they can suck it up irght? they wont quit! And then comes 
 the patch, a CHANCE to make thins right. BUt instead, they trick you into thinking its all going 
 good the first few levels. But at level 70 its even worse! The only difference is that raids are 
 smaller, WELCOME TO THE REVOLUTION!
  
  If your happy with wasting your lfie for pixel rewards, that are easy as all hell, WoW is for you. 
 For the true MMO gamer, the skilled player. get 3 friends together and 4 man a heroic Dungeon, 
 or 3 man it. Its possible if your a great player with decent gear. If your a great gamer in general 
 and are looking at WoW, DONT BELIEVE THE HYPE! Its appauling on every level, If your a hardcore 
 Warcraft fan, and are in love with the lore, You need pills, many many pills... and no Warcraft. 
 THe lore here has been trashed to make money, you kill KEY characters for no real reason. If there 
 ever is a wacraft 4 it will be attorcious. Well, Illidan and Kel'THuzad have been killed by an 
 unnamed band of adventures, ONTO THE NEW CRAP! If your looking for a PVP experience, buckle down 
 and wait for Warhammer, Age of Reckoning. Remember the Vegas analogy, this game is gambling in 
 MMO form. Buyer Beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearofme
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Amazing game for everyone!!!!!!! No online multiplayer game is better than WoW no one can challenge 
 and people are trying example lord of the ring online is exactly the same as WoW, they just copied 
 the whole thing What the hell??? and now pirates of the Caribbean and now this other 14 day trial 
 game. Looks like the gamers have no other choice or ideas better than World of Warcraft . Cant 
 challenge. Gamers i got a few words for you BLIZZARD RULZ'
  Best game ever made for online and even the other warcraft are really cool especially warcraft 
 III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game. I subscribed for about 1 1/2 years, and had a blast playing 
 it, but as time progressed other players became too high levelled for it to be any fun. Most players 
 are level 40+ and grow about a level per day. Thats because most people play for 6+ hours per day. 
 It completely ruins the game for anyone who plays videogames as a hobby, not as a job. Other than 
 that it is a great game. The controls are smooth, lag is a minimum, the graphics are great, quests 
 are fairly varied. Overall it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techguy_84
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Personally, I come from a long line of Everquest 1 players. What EQ did for the MMORPG is hard 
 to beat as it kinda set the bar. All EQ things aside, I didnt walk away in complete shock with 
 World of Warcraft.
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  I have to rank the gameplay at a fairly high level because its a pretty simple straight forward 
 game. Theres is no special key combos, no overly drawn out schemas to just play the game. Although 
 just about everything you can do in the games UI is mapped to a hotkey, which is really benifical 
 to learn once you reach the high levels in raids and such, so it may take some time to get that 
 down.
  
  One of the biggest defuncts I find in just about all MMO's is the need to chat with other people. 
 This may tangle things up when you get into the meat of the game, as talking to your guild, team, 
 raid group, other team ect... can get a bit tricky. Thanks to things like Ventrilo, this has gotten 
 a bit easier to do.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  While most people point out the cartoonish graphics, I think that anything else would not be Warcraft 
 in its own. I personaly dont like them as compared to the detail of GuildWars or Everquest 2, but 
 thats my opinon. The same goes for the world, but it has more detail. Things like grass particles, 
 trees that arent two 2D images intersecting each other (Everquest 1) . The best part of the world 
 though is the choice of coloring and lighting. Lighting in petiuclar is farily decent compared 
 to the rest of the models in the game.
  
  --Sound --
  
  Pretty good, sometimes. I had sound issues when I played. At times I would hear nothign but music, 
 and at times the music would be gone for an hour. Battle sounds are decent, but I am a visual person 
 so sound is a great thing to me.
  
  --Value --
  
  Like all MMO's, value is a toss up. If your one that can play the game the ways its meant, getting 
 to those end-game instances, then the game has alot of value. But if your not, and your the casual 
 gamer, this game is not for you. There is a long wait for end game stuff if you can only play for 
 about a hour or 2 a day, and only for few days out of the week. You will just find yourself like 
 me, wasting XX. XX dollars every month for something that you really dont play that much.
  
  --Overall --
  
  Decent MMO with great features, but lacks in the graphical department. I belive 
 thats why WoW is so popular. You dont need a beefy computer to run it, so most people on budget 
 systems with Integrated solutions (like laptops) can play. This is different for Everquest 2, as 
 it is very graphically intense and kinda puts WoW down on every point, but takes a mean computer 
 to run it the way its meant to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steano
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  When I first saw World of Warcraft i didnt like it, but when i played it it was the best MMO RPG 
 i had ever played i thought it was very colourful and fun. At the start I thought it was easy but 
 it got harder as a leveled it is not easy once your level 40. My best character is level 50 and 
 I find it very hard to get party invites and to level up. It was good when I got to level 40 I 
 could ride my mount. Your first mount was a extra 60% speed the second one which you had to be 
 level 60 for is a 100% extra speed. I thought this game a bad graphic game but a fast one at the 
 same time. It is a very good game and also a big one the max level is 60 and once you get the expansion 
 pack (The Burning Crusade) It becomes level 70. I dont know much about the outlands but i know 
 that you can get a flying mount and fight level 70 bosses. My favirote Job counting down is Rogue, 
 Paladin, Hunter, Warlock, Warrior, Mage and then priest. My Character is a Night elf warrior but 
 it was my first one and he is not very good and i have a level 18 Blood elf rogue. My favirote 
 citys counting down (Alliance &amp; Horde) is Ironforge, Stormwind, Undercity, Silvermoon city, 
 Darrnasuss, exodar, Darkspear trolls, Thunderbuff and then the ork city. I would give this game 
 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorchex
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  This game is good, it has nice, fresh graphics, nice music and lots of gameplay. BUT. This game 
 is &pound;9 a month and with Guild Wars out there which is a slightly better game and has no monthly 
 fee, i don't see how people can play WoW. I played WoW for a few weeks and then bought guild wars, 
 for the simple fact that WoW is so expensive.
  
  P. S. BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY 
 GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD 
 WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! BUY 
 GUILD WARS! BUY GUILD WARS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaseballDude69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game but had to give it up because for aperson like me who cant spend more than 2 or 
 3 hours on the computer before having to go somewhere this game gets boring. I could not advance 
 levels as fast as i wanted to. the system is nice i just dont have enough time. so i give this 
 game a thimbs up if you have the time to play and are interested in mmorpg's. i enjoyed for the 
 time i played it but its no fun unless your a high level and i couldnt get to a high level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamthebowler
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first played World of Warcraft it was in the beginning. Lots of people to play with the 
 quests are flow well. And I got my character to level 30 and I was in out of guilds. And then my 
 computer broke. For almost a month I was without World of Warcraft. When the computer was fixed 
 everyone on my server was level 60, almost everyone. Then I was in low spirits. I noticed the quests 
 get repitive and it takes so long to level when I can't find a group. So I played it for awhile, 
 then I stopped took a break. Then I played to get rid for Buring Crusade. I made a blood elf got 
 him level 20 something. Then I noticed HEY I should have gotten my hunter to level 70 instead of 
 playing my blood elf. After that everything went down hill. I started notice little flaws like 
 how the quests are the same. The game is about getting to be the highest level. And everyone looks 
 the same at level 70 all the same equipment. PvP got boring because I wasn't leveling. I always 
 tried to have in that game but I was always saying to myself stop having fun start leveling. So 
 then I deciced I am paying a monthly fee for bad updates for just the max levels. That's all they 
 care about is the level 70's all the updates where for them. So I quit. Because I was working, 
 not having fun. And one more thing the graphics aren't that good there like a cartoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamewize
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the fan boys, trying desperately to defend their games. This is a game with polish 
 and simplicity that will draw you in and provide for you hours of fun.
  
  I have travelled the net and have played every MMO out there, from Anarchy Online to Everquest 
 II to Guild Wars and not one provided such simple, easy fun as World of Warcraft did. I suggest 
 you ignore the fanboy beration and try it out. Sure it wont be for everybody, but here's an MMO 
 for the masses.
  
  That said, the graphics could be better, but since the size is on such a huge scale, this hardly 
 matters much. Being able to flow seamlessly from oen zone to another with NO LOAD TIME is grand 
 as well. Only 3 times will you ever see a loading screen: 1. When entering an instanced dungeon, 
 2. When travelling from one continent to the next, and 3. when logging in.
  I cant recall many games havign this ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sargey123
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  When i started to play it was kinda fun ) but i remembered in guild wars, and compere to GW that 
 game was bad, and the graphic is so awful
  it remind me the music from the old games, like nintendo
  and when you start it fun but after 
 lvl 8 its gets, so boring the only thing that is it game is better than guild wars it only the 
 big world but its so ugly world XD i prefer playing guild wars, to everyone that here WoW is great 
 game dont belive them, try it for urself first because i didnt loved this game, and its always have 
 movies vs guildwars i dont know why, because this game is MMO and guildwars is RPG just online, diffrent 
 things ,WoW need to do battle with lineage XD, nobody will do it because LA2 is killing this game 
 !!!
  there is nothing that can compere lineage this game from a different world this game not for kids, WoW 
 its for kids and lineage its for 16+
  i loved warcraft 3, but WoW was so bad that i dont want to play, warcraft 3 anymore why they switched, from 
 strategy to MMO ?? why ? diablo and warcraft was good but WoW is bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  there are lots of better games out there which dont require a monthly fee and massive amounts of 
 time. Dont buy this game trust me its not worth it. The graphics also are way too cartoony comon 
 get real? and whats with all the lag. Lots of better games out there. When i originally got into 
 it all i could think of was getting to high levels to experience all the fun. Then at high levels 
 i was doing mc and bwl, it took almost 15 days of playing this game ( wish i could have those 15 
 days back ) to get epics, and then i realize wtf is the point this game is horrid. wowglider. com 
 almost saved this game. But imo its not as good as people think. not even close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  World Of WarCraft Is The Best Game Ever!
  Except When You Pay $20 A Month But Still This Is A Great Game
  You Can Choose What Type Of Character 
 You Want Their Are 2 Different Species Alliance And Horde.
  Each Of These Species You Can Pick One Of Six Different Cool Looking Creatures.
  Then You Send 
 Them Out Onto A Different World Where You Start The Game.
  By The Way This Game Never Seems To End So Well Keep Playing Because Blizzards Paying Other People 
 To Make New Quests For Us To Solve.
  If You Die By Well Any Creature Then You Start Off At A Different Town. Now Your A Ghost There 
 Are 2 Ways Of Getting Back To Life #1 : Try To Find Where You Died And Resurrect When You Find 
 Your Dead Corpse Or....
  #2 : Pay An Angel To Come And Heal You Back To Life Which Takes Away All Your Armor Pretty Much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Large lands to explore, many people to interact with, great environments, characters 
 are fun to customize
  
  The Bad: Flawed attack system, monthly fee can keep you away for a while, some created characters 
 gather dust quickly, some quest are extremely stupid
  
  World of Warcraft has caused a major change in the gaming industry. It has many people hooked, 
 playing for hours, all over the world. It is popular because of great character customization, 
 a huge land to explore, as with other reasons. Am I hooked into this experience? I do find World 
 of Warcraft an enjoyable game and it is something new, but it is just a bit overrated.
  
  In World of Warcraft, there are many things to do before you even hit Azeroth. You must choose 
 either to play as one of the Alliance races: a Human, Night Elf, Gnome and Dwarf, or a Horde race: 
 Orc, Undead, Tauren and Troll. You must also customize and name your character. Customization includes 
 hair, skin colour, sex, armour colour, etc. They you must choose your class. The classes determine 
 your skills and spells in combat. Some include Hunters, Warriors, Warlocks, Mages etc. They all 
 have their own strenths and weaknessess. For example: Hunters are very stealthy, and can backstab 
 enemies while invisible, but lack heavy combat. These customizations keep World of Warcraft an 
 interesting game to many with many different characters.
  
  Most of the races have their own starting city and main city. This makes the game a larger adventure 
 and a more interesting one as well. The races each have their own quests that they run into as 
 well. Some are extremely fun, while others are dumb. For example, when I was an Undead, I ran into 
 someone, who wanted revenge on someone, so you have to steal their pumpkins! Some races can also 
 (in the minds of players) , have bad quests that make them lose interest in the race completely. 
 The Tauren race for example, has way too many killing and collecting quests at the beginning.
 
  
  Aside from quests, there are still many things to do in this game. You can explore the land, looking 
 for new people to become friends, monsters to seek and kill, people of the other side (as in Horde 
 vs. Alliance) to duel and kill, as well as have multiple people of one side invade a town of the 
 opposing side! These things are the greatest part of World of Warcraft. Sometimes I forget about 
 doing quests, since I'm much more interested in going through the land and seeing many things in 
 it. There are also different jobs that you can do, like leathermaking and things like that. Thes 
 things require objects you will find in the game. There are many places to explore, and you just 
 might lose track of where you go. The WoW Atlas (this game has its own Atlas!) is a lifesaver while 
 exploring the lands.
  
  There are also many weapons and armour in the game. They are scattered throughout the lands, found 
 in the corpses of the things that you kill, as well as ones that can be purchased from stores, 
 or trading with people.
  
  The games fighting system is rather flawed. It is too much selecting your move and then attacking. 
 It is not like The Third Age type of combat, but is a slower paced combat version of Diablo, with 
 hit, pause, hit pause and so on. I'd like to keep whipping at the thing until it's dead, but that 
 doesn't make the fighting system completely hatable. There are many great moves that you can do.
 
  
  The graphics are also amazing. The environments look great, with the forests, deserts, fields, and 
 cities that you can explore. The detail in the monsters and the people are also very well done.
 
  
  The sound is also great. There are many sound effects in the game made by bashing weapons, shooting 
 spells, and made by people and monsters. Some aren't that great, but it is still very good.
  
  The value, surprisingly, kills. It may be arguable that one purchase and its all fun from now 
 on, nothing to worry about. But there is also a montly subscription fee that is extremely hated. 
 The money can be worth it, but if you're an unemployed teenager, it doesn't always work out the 
 way you want.
  
  There is also one more thing I hate. It isn't in the game, but how many people find it addicting 
 can make me mad. They always rant about WoW, when you just don't care. They choose to play WoW 
 over many things, and when they talk about it, you just don't care about what they say. It can 
 really be annoying.
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft is an extremely fun game, and it is something new, but how some people 
 can be so addicted about WoW are nothing to some, but others may wonder why. It's a game, and there 
 may be at least one other game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Ok people, so you either love this game or you hate it. To those that hate it, well then dont play 
 RPG games, because every one before this one lacks in depth compared. I only recently purchased 
 this game due to broadband requirements, or lack of that i never had. I installed the game along 
 with its expansion and downloaded the required patches. I've been playing the game nonstop since 
 that day, morning night, whenever, and believe me when i say this, i get bored of games very easily 
 and usually play them for a couple of days. With this though.. there's just so much to do, veterans 
 will know what i am talking about, its not just a fighting game, its a game with amazing social 
 values where you can make friends, the world is massive, with vibrant colors and characters. Leveling 
 is fun and makes you work hard to achieve what you want, which makes it all worth the while!
  
  If you're easily bored of the game, thats fine.. we all have our own taste, but dont bash the 
 game, in the compared field, its the best there is. and dont put monthly payments to that addition 
 because its well worth it. Bottom line, play the game for a few days on a guest account, if you 
 dont enjoy (very unlikely) dont get it. I can almost guarantee if adventure and endless amounts 
 of fun is your thing, you wont go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessica492
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? This is my thrid PC game. I had GTA3 and School Tycoon, which now lay forgotten 
 under a pile of dust. To start off, once you install it, you need to create your character. You 
 can choose horde or alliance. Characters for the alliance are dwarves, humans, gnomes, and night 
 elves. Characters for the horde are orcs, trolls, undead (forsaken) , and taurens. The characters 
 are totally customizable, from the face to the clothes. After you create your character and name 
 it, you enter your world. After a brief intro about the history of your race, you can begin. There 
 are a surplus of quests available when you begin, and more can be unlocked. You can learn trade 
 skills, such as skinning, leathermaking, mining, blacksmithing, and cooking. There are capital 
 cities you can travel to, to meet other players. You can auction items you find in the wilderness, 
 or buy items from other players. You can join guilds and groups, where you can quest with other 
 players. There is a chat option for interacting with others. The battle sequences are fairly straight-forward. 
 Left click on the animal to target it, and run up to it to fight it. Choosing warlock or hunter 
 lets you tame beasts for pets, and choosing druid lets you shapeshift into other animals. You can 
 fight with melee weapons, such as guns, knives, and swords, or you can cast spells to kill your 
 opponents. There are a variety of beasts and humaniods to fight, all which gives you experience 
 to level up. When you level up, you can go talk to our trainer to learn more abilities. You never 
 get bored with this game. The places and graphics are amazing for a PC game, and there are a ton 
 of items to be found.
  
  The Pros: Engaging storyline, tons of quests, amazing graphics and places, customizable characters.
 
  
  The Cons: Money is hard to come by when you start off, sometimes when around alot of players the 
 screen sort of freezes a little as you run by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Fool_Sq
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I first made an undead rogue. What I hadn't realized until level 65 is that undead rogues are so 
 damn OP and so useless in raids that theres no point in even playing one. It seems absurd to have 
 to reroll just because blizzard can't fix a class.
  
  The PVP is boring and repetitive, but now is just completely worthless because of how they butchered 
 the rank system. Plus, with the thousands of quests, all of them are the same. Oh wow, One or two 
 may have slight variations but they are too few and too far between.
  
  WASTE OF TIME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  this game is my all time favorite but if you are playing alone it can get kind of dull. But if 
 u have a best freind or alot of buddys like i do that play on your server the game never gets dull 
 messing around with your freinds laughing at some of the stupid quests things like a lvl 60 says 
 i want you to go kill those guys and those certain guys are lvl 25 your just thinking why the hell 
 do i have to do it do it your self!!! lol
  
  This game is great i highly recommend it but... if you cant afford the pay of 15 dollars a month 
 dont get if you can you'll absouletly luv it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is one of those games that you will love forever but eventually come to hate 
 because of all the updates. Now I'm not saying warcraft is a bad game because its definitely the 
 best mmorpg currently ever made but the constant nerfs and buffs can really grind your gears to 
 the point where you don't even want to play anymore. Lets just say that this game is not balanced 
 at all for pvp combat and that if you roll a mage and expect to wipe the floor with a hunter, warlock 
 or palliden then this game is not for you.
  
  Don't pick a class and think your going to own everyone because its just not going to happen. The 
 Grind to level 70 is a pain in the but and dealing with ninja looters can be one of the most worst 
 things you will ever experience! If your a rogue and your running through a instance and some really 
 good sword or daggers drops don't be surprised if a warlock or mage clicks need just to sell it. 
 Most of the time this wont happen but it can and will probably happen to you 1/5 times you go through 
 a instance with random people. The alliance is comprised of the night elves, humans, dreanie, gnomes 
 and dwarfs and the horde is comprised of orcs, trolls, belfs, tauren and undead. Pick your faction 
 and race and play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSGeek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is considered one of the best MMORPGs out there and I agree. But you may see 
 I have given it a lower score than common that is because (and I dont know why) WoW jsut can't 
 WOW me.... It's to me just sort of boring. I played Runescape (it took away 2 years of my social 
 life) and I had fun with it, for two years. I played WoW too, I played it for a couple of days. 
 Then, I just got bored of it... I don't know why. I play Runescape on occasion now but only when 
 I get bored of my other games (of course I go back to them.) Its still fun to me, yet WoW still 
 isnt... Its a case many gamers might find strange but I find myself lucky not to be drawn into this 
 game, although it is worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wapahala
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  The Plague , better known as World of Warcraft, has a mysterious effect on humans. It's addictive, 
 but the one thing that bugs me is that the game lacks everything. There is no depth. The game is 
 just boring.
  
  The gameplay is, simply put, crappy. You don't do anything. Here's an example: You talk to a human. 
 He gives you a quest. Bring me four pig-tails . This is how every single quest is in the game. 
 So, you search, and you find some pigs. You can clearly see the tail, but when you kill him by 
 just pushing the 1 - key ONLY once, you don't get it. When you are at a higher level, combat will 
 look like this: 1 - wait - 2 - 3 - wait 3 seconds - 7 - done! Fun, eh?
  Character creation is fun, though, there should be more variations. The graphics are OK to be an 
 MMORPG. The artstyle is great. There are many different combinations of orcs, humans, undead, etc. 
 There is a HUGE world to explore, but you'll find that it's kind of limited. I mean, you can't 
 go wherever you want. Tall mountains will keep you from going the distance. =)
  
  The musical score is great.
  
  There is very little value in the game. I mean, paying 15$ a 
 month for what? I myself was addicted to the game. I regret it, but there was something about it 
 that was so... yeah.
  
  This game isnt worth getting. It will only prison your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clone213
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  i loved the game, a little boring at level 20-40 but if you get to level 60-70 you'll really like 
 the game. takes up lots of computer space (like 4GB) and cost a LOT of money but if you work hard 
 and stay with the game you will be happy (and feal like you have no life...) . i like that other 
 people get to see how awsome you are and the well, you get to play with other people. i like the 
 PvP so you can kill other people which is a nice thing to do. the one thing is that you will need 
 other peoples help to do raids (biiiig part of the game were you kill lots of monsters and get 
 rare stuff) and sometimes people can be mean... but once you get going you can't stop! but if you've 
 never played it and have a good amount of money with you then you should really buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the only games that is BETTER than expected. World of Warcraft or WoW as known 
 by the community is the biggest MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) and actually 
 is considered by many to be the frontier founder of the platform of online gaming in this massive 
 fortification of online play. Though it actually was not the first game to try this attempt at 
 having all people on the same game all at once it is the most successful. Originally the concept 
 was that the game was going to be a Role Playing Game; another Expansion from where Warcraft 3 
 left off with the Burning Legion put at bay and the Alliance and Horde becoming two again. At the 
 time, the greatest advance of Online Play was being made and with games like Runescape coming out 
 full force and bringing in thousands of dollars from subscription fees for the premium access, 
 Blizzard got an idea flowing. They first though about placing multiplayer into the game and then 
 making people pay for the multiplayer but obviously they didn't like the idea of making people 
 pay for online play that WASN'T part of the story. So they came up with the most brillantly idiotic 
 thing to do. Let's make the game 100% online and make people pay to play by the month. This was 
 the day the world ended for Orcs and Elves rained down from the heavens into our computer and took 
 our souls into the land of Warcraft, never to return again and to be the perfect advertising robot 
 for everyone around. Dungeon and Dragons fans heard and got on the internets and became hopeless 
 slackers for the glory of the factions. Modders were brought in with the promise to make new content 
 for the biggest game ever and they flocked by the millions (thousands) and started creating trees 
 out of seeds (pixels) and pulled out the magical paint brushes of Azeroth (Photoshop) to create 
 the most majestic and devastating creation in the world. WoW was born!
  
  *Cue Scary Music* (Which there is plenty of in the game too)
  
  From the intro cinematic that 
 makes us cringe that our hopes were too high to the blank stares when we find out gameplay actually 
 looks like the movie. To the zombie stage of vegetation like the guy in Hiroshima who played for 
 73 hours non-stop and was covered in his own fecal matter. (Better stop there before the UK bans 
 me)
  
  WoW in one word is INSANE!
  
  It is like the impossible one day got up and farted on physics saying that they were possible.
 
  
  It was like a seed sprouting into a car. It was like this report catching the attention of someone 
 other than me.
  
  Bottom Line: If you have the money to shell out, get a month or 6 and prepare NOT to be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: A MASSIVE online community; Loads of stuff to do; If you pick the correct realm you can 
 have loads of fun and meet new people.
  
  The Bad: Very very addicting; Monthly Subscription; Old realms have a tendancy to go down often.
 
  
  The Ugly: There are some really arrogant `jerks` on it; Can potentially ruin your life if you dont 
 play it properly (Im being serious too!)
  
  I have played this game since the 15th of January so just over a year really on and off, i played 
 for a bit then i quit, then started then quit then started again today so i thought i would write 
 one of my long reviews for it :-) .
  
  Of course as the name suggests it is based in the World of Warcraft, the immensley popular RTS 
 game by Blizzard. And as you all must know it is a MMORPG an emphasis on MASSIVE! There are millions 
 of people playing the game at one time, which can make it a plesuarable game or not so pleasurable.
 
  
  Firstly after installing the 5 CD's and the 4 CD's of the expansion of course, and completing subscription 
 either using a Game Card which in the UK gives you 60 days for &pound;18 or using a monthly subscription 
 which i dont know the price for. You start the game and choose your side, either the Alliance or 
 the Horde, the main problem with this is if you are like me and follow the storys of games then 
 in the end of Warcraft 3 you will remember that the Humans, Orcs and Night Elves joined together, 
 this is not the case in World of Warcraft. The Humans and Night Elves are together and the Orcs 
 are no longer. The Alliance and Horde onbiously dont like each other and if you join a PvP or RPPvP 
 realm you are expected to attack the other faction and be attacked by them in return. Of course 
 there are realms which restrict PvP to only if you are flagged or in battlegrounds. These are the 
 RP and Normal realms which are designed for real casual players.
  
  Anyway the factions consist of, for the Alliance, The Humans, The Dwarves, The Gnomes and The Night 
 Elves. The Horde consists of, The Orcs, The Tauren, The Trolls and The Undead (Or The Forsaken 
 whichever) . If you installed the Burning Crusade expansion this adds the two new races, The Draenei 
 for the Alliance, and The Blood Elves for the Horde.
  Each race has different abilities and passive abilities which can help you in battle or hinder 
 your enemy. Most of the abilites i cant remember the names for.. but i will explain them anyway.
 
  
  The Humans get a skill which increases their stealth detection, good for finding rogues. The Dwarves 
 get two skills, one which shows the location of treasure and one which is called stone skin, which 
 increases their defense and makes them to immune to cold for a couple of seconds. The Gnomes get 
 a higher skill in engineering and they also get a skill which removes movement imparing effects. 
 The Night Elves can shadowmeld, similar to the Warcraft Elves but can be used all the time this 
 just makes them stealth! The Draenei get a spell which heals allies over time.
  
  The Orcs get a skill which increases their attack power or their damage per second but decreases 
 healing affects. The Tauren get a plus to herbalism and get more health. Trolls get more damage 
 to beasts, they get a plus to bow skills and they get a berserk skill which allows them to do more 
 damage or decrease their casting time depending on their remaining health. The Undead get 300% 
 more air when swimming and they can resist charm affects. Finally the blood elves get spells which 
 steal mana and silence enemies.
  
  Each race also gets different stats, such as more agility than others, which i wont be going into! 
 They also get different resistances, undead get +10 shadow resistance for example.
  
  The main game basically consists of quests telling you to collect stuff, kill things all the basic 
 RPG quests, also dungeon quests and raid quests become available when you get to the higher levels. 
 The main point of the game is to get to level 70 (with the burning crusade, 60 without it) and 
 get the best possible gear. Some people dont do this, the people who play on RP realms like to 
 spend time to role play with their characters.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, they have a certain cartoony feel to them, Blizzard can be forgiven 
 on the graphics front due to the sheer size of the World you play in, its BIG! Two continents and 
 the outlands (Again with the burning crusade) the outlands being a higher level area.
  
  Sound again is nothing special although some of the slashing and spell casting explosions are pretty 
 cool but still nothing to write home about.
  
  If you bothered reading this far (!) then you should have a good idea of the game, basically its 
 a great game if you can look past the subscription and the arrogant people you are likely to encounter 
 on your adventures. I would still reccommend it to others and if you want to find me in the game, 
 contact me! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Underoath33
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This is seriously a great game.
  
  I'll start with graphics
  
  The graphics are wonderful.. they are very distinct and give you a certain feel for the game. I've 
 never seen graphics like these in any other game (save for warcraft 3) . I'll give them 9/10
  
  Gameplay is next.
  We all know gameplay is the biggest part of the game.. well this is were 
 WoW shines. I've never seen a more user-friendly game before. And if you dont like your user interface 
 there are about 100 more out there for you to pick out. 10/10
  
  Sound
  
  Sound was quite incredible for me... The fight sounds were great, music was memorable, and even 
 the small bits of voice acting were top notch.
  10/10
  
  Community
  
  I know this usually isnt a part of scoring.. but for many people who play mmo's this is a very 
 important aspect. I've played WoW for about a year and a half and ive met about 2 **** the whole 
 time.. which is incredible. Everyone is willing to help, and even when your dying some player will 
 come outta no where to help. Best community ive ever expereienced in a mmo.
  10/10
  
  
  so im giving this game a 9.8/10... highly recomend it for any casual gamer.. even hardcore gamers 
 will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_MRB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Fun game to own and play, its graphics are quite nice, they could be better. the difficulty isint 
 too hard after lvl 10, well atleast thats what i think.
  But getting places is the hardest part of the game, they make it seem doing the thing you wanted 
 to isint worth the time it took. But a good idea they had in making the game is to put wind riders 
 and gryffons in, these are flying animals that you can use to get around... for a fee. I find money 
 making a bit too hard for me, I'm a lvl 26 tauren (big bull that stands up-right) hunter (archer) 
 and i can barely make 1 gold witch is the equivilent to 100 silver..... witch is the equivilent 
 to 100 copper. If you're into being sneaky, rouge is for you, if u like being..... fireiy and explosive 
 and all that elemental kinda crap, mage is for you. If u like taking a dealing damage, of course 
 the warrior class is for you, these are just 3 out of 6 classes. The races are a fun thing to pick 
 out, theres gnome (shortest) dwarf (short) night elf (tall) tauren (big) and human (however tall u are) . 
 Each race has speicial abilatys called Racial skills , these skills are automaticly in youre spell 
 book (list of abilatys and skills) Such as the skill War Stomp , the tauren racial skill, and Stoneform 
 the dwarvin racial skill. Then there are the Racial-passive skills, these skills are things that 
 mostly help with youre weapon skill (how good you are with that type of weapon) and professions. 
 The professions are one of my favortie parts of this game, theres pirmary professions and secondary, 
 the primarys are Blacksmithing, Mining, Herblory, Engineering, Alchemy and Enchating i may have 
 left some out. My profession is alchemy (the mixing of herbs and fish) and herblory (the gathering 
 of herbs) With these two skills you can create items from a minor healing potion to a wildvine 
 potion. And the secondary skills are Cooking, Fishing and first aid, with cooking you can cook 
 food that heals you witch you get from fishing or killing beats for there meat, with first aid 
 you can create bandeges and anti-vemon, you can get the Reagents (Raw matirals used to create items) 
 from killing humanoids (Self-Explanatory) and spiders. and that about raps up this review, overall, 
 i think you should try the game with a 10-day rental witch you can pick up at wall-mart or about 
 any other superstore gaming department or game store for 2.95 and if you like the game, buy it... if 
 you have enough money to pay for the monthly fees (witch are 15 bucks a month . I found it a fantastic 
 game witch all gamers should try once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legox97
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a gota play game it's one of the best games ever created this game rocks anybody who 
 hasnt tried it needs olay the trail atleast i was incomplete without this game its about the 3rd 
 best game ever made in the game universe its just so much fun to play and it makes ya always wanta 
 play it forever and ever and ever so ya have to try it out also this is a post for BC the flying 
 mounts were a genius idea and the new area is awesome so if your gonna get the regular ya have 
 to get the expansion too P. S. BC=Burning Crusade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, Blizzard did a decent job in shaping the continents and making it seem more full 
 and unique in most cases than in other rpgs. The only thing I didnt like about this game was the 
 time.
  
  I would find myself playing for hours and hours just to level up once, and when I progressed farther, 
 it would take forever to level up.
  
  I heard people talking about how it got better as you progressed on, and how you would find more 
 stuff to do. I just found myself fighting harder enemies, and completing quests which would take 
 me to the next zone of fighting enemies and taking on new quests (which were about the things, 
 but slightly different tasks) . The only things you can do when you get higher is, go to newer continents, 
 get better items, and mounts.
  
  Im sorry, if some people enjoy grinding, then this is the game for them, but if they dont enjoy 
 grinding up a couple levels so they can do the next quest (which might take a week) , then this 
 is not the game for you. I dont understand what all the high ratings are about either, the game 
 doesnt have amazing graphics, and gameplay can sometimes get really bland if you dont have any 
 friends to play with who get on at the same time as you. As for my opinion, buy the game, get your 
 fill of it with a month ($14.99) , then dont waste 5 hours of your evening anymore.
  
  Blizzard did a great job, I just think they focused more on the World and less on the Warcraft 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  WoW is one of the most money-making, geek-spawning, literally life-ruining games on today's market. 
 Heck, they've just hit 8.5 million players. Now THAT's an accomplishment!
  
  Or is it really?
  
  Let me begin by saying that I'm not trying to bash any addicts or fanboys 
 into the ground in this review. I'm warning those about to enter this world of gamers that they 
 must be willing to break away every now and then. Because the truth is that this game is like a 
 drug. I've seen people play WoW for 12-18 hours a day. It's no joke that it's up there with Runescape 
 on the addicting level. Not that it's as bad as Runescape, mind you.
  
  Unlike Runescape, this game has a huge sense of exploration. Like many MMORPGs, this one succeeds 
 in having an enormous world, but this one is one of the few that rewards you for your exploration. 
 It gives you experience for discovering new areas and locations. This game pulls all the stops, 
 making you want to come back for more everytime you log off. The graphics aren't nearly on Runescape's 
 level, but unless you have a monster computer, you'll never be able to hit really good-looking 
 graphics without the framerate dropping to a measly 2 fps every so often. The music is excellent, 
 and the sound can get slightly repetitive after killing wolves for 2 hours straight. And believe 
 me, you'll be doing that a lot.
  
  The level cap in this game is 60, though you'd have to waste literally 200 hours of your life trying 
 to get there, and for what? What makes you so special if you happen to get there? What do you do 
 next after conquering all geeks and becoming a veteran player ? What does hitting that insane level 
 prove? That you've wasted more of your life than anyone else? Exactly. Not too huge an accomplishment.
 
  
  This game tries so hard to offer a variety of quests, but what you'll mostly be doing is fetching 
 something of some sort and returning it to someone else, or maybe killing a high level monster. 
 If that sounds like variety and fun to you, then by all means, get this game. You'll just be wasting 
 your time when you could be out living a real life.
  
  Creating a character is somewhat fun. There are eight or nine races (humans, beasts, dwarves, etc.) 
 and eight or nine classes (warrior, paladin, mage, etc.) . On occasion however, you doubt your choice 
 and decide to make another, thus making you a second level one character, and so on. It gets so 
 bad that you feel the urge to see what every single race is like. Congratulations. You now have 
 seven more worthless characters to waste your life on.
  
  The community of this game gets off by saying the most arrogant things like Xbox Live is the worst 
 thing that's ever happened to gaming, which is most likely the most ridiculous thing anyone's ever 
 said. It's hard to imagine these people even considered buying this game, let alone any game. Then 
 again, maybe its not so hard to imagine.
  
  Blizzard tries to take advantage of their 8.5 million players by charging outrageous amounts of 
 money to even play this game. If you think Xbox Live is expensive, guess again. Runescape is 60 
 bucks a year. WoW is 180 (156 if you are billed in 6-mo. incriments instead of monthly) . Sure I 
 understand a subscription fee, but 180 dollars? It's almost enough to make me go back and give 
 Runescape a higher score, or to appreciate the newer 50 dollar Xbox Live fee. Blizzard's excuse? 
 It costs less than your average monthly trip to the movies. No wonder Blizzard never goes into 
 the subscription fee on the game site. Why don't you go ahead and multiply 180 bucks times 8.5 
 million players? Go ahead. I'll wait.
  
  Overall, this game is extremely hard to thoroughly describe. Truly, it's just your average MMORPG. 
 Scamming you for money on a monthly basis and offering up a mediocre gameplay experience in exchange 
 seems to be the way to go in this subpar genre of gaming. There's nothing that special about it. 
 Want a fun RPG? Get a Paper Mario game. Want action? Buy Call of Duty. Heck, just get any of the 
 other Warcraft games! Just try and stay as far away from this game as you can. As I've said earlier, 
 if you get this game, you should probably take a break every now and then. If you don't get this 
 game, good for you. At least someone besides me won't fall for Blizzard's staggeringly sad multi-million 
 dollar geek buisness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Advent-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft was my very first MMORPG. I still remember starting for the very first time as 
 a Night Elf Hunter two years ago and gasping at the purple, gloomy forest surrounding me. If a 
 game can make a person gasp, then that is what a game is supposed to be like. WoW has two rival 
 factions with 4 races each (5 with the expansion which.. is basically required) . Along with that 
 are 8 classes to choose from and endless physical detail of your own characters. This makes this 
 enormous actually feel quite personal as you create your own mini-self. After the creation and 
 a wee bit of grinding, questing, and owning; there comes raiding and player-versus-player. Right 
 here is where the game is absolutely amazing. The competitive nature of both of these things drive 
 players to be the best and just get that next piece of equipment! Numerous dungeons offer challenges 
 and equipment for any player, along with a few friends. Or of course, you could skip PvE and just 
 beat up upon the opposite faction (or your own in arena) . While some people think that grinding 
 to the highest level in MMORPG's can be long and boring, I personally enjoyed it every single time 
 I did it. There are new people to quest with during every trip and the experience is different 
 each time as you experiment with each class. Whether you have never played this style of game before 
 or you are a veteran, World of Warcraft is an excellent buy and an awesome experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I know that WoW is epic, who can blame this amazing MMORPG. It has everything, Great gear, Great 
 people ( there not that hard to find) , Great worlds to explore, and much more. I have to review 
 this game because i must tell everyone what all the haters and fanboys of this game have been saying. 
 I will tell you everything. Haters: You will hate as you do that best of all, why would you hate 
 such a game? It pulls all noobie MMORPG's players and all hardcore MMORPG players and puts them 
 together into one big world. But instead of going into extreme example, lets just cover why people 
 hate this game. The Leveling system is to easy for some, i am not complaning since all MMORPG's 
 are races to the end game raids, so its nice to see someone change up that formula. Others say 
 the raids are boring, repetitive, and most of the time you almost get no payout when you do them. 
 Your expected to play for a lot of hours to get up to those who have epic gear. You must grind 
 for rep and its very boring. The PvP is boring and very repetitive. The people in the game are 
 all out for themselves, and will not help you with quests. The quests are to generic and easy, 
 and some require impossible to get items. Gold is stupid to farm. These are some of the many complaints 
 that WoW haters have given. There may be more but these are the major ones.
  
  Lovers: I dont mean lovers in that way, so if you thought that stop being so immature. You love 
 WoW becasue it gives you a Amazing world to explore, with Great gear to aquire. You met some good 
 people who play the game with you and quest with you whenever you need help. You PvP with your 
 guild and its fun because everyone gets involved. You cant understand why anyone would hate this 
 game. Me: This is what i think. WoW is a epic game, it has COMPLETLY revolutionized the MMORPG 
 industry and may be and probaly always will be the best MMORPG ever made. I love the colorful cartoonish 
 graphics, the open world to explore and the awesome gear to get. Sadly though, this game suffers 
 from basic things and it takes to long to realize this. If you dont play hardcore like most people 
 do you will be left behind. The gear you desire the most will take long hours of raids and quests 
 to get. The Rep you want for the gear you want will require HOURS of grinding and it gets old very 
 fast. The endgame lacks basic entertainment for the casual gamer. I am not a casual gamer and still 
 i could see through what had happend here. Blizzard made a Hardcore game disguised as a casual 
 game. Sadly like i said before, by the time you realize this, you have been playing for at least 
 a year. If your can play alot, this game will be your precious. If not, well its up to you how 
 long you think you can last in the World of Warcraft.
  
  Sum Up: Its a Hardcore game in a Casual Apperience, it takes to long to realize this though. You 
 will have a blast with this game no matter who you are..... its up to you how long it lasts though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpin_playah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I have one word for this game: AWESOME!!!
  
  It is the best MMORPG I have ever seen. Many games of this type have glitches and errors in the 
 programming and TONS of load screens, but WoW has almost none of these. Load screens are as rare 
 an occurence as you'll ever see. Even some games meant to be played on consoles such as PS3 and 
 Xbox360 have more load screens. In the rare incidence when there are load screens, it is for your 
 own good and helps you better transition into the new environment that you're entering. Other games 
 have these load screens just because their servers arent complex enough to handle the thousands 
 of players while still streaming data to all of them quickly, and so they invented load screens. 
 Also, WoW is well-thought out,
  having much variety to choose from when choosing a character yet also having the patience to create 
 a world big enough for all the character races
  without skimping on the detail to make the process go faster. I'm not going to go into the details 
 of gameplay because that would take about just as many pages as the Gamespot guys took when they 
 wrote their review, which was 4. But the point is, this is a very -well made game that appeals 
 to everyone because it almost never gets old and you always have something to do. The graphics 
 own for an online multiplayer computer game, rivaling that of a handheld game system such as the 
 PSP while still having streaming gameplay. Also, there are literally thousands of quests to undertake 
 total; hundreds are available for each individual class. There are also perks in the game besides 
 leveling up and doing quests. You can undertake a raid mission with a group of friends or explore 
 one of the game's many dungeons and TRY, just TRY to reach the end. This is the best game i have 
 ever played. The only complaints I have are the cost-20 bucks for the first month and 15 bucks 
 for every month after- and the download time-3.5gb of data to download! That is a LOT, and it took 
 me 2 days to finish the download, but it was worth it. If u haven't already, then get this game! 
 If your not sure whether to waste 20 bucks on it or not, then they also have a 10 day free trial 
 to get. That should help change your mind. Well, happy playing! Try not to play too much... Trust 
 me, that's going to become a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wdave92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  WoW is the Single Most intense MMORPG for every one if you have never played 1 start out with this 
 Graphics: the Game is a Seamless Beautifull enviroment the Visuals may take a heavy toll on old 
 computers when you enter in major cities (Origmar, Ironforge) the upside is that if you have a good 
 comp the game is steady and beautifull
  
  GamePlay: its an MMORPG the first 10 levels you spend in your starting area as a little guy i consider 
 this your tutorial for the game. some content in the game like end-game instances really require 
 a team effort to complete.
  
  Sound: all i can say is WoW they have really done a great job they have a Huge Soundtrack all orchistrated 
 and its a great thing they give a real mood to the game
  
  Conclusion: Get the game im serious you wont regret it... well you might if you get adicted like 
 i am 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  now alot of people don't like MORPG's but, this one will turn you around....... and aroud and around 
 until your next b-day! now you have 8 races to choose from,
  the humans, the gnomes, the night elves, and the dwarves for the alliance, the orcs, the tauren, 
 the undead, and the trolls on horde, if you get the expansion, the alliance get the draenei and 
 the horde gets the blood elves.
  i'll explain the classes now.
  
  Warrior: your average fighter who instead of mp uses rage.
  races who can be Warriors: all but 
 blood elves.
  
  mages: spellcasters, kind of self explanitory.
  races: humans, trolls, draenei, gnome, blood elf, undead, preists: light OR shadow magic users.
 
  races: human, dwarf, draenei, trolls, blood elf
  
  rogues; the cheapest class in the game
  races: human, night elf, gnome, dwarf, orc, trolls, undead 
 (alot of these) , blood elf
  
  warlocks: demon magic and demon summoners, very fun.
  races: human, gnome (lol) , orc, undead, blood elf
  
  paladin: ah yes the warrior X 2/3 and 
 preist X 1/3, it is a mix of preist and warrior put more warrior.
  Races: human, dwarf, draenei, blood elf
  
  shaman: very similer to paladin except more magic 
 orrented and more mage then healer.
  races: draenei, orc, troll, tauren
  
  Druid: ah yes the nature guys, only 2 races get this class, but its so uber, who can blame blizzard 
 for that? healers, shapeshifters, mages, tanks. all in 1 convenient package.
  races:/ only night elf and tauren
  
  hunter: archers and pet owning warriors. can capture most 
 beast type monsters as pets that fight alongside them.
  races: dwarf, night elf, draenei, orc, troll (hint: trolls are good hunters.) , tauren, blood elf.
 
  
  well i guess i got outta hand but at least if you buy this now u have some interesting info. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alileus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Nothing else need to be say.
  this game is amazing.. cant wait to see what comes from Blizzard on a next-gen graphics
  
  
 this game desirve to be called wow 
  
  =)
  ===== ===== === == = === ===== = == ==== ==== === == =
  ===== === = = = = == ======= === == === 
 === == == === ==
  ===== ===== === == = === ===== = == ==== ==== === == =
  ===== === = = = = == ======= === == === === == == === ==
  ===== ===== === == = === ===== = == 
 ==== ==== === == =
  ===== === = = = = == ======= === == === === == == === ==
  ===== ===== === == = === ===== = == ==== ==== === == =
  ===== === = = = = == ======= === == === 
 === == == === == 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbesto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  What's the matter? Scared, are you? Well, it's time to be brave and dip your toe into the online world 
 - a world where you're not the only important one. Massively multiplayer online rpg's have finally 
 grown up, so there's never been a better time to try.
  
  World of Warcraft perfects all the basics: create a character, enter a beautifully detailed world 
 along with hundreds of other real people, take on quests and develop your character. To be honest, there's 
 not a lot of innovation, but would you rather play a game with loads of ideas that didn't work? Exactly.
 
  
  Warrior, Warlock, rogue, priest - there's the usual choice of classes, and a few trade skills thrown 
 in for good measure, but the most important choice you make is whether you fight for the Alliance 
 or the Horde - the goodies or the baddies. There's a cast of humans, gnomes, dwarves and elves against 
 orcs, undead, trolls and tauren to choose from. As you become more powerful, you'll come into contact 
 with enemy players, and if you play on a player vs. player server you'll have the chance to fight 
 them - sometimes in massive groups of cooperating players.
  
  The star of the show has to be the world itself. There's an unbelievable amount of variety to be 
 discovered, from deserts to grassland and forests. The cartoon-like presentation ties everything 
 together nicely - you'll never look at something and think it looks stupid. Play it for to long 
 though, and you'll start to wonder why real people look so weird.
  
  All in All this is a great MMORPG for gamers who tend to stab a lot of things: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most addicting games I have ever played. Its possible to spend hour 
 on end just completely immersed in the depth of this game. I have seen people get fired, and flunk 
 out of college because they were so addicted to this game. So unless you have the will power of 
 a saint, dont start playing. I highly recommend this game; you would have a blast playing it. 
 Just in all fairness you will probably lose your girlfriend too. Just play it and love it. I cannot 
 recommend a better RPG than this, so go to the store and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a costly MMORPG and is by far the best On-line Role Play game there is. People 
 say that the only aim to the game is to kill for items, and kill more for better items, but if 
 you ask me there's a lot more to it than that. If you like RPG games i guarantee that you wil love 
 this one.
  
  There are two different factions that you can choose to play from, Horde and Alliance. The Horde 
 faction consist of the races Blood-Elf, Tauren, Troll, Undead and Orc. The Alliance faction consist 
 of the following races: Human, Draeni, Dwarf, Night Elf and Gnome. As well the the wide choice 
 of what sort of character you want you also get to customize then with hair styles, hair colour, 
 accessories (Earing's, Face Markings for Night Elf and so on) . After you have selected your faction, 
 race and look comes the class. You class is the most important part of creating you character, 
 this is the part which shows what sort of person you character is. Here are the different classes 
 you can choose form: Mage (Burn Baby!) , Rouge (Stealthy) , Warrior (Eat This) , Warlock (Imp Summons) , 
 Priest (Anyone need a heal?) , Hunter (Meet my pet turtle David) , Paladin (Sort of Warrior/Priest) 
 and lastly Shaman (Totem summoning freaks) .
  As you can see you get to customize you character how you want. And with the class you choose you 
 can choose between THREE different fighting styles!
  
  The best aspect of the game for me is that you can team up with other on-line players who you know 
 or someone you haven't seen before to take down the more elite enemies. Now, World of Warcraft 
 has different server types on which you can play on, these types are (i forget all but hes the 
 main) Pvp, Rp-Pvp, Rp, Normal.
  Basically if you are into the whole hardcore role play the Rp is the type of server for you. If 
 you are more of the killing the opposite faction then Pvp.
  And of course if you are more like me and you just want to mess about questing, leveling with your 
 mates then Normal servers are for you.
  As for the other type of server i think you get the gist of it.
  
  Now, if you have seen pictures 
 or movie clips of the game and think that the graphics aren't too good well think again.
  It's true the graphics aren't exactly like Oblivion, but the graphics for this game are perfect, 
 it would be totally ruined imo if the graphics were really uber.
  
  This game as i am sure i said before is the best game, having the freedom to show off your character, 
 becoming bigger as you grow (Level) in the game and collect better armour. Another awesome thing 
 in the game are definitely the mounts, it's good when you get your first mount because that really 
 shows you how much effort you have put into the game. Overall i really do suggest to anyone who 
 hasn't brought this game yet to buy it, make some on-line friends and go own some enemies! It's 
 a great game that lets you take control of how you lead the rest of your life in the World of Warcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wstsdboy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  i know when i say best u think what about CT or Halo lol
  well this game requires tremendous skill and hard work to get to the end-game competition and once 
 u make it you have become a master of your class knowing more than 80% of their full capacity
 
  but at this point u need better things and to improve skill even more like CT or Halo u begin 
 to reach a ground of equality in gear so that it comes down to skill...
  unlike CT and Halo u have more than 7 or 8 options of attacking your foe
  u can use diffrent 
 skills to kill diffrent players instead of just doing the same thing over and over again to win
 
  also between every class there is a slew of diffrent ways to defeat him
  and ANY class can kill ANY class if they know their class !and! the other class 100% at this point 
 you are a master and its the most amazing game because of the HUGE amount of work u put into it 
 to become the best at the END the only con is the graphics which fail to be all shiny like other 
 MMO's that dont sell even a fraction of what WoW does but where blizz when around the graphics 
 they made every bit of the game more clever than appears so that with the easy system reqs the 
 game can still look amazing and play with minimal to NO lag all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1goali
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  it is just the best game.
  but it is very expensive. to expensive. it it it it it it it it it it it it it i tit i tit it it 
 it it i ti ti tit it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 i it it it it it it ti it it it it it it it it it itit it ti it it it is is is is is is is is is 
 is is is is just the best game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a much better runescape. When you start of you can choose from many different 
 servers, then create your very own character. The customizations are unbelievable, from Horde to 
 Alliance, Dwarf, undead, orc, elf, etc. Then you can choose  on 
 and you get a skyview that runs threw your hometown and you begin depending on what race you are. 
 Then you begin your never-ending quest. There is usually a good 25 quests in your hometown where 
 you are rewarded money (gold, silver, copper.) , armour, or weapons. Once you finish a quest or kill 
 a creature you gain expierience points and you need those to go up levels. When you go up a level 
 you must speak to your race  and you will gain different moves. 
 Like most shooting games online you can have clans (called guilds on WoW) and you can raid dungeons 
 with your guild friends or real life friends. Something similar to guilds are parties. You can 
 make a party and then your group can do a quest together which will go by quicker than by yourself, 
 its pretty cool and i find is a big chunk of WoW's gameplay. So with its regular updates and endless 
 amount of quests I say buy this game, just dont be sucked too far into its vortex, since it is 
 the most addicting game in the world, and not just like playing for 3 hrs. some ppl play up to 
 16 hrs a day. hopefully you dont become them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoldenpoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  i must confess i love this game, ive not got time to give an indepth reveiw now mut i will later 
 on. ive been playing World of Warcraft for 4 mounths now and i must admitt im addicted its hard 
 to find anything wrong with this game, the world is HUGE amazingly immersive and im places stunningly 
 beautiful, especialy in outland, the races all have thier own distinct feel and the horde and allience 
 aposing factions facet of the games is absolute genius, it puts you at the heart of an epic war 
 and lets you control of the battles. The UI is so easy to use, there are no load screens and dispite 
 the engine showing its age in places the world is still huge and wornderfull graphics for its size 
 and scope. im sorry but it beats Guild Wars hands down. more to come, i haven't even mentioned 
 the updates but also the cost but im out of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xepherys
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Nothing, in short. But that doesn't take away from the soul-stealing game. Blizzard has always 
 had one of the most avid fan-followings, closely tied with Bungie. The Warcraft series, brought 
 to life in a living world stunned even the most staunch Blizz proponents. Though this review comes 
 late, there's always room to rehash!
  
  Two factions, a vast world, evil creatures and great demons and dragons are the staple of Fantasy-based 
 MMORPGs. Blizzard did not stray from this time-honored recipe. Bringing the much-enjoyed Warcraft 
 universe into this equation only served to delight existing and new players alike.
  
  It's been since the earlier betas of The Burning Crusade since I've had my account open (something 
 that has saddened me over the months) , but now that I'm beginning to play again, I'm still amazed 
 with the enjoyment this game brings. In fact, perhaps a couple of months of downtime led me to 
 realize the greater fun in social MMOs.
  
  World of Warcraft will not soon be thrown from it's throne as King of MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, incredibly MMORPG that refines the word addicting, its based on its strategy 
 game brothers, the Warcraft series.
  
  The game is just incredibly complex the begin with, the world is just huge, theirs so many things 
 to do and with Blizzard adding on new races and classes and new worlds to the game makes the replay 
 value for endure for years.
  
  Gameplay:
  So much stuff to do, you start out making a fully custimized character and start out of one of 
 the three realms, you can make up to a few characters, what you might want to do because each class 
 and race gets diffrent quests and spells.
  
  Specialisations come later in the game, you can pick out a few that vary from First-aid to cooking 
 and stuff, or combinations from smith and mining, which come in handy for moneymaking in WoW.
 
  
  The beginning of the game lets you transport you're character to the capital of you're race and 
 class, there you will get dragged thru a easy and understandable quest which makes you learn aspects 
 of the game, which sometimes doesn't have to because the interface is so easy you'll figure it 
 out before the tutorial starts. You'll be asked to do a quest like killing ten scorpions and retrieve 
 their tails to a quest-guide.
  
  Quests in the game are great, their mostly in huge party's, huge party's mean bigger force, and 
 for people who liked LEEEEEEEEEEEEROY JEEEEEEEEENKINS, you can do lots of these dungeons, quests 
 or just plain big-monster hunting alot with friends.
  
  Graphics:
  The world of Azeroth is HUGE, the whole map of GTA: SA is nothing compared to ONE state of this 
 game, its really that big, the map is full of varied moods, so are most place you'll visit typical 
 preachy and fantasy-themed, while some others are graveyards and typical merchant-towns.
  
  The game is also freeroaming, you can almost go everywhere where you want to go, and with the huge 
 world and Blizzard constantly adding new material to the game, you'll keep on cruising.
  
  You'll enjoy tracking from town to town, looking at the visuals of the game is pleasing, when you 
 think you saw the whole world of Azeroth, you'll just find out you only discovered one half-piece 
 of land of the game, the game visuals are mindblowing if you think about how incredibly big the 
 game is.
  
  The game succeeds in still being fantasy-themed and still not look go kiddy, which is a plus for 
 me.
  
  Story:
  After the Fire Legion is destroyed, new nations fall and appear, its you're chance to become big 
 in WoW to stand up for you're tribe and maybe even fight the fallen Fire Legion, although story's 
 don't matter in MMORPGs, this game keeps up the story with all the patches and expension packs.
 
  
  Is it a good MMORPG:
  This game will steal you're social live, everything, you'll play this game day and night, I did, 
 and I'm a married man and have kids for gods sake, have mercy WoW!
  
  As far MMORPGs come, WoW is the best of the best.
  
  (Tho, the game is rather expensive, buying 
 the game itself for 30 bucks right now, and about 80 bucks to play it half a year makes the wallet 
 cry, but its totally worth it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft
  
  Pros : + Thousands of quests to do! + Never gets boring! +The best MMO I have ever played!
  Cons 
 - The graphics arent the best Ive seen for the PC.
  
  
  The Plot: The story line of WOW takes place Four years have passed since the mortal races stood 
 together against the might of the Burning Legion. The tenuous peace forged in a time of desperation 
 is fading. Arthas, the mad deathknight, has assumed the mantle of the Lich King, becoming nearly 
 invincible in his fortress in Northrend. However, the great will of the Lich King has failed, and 
 the undead legions have splintered. The Forsaken, those creatures that have managed to throw off 
 the control of the undead lord under the guidance of Sylvanas Windrunner, the former high elf, 
 have control of the lands of Lordaeron, under constant attack from the mindless creations of the 
 Arthas. South of Lordaeron, in the land of Azeroth, the humans have reclaimed their stronghold 
 of Stormwind, building it into their new capital city. But the king has mysteriously vanished, 
 and the Defias Brotherhood, a group of thieves and murderers, have gained considerable power. With 
 the Stormwind army away from the capital, the task falls on the shoulder of adventurers to protect 
 the human lands, under the rule of their child king. To the north of Stormwind, in Khaz Modan, 
 the dwarves and gnomes work together, trying to reclaim the gnomish city of Gnomeregan from the 
 troggs, while attempting to secure their own borders and protect their human allies. In Darnassus, 
 the island stronghold of the Night Elves, nature and balance have been restored, but the mainland 
 of Kalimdor has been lost to the Horde. In Ogrimmar, to the south of Darnassus, the orcs and trolls 
 attempt to carve out their own place in a world that does not seem to want them, under the wise 
 leadership of the shaman Thrall. In Southern Kalimdor, the Tauren try to protect their great city 
 of Thunder Bluff from the ravages of those who would attempt to defile their lands. Eight races, 
 all vying for control of Azeroth. Four years have passed since the races banded together to protect 
 the Well of Eternity from the power of the Burning Legion. The tenuous peace that once held all 
 the hatred of the races at bay, has shattered. The lands of the world of Azeroth have once again 
 become host to a World of Warcraft. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics for WOW arent best Ive seen for the PC range of games these days. Not that 
 there horrible (since its an MMO) but Im not for the cartoony look they are going for. But the 
 worlds are HUGE and beautiful, with hundreds of creatures to kill and quests to do. With new ones 
 every day!
  
  Controls: Controls for Wow are easy to use because of the great layout they have for the skills, 
 spells, talking, and so on. Movement is very will done; only having to click the enemy once, run 
 over to attack him (make sure your in front of it and youll attack it.) .
  
  Sound:: The sound in world of warcraft is amazing with each individual race has there own accent. 
 Every creature has its own noises; every environment has its own sounds. Everything is voiced perfectly!
 
  
  Fun:: There are thousands of things to do in the world of Azeroth, from Guild Raids to finishing 
 your quest to auctioning of supplies. There is an endless supply of things to do, so youll never 
 get board of this game.
  
  Replay: The replay value is enormous in wow. An endless amount of items to collect, along raids 
 and quests plus epic creatures to kill! There is no end to the to the replay of his game!
  
  Over all: Over all if youre looking for a great MMO or want to try out a MMO you owe yourself 
 to try this game cause youre bound to like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly addictive! I wish you didn't have to pay monthly for it, but either way 
 youre not paying very much, X-Box live is more of a rip off. This games quests are so much fun, 
 especially if you get into the game with friends and you learn all your Character's class techniques. 
 The game is long, make sure you don't lose your life on it. If your computer sucks, this game will 
 probably still run on it, the graphics arent the best in the world, but they do look nice at the 
 same time; and if you think about it, you're playing on a huge world so imagine how hard it would 
 be to run this game if the graphics were as good as Elder Scrolls 4? This is by far the best RPG 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  this game will have you playing for hours. the gameplay is better then most games. graphics are 
 as good as they can get for a game like this. learning how to play is very easy after you do the 
 first few quest in the game. the only thing is you have to pay 15$ a month to play the game so 
 its expencive but for a game this good its worth it. you can play with millions of other players 
 from all over the world. from asia to here in america over in africa and europe. all types of people 
 play this game so its not boring and i just love every minute of it!!!!!!!!!!8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_galbraith
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  All the quests are go there and kill this, the graphics in a mario game for Gameboy look better 
 than this game, the story makes no sense at all, my shoe can give better directions than some of 
 these quests and I just do not see how people can spend so much money on this game. I played this 
 game after I tried LOTRO and I cannot understand why people think it is so good. Also the combat 
 is terrible looking and some of the class skills make no sense at all, like ohh, im going to go 
 and tame that wild ice boar, hopefully it doesnt rip my face to bits first, oh nvm, I have cloth 
 armour to stop it, like COMMON.
  
  Overall, do not buy this game, do not even THINK about buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oli444
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have had a lot of experience when it comes to MMORPGs and they are normally really fun for the 
 first week or so, and then they just become incredibly boring.
  World of Warcraft on the other hand, is a completely different story. I have been playing WoW for 
 about a year and a half now and I still can just sit down, play it for hours and not get bored. 
 There is a great community, thousands of fun quests and impressive graphics and scenery.
  If you enjoy the fun of Player Vs Environment, or if you prefer the thrill of Player Vs Player 
 then I advise you to buy World of warcraft.
  And you dont just have to stay on your own, you can join a party with other players and go on 
 raids, go down into the many dungeons in the game, or help each other with quests.
  All in all, World of Warcraft is quite an amazing and stunning game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive and people have wasted alot of time on the game but still a great 
 game. Please do not listen to those who say that this game is to easy or that the gameplay is bad 
 becuase it is not true. I havent been playing for very long but and I am not one of those people 
 who are drawn in by graphics or advertizing I saw this game had a free trail goin so I said what 
 the heck why not. Ever since then i have been hooked to it because it entertains you for hours. 
 Back to the fact that it is addictive yes it is addictive but that doesent mean you dont have a 
 choice in the matter. Im sure that you have heard people say if you play the game you will lose 
 ure friends and you will have no social life and you will practically become a vegitable. Then 
 only reason that would happen is if you are a weak minded person. I barely ever play the game yet 
 you still see that I am complimenting this game to the highest extent. so as you can see you have 
 the choice to be overly addicted or not. wow i feel like Dr. Phill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8mjw
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 26, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game was a step in the rite direction for MMOS. It had all the new and shiny stuff that every 
 one was looking for. Fluid game play. No intense crashes or bugs. It was lacking some major components 
 of a good game though. Such as variety ,Tasty graphics , and last but not least difficulty. Variety- 
 most characters looked the same. Most people where after the same set of armor. Everyone had the 
 same weapon. everyone ran the same dungeons. This was no fun for me. This got very old very quick 
 it. it lost its fun. Graphics- Oh my god Can you say cartoon network. These graphics were poor 
 , boring, and tasteless. It looks like they were drawn with crayon. I want a MMO that is not only 
 fun to play but also fun to look at. The graphics leed me to belive that they ran out of funds 
 very quickly and did not care about the graphics. Difficulty- This game was way to easy to pick 
 up. It was not hard at all. I mean i enjoy some what of a challenge. So in my opinion WoW is a 
 good starter game. For those who are just begining in the field of MMO, But a seasoned vet would 
 soon come to realize that this game is just your ordinary MMO. Nothing special . Nothing to worship 
 and definitely not the best ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AveryMarx
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game is very highly addictive and should come with a warning on the box . From the begining 
 you can see your character making progress and it feels good . Though at first controls etc. can 
 be a little hard to grasp most players soon get a good feel and it all comes naturally . Its because 
 of this leveling and progress that it keeps you hooked and you want to carry on playing . You can 
 find yourself playing in the morning and glancing at a clock and find its 11pm it really is worrying 
 . Some people take to it naturally and shoot up to the maximum level cap of 60 ( now due to the 
 expansion The Burning Crusade it is 70 ) . Others take a little time and get there slowly , this 
 progress is also based on how much time you have free , whether you are working around a school 
 day or working day 9-5 . But you get bonus rest experiance so even if you are on for only half 
 an hour you can make up for the lack of free time you have . Though elements like instances and 
 raids towards the end of the game cannot be done with time limits of half an hour or even two hours 
 in some cases . When you reach the highest level cap you can start gaining some pretty awesome 
 gear and mounts etc. giving you a sense of authority that no one will turn down , it really gives 
 you a feel of power The bad bits of this game is the subscription fees , i used to pay by gamecards 
 but i have recently moved and now i need to set up a bank account in order to continue playing 
 because gamecards are not available where i now live . And because of the nature of the game you 
 will naturally bump into people who may annoy you or have different opinions than you or may be 
 new to the game when you are advanced which can be annoying if they ask silly questions that are 
 obvious but remember that you were once in their position , but you have to expect this from a 
 MMORPG . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 22, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Look like if it wasnt already bad enough to pay for a game , paying to use it? thats outrageous, 
 dont belive that crap they tell its to keep the game developed and stuff thats bull****, WoW players 
 pay so much for such litle comitment, Servers crashing? thats really a laugh.
  The Graphics for the time being and the overall look that you get is that it doesnt look like a 
 serious game, what im supposed to waste money on a Monthly-paid game so that it looks like something 
 that poped out of a Kids Cartoon?? THey are experts at creating the finest Introduction movies 
 ever, but sadly the Intro movie doesnt live up to the expectations.
  The gameplay is interesting, but its some times it looks and feels the same over and over, fun 
 though. One detail that caught my eye was the lack of motion variety and sort of simple physics 
 adding up to the already overall feel of kindergarten.
  Sound is not bad , it could be a lot worse.
  
  Its easy to fall into thinking its great game 
 , but its addictiveness sometimes thats a good part of our judgement, there are lot of games that 
 are adicitive and fun , yet they are no master-pieces ,it doesnt that a great game to turn peo9ples 
 heads, this game is solid and fun, but it isnt that well finished or rich. This game i would only 
 recomend to Hardcore fans , because everything this game has, it has already been done by other 
 games that dont require monthly payment and that are equeal if not superior .
  
  Final note: for the money you pay for this , its simply not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubavko
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 22, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played this game is when it first come out in the ''far 2004'' (i mean far for 
 games) . I bought it then with a couple of friends and we tryed to play it but we didn't enjoyed 
 that much so we quickly get to do something else. But a half a year ago i found the copy i bought, and 
 becouse i was bored i said to myself what the heck and i bought that monthly card, and I started 
 playing. And yeah it was great for while, I found a lot of friends and started to ignore my real 
 friends, i began to ran away from school just to play it (Yeah i sound like a creep) I even broke 
 up with my girl for f#$% sake. So if you have a lot of free time, you don't have a personal life 
 this is a game for you, but if you do, don't make the mistake i made with this s#$% of a game that 
 it's only existence is to take your money every month. p. s: I got hooked up with my girlfriend again..... yeahhhhhhh!!! 
 p. p. s: if you wana buy this, dont listen to those who say that even if you play this game (crap) 
 that they even have a personal life. They are lying to you and to themselfs, i know from my own exprience. Dont 
 do drugs kids :} . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martio11
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  it will keep u playing for hours... tho some of the time is spent learning to play :P once u get 
 the hang of it u will officially have no life lol :D just like me and thats the way i like it! 
 so much to do and so much time to do it in. you will never get bord of all the different kinds 
 of things in the game from simply questing to raiding a dungon with a few mates... the possibilities 
 are endless so if you do not have this game i strongly recommend you to but it right now :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwedishMob
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  There's not much more that can be said about this game that hasn't already been enumerated here 
 on this fine website, but it's my favorite game so please allow me to enumerate a few more. I'll 
 leave out all the obvious playback reviews that many people have already outlined, and just tell 
 you why I love the game.
  
  My favorite part of the game, and I think what keeps bringing me back even after I have cancelled 
 my account twice, is the expansive and immersive world in which World of Warcraft is set. I am 
 not a WoW freak, but I have played my fair share of hours, and yet I still haven't seen every land 
 there is in Azeroth. Part of the charm of the game is, still after all these hours of gameplay, 
 there are still lands uncharted out there for me. Even the lands, with which I am familiar, have 
 a personality of their own. Goldshire, set in Elwynn Forest -- a low-level hunting ground -- is perhaps 
 the type of town you'd expect in every fantasy role-playing game -- friendly, charming, innocent. 
 But then there are lands that completely change your mood as you play. A misty, hazy, foreboding, 
 forest, or a vast, expansive, and mysterious desert, all shift your view of the world and the dangers 
 that surround you in this game. The music for the game as you enter and venture around in these 
 lands also lends itself to creating a unique atmosphere for each land.
  
  It is, also after playing for so many hours, amazing to me that there are thousands of players 
 playing beside you. And what's even more fun, is the sub-culture you are allowed into once you 
 start playing the game. The camaraderie you gain after playing World of Warcraft for any period 
 of time is unlike any other game experience out there.
  
  There is one thing I'd like to see in forthcoming expansions: some mini-games. Sure, there are 
 games that you can play when you download mods like Khaos or other such ones, but how about a made-up 
 game that you can gamble your hard-earned gold away on? I think because of the unique sub-culture 
 that WoW creates, it would serve the game well to lend a little bit more effort to the social aspect 
 of the game. Why don't they add some games or things to do at the inns? It could make a place like 
 a tavern in Ironforge a lot more popular place to hang out in -- a place where you can gag with your 
 online pals and brag about your online exploits. But still, for fifty bucks and fifteen bucks for 
 each subsequent month, you can't ask for much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greywillow
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Having played numerous MMOs, including two major Korean MMOs, Ragnarok Online and MapleStory, and 
 a little experience with Everquest and Everquest II, I wasn't incredibly excited about WoW until 
 a couple of my friends started talking about it regularly. I only recently got a new computer that 
 could run WoW, so I decided to give it a shot. For only $20 and a free month of play, it wasn't 
 to bad. I was amazed at how different it is from so many MMOs out there. With a bright, fantastical 
 world, World of Warcraft can set itself apart from other fantasy MMOs.
  
  Why did I rate as I did? Let's take a look...
  
  NOTE: I was really big on getting the best 
 computer out there for gaming when we bought a new computer, so your results may differ from mine 
 due to connection speed, RAM, graphics card, etc.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  In my experience, WoW is an extremely smooth-running game, even when you have IE or Firefox running 
 in the background. It is excellent at being an immersive and huge game, while not taking up all 
 of your memory.
  
  As far as the non-superficial gameplay goes, WoW offers a good variety of ways to earn experience, 
 from exploring to questing to killing monsters. However, if you prefer a free-form MMO (i. e. one 
 without relying heavily on quests) , WoW might not be for you. Huge amounts of experience come from 
 quests. A good point about quests for those who do not like to be running back and forth doing 
 stupid things we'd rather not do (including myself) , quests are there to guide you to areas that 
 present you with a challenge, but will not kill you. Wander too far away from these areas, and 
 you could be in grave danger.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  For those who love console games, WoW will not let you down, giving you about the same graphics 
 you've come to expect from the newer consoles. The world is colourful and bright, but not cartoon-y. 
 It gives it just that slightly fantastical touch that a fantasy MMO needs to make it perfectly 
 surreal, something I never found satisfactory in other fantasy MMOs.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  This is where the game is rather lacking. I prize a game with good sound and music very highly 
 and will love it, if only for its music. As far as the normal SFX, they are accurate, if, at times, 
 slightly over-the-top. The music is what needs work. It doesn't stand out as anything special like 
 Ragnarok Online's does.
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  
  For an MMO, WoW has a pretty good value: $20 for the program and $15 per month of game play (first 
 month free!) . However, the $15 fee, like all other MMOs means you're coughing up $180 per year 
 once your free month is gone. For players who don't have good income every month and/or have just 
 coughed up $40 for Burning Crusade, that gets to be a lot of money.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: 10/10
  
  For my reviewer's tilt sections of reviews, I choose a part or two 
 of the game that stands out as being really good or really bad. This time I chose: CINEMATICS.
 
  
  When you first start up WoW, you get to see its intro cinematic and can play it again afterward 
 whenever you like at the login area. When it says Blizzard Entertainment presents... you feel like 
 you should be eating popcorn in a movie theatre. It's just that good. If every CG movie ever created 
 looked like that, all the actors but voice actors would be out of a job.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.7/10
  
  Warcraft started out as a PC fantasy strategy RPG series and was always 
 on the cutting edge. It never got the attention it really deserved. With World of Wacraft, it's 
 still the best out there and finally getting its just desserts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a game that keeps on giving. If you ever played any MMORPG , the first hr 
 with you playing WOW your gonna be Saying this is the best game i ever player or this game is so 
 good. After 100 days played on just 1 class , i still time to time find myself saying , damn this 
 is an amazing game.
  
  From the start you pick your class and each race has it's own passive skills (like dagger plus 5 
 or arcane resistance or Immunity to fear) this in the beginning is really unimportant but when 
 you reach 70 they really do matter because now you can beat Warlocks cause you can avoid the fears.
 
  
  From the UI Blizzard really did an amazing job making the game as user friendly as possible , highlight 
 anything with the mouse icon and it'll tell you what it does. This game is not intimidating to 
 play but as you reach higher levels you keep learning new things every day.
  
  The endgame in WOW is impossible alone, if you looking for a good guild or wanna progress in the 
 game it's highly advise to not act a fool in your early levels cause people will remember you and 
 not take you serious , this kinda sucks about the game as people can be really unforgiven to even 
 little kids.
  
  I advise anyone with a PC able to run this game to try the demo atleast cause this game is really 
 good and well made. the battle system is perfect for a MMORPG and fighting in front of Ogrimmar 
 never gets old.
  
  Blizzard really pulled a rabbit out of a hat with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oolark
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 19, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has been the subject of much praise from an immense amount of players, this of 
 course led me to eventually playing it. Upon doing so I was expecting an MMO that broke the mold 
 as the massive player base says. As I played through, I felt as though I was playing every other 
 MMORPG. You do fetch quests, you kill NPCs for countless hours, and you pick up loot. To put it 
 simply, the game is a grind. Blizzard is company that appears to be a master of the mundane, Warcraft 
 wasn't an amazing RTS... it was just a fairly good RTS. The same applies to Starcraft. Blizzard 
 slightly polishes run-of-the-mill game styles and picks up a massive fanbase in the process... World 
 of Warcraft is no different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with my friends after they gave me the recommendation for WoW, it is definitely 
 an excellent game!
  Originally I was a little sceptical at first when it came down to the whole MMO scene, whether 
 or not it was worth getting into. I got into Guild Wars after having a friend convince me of how 
 good it was and the fact GW had no subscription fees, along with the idea of not needing broadband 
 to play the game. Ive been playing Guild Wars for quite some time and just recently I got told 
 WoW is Better from one of my friends who used to play GW. I tried getting into WoW before and 
 found you needed to leave your credit card details when trying to run the old 14-Day trial. For 
 me I HATE the idea of making transactions online using Credit Cards, and thats a major factor 
 that puts me off the subscriber MMO scene. Ive been playing WoW for about a fortnight now and 
 before then I was asking questions about opening and maintaining accounts, so I eventually bit 
 the bullet and got a copy of WoW and WoW Card to get me started Ive pretty much given GW The 
 Flick!
  If warriors can use any weapons (including Shotguns or Blunderbuss as theyre called) , thats 
 just bloody awesome! The fact you not only build up your character in the field of battle, you 
 also develop them in their downtime with Trade Skills. My friends were right You can actually 
 do more in WoW than what you could in GW!
  And all that isnt the half of it WoW is just bloody huge!
  And I havent even begun to scratch 
 the surface of this game!
  
  Okay, to be fair
  
  I would recommend two MMOs for people looking to get in on the scene, depending on what youre 
 looking for
  
  The Guild Wars series for anyone who doesnt want to pay MMO Subscriptions every so often.
  
 
  But if you dont care about all that and want to break into something HARDCORE Get stuck into 
 World of Warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3raphic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  An astounding game for everyone, with so much to offer, it is worth it all. At a price of &pound;15.00 
 to buy the box and &pound;9.00 a month it is not a waste of money.
  Even though it may take months getting to that max level, you will have fun on the way, killing the 
 greatest of enemies, joining or creating a guild or even
  doing the impossible, invading capital cities. with the newest expansion (The burning Crusade) World 
 of Warcraft just got better, with flying mounts, the outland, two new races, and getting to level 70 
 (a real challenge) but once you possibly get bored, who cares!, you can make over 10 characters and 
 start all over again. But don't forget to go outside with your
  friends lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  So, where do I start... Well, the combat system is awesome. I think you'll have a hard time finding 
 a more balanced combat system in a MMORPG such as this. All classes have enough features to make 
 them all stand out, and to make all of them appealing in their own way.
  
  PvP... If there were no battlegrounds, this game wouldn't be anywhere near as good as it is. Trough 
 your adventures you're sure to get bored once in a while, and going to a battleground is the perfect 
 way to add some fun to your otherwise dull grinding.
  
  The worst part of this game is leveling. Above 90% of the quests have one of the following two 
 objectives:
  A) Kill x amount of those creatures
  B) Gather x amount of these items (which is basically the same as the one above)
  
  But for 
 some strange reason, you keep questing and leveling, although you feel that you aren't really having 
 fun anymore. In my opinion, it takes far too long to level. If you find a good guild, or if you 
 have real life comrades playing on the same server as you, the game gets much more enjoyable. If 
 this was a single player RPG, it would be damn boring. Venturing into dungeons is usually fun if 
 you're in good company, but since the majority of WoW-players are either stupid, below the age 
 of 13 or complete **** it's very likely you'll you'll be disappointed. Dungeons are also far too 
 repetive and long.
  
  Graphics:
  I've never played a MMORPG with better graphics, and if you take the fact that this game was made 
 in 2004 into consideration, the graphics are damn neat.
  
  Sound:
  The music and sound effects are top notch, but unfortunately there's not that much music. If there 
 were some more tracks this would be a 10 for sure.
  
  Value:
  Assuming you don't get bored, this game can last virtually forever.
  
  Tilt:
  This is an 
 excellent game, but they should've somehow made leveling a more entertaining process, because it 
 feels more like a chore (and when a video game starts to feel like a chore, something's definitively 
 not right) .
  
  It's also extremely easy to get addicted, whether you're aware of it or not.
  
  But the bottom 
 line is that this is indeed an excellent game, though nowhere near as good as some people would 
 want you to believe. Once the WoW haze has lifted and you've freed yourself (WC3 reference, tut 
 tut) , you'll see that this game is not a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_Gilberto
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  i used to play free MMORPGS because i always thought that MMORPGs were not worth spending money 
 on... but i was wrong! WoW is not only a great game visually, but the experience is great as well! 
 though it may take some time to fully learn the controls and get used to the interface; WoW proves 
 to be just as or even more addicting than it's free (and other) counterparts!
  
  personally, this game takes me way back. this is because i am quite a fan of the warcraft series. 
 in WoW you finally get to see all the warcraft 3 sprites in full scale, i mean the first time i 
 saw the taurens i was pretty much amused, at how tiny my undead warrior was compared to the gargantuan 
 cow-like being!
  
  anyway. WoW is definately all it's cracked up to be! so go ahead and try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 13, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Well after millions and millions kept saying how great this game was, I decided to try it for myself 
 and see. I just don't see what everyone see's in this game. To me, it's basically like every single 
 other MMO out there with the same repetitive go here and kill x amount creatures that plague almost 
 all MMO's. The graphics are way to cartoony and look like a horrible disney cartoon. I know quite 
 a many people love the graphics, I personally think they are just to childish looking. Though I 
 really like blizzard and always have been a fan of their games, this is just one that just doesn't 
 do it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  An MMORPG from Blizzard, enough said? I don't play currently but, this is mostly due to work constraints. 
 I've played well over a year off and of, the bulk of my tenure within was at launch. I've tried 
 the expansion and it's excellent-worth every penny. As an avid Blizzard fan, I have no real gripes 
 about WoW; truly. And that's saying a lot given my background in the mmorpg genre. I suppose you 
 would call me an old-school MMORPG'er; the first four-years of Ultima Online than a transition 
 into Evercrack onto Anarchy Online, Asheron's Call, Dark Age of Camelot, Star Wars: Galaxies and 
 Eve. There's been a few stints on trials and the likes, including the recent LoTR: Shadows of Angmar. 
 With that established, one criticism I have of WoW is the design of the artwork. . .
  
  To clarify on my issue of the design of the artwork as to avoid being flamed. I am not alone in 
 my opinion that World of Warcraft looks, well cartoony. Some people like it-obviously. I don't 
 mind it a lot but, I think they could get a lot more out of it. I can understand why they don't, 
 it's called 8 Million plus active subscribers. Hell, I will also say to their credit I love being 
 able to play it on my laptop without it dieing! So, on the graphics I sit the fence. Bottom Line: 
 If you haven't played it and, like this type of game-go get it tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ycluk
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 8, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW for 9 months &amp; went for trial for Burning Crusade. I am not a pro for WoW, but 
 I am not noob either.
  
  I have complaint more appreciation for Blizzard's game once again.
  
  The Good:
  With the 
 nice graphic for low end system requirement, Blizzard really make its games for everyone. The game 
 has lots of tooltip for beginners to get up to speed.
  
  Elite quest offer group playing experience.
  
  The bad:
  I heard 1 server only holds 300 
 players, so it's not enough MMO for me which I like to have over thousands or more players in 1 
 virtual world.
  
  It takes times for beginners to level up by doing quests if they don't know about www. thottbot. com 
 or other website to find quest database. Search on Google...
  
  Elite quest is really a good idea to offer team plays, but it's always hard to find a group, and 
 even harder to find groups at high levels.
  
  Main reason not able to find groups is hard to find, specially, tanks and healers because many 
 players only care to deal damage rather than being part of a team to fill the roles in a group, 
 and no one can change their mind, no matter how Blizzard nerf the damage.
  
  Some might argue that joining a guild or going looking for group (LFG) channel to help finding 
 groups, and yeah everyone does, but sometimes even on peak hours ( when a lot of people online 
 ) , you would still have problem finding groups to fill different position in your group.
  
  People used to go to LFG channel, but when new LFG interface come out, it totally sucked and ruined 
 channel for players to find groups. Although graphic is nice, but physic engine sucks. You can 
 shoot some through walls, behind hills, or when they are not in your line of sight which makes 
 a favor for range class characters.
  
  Twink problems in low level battleground. Twink are players who gear up their characters with the 
 best items at their level and go chop non-so-good-geared-players in battleground which makes World 
 of gearcraft doesn't need skills to kill, but gear.
  
  It has been finding gear issue since days from Diablo ( another game from Blizzard years ago ) , 
 and if you gear up your character with nice gears, it will most of time alter the outcome of battles. 
 This totally discourage players to learn to be skillful rather they spend countless hours to find 
 items.
  
  Blizzard tries to offer players battleground fun for lower level players, but it's not so fun now 
 after years because some long time players have money and time to find good items for their low 
 level twinks.
  
  I usually skip lv 19 Warsong (yeah most rogues in lv 19 warsong are twinks) , and I only play a 
 few of lv 29 Warsong &amp; AB. Then I move on to lv 39 or even 49 because level 40 is armor changing 
 for warrior / shaman / hunter / druid.
  
  I don't see Blizzard cares about battleground at all because they only want you to level up 70 
 and go arena now, and that imply there is no fun to pvp if you don't get to lv 70.
  
  Scissor-paper-rock character class systems. It's been blizzard's style that one class character 
 is killer for another class but it also is the hunted for a different class. This is one way to 
 balance game play, but this way makes no fun for players to match up certain class because that 
 is pretty no chance to win.
  
  Mage = killer to warrior, warlock owns mages (mostly) , hunter &amp; melee shaman are excellent 
 counter to casters. Warriors kills rogues. This kind of system really makes no fun for a warrior 
 who got picked by a mage, or a rogue got attacked by a warrior. Making every class has 50/50 chance 
 to go against any class and make gear less influencing is better style and encourage players to 
 learn to play rather finding items.
  
  Crowd control ( CC ) is a way to make your target out of their own control by fear, stun, or immobilizing. 
 However, some class just have too much CC while some other class got none. CC is a really big issue 
 because you pretty much make your target a sitting duck. Warlock &amp; rogues have lots of CC. 
 Warrior, paladin, shaman got almost none.
  
  I tried Burning crusade trial, and it's doesn't improve or change the game much. I only offer lv 
 70 and make Arena to be like probably some other squad based pvp RPG like guild war, so BC isn't 
 worth it for me.
  
  The annoying high level no skills killing lowbies in pvp server just takes the fun out of it when 
 you try to level up.
  
  Blizzard really needs to find a different style of their RPG game. It's getting more and more boring.
 
  
  I am leveling WoW for good because I am, once again after Diablo, feeling frustrated of Blizzard's 
 RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomCrazy88
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Their are many good online game but the best one around is WoW. Everything about WoW is awesome! 
 I'll tell you what makes the game rock: Game Play: The gameplay is the best i've seen in any game. 
 The fighting is amazing and it never gets boring. You can get many abilities to attack with and 
 much more! Quests: The quests are one of the best things in the game. Their are over 4500 quests 
 in WoW and growing. The quests are very fun and are never boring. Their are so many different types 
 of quests and all of them are amazingly fun! PVP And Raids: Another great thing about WoW are raids 
 and PVP stuff. Raids are always fun because you fight against other players in arena's and get 
 honor points from it. Monsters: The monsters are amazing in WoW. Their are so many different types 
 of monsters in the world. All the monsters look so cool and keep the game alive! So that are some 
 things that make WoW rock. Trust me if you buy WoW you will not be disappointed. Besides the monthy 
 fee WoW is the best game around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is just a fun game. There are two factions you can play with the alliance and 
 the horde. This game is obviously a MMO with many people active and playing already. The races for 
 each faction are for the alliance, human, night elf, gnome and dwarf. For the  
 race starts out in different places in azeroth (the world where the game takes place) . The races 
 also have different classes available for them. The first quests in the game are somewhat boring 
 but teaches you about the races your playings history. Once your at high levels though, you can raid 
 dungeons and rival faction cities and duke it out in the PvP arenas. The max level in this game 
 is level 60. There are many different weapons and armor for your class. You can also make a guild 
 and create a guild tabard that your members can wear. The game can become quite addicting but to 
 some people after hours of play the game can boring. I am one of those people but all I had to 
 do was not play for a day or two and the game immediately got interesting again. This however, is 
 not a bad thing it keeps you from getting addicted. Finally, the graphics, to me the graphics in 
 this game are way too cartoonish and must be more realistic. This makes the games look all its 
 own and it may be a good thing. That about sums it up. Also,
  the game has a monthly fee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I always said World of Warcraft was nothing special, I'm sorry and I hope God 
 forgive my blasphemy because this game its absolutely awsome.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The warcraft world reproduced in another prespective and with every promenor that you might remember, 
 the art direction its awsome, awsome, awsome... The game runs really smooth and graphics are great, 
 the game its basicaly influenced by the warcraft III and frozen throne art but captures from the 
 previous games to.
  World of warcraft remains a funny game from visual aspect, Blizzard made a great job with this 
 aspect.
  Everything its so well done in graphics and art direction that its almost unbelievable... Believe 
 me, the art design in World of Warcraft its one of the best ever... if not the best. The characters 
 are all well done as well as the NPCs. Cities are also awsome and very large as well as the world 
 map.
  The ambient its awsome and the variety of graphics from city to city, map to map makes World of 
 warcraft never get repetitive.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay its a complex one, but this complexity becomes really simple because of the intuitive 
 gameplay. No tutorials needed, you'll learn on your own easily, only a usefull tip system helps 
 you when you discover something new.
  
  Sound:
  
  Perfect... just perfect... the soundtrack its so good that you will sometimes stop and listen to 
 it. The birds, water, walking sounds and many many others are all there, little important sounds 
 can become really important for the ambient of the game. The sound effects from swords and spells 
 are all there as well.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  A game that needs month fee to play (and its not really cheap) needs to atract players for quite 
 some time. World of Warcraft will atract you for years, its impossible to stop playing, the game 
 world its incredible big, huge, massive, extensive and everything like that, it is a really large 
 world with thousands and thousands of things to do, and hundreds and hundreds of ways to do it, 
 2 factions, 4 characters for each faction making an 8 characters total, each character with up 
 to 8 diferent jobs like mage, druid, priest, fighter etc... hundreds of quests for each faction 
 and even for each character. There are also a lot of jobs for you to do such as mining or smithing. 
 The game will keep you busy for a long long time, and when you think your finished it is not, because 
 the game its always being updated, You will also want to play with diferent characters so it will 
 take you even more time. Expect a game for a everlasting time.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  World of Warcraft as everything that a great game as and adds more, much more to it, the initial 
 problems with lag, connections etc... were all resolved in a few days. World of Warcraft its another 
 Blizzard classic like all the others from Blizzard, Its impressive how Blizzard can make every 
 of its game a classic and awsome game.
  If you don't have this game, go buy it, I guarantee to you its worth your money and your months 
 fee or the card with 60 days.
  The only negative aspect about World of Warcraft its that it as so much people playing it, that 
 downloading an update when it comes out takes lots of time.
  World of Warcraft its a Masterpiece. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_miester
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  There's alot of things to be said about World of Warcraft. Ive played it for the past 2 years and 
 have had enough of it. All I can say is that it was an amazing journey and I HIGHLY recommend that 
 whoever you are or wherever you are, you've got to give this game a shot. A massive world to explore, 
 tons of quests and adventure.. and thats only half of it! It is definately worth the pay. My only 
 bad points about the game is half of the community are 12 and under, and the other thing is that 
 its not a strong Game Master service they offer. But hardly any of this bothers you once your into 
 the game! They bring new patches out periodically with lots of content (some of which add new stuff 
 to the world) and bug fixes. I'm not a fanboy at anything. I play a game to relieve boredom and 
 thats all, but this game has been keeping me interested:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  WOW is so far my favorite MMO i have ever played, i wouldnt normaly blurt that out so quick but 
 it is simply the best MMO at least that i know of, i find myself playing it for long periods of 
 time and raiding with my friends like its a marathon theres just so much to do. say you wanted 
 to level up your character either you would start a raid, quests, or just randomly killing stuff. 
 and thats what i like about the game it gives you lots to do, and so many ways to do it. i like 
 the friend system say you need help with somthing, you would tell somone near you and seeing he 
 has nothing to do or maybe even doing the same quest you would share it and play together for a 
 few hours, maybe later (most likely) become friends. i also like the auction houses, you can find 
 anything you need there or sell anything for pretty much any amount of money. i do also like the 
 guild system, just like the communication system in the guild is great. PROS: awesome MMO, Guild 
 systems, raids, and quests work great,
  friend system is great, the variety of tasks ranging from a simple fetch quest
  to a complicated 
 and extremely hard 20 man raid.
  CONS: at first glace you would say that the whole system works seamlessly, well i do have to say 
 lagg does not occour often in this game but when it does it is usually really bad triggering glitches, 
 other than that i really have no complaints. but this is really an awesome MMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  if you want another drug to add to your system. look no longer
  
  this game has everything imaginable in a video game. Killing, weddings, monsters, alcohol, weeds, 
 flowers, mines, gold, clothes, armour, weapons, elfs, dwarfs, humans, gnomes all that crazy crap
 
  
  the PVP is jokes, funny stuff happens and its a good time if you play with friends. you can be 
 all organized and go on raids for epic items which is fun too. you get a mount to ride on and its 
 just a great game with a whole reward system built in. you get out of the game what you put into 
 it which brings people back for more
  
  so ya. gameplay 10 -- this game is so easy to play
  graphics 7 -- they kinda suck and are cartoony 
 :-P
  sound 8 -- nothign spectacular here but nothing magical
  value 9 -- great value, monthly fees blow though
  tilt 10 -- this game has it all, if the fees 
 dont bother you, your in heaven . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First things first: WoW is a very good MMO, that is a fact.
  It copies Everquest shamelessly in every aspect from the graphic interface to the game system and 
 design. Its not nearly as complex as Everquest which can be a good or a bad thing, its not as polished 
 as Everquest which is a bad thing. No names/titles over the merchants/trainers and other important 
 NPCs is a pain, among other things. The landscapes manage to look better than Everquest 2 but the 
 trade off is the player characters look miserable. I challenge you to find another MMO of similar 
 age with characters that look worse than WoW, also theres almost no character customization, you 
 only have a choice of 2-4 preset hairdos and faces, thats it.
  WoW suffers from Guild/Raid elitism even more than Everquest 2 so if you are a solo player you 
 wont get very far.
  If you played other MMOs, WoW wont offer anything new or different, if you want something really 
 special try Saga of Ryzom. If you new to MMOs you can chose between WoW and Everquest 2 with Everquest 
 being more newbie friendly but aimed at a slightly more mature audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cronotknight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  This game fits many aspects of gamers and has a plethora of ways to play. I have spent most of 
 my time in the night night elf story so far, Reading all the hidden books around the areas, following 
 every quest I could find. For those who haven't played the previous warcraft games there are the 
 hidden books that will reveal past story lines and for the people that have played the games will 
 relive those wonderful hours and you progress through the wonderful environment.
  
  The game is designed so that you can play the game as 1 character, as a lone fighter, but also 
 designed so that you can party with others to take on large challenges, Join guilds for a small 
 community within the greater community. I have spent a good 30% of my time helping people from 
 the goodness of my heart just to have a member of that person guild send me 10, 50 sometimes even 
 100g! This is a game where it is good to be nice and not expect anything in return because when 
 someone does return it you get much more than you could ever expect.
  
  The gameplay is magnificent, but you really have to spend time playing to realise the level of 
 immersiveness of the game.
  
  The graphics are great for a game with so many moving objects and such extravagant lighting. And 
 by adjusting settings you can increase the looks to even better!
  
  The sounds are good and somewhat repetitive but definitely a great part of play, for rogues you'll 
 here a lot of out of energy but besides that it has great sounds.
  
  The value is magnificent and only boosted by the fact Blizzard allows for custom UI's and minor 
 modifications to the game interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a fun MMORPG everyone seems to love. I loved it for the first 3 month I wasted on this game. 
 It was a great experience playing as a Night Elf Rogue but when you hit lvl 60 that is probably 
 the end of the fun. What can you do at 60? you can either grind for gold, raid (which gets boring) , 
 start all over again? The graphics isn't all that great but the most impressive thing is that there 
 is no load time. It is a very addictive game and you can see that I am right because 8 million 
 people are playing it. There are tons of quests, huge continent, lots of pvp, but at the end of 
 the day you look back and say that I have wasted all my time and gotten nothing out of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evios
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an amazing improvement from warcraft three. This game includes amazing ways 
 to explore, mystical creatures, and breath taking sceneries. This game has all new ways to communicate 
 with other players, and many different ways to play with and enjoy your time with others, including 
 in guilds, raids, dungeons, or just going around killing things with your hunting squad. This game, 
 even though it is amazing, it is also highly addictave, and if you cant balance your time, well 
 dont be suprised if you turn out a little chubbier one day. With so many new places to explore, 
 and with all of the quests to complete, this game contains years of gameplay, that is if they dont 
 improve on it. The only downfall I find about this game, is how you have to pay a monthly- every 
 3 months pay of $25+ U. S. And a little hint, when people say the game isnt good, thats because 
 they probably played it for a years, nearly non-stop. In my opinion, dont listen to the negative 
 reviews that people are handing out, it is a great role playing game, and it is great to play with 
 your friends. Just dont get too caught up in the world of Azeroth, or you yourself my lose your 
 life to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animelover553
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what made me play this game or maybe I should say how my friend begged me to play. 
 I first started out with Guild Wars and always despised this game but I couldnt really say too 
 much about it since I never played it. One day we decided to try out a trial, me and some friends 
 and I must say I enjoyed my self. The quest werent too hard and I wont say that they werent too 
 easy but they were fine with me. After several months though, like 3 months the game started to 
 get boring and it still is for some reason and now that I have played the game I can say a little 
 more about it. Maybe its because blizzard does nothing about dead servers? or that im just really 
 bored of grinding reputation. lvling to 1-70 is fun with friends but since sometimes my friends 
 and I werent always able to lvl up together and I ended up lvling by my self its and its really 
 boring. Once you hit 70 the only thing there is to do is grind grind grind and some more grinding 
 and maybe some pvp thats if your server isnt dead or dominated by a certain race. Another thing 
 thats funny to me is that blizzard is really lame with the nerfs and I try to tell my self that 
 player's complaints have no affect on the reason why blizzard nerf certain classes, but lately 
 Im starting to belive that. IMO I think that Blizzard nerfs every little thing to help out complainers 
 or maybe thats just me. I know one thing though I had much more fun on GW and it lasted much longer 
 than WoW and im still deciding wether I still want to play this game for 30 dollars every 2 months. 
 The graphic and sounds arent all that.. I know MMORPG games out there for free that have better 
 graphics and sound than this and still fun. I guess WoW is just for those people who like to grind. 
 Anyway thats some of my 10 cents about this game. *this game is too overrated* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggomaster10
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  i have played a lot of massively multiplayer games but i have to say that this is the best game 
 i have ever played it has amazing graphics and you can pick from eight classes and eight races 
 which are all comepletly different and have bonuses and minuses you can play to lvl 60 and then 
 you can go pvping (well u can at any lvl but u will get killed a lot if lower than 60) there are 
 huge boses and hundreds of different monsters to kill and loads of customisable equipment to be 
 used and u can go to speicel full pvp areas called battlegrounds where you fight your real player 
 friends.
  if you have never played any of these type of games or dont like them you will definatly love this 
 game it has a very simple interface and controls that anyone can jump into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  What can say. One of the first MMO RPGs ive paid for. This game is great, i admit that ive sat 
 for literally a day playing it and not got bored. The Vastness of the world is huge, and the weapons 
 selection is great. People argue alot about What is better WoW or Guild wars. Guild wars i admit 
 is better graphically but what real gamer judges games on their graphics? If i could add some things 
 to this game is that the NPC's would have minds of their own. Trying to lvl is sometimes a long 
 and tedious ordeal. A large problem, with no fault to the makers is that the Horde have a lot more 
 people but it also seems like every Alliance race is majorly nurf-ed. A lot of people go Hunters 
 and Warlocks, they are fun at first but hunters especially get very boring generally by lvl 25. 
 Some races have great customisation choices like the undead, they can choose to not have a jaw! 
 Night elves also have some good customisation. I hear people complain that WoW cost too much a 
 month, i agree that they could put down the price a little but you get alot for your money. I believe 
 that if you want a good RPG there's no question, this is the best!
  Many games are and have been released to overtake WoW such as "Lord of the rings online" and "Warhammer 
 online". I love both of those but not as MMOs, WoW has this edge to it that just puts it up above 
 the rest. Simply, if you want a game that will last you along time this is the one for you. But 
 i warn you, do not play this game straight or you will get bored and need a long break. BEST MMO 
 EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_scrolls
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a over rated game that i found boring and a total waste of time. Its buying 
 price of $29.95 is cheap but you actually have to pay every 60days to play online which is a real 
 ripoff. I mean you already bought the damn game but why would you want to pay for subsciptions?!?.. 
 Its gameplay and storyline is really boring, its graphics is like from 1980s :P. the only thing 
 good about this game is its sound.. nothing else. If you like games which rip you off when you have 
 to pay 60day subsciptions to play, games that have poor graphics, games that are pretty boring.. then 
 world of warcraft is your clear winner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yariang
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Fan-boys of WoW will tell you that it is the greatest game in the world and that it is their life. 
 However, the game is not really the best game in the world or nothing like that.
  
  A lot of the game is walking everywhere, until late-game where you can ride a mount everywhere. 
 Another large part of the game is killing monsters which is pretty repetitive after a while. The 
 rest of the game, unfortunately the smallest portion of it is the actual story, quests, and mini-games 
 in it. Really, most of the game boils down to walking, killing monsters for exp, killing monsters 
 for loot, or killing monsters to complete quests to get exp.
  
  You can't ever beat this game either, so once you get to the max level, you'll probably just start 
 over on a new character. It is really pointless, but the game is addictive for some people. I can't 
 stand taking a long time to level so it was not for me though. If you don't like having to kill 
 the same monster over and over, or do a thousand quests to get levels in a game, then do not buy 
 WoW because it will waste your time.
  
  The graphics are quite good for an MMORPG with relatively decent amount of lag. They are not awesome, 
 they are not all-that, but they are decent, the environments are nicely done and spells, characters, 
 and monsters are quite well detailed.
  
  The sound is not something you pay particular attention to, it is decent and will not leave you 
 turning off your speakers but your better off having Windows Media Player running on the background 
 playing some music of your own.
  
  Azeroth is a huge continent, has lots and lots of place to explore, but most of these areas are 
 littered with high level monsters, so you would have to get higher level, which requires tedious 
 work as I mentioned before. The continent IS huge though and the conflict between Alliance and 
 Horde is a nice touch to the game, specially in PVP servers where you can gank/get ganked by people 
 at all times when you are out exploring contested zones.
  
  This game is a great game that you should definetley check out, do the 14-day trial and see if 
 you like it first. It is really a great game and very addictive but the question you have to ask 
 your self before buying it is Is this the right game for me? . I bought this game without knowing 
 if it was right for me or not based solely on the hype it gets from its players and from the press 
 and when I really got into it after about a month of being addicted to it, I saw the tedious aspect 
 of it and saw that it was not for me and that I had just spent $50 on 3 months of a game that I 
 was not going to really play much. I hope the same does not happen to you and that you benefit 
 from this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In World of Warcraft, you create your Character by choosing from a variety of races and 
 classes, and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling in Azeroth. You can join diffrent 
 groups to do diffrent missions and all that other stuff. The game lets you create many diffrent 
 characters on many of different available realms, each of which is a unique. World of Warcraft 
 gameplay is pretty much the same to the numerous other games that came before it. Graphics: The 
 graphics are not the greatest I have seen. Yeah they look bright and colorful but the graphics 
 just don't look polished. Also graphics look a little blocks making up the characters and some 
 of the varies building in the game. Sound: Sound effects are pretty good, everything should sound 
 the way they should.
  
  Value: All in all I don't get why so many people spend so much time on this game? It takes up so 
 much of your time, it's a waste of money with the monthly fee and the gameplay gets repetitive. 
 This game is way overhyped and there are other good online game to play if you must play massive 
 online games. Go out there and play other great games and get out there and get a life. I know 
 some people are not going to agree with me on this but I don't think this game deserves 9.5 out 
 of 10. It should be 6.0 to 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genuma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I first got this because I wanted a game to try out and I bought the 14 day trial. I liked it so 
 on the last day I rushed out to Best Buy. They didn't have it, but Meijer did. Strange. Anyway. 
 This game was good right from the start. You don't get logged down on tons of text, history, or 
 background information. That's all in the gam manual but makes for a good short read if you're 
 bored.
  
  The combat system starts out basic. You basically keep swinging over and over. Over time you get 
 trianers for your class (Ex: Master Warrior) that teach you new abilitites. For the right price, 
 or course. The best way to make money when you start is to just grind (Stay in the same place and 
 kill monstors) and loot their bodies. You get things that you can sell to the general shop in the 
 area you start at. You should probably stay in the beginning are until you are level 5 at least. 
 Some of the lotting will give you armor and weaponry to equip. You usually want to hang on to that.
 
  
  Armor and weapons in this break eventually because of their durability. Every item has a set amount 
 of durability (Ex: 45, 20) that when it runs oout will be useless. That's why you should hang on 
 to all your extra armor and weapons. They can be stored in your bank for whne you need them.
  
  Finally, the subject of death. When you die, you start out by a great spiritt that will bring 
 you back at the cost of 25% durability of all your wepaons and armor that is equipped. You DO NOT 
 want to do that. The other option is to fly around as your spirit and find your body (which is 
 conviniently marked on your map) and click revive when you get close enough. You will then come 
 back around where you were depending on where you click revive and have lost no items or durability.
 
  
  That's pretty much it.
  
  Wait, one more thing. If you buy the demo, then prepare for MAJOR installation. Every time you 
 think you can finally play it, it says New Updates! Update Now? and you can only click yes. It's 
 pretty much torture. After it's done, you'll end up with a solid MMORPG. Definently check this 
 out if you're an expert or beginner to the genre. Genuma 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of, if not the most popular MMORPG out there right now. World of Warcraft 
 has more than enough things to do to keep a teenage mind to a hard working adult's entertained 
 and pleased, whether it's finishing that first quest or downing the boss your guild has been trying 
 at for weeks now. The experience that the game presents is wide and very rewarding, whether you're 
 doing some hardcore end-game content like Sunwell Plateau or boosting your Arena Team's rating 
 up, to just chatting with the other players you encounter along the way. The climb from a level 
 1 character, whether it be Horde (yay) or Alliance, many players' goal will be the same: Become 
 the best. The constant competition for this, along with the fun little conversations you can get 
 into with people twice or half your age somewhere across the globe, it's just plain fun, and sometimes, 
 unfortunately, addicting. Back on track though, there is so much to do, it's almost (keyword: ALMOST) 
 unbearable.
  
  ..::** The Journey to the Top **::..
  
  Level 1... the beginning of your sometimes agonizingly long journey towards level 60 / 70 and soon 
 to be 80. Whether you're a 70 Tauren Warrior, with enough attack power and strength to beat the 
 crap out of any soloable mob you can name, or an Undead Warlock with overpowered spells (in my 
 opinion, and I have a level 70 one myself, so I know how you victims to our overpoweredness, but 
 being nerfed to unthinkable levels, feel) , the game will never fail to please. As the game progresses, 
 you will encounter more difficult challenges, but be rewarded with new gear, abilities, friends, 
 and the feeling of victory. And, in conclusion, just remember, that Tier 6 / Sunwell geared 70, 
 or Season 4 equipped 70, was a level 1 once before, and that with enough time and effort, that 
 could be you someday.
  
  ..::** The World of Warcraft **::..
  
  The World of Warcraft truly is a virtually created video game WORLD. Not just a single continent, 
 or a little island, or a big city, but a WORLD, a PLANET. There is so much to explore, so much 
 to see and experience, it's simply breathtaking. In the orginal World of Warcraft, The only explorable 
 area was Azeroth. For a quick explanation, Azeroth is where the events of most of the Warcraft 
 events occured, and sort of an "Earthlike" place. World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, introduced 
 Outland, a place somewhat similar to Azeroth, only more otherwordly where more otherwordly Warcraft 
 events took place (keep in mind please that I'm not a big Warcraft player, and that the only Warcraft 
 game I've played was most of Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne, so I'm not so aware of all of the lore, 
 but I know a decent amount about it) . The regions of Azeroth are the Eastern Kingdoms, and Kalimdor. 
 Eastern Kingdoms is obviously on the eastern side of the map, while Kalimdor sits on the western 
 side of the map. Neither have specific themes to them, as the regions within the continents are 
 seperated by slow transition of settings, such as from a desert to a jungle by slowly going through 
 different settings "in between" the two. Outland has a far different feel to it. Although it only 
 hosts seven regions, they are vastly different from one another. From the tainted underworldlike 
 Shadowmoon Valley, home of the Black Temple and Illidan Stormrage, to the peaceful, meadow / fieldlike 
 Nagrand, hosting a wide variety of NPCs. Overall, the World of Warcraft is, in my opinion, one 
 of the most entertaining and visually pleasing world I've ever seen in my days of gaming. 
  
  ..::** End-Game Content **::..
  
  You've started your journey as a level 1 character, questing 
 and questing and questing trying to get to the highest level you can be. You've experienced many 
 things, accomplished many tasks, and (hopefully) made plenty of new online friends. All of these 
 will be important for the ultimate World of Warcraft experience: level 70. As of right now, 70 
 is the level cap (for those of you who aren't very fluent in the world of internet slang, cap= 
 maximum level reachable) . of the game. But reaching the highest level is far from the end of your 
 journey. No, it is just the beginning. At 70, you are somewhat prompted to "choose" whether or 
 not you want to raid and participate in one of the most interesting and challenging aspect of the 
 game, or PvP, (again, for those that have little experience with internet slang, PvP= Player vs. 
 Player) the equivilent in many ways of raiding but easier to take in moderation. Raiding is when 
 a group of 10-40 people tackle an instance (dungeon) in hopes of defeating the final boss of said 
 instance, get a ton of badges, and / or loot incredible gear, it's and extremely rewarding experience 
 but also one of the most difficult parts of the game. This statement however, is arguable. To stay 
 neutral on terms with the whole PvP vs. Raiding topic, both are challenging but in different ways; 
 while some find PvP to be easy and raiding to be hard, some find raiding simple but find PvP a 
 difficult experience. Back on topic, raiding is usually a time consuming task, but very fun and 
 challenging. Being a PvP 70 myself, I can't say much more on the topic, but I think that this is 
 enough said on such a topic. PvP, on the other hand, is Player (s) vs. Player (s) battles, whether 
 it's a random encounter on some random road, or if it's a 40 vs. 40 war for resources and reinforcements, 
 PvP is a very interesting aspect of the game. On your journey towards 70, you've most likely done 
 a few Arena skirmishes and done some battlegrounds. These are the most important parts of end-game 
 PvP. Battlegrounds are multi-realm (but limited to the realms in your battlegroup) "wars" with 
 a set goal for each, whether it's an extreme game of capture the flag, or a fight for resources, 
 these are the main way to get honor points for lower level PvP items. The Arena is somewhat similar 
 to a battleground, except the goal for any Arena match: be it 2v2 3v3 or 5v5, is the same. This 
 goal, easier said than done in most cases, is kill all of the opposing team members with at least 
 1 of yours still standing. An Arena skirmish is an unranked battle that anyone of any level can 
 participate in, but otherwise functions exactly the same as a ranked Arena battle. A ranked Arena 
 match is for level 70 players hoping to boost their rating, whether it's personal or team, fight 
 against another randomly selected team in hopes of victory and a personal and team rating boost. 
 Just for those of you wondering, and Arena team is like a guild, except it does not display over, 
 under, or next to your players name in the world, doesn't have it's own chat channel, but does 
 have a name, members, and charter cost. The best Arena gear, at this time Season 4 gear, aka Brutal 
 Gladiator gear, requires a personal as well as team rating to purchase and equip (however if your 
 rating drops below the requirement and you already have it equipped, you will keep the stat bonuses) . 
 This gear also costs something called, Arena Points. Arena Points are awarded every Tuesday based 
 on your player's personal and team rating, so a low rating will result in a small amount of Arena 
 Points, while a high rating will result in a larger amount of Arena Points. That pretty much covers 
 the general aspects of end-game content, but keep in mind that these things are much easier said 
 than done, and are one of the many things that give this game such an addictive nature.
  
  ..::** Social Interaction **::..
  
  Being an MMORPG, World of Warcraft hosts an enourmous amount 
 of players from across the globe and puts them in a game that pretty much indirctly requires you 
 to take a social stand in. Be it adding someone to your friend's list because they're an amazing 
 healer or tank or do massive damage in groups, or just adding them because you can have a nice 
 little chat with them every now and then, the more friends you make, the better. Unfortunately, 
 you will encounter the limit of the friend's list very quickly. Another thing to keep in mind is 
 that the game is pretty much impossible to go solo in. If you're going to do a raid, you've got 
 10-40 other people that you need to get along with and help out, and in battlegrounds 10-40 people 
 are on your team which you have to work with in order to accomplish the goal of the battleground 
 that you're participating in. Arena matches require you to team up with 1, 2, or 4 more people 
 to kill all the members of the opposing team, which generally requires some sort of strategy and 
 teamwork. The social aspects of the game make up half of it, if you ask me, and the other half 
 is just an awesome MMORPG that you really can't deny in levels of awesomeness. Whether you're a 
 morning, night, or afternoon person, there will always be somebody else to talk to, fight against, 
 travel with, or see. The World of Warcraft is far from an empty one, and in order to accomplish 
 it's greatest challenges you will need to work with friends both new and old. Because remember: 
 Antisociality killed the Gnome.
  
  ..::** Technical Information **::..
  
  Like most online games, World of Warcraft requires you to have an internet connection. But, as 
 far as online games go, World of Warcraft unfrotunately stands in the middle for speed. Many people 
 will be complaining about intense lag, while many others will have such a high framerate that they 
 are able to brag about it. Lag is generally caused by 3 different reasons. .:1:. Your internet 
 connection could be a little bit better... or in some cases, a lot better... or in a worst case 
 scenario, nonexistent. .:2:. Highly populated areas can lower your framerate greatly, seeing how 
 your computer needs to load every little character detail and all of the environmental data, it 
 can be a little overwhelming, and therefore, it takes it's time. .:3:. Your computer. That's right, 
 a computer that already has a bad internet connection or crap framerate is almost guaranteed to 
 ruin your World of Warcraft experience some days. On more than one occasion I've been quite angry 
 at my computer for lagging so bad that when I hold down the 'W' key, the framerate suddenly jumps 
 up from 0.5-55 and I'm dead in some place I wasnt even close to. I hear all of the sounds, yes, 
 but the visual imagery is much more appealing than that of the sounds. All in all, while it is 
 limited by internet or computer problems severely or not, this game presents an unforgettable experience 
 that you simply should't miss out on.
  
  ..::** Why I gave it a 10 **::..
  
  Gameplay- 10
  
  Why so? The controls are already well made, and you can customize them to quite 
 the limit with the key bindings page in the Esc menu. Also, it seems like everything is so well 
 planned out, every raid encounter, every Arena match, it's just so well executed (and it's life 
 isnt even below 20%!) that you practically FEEL it.
  
  Sound- 10
  
  Each and every little critter has it's own unique soundset (for the most part) and they usually 
 fit very well each time. Every little character has their own name (be it "Haris Pilton" or "Orgrimmar 
 Grunt") and own voices (depending on race and gender) . Even their own little angry phrases when 
 you repeatedly click them! *clears throat* but anyways, everything has a sound to it that adds 
 to the game, whether it's the echoes of past events in the Royal Quarter of Undercity (just listen 
 closely people) or that high pitched puking sound quilboars make in their final virtual moments, 
 every sound brings more into the game, and just adds to the excitement it already presents.
  
  Graphics- 10
  
  While they could use some work here and there, the graphics aren't top 
 notch, they still are good enough to pass off a 10 on the 1-10 chart. If Blizzard spent the time 
 to upgrade said graphics, maybe a little bit more people would be a little bit more happy.
  
  Value- 10
  
  The cost it takes to buy the game isn't that high, but it's the monthly fees 
 that really screw you up. But, this game will pay for itself within the first month of playing 
 it (which I may add is free) . Unfortunately, some people will become addicted to it, and play irrationally 
 long in sinlge sittings, rather than enjoying in moderation (so if you're playing for 15 hours 
 straight, then I'd go outside for a while. A long while.) . Millions of people play it already. 
 MILLIONS. So, my question, reader, is, why shouldn't you?
  
  Tilt- 10
  
  This game pretty much owns. 
  
  That's about all I have to say (about all? I'm surprised some 
 of you are still reading this unbelievably long review. But nonetheless, continue) about this game, 
 but I'd also like to wrap things up with a quick summary. This game pits you against feeble level 
 1 boars that a casting class could melee to death without losing 25% of their hp, to level ?? bosses 
 that is sometimes able to kill 10-40 people before those 10-40 people kill it. From the barren 
 wasteland of Blasted Lands, to the lush jungle of Feralas, the virtually generated scenery is a 
 beautiful piece of art matched by few others. When you log into your account, you can have up to 
 60 different characters just waiting to enter the World. Internet connection like you've never 
 seen it before (whether it be for the better or worse) and on top of that, a ton of other people 
 to talk to, ignore, play with, and enjoy the company of. To end this naturally long summary, (I 
 mean we ARE talking about me) I hope I have inspired those of you without the game to buy it. Those 
 of you with the game to keep playing it. And ALL of you to know about it. This game truly is a 
 World. It truly IS a War (craft) . It truly (well not really) IS an Of. If you can play this game, 
 don't wait for it, as it's certainly waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusofBellum
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  READ THIS! YOU MIGHT LIKE IT!
  
  A lot of people have already said what I am about to say, just to let you know in advance. Don't 
 get me wrong, the game is good. I just don't think that it's all what everyone thinks it is. I 
 mean, the graphics are good, the sound is boring, the gameplay is not bad, but it's just mediocre. 
 I man, I was only a noob, but it seems pretty repetitive to me. Kill 10 of this, kill 10 of that, 
 give a letter to some random guy or something. It's really repetive. It's not all what it seems 
 to be. What I think, is that most of the people that play WoW goes something like this:
  
  -Plays the 10-day free trial or buys the game.
  -Plays it.
  -Gets bored with it and leaves 
 alone for X amount of days, hours, months, ect...
  -Gets bored, turns around, and sees World of Warcraft on the desk or whatever.
  - Says Hey! You 
 know what? I'll just play it again to give it a chance.
  -Starts laying it and BOOM! They're just like WOW! I LOVE THIS GAME! Even though deep down inside, 
 its just a way to escape reality and escape boredom. Thats what i think most people play WoW for. 
 I bet you, more then half the people who play WoW now, is, or once was the way I described at the 
 top. It's just a repetitive, boring, same quests game. That makes you think theres a story by making 
 all this crap about the Horde and the Alliance. When you really, have to take a freakin' boat to 
 get to the other side. It's never even a freakin' quest. Oh, and the freakin' subscription fees 
 kill you. IT'S A WASTE OF MONEY!!! 20$ a month, is what kills people in life. Think about it. You're 
 paying for a game, i repeat, ONE GAME, that costs 20$ a month. Thats more then XBOX LIVE!!! And 
 atleast for XXBOX LIVE you get to pay many games. Anyway, I think I've said enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saith_of_aura
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I had played the game in the past and enjoyed it. I stoped playing for the fall academic term. 
 However now that the spring term is almost over I can get back into it and get my freinds to shut 
 up about it. I'm pleased with the game over all it has very seemless gameplay and they pay a great 
 deal of attention to balance, as best they can anyways and over all the environment of the game 
 rocks. Players, for the most part atleast, are nice enough to help people out. I also like the 
 PvP at lower levels some people act a little noobish but the battlegrounds are awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscar8563
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it isn't perfect, but then what game is? This is a game that is fun for everyone. People 
 of all ages should (and do) play this game. As far as MMO's go, this is definitely the best one 
 I have seen. It's easy to play, easy to get into, and can be played from practically anywhere on 
 almost any computer. I say this because I play it all the time on my desktop which has a 56k modem!!! 
 Anyway, this is without a doubt a game worth playing, even if just once. I personally love it, 
 even if I haven't been playing for a long time. But I'm sure many people agree with me. 8+ million 
 can't be wrong!! Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZavierKonz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a huge MMORPG game right now and millions of people are playing WoW every 
 month. Why is there so many people playing the game? Simply because it is a very good game that 
 almost everyone can enjoy. Is the game perfect? No, of course not but its not that far from being 
 perfect. Before starting your journey in Azeroth, you have to choose between 8 races which are 
 separated in 2 factions, 4 for the alliance and 4 for the horde. When you have picked your race, 
 you will be prompt to choose your class. There is 8 classes to choose from when yourre an alliance 
 or a horde. You might want to try a couple of classes before making your final decision because 
 the gameplay is very different from one class to another. Then you customize your character the 
 way you want and you start the game!
  
  Youll start level 1 and you have to get to level 60! Every two levels you can go train new skills 
 for your character and you can learn up to 2 primary professions and 3 secondary professions. These 
 professions will make you able to craft your own gears or weapons, enchant, make potions, but also 
 gather items that you can then sale to the AH (Auction House) to earn some gold (The WoW money) . 
 When you get to level 10, you will be able to upgrade your character by using talent points every 
 level (Youll get one every level) . You will put these talent points into talent trees that will 
 define the play-style of your character. At level 40 and 60 you will get mounts that will help 
 you travel faster. But is the game ends when I get to level 60? Of course not! At level 60 you 
 can raid dungeons or PvP Or do anything you want! (Actually, the expansion is out now and you 
 can level up to 70.) The community of people in the game is good. Most of the time I have fun with 
 the people around when I play but since theres millions of people playing this game you might 
 not fall in love with every single one of them. It really depends on which server you choose and 
 what faction. If you like someone, I suggest you add him/her on your friends list! The game is 
 designed to let people learn the game while playing. It will follow your pace and Blizzard has 
 created a UI (User Interface) that is simple but very efficient, beginners and advanced players 
 will enjoy using it. The gameplay is very easy to use and very sharp, which makes the game very 
 fun to play. Drag and drop your spells and skills the way you want on your action bars et voila!.. 
 You got yourself sleek and customizable action bars. Even if the graphic engine is kinda old, Blizzard 
 has created it so almost everyone can play the game. The great thing about the graphics is that 
 if you dont have a good video card the graphics will still look alright but if you have a great 
 video card it will look amazing. The sound is very good in general but I think the game lacks of 
 music. When youre levelling or grinding, youll hear the same song again and again, which will 
 probably make you want to listen to your own music. The music is not that bad, it is just repetitive. 
 The game value really depends on how much you play. For many people, to spend 15$/month to play 
 a game is too much. If you play less than 10 hours every month, it might not be worth it for you. 
 But for anyone who plays over 10 hours a month, it is really a good investment. Blizzard give you 
 access to the servers 24/7, you get the PvP ranks updated every week, they always come up with 
 new instances and gears (Without having to buy an expansion!) and the customer service is excellent! 
 Be aware though, this game is VERY ADDICTIVE. Take the game with moderation just like any other 
 games.
  
  There is so much to do in this game. If youre not sure if you want to play or not, I suggest you 
 go to the World of Warcraft website and subscribe to a FREE 10-days trial (and/or 14 hours I think) 
 so you can play a little bit before buying the whole game. You can like it or not, but you gotta 
 admit that WoW is an amazing game with great features and it is not a coincidence that so many 
 people are playing the game. I give this game a 9.7/10 and I mean it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kity_Kira
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I agree, it maybe the best online game, but I don't think there's anything to get hyped up for. 
 Really, it's the same old thing. You do quests, go to dungeons, level up, fight the same old monsters. 
 It is addictive... And I know people who are still playing this game for years.
  There's no real story to this... Just doing a handful of quests. Graphics and music are amazing.
 
  The only thing I can see good about this game is that you meet some really nice people. But at 
 the end, you'll be thinking I've spent 20days worth of gameplay and what did you really achieved? 
 You just leveled up to 60 etc... Wasted so much time. When you could be playing better games out 
 there. Especially for the price you pay. It's not the best review out there, but WoW is just a 
 waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Many of you guys think this game is great. But if you really think about it, is it really that 
 great?
  
  You start in a world, with great options of what kind of rase you want to be and that stuff. Its 
 a huge world, and plenty of things to explore. Well that was good, here comes the bad. You probably 
 want to to quest, and 90 % av the quest in this game is all about the same. Kill 10 of these, or 
 20 of these, come back and get a reward. So 90 % of the quest hasen't a meaning at all. And quest 
 is a thing you want to do in this game, or else isen't the explorer part last for very long. Ofcourse 
 you have that 10 % left, which are the quest with a little meaning. If you dosen't care for a game 
 with meaning, maybe this is the game for you. Its very good to be a multiplayer game, but i'm pretty 
 sick of the feeling that i'm doing almost the same quest all over again.
  
  I'm pretty sure many of you will like this game, but for me this is a game without any meaning, 
 and I don't think it's entertainment. It can be fun some times, but most of the time is it all 
 about doing the same quest, but every time I have to kill 10 of something different.
  
  Its plenty of things to do, lot of things to explore, but if you're looking for a game with meaning, 
 this may not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownkid2192
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow WoW i can't get enough of it it is the best mmorpg of all time and i don't think i will stop 
 till im 70 years old! and that the way you get addicted to the game personaly my favorite class 
 is druid because you can get cool tranformastions like a seal for water breathing and a lion for 
 attack it is the best form is the owl so you can just fly placesmy best spec is regen i regen 900 
 per secondi like hunters 2 and i like to be beast tamer and have a cool pet like a rapter or a 
 wolf etc but to bad they can only be a lower level than you are or the same and the gune and bows 
 are really cool my faverite race is the nightelves and the tortons the tortons are like natives 
 and they are the cow people and they look pretty sweet nightelves are sweet and make the best hunters 
 of all the races and they have a cool dance like m. j and the tortons just get down :) :) i just 
 love to dance in WoW and i just love drop parties that is how i got the best staff bow and rifle 
 i love the game and i hope it never dies like everquest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to say that hasn't already been said. So I won't say it again - however, WoW is 
 a very overrated game. It's hailed as innovative and revolutionary , but the only way in which 
 it is either of these is in how many subscribers it holds. Don't get me wrong - WoW is fun. It's 
 a good game, and it's worth a shot - but it's definitely not worth spending your life away playing. 
 What WoW really does is takes elements from other games, refines them and combines them - the game 
 is really one big mix of other people's ideas - but it works. Sadly though, if you've played a 
 lot of MMORPGs there's nothing new or special here.. there's really nothing outstanding about wow, 
 it's well-made but isn't really unique, clever or inspiring. Some of these elements work very nicely, 
 others not so - the game is really one big race to get the best level and items out there ,and 
 I really don't think that should be the point of a game... but people are hell-bent on it. It's 
 worth playing - just don't get too sucked into it, because then you'll waste your life away. I 
 had some really fun times with this game (some **** ones too) , but now it's time to move on to 
 something different. Don't just follow the crowd, think for yourself.... wow may be fun, but there're 
 other, more inventive and ultimately better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Discobear
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This is a good game if you like to do the same thing over and over again. The graphics are not 
 great but ok. The sound is ok, but could av been some more interesting. This game does NOT have 
 an end before you decide to stop playing!!!
  This is a good game until you first are thinking what you are doing.
  You are doing the same 
 thing over and over again, it just seems different!
  The same monsters just in another colour. The quests are boring; Bring this letter to a man, kill 
 10 of that and 5 of that, collect 15 of that and 10 of that, find him and kill him, and bring me 
 a proof. You know how the wheel looks like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anandram
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Ok so iv played WoW now and i shall say this game at its foundation is such an amazing experience. 
 Theres no getting away from the fact that this place is huge!!!!!!! i was just walking around and 
 admiring verything that was going on. Stopping to purchase some bits and discovering new locations 
 whilst trying not to get shafted by some gigantic spider. Its reall immersive, i played with headphones 
 and my 32inch HDTV and its such a joy to play. The graphics were cronked up to high with only my 
 crappy x1300 ati card too!! suppose because its 2 years old but still. Granted i am only at level 
 4 and there are those that say all you do is grind towards the end, but there is always the option 
 of just simply walking around and taking a breather from it all to admire everything, however this 
 probably does get tedious. The game overall i can see getting a tad repeitive but im at level 4 
 and i havent even done a quest yet!! So still so much more to do and see. A great game worthy of 
 its praise and those that condemn i guess have just got bored with the same thing over and over. 
 The monthly fee over here is &pound;8/month, and its hardly going to break the budget if you have 
 a job so get over the small fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me346777hy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a MUST play even if you dont play MMO's you can have unlimited characters, the quests 
 are fun, the instances are real cool.
  And now with the expansion... two new characters, Outland to explore, two new skills and new mounts.
 
  
  In the game you can have two professions and unlimited secondary skills.
  You can completly level your character solo to 60 (or to 70 if you got expansion)
  
  You can 
 create a guild and invite players to it and go on raids or do quests togeather.
  
  Raiding is real fun bassically say your alliance you switch to PVP mode and travel to horde land 
 and kill any players you wish (if you dont die) .
  
  Battlegrounds are real cool kinda like CastleWars (Runescape) .
  
  So I say you should buy the 
 game its a MUST. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lester007
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Its highly addictive for the first few days, but after awhile it just got boring and more boring. You 
 got nothing to do and the quests seems to be like repeating itself. All you get to do when you 
 hit the max level is just to go on raids long raids just so you get a full epic items. The raids 
 are tedious and took a few hours to complete. And it may damage your social life.
  
  Pros: Fun for the first week or days of playing, can make alot of new friends, nice graphics
  
 
  cons: a waste of time after you get to max level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafighter0
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I used to be so addicted to this game, like i come home from school and i just turn on my laptop 
 and i play this game till nightfall. But now things are changed. I played this game so much to 
 realise I DO THE SAME THING EVERY TIME! The expansion is no different too. But it did give me something 
 to play for the 2 years i played it. I got a ps3 and some good games with it, along with Home which 
 the final version will come out in November i think so im looking forward to that. So i quit WoW. 
 Goodbye to WoW forever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeDuff
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  great! 4 the first few months then it js get in the way of ur socal life Game play (8/10) i suppose 
 its fun but its like a task its too addictive it grows on u it really gets boring nd same old same 
 old evry time like mounts at lvl 40 and at 60!! stupid!!!
  
  Graphics (9/10) theres nothing u can say tht is wrong with the graphics u js cant but they dnt 
 hav 2 be amazin 4 a gd game.
  
  Sound (8/10) the songs really take the mick they r soo bad the sound effects r pretty class like 
 the big bang wen u shoot or the swipe in the air wen u throw a good job!
  
  Value (3/10) 9.00 quid a month !!!!! oh dear oh dear they expect 9.00 quid that is js over the 
 top completely a total rip off!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  overall the game isn't worth it i played 4 a long time enjoyed at first but then disaster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game may be a bit hard first, but when you get in to it it can be fun to play. If you play 
 with people you know it makes it even more fun. You can play this game for a long time. The game 
 actually starts when you get to level 60 or 70 if you have burning crusade. The proffesions you 
 can learn makes exciting to make your own armour or whatever you would like to do. If you want 
 a game you want to play for a while, this is your game. The graphic isn't that impressive, but 
 that is because everyone can play it. You don't need a super good pc to play it neither. When you 
 get going it isn't that hard to play. One of the best games out there. I can see why there are 
 so many that play this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tk0291
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is supposedly the best MMORPG there is. But seriously, this genre could use a 
 little face lift. The style and gameplay is fun for the first couple days that you own the game. 
 Then sooner than later the quests start becoming important and then the only reason youre playing 
 is just so u can hit the highest level. I became bored of the game right around level 30 but i 
 persisted to get to a higher level. And for what? Nothing. Pros: Fun for a while, making friends 
 online can be fun, beautiful immersive world, killing people 10 levels lower than you for the hell 
 of it, wastes a lot of your time
  
  Cons: It gets boring, task, unexciting, wastes a lot of your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the most addictive game i ever played, and I played a lot. Though, only if you into it. 
 I didn't get addictive to it until I bought the guide books. The game is so big, I frequently lost 
 myself in the world and lose interest in the game. However, when into it, have freinds, and know 
 what you doing and the world, you'll have one of the most, if not, the most fun ever.
  
  Gameplay: The world is so big, there is no end to the fun. Many monters, items, people. skills, 
 professions, and classes. So innovative and fun. You can't cheat here, the game is quite fair. 
 (10/10)
  Graphic: The world is so big, sometimes, I feel like I am actually in it. Numerous monters and 
 creative things. Regardless, I feel the garphic is not perfect. For instant, when I ride on a pet, 
 I don't feel liek I am moving. I can see the 2D image when I look carefully. (8.5/10)
  Control: I like the control and the interface I saw (eventhough I never used the interface) . There 
 are numerous others interface. You ahve to play this game as our main game for months to master 
 the control techniques at the tip of your hands. (9/10)
  Story Line: Since the game is a big, teh story lien is lose. However, for each specific storyline, 
 it's quit creative, but it's keep reapting teh storyline. Many are not intuative. (7/10)
  Sound: The sound is great. The sound didn't interfare with the gameplay. It actually reinforce 
 my game [; ay experience. But I haven't heard any music that is attractive. (8.5/10)
  Overall Grade: 8.6
  I don't like to pay to play every month, but it seem worth it if you have 
 time and know how to get the best out of it. I strongly recommended if you have time and money 
 and you're a person that everyone want to be friend with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  First off i love this game ive never had so much fun with a online game before ive spend hours 
 on my character and i have reached level 53
  since chistmas when i got it. Now lets not get off bad mouthing this game Graphics: Well i love 
 them for starters since they Don't have a realistic look to them like most MMORPGs like that New 
 LOTR one or Warhammer online
  Insted Blizzard have gone for more of a Cartoonish look to it. which gives the game its own sense 
 of style when playing. The lands scapes looks breathtaking
  And it feels liek your in a World other than Earth characters look good and Animate well with lots 
 of Battles stances and Fight moves which is a good thing.
  the only thing that Bugs me is that the Field of view even on High isn't all that great since even 
 on max u won't be able to see Payers or NPCs untill your like a few 20feet of so from them.
  Not a bad thing but it would be nice not to have a FOV or a mist covering everthing up but rather 
 just to see everything.
  
  Theres a few Graphics Glitchs &amp; Bugs which is normal but they do look odd in this game. Weather 
 effects are ncie and look Amazing like Outside the Gates of Iron forge were its all Snowy Looks 
 very pretty all in well the Game looks very good. And the good thing is that you dont really have 
 to have a powerful Computer to play it even on Low-High, which is good
  The characters Faces look Good but when up close they are all blury and you can't hardly see the 
 Detail its thats bad. The game does have a Nice Full screen glow effect which makes the game look 
 even better and it looks Breath taking when ur Next to a pit of Lava &amp; you see all the Red 
 Glow from it. theres nothing to Major with the Graphics But they are becomming a Bit dated now 
 as more Powerful MORPGS
  are comming out.
  
  Sound: Well i must say its sounds Amazing in this game. the Voice Acitng is A++ the Musical score 
 is Another thing also its that good!
  you will find often that the music fits in perfect to every moment to when your playing. I dont 
 know what to say about the muaic really but lets me put it short
  Its fine as it is.
  
  Gameplay: Well its good but not Great! the game is fun no doubt ive spent hours on it and i still 
 go back to play it for 2 hours or so aday
  Now its fun at the Beginning But it gets boreing after a while since alot of the quests reqire 
 you to be ether in a Guild or Large pary to do so It makes doing quests the Solo Way a Bit hard. 
 the PvP aspect of the game is Just perfect! it makes you hate the Horde-Alliance depending what 
 fraction your on ive must of Sworn 100s of times when i got kileld by a Orc or so
  while doign a quest and the game does this well it makes you whana go out and Fight and Defend 
 the World by slaying all what get in your way.
  Bad side to that is that you Get alot of the Game Focused for Higher level players like 60+ menaing 
 if ur level 30 your gonna miss out on alot of the games Good stuff
  Like Epic armour &amp; Raids since it focus on higher Players mostly. The Quests do get Borring 
 after a bit and you Find that Grinding for 2 hours or so is better than doing a Quest most times
 
  Character interaction is also great although it would be nice to talk to players on another Fraction 
 but mabys thats just me. personaly once level 50+ it take forever to level unless your a perosn 
 who has no life
  then you can easly level up to 70 within 2 weeks staritng form level 1 But if ur a Normal perosn 
 like me then it gets really hard to level once pass 50 since im having to Pay my sister just so 
 i can get higher level faster
  
  You can also get mounts once Pass level 40 which is a good way of getting aorund But by then u 
 can just eather Ask a mage or Take a Griffen to the place were u whana go whic hof course isn't 
 a bad thing but the Way u get a mount is hard
  since first you gotta be level 40 then level 60 then finaly level 70 but really u should get your 
 first mount at level 30 since you do alot of walking aorund by that level so in that way it can 
 be anoying
  The Game does have alot of Good points for its gameplay you Can Make guilds up Farm for Herbs etc. 
 or Cook an dsell it for money so theres alot of other stuff to do other than Questing or Grinding
 
  But if i talk too much about the gameplay this review would go on forever but it's good let me 
 say that. It could do with some beefing up with its gameplay cos it gets a bit plane after abit.
 
  
  Final say: I would get this game its nothing Brand new But its Fun and it worth money Just dont 
 be Expecitng to Have fun for Months on it cos it might get a bit borring. But its noway as good 
 as everyone says it is. so its over hyped in some ways Blizzard really need to make a expansion 
 pack thats Adds new Weapons &amp; Armour etc. to Lower level players like 10-60 cos thats what 
 World of warcraft Needs ATM to keeps things fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game, Extreme addict involved, Must be played in consideration. Best game i have ever 
 played , that includes the games on other consoles such as ps2 xbox pc wii and all. When i first 
 started playing the game world of warcraft i found it a little boring, with nothing to do. But 
 as i started to kill more things and level , i began to get moer quests done, and i began to explore. 
 Bye the time i was level 50 it was great. I had great armour and over 300gold. I had my own horse 
 and everything. My advice to new players. LEVEL UP! P. s And do the quests 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Who wants to be a total geek? Who wants to be known as a no life computer nerd MMO whore ? Well 
 I don't but nevertheless your friends are going to tease you with insults such as these.. why? 
 Simply: the addiction WoW brings is incredibaly Meth like, you'll be hooked and loving it. One 
 of the concerns I always have while playing this flustered game is wether or not I should keep 
 paying the monthly fee and playing or just stop while I'm it. I mean, who wants to pay 15 bucks 
 a month to have a virtual life as a dwarf hunter online? It's surprising that my answer is yes. 
 The fee is well worth the hours you're going to have with friends online, capturing wilder beast 
 and raiding human towns.
  
  Nevermind the monthly fees, there are so many pros and high points to this game that I might as 
 well get rid of the little cons first, before rocketing into why this game is more addicting then 
 the thing you sniffed last night, and nevermind my childesh intakes, this game grabbed by heart 
 with a +5 glove ever since last month and now I've been acting rather strange.. or is it just that 
 Ale my dawrf drank?
  
  The Cons:
  The graphics. They are blocky and rough, and although fit into into it's previous non MMO games 
 such as Frozen Throne, it does not suit this MMO type game. The graphics are barred and rough, 
 making you wonder why a game of this budget has such bad graphics. The audio is also really repitive, 
 when compared to rival EQ and GW it is orc waste. The leveling is slow and mildly boring at first, 
 like most MMO's but this just hits the record books. Also traveling the big landscape can be boring 
 for most, especially common people with ADD or as I'de call them, trigger happy. This game has 
 it's flaws...
  but..
  
  The Pros:
  The gameplay is outright addictive, there are just thousands of items and potions to take, many 
 races and classes which give you uniqueness and many options and quest to take. You have hundreds 
 of attacks and spells at your disposal, should you use the Strength boost to hack down your opponent? 
 Or conjure demons to rip him apart? And admit it, you've always wanted to be a Orc Brute, raiding 
 human towns with 8 of your friends and even strangers. The quest are immensly interesting and fun 
 to play. There are many hours to be had with a game such as this, wether taking part in activities 
 with your guild, or adventuring with a friend to kill an evil Lich King, this game gives you 60 
 levels of fun to be had.
  
  The truth is, this game is TOO addictive. Once the game is gone, prepared to mope in your room, 
 which is nothing compared to your WoW guild hall you own. Go back to fighting your friends with 
 sticks and your dog Max rather then using a a damn fine hunting gun and your pet eagle which you 
 nicknames PwnZored . Beware, if you don't want to be addicted, stay back. On the other hand if 
 you have lots of money to spend and a nice computer, come on in, we dare you. Too afraid of my 
 bad ass shot gun and my pet Gorilla? If you not prove it.
  
  Enter WoW, the weed of all gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (maybe you've heard of it) is a great game, but at some times it seems more addicting 
 than fun. I've got to where I play it only if i'm having fun. I was addicted to it for about a 
 month but now I just play it because I like it and because a lot of my friends play it and we have 
 a good time playing it together. Well let's get down to my review. I think this is a great game. 
 Many of the quests are fun (although some can be boring, you know the run around kill these guys 
 and collect 10 magical berries) and the dungeons are great too. There is plenty of stuff to do 
 in this game. You will rarely ever find a time in this game when you have to look for something 
 to do. There is always something to do. The community in the game is overall friendly but of course 
 there is the acasional jerk you find in all online games, but this community is better than others 
 i've seen. If you get this game try to get your friends to get it too many of the missions require 
 groups to complete and if you don't like finding strangers it's always nice to have a good friend 
 you know to help you out. In my school it started out with me and about 2 other guys playing it. 
 Now there are about 30 guys in my school that play it and we all play on the same server. So I 
 advise you to get your friends in on this game it can be much more fun. The $15 monthly fee for 
 this game can seem kind of high (which it is a little) but give it a try and see if you like it. 
 A free trial can be found at www. worldofwarcraft. com. Note: you can't use mail or trade with the 
 free trial. Once again this is a great game but it can be very addicting. Don't play excessively. 
 Just play an hour or 2 a day. You'll still have fun. You can have occasional times when you play 
 it like crazy but don't get addicted to it just have fun. Finishing up my review after playing 
 this game for awhile if you decide you really like it I advice getting the expansion it gives a 
 lot of extra content. Don't forget it's just a game so have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle-adolph
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you enter the World of Warcraft, Blizzard have got you hooked in. Levelling up 
 to around 40 is fun, but after that it becomes a chore and is tedious. But the problem is, you're 
 addicted now... Now way back. You've already played 3 hours today and you're just about to hit 
 59, you ding. But you want more, you carry on, all the way to 60. By the time you hit 60 you want 
 to raid, and you do that. Night after night, you're sitting at your desk slaving away in AQ40. 
 You don't want to be there, but you have to otherwise you're guildless... Don't make the same mistake 
 that I did. Wow ruined my life, my enjoyment of life is less since I got this game. Luckily I quit 
 just after TBC came out... Don't ruin your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: energysnake
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  B4 I startded playing wow I thought it was the most stupid waste of time ever but it didn't take 
 long to become addicted. I have been able to control my playtime, not letting my self play non 
 stop with out sleep. Even though I gave the game a high rating, there's somethings I have to say:
 
  
  1. Power levelers make me sick, get a life
  2. People complain the game is to easy, I'll admit it can be easy but I challenge myself, people 
 who think the game is to easy should try to solo an instance or something.
  3. Beggars will be shot, whiners will be shot again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bartiemuss
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome no matter who your are you should play you start the game by dicding which 
 of the 2 factions in azeroth you are goin to join alliance or the horde from there you chose a 
 race and a class then it takes you straigh into the action. For each diffrent race thee are simple 
 little qusets at first to help you level up then as you get to know wat you are doing they get 
 more and more chalaging which is good. The great thing about this game is the people online every 
 1 is alaways willing to help out to do quests with you and the game dosent punish you for dying 
 all yu have to do is find your corpse again. The game also lets you get something don even if yu 
 play it for half an hour you can still complete a qusest unlike other rpgs whre you need to spend 
 hours and hours playing ust to get any where 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I am still fairly new to PC gaming but I can't imagine many games that can top this game in polished 
 game play and overall fun. Blizzard has balanced RPG elements without bogging players down with 
 micro-managing every detail of the game. With the addition of Mods and Add-Ons, WOW is a nearly 
 fully customizable interface and experience. When I first thought of spending $15 bucks a month 
 to play a game, I never thought it could be worth it. I was wrong. PROS:
  Highly addictive game play
  You can always find someone you know on-line (because almost everyone 
 you know plays this game)
  Graphics can take a while to get used to but the style is presented consistently throughout the 
 game
  CONS:
  The story is not required to enjoy the game (which can be a good and bad thing)
  The game play 
 is seriously addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ODDFLAME
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  The dominant MMO. There's so much to say about this game, so I'll try to wrap it up quickly.
  
  It's incredibly immersive and overall the best online game I have ever played.
  
  Good: 
 Huge, beautiful, seamless world (as said in Gamespot's review) ; really good soundtrack; double 
 experience system; addictive combat; incredibly intuitive interface; very time-consuming
  
  Bad: Very time-consuming
  
  If you are going to buy an online game, it should be World of Warcraft. 
 It is definitely worth the monthly fee.
  
  Also go and check out the expansion, The Burning Crusade. My character is a Draenei Shaman and 
 I've having a really fun time whenever I play this game. It really feels like I'm in this whole 
 other world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olie440
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  imageing a game that colud replace your life
  well World of warcraft is that game you will ralse thos when your treding on edwin forst the stones 
 on the flour look like some ones looken pics of thousands of stones and stuck the together you 
 kinda like become your charticter ive spend to 6: am on it on a schol day it is vert adiictive it 
 becomes a bit of a slow grind lvl 20-40 very fast and adiictive lvl 1-19 and lvl 41-60 i dont know 
 i not that lvl yet one of the best parts are pets there ok to get some are very hard to get my 
 first pet was a chickin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  First, I want to say that you can't judge this game by the 10-day free trial.
  You have to play it very long, so you are pretty high-leveled and know the
  whole world of WoW. 
 Most of people judge this game after they've played WoW a day, which I don't understand. They should 
 first play WoW a month or two, then see if it's really worth the monthly fee. And I think it is.
 
  
  As you start playing WoW, you will start from a little village or a camp of
  some sort. The first few levels will be extremely easy to reach as you have
  to do some easy 
 quests and defeat some easy monsters. Leveling the first ten levels seems first dull and boring, 
 but after that this game starts to seem great. Increasing levels can be done by killing monsters, 
 but the best way to level up is the quests. There are over two thousand quests in the game that 
 will keep you busy most of the time while playing WoW. Yes, the questes are the best thing in WoW. 
 Without them this game would be nothing! Also, exploring the huge world will also keep your busy 
 as you want to find new towns, cities, dungeons, new monsters, etc.
  
  The thing why I like playing WoW is that this game isn't just leveling up.
  As I already said, 
 it's interesting to find new areas and do some new questes. There are many skills which you have 
 to buy from trainers. Battling against monsters is exciting as you always have to think what skill 
 to use next. The battles are short, but fun to watch.
  
  WoW is an extremely addiciting game. When playing WoW, it feels like you'd
  just like to play 
 WoW the rest of your life and do nothing else. In my option,
  World of Warcraft is one of the best, or maybe even the best MMORPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterbeef1234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I used to play mmorpgs like Runcescape, and Guild Wars. Those got boring after a while. I got into 
 WoW when i played it at a videogame cafe, and i was hooked.
  
  WoW has awesome graphics sound gameplay, its the perfect RPG. Sure most people say that $15 a month 
 is too mush for a game, but you might be so addicted to WoW that you don't want to buy other games 
 for $50. I love WoW because of all the things to do, the quests, and the community.
  
  So if you love mmorpgs like guild wars, you should buy this game. It will make you not wanna play 
 other games and will make you play all day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan1985221
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The game has had quite some success and quite reightly so when you see there game plan, first of 
 all this game is on PC and Mac which gives them another group of users which may no get this kind 
 of thing available, and they have history of good games which this continues on from one of the 
 series they make. You have two sides Alliance and Horde the Alliance are made up of Night Elf, 
 Human, Dwarf, Gnome and now the Draenei in Burning Crusade, The Horde consist of Orcs, Trolls, 
 Tauren, Undead and Blood Elves since Burning crusade, these to factions were at war for quite some 
 time but have tenuous relationship at the most they leave each other alone this gives you PVP areas 
 these are places where you fight each others factions to win battle tokens these are great but 
 it doesn't stop there, Instances are dungeons where teams of player fight to win better loot and 
 finish quests when is the main meat of this game which becomes some you do a lot more when you 
 max out at level 60 or 70. This game is good but play more like Diablo than the other Warcraft 
 games but it's worth a look specially if you own a Mac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decoy23
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST GAME EVER !!
  
  World of Warcraft is my favorite PC game... I play WoW every day with my Night Elf Rouge watch out 
 if you never play cuz its sure that you will be addicted to it ... My first caracter was a Warrior 
 but now i'm playing with my Night Elf Rouge. If you wanna try an online game World of Warcraft 
 is the best... you start with the 10 days trial and then i got the recurring on your credit card 
 cuz you know thats less expensive paying that way... you can also get the pre-paid card for those 
 who dont deserved to have a credit card...
  
  Watch out when you play cause you will not see the time passed... Enjoy that game! It's my FAVORITE 
 PC GAME 4EVER !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REAL12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  I can't tell you how to make this game any better, only how much fun it is to play! Building your 
 characters and learning the different skills, powers and races is addictivee and fun. If you have 
 a life and want to keep it, don't buy this game. It sucks you in! I am still in a learning curve 
 with this game as t is so massive both in the size of the worlds and in the range of characters 
 and skills you can learn. Web sites can offer a lot of great info on quests, hints and tips ect. 
 but the fun and real challenge comes from learning it yourself. Great entertainment value for the 
 buck. You spend the $14.95 monthly fee and spend a minimum of 15mins a day playing works out to 
 less than .50 a day which for the fun you have playing, is totally worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game will pull you in once you start playing this game. I just dont like to add an extra 20 
 dollars onto my bills. This game is the largest MMO, and has the largest maps you ever seen. Tons 
 of character options. character looks, character costumes, size, can all be costumized. Game filled 
 with constant action and the funiest multiplayer out there. With over several million players you 
 can always find new friends on here. The seemingly endless gameplay, the decient graphics, the 
 awsome sounds and effects. are what put this game together. And as the time go's , World of warcraft, 
 or WOW. They keep making patches, and expantions. World of warcraft the burning crusades, is the 
 latest expansion for this game. With a increase to the lvl cap, to 70. 2 new characters Blood Elves 
 &amp; Draenei, and a entire new continent, this game as just got even larger. New spells for each 
 class, Many new zones and high-level dungeons. Hundreds of new monsters, quests, and items, A new 
 profession: Jewelcrafting, and finally Flying mounts in Outland. This expansion is planed to come 
 out in the winter of 2007, it is thought to give blizzard a lot of money. TO conclude, this game 
 is packed with tens of thousands of items, weapons, monsters, creatures, npc's, characters, races, 
 zones, dungeons, caves, buildings, and much more, this game will take you forever to finish, so 
 you should get started will you are young!!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroncali
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I don't know why so many people like this game when it brought absolutely nothing to the table. 
 There are plenty of free MMORPG's out there that i like more than this. The fees are outrageous 
 and the art style is just plain crazy.
  
  The game caught my intrest at firt because I thought, Well if so many people like it than it must 
 be good, No, I was wrong in every sence of the word. I will give Blizzard the satifaction of knowing 
 that their marketing department is doing its job actually convincing people that this game is worth 
 anything nonetheless the insane monthly fee.
  
  Blizzard should have kept Warcraft an RTS, oh yes, it was an RTS back in the good ol' days, but 
 those days are gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_kai
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Okay so you buy wow and your all happy, after u need to give ur credit card # so blizzard can rip 
 you off over 100 $ us a year + the price u payed for the stupid game!! thats over 150 $ first year 
 minimum. CMON WHO WANTS TO PAY THAT MUCH NO MATHER HOW GOOD THE GAME IS !!
  
  okay so u just got ripped off, and then u start playing, okay its fun.
  then you play for weeks 
 and weeks make friends join guilds get cool items people know you, haha this game is fun yuppy.
 
  then your Girl friends wants to go out BUT YOU DONT WANT TO BECAUSE U WANT TO FINISH THAT QUEST 
 THAT TOOK YOU ALL DAY TO DO !!
  THEN YOU LOSE YOUR FRIENDS CUZ UR A COMPUTER **** AND YOU ONLY TALK ABOUT GAMES, YOUR OUT OF SHAPE 
 AND WORST OF ALL YOU JUST CANT STOP PLAYING !!
  
  well i say if you dont want to lose 200$ so you can play a stupid game that cost you your friends 
 your girl friend and your physic. PLZ THINK ABOUT THAT B4 BEHING A GAME LIKE THAT !!
  
  And guess what after you lose ur real life girl friend what do you do ? YOU GET A RETARDED INTERNET 
 GIRL FRIEND !! HOW LOW CAN YOU GO MY FRIEND U JUST JOINED THE REVOLUTION OF THE 16 YEAR OLD KIDS 
 CHATING AND DECAYING THEIR LIFES ON INTERNET. BUT YOU ARE STILL PLAYING THE WORLDS BIGGEST VIRTUAL 
 DATING GAME, THAT IS WOW.
  
  OH AND DID I FORGET AN PROBLEM THAT YOU MIGHT HAVE ? YEAH YOU DONT DO YOUR HOMEWORK CUZ U RATHER 
 FLIRT WITH THAT WI-IORE YOU FOUND DOING A QUEST THE OTHER DAY. NO BUT SERIOUSLY ALL THAT CUZ OF 
 A ''GOOD GAME''. OF COURSE ITS GOOD BUT WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT ALL THAT BULLCRAPED YOU HAD ONLY CUZ 
 OF THAT ''GOOD GAME'' SUDENLY IT AINT ALL THAT GOOD.
  
  and no i am not sharing a peice of my life, that is only what i see in my friends that plays wow. 
 i never played the game.
  
  Solution ? b4 everyusage do what you have to do ! like hw and **** like that.
  Keep a good friend 
 that wants to go to the movies often of sumthing.
  and respect your 1 hour per day, that way the fun keeps going, everyday feels like you just bought 
 the game, and you have time to do other stuff on your spare time also.
  
  its not that game that sucks so much is what you players make of it that sucks, you make it your 
 life.
  the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melany666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is my favorite PC game... watch out if you never play cauz its sure that you 
 will be addicted to it ... My first caracter was a Rogue but now i'm playing with my undead Warlock 
 and I cant get rid of playin that game!! If you wanna try an online game WOW is the one for you... 
 I start with the 10 days trial and then i got the recurring on my credit card cause I know that 
 is less expensive paying that way... you can also get the pre-paid card for those who dont deserved 
 to have a credit card...
  
  Watch out when you play cause you will not see the time passed... Enjoy that game! It's my FAVORITE 
 ONLINE GAME EVER!! and its easy to learn who to play and you can always ask help in the general 
 chat!!
  
  FOR THE HORDE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azragar
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't disagree with anyone when they say World of Warcraft is the game to play. But heed a warning 
 here, this game is to addictive, and really not worth it after the Burning Crusade came out. Reasons 
 Not To Play It:
  
  1) You will waste $15 a month/ $30 for a timecard, trying to do what? Get to level 70 so you can 
 be bored with the rest of them. Once the leveling is stopped the game isn't fun.
  
  2) This game is based off a story, so it is bound to end, that is the major flaw with all games 
 based on a story, you can't keep players, and keep the huge bosses around.
  
  3) The game is bound to end like most MMORPG's. The probelm wih this one ending is that all you 
 have to do is type /played on all your characters add it up, and that's how much WoW has taken 
 from your life. 4) You will lose your friends, I don't care what anyone says, If you play to much 
 and not hang out then your friends will just choose different ones that actually have a soul left. 
 5) This is the final reason and probably the most important. When you grow older (This really applies 
 to the kids that are playing) You will realize and feel sad that you waste your time on a stupid 
 Video Game, when you could have spent that time with your family. It is almost like this game absorbs 
 your childhood.
  
  I have quit this game, and so can you. There are alot of games out there that aren't addicting, 
 maybe the ones, I dunno, you can beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  If you had asked me a month ago if I would ever by a game that came with a monthly fee attached, 
 I would of said no on the sole basis that I doubted one game would be fun enough to keep paying 
 for. World of Warcraft has changed my mind. There are very few games that have gripped me and consumed 
 my time like WOW has. When the subject of the monthly fee comes up now I say: I gladly pay the 
 $18 per month, and if Blizzard feels like putting the price up by five bucks a month, go ahead.
 
  
  The box itself is very well done, the art on the front and back really gets me ready for the experience. 
 The minimum and reccomended specs are clearly on the bottom and give plenty of info. The manual 
 is very detailed and well layed out for newcomers to find out whatever they may want to know. The 
 game menus are nicely done and bring a good atmosphere to the game. There are many video options 
 to choose from which makes it easier to tailor the performance and quality to your PC. The audio 
 options are lacking though, there is only one performance option as it relates to audio quality. 
 WOW has it's own style of graphics which makes certain parts of it harder to judge because I can't 
 just hold it up to other games like Call of Duty 2. That beign said WOW is a pretty game. There 
 are good draw distances and good detail on most things such as characters and buildings. One area 
 I found that looked rather bland were walls. I would say thought hat WOW's main problem is clipping. 
 Your character can walk through most NPCs, and other players. Your body can also go into certain 
 structures like walls and signs. Such things are minor but they could of been fixed before release 
 or with one of the many patches that have been put out. I play the game maxed out at 1680*1050 
 with AA at 4x and AF at 16X and I experience no lag at all. The game has only crashed on me once 
 so I doubt the game was at fault, it has been very stable.
  
  The sound to WOW was good. There is optional background music, but with that turned off you can 
 hear the many sounds of the land like birds in the distance, the wind and yourself. More voice 
 acting would of been nice as most of the interaction between your character and the world is text 
 based. Your character can make the odd noise or phrase if you choose to make a joke, flirt, or 
 taunt others. A larger variety of wepon sounds would of been nice also since most weapons of the 
 same category (guns, melee, etc.) sound pretty much the same. The gameplay is the heart and soul 
 of WOW and it is something to behold. Addicting doesn't begin to describe it. You have your choice 
 of PVP, Normal, among other types of servers to play on and luckily any newbie, such as myself, 
 can ease themselves in without much hassle. The combat system is very simple to learn as well as 
 the quest system, and many other options such as joining parties, forming parties, and your inventory. 
 All is explained as you go and is easy to get used to. The game is setup to get you familiar with 
 it before any hard stuff comes your way. You get to choose professions and skills to learn to set 
 your character apart form the rest, and the world to explore is gigantic.
  
  There is easily many hundred hours of gameplay here if you choose to devote the time to it. You 
 can have multiple characters on multiple servers, you can level them all up, and there are different 
 quests for each class. Blizzard is continuously releasing new patches to improve the game and the 
 only downside is they have yet to release one big patch so after a format you don't need to download 
 every single one. What more can you ask for if what you want is a game that never ends. I recommend 
 that if anybody has a friend that owns WOW (with over 8 million users how hard can that be) ask 
 them to try this game for just a half hour and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I write this review at the risk of being wanted &amp; to be killed by all the WOW fans. But the 
 annoying succes it's having is disturbing. The graphics are poor, cartoonish, with horibble textures. Can't 
 get it why? The sound: very good music, but the effects are not good at all. They suck. For the gameplay: no 
 comment. It really has the vastest gameplay ever created, with an unbeliavable diversity: just looking 
 at the tons of things you can do, you get it that you won't be bored. I like this MMORPG very much. I've 
 played it for some time, raised my character &amp; did a lot of things. But after hundreads of hours, I 
 got bord &amp; left it. But it's 8 milion users &amp; more are disturbing me. Other MMO-s like Guild 
 Wars or City of Villains, much better games than WOW, are ignored. Why? Blizzard made an official expansion, after 
 two years &amp; more. It's **** for the money! Blizzard doesen't work with style now, as they did 
 with Warcraft III or the gameplay of WOW. They fork just for the money,&amp; don't care of the players. Not 
 even for info lines, for example in Eastern Europe, or other parts of the world. They are just lucky. But 
 their luck will end, sooner or later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koronatheif77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  i got this game a couple of weeks ago and its great. My friend kept bugging me to get the game 
 and play. i knew it was good cuz he let use his acount to see if i liked it so when i got i rushed 
 home and started playing. I was playing for so long that day. but anyway this is great and people 
 should really give it a try if you think this game is boring. the best part of WoW is that it never 
 ends and new things are added to it and there are so many quest to help you lvl and explore more 
 places of the world. the graphics are great for this game ,the music is also great. I cant wait 
 to get enough money so i can buy burning crusade. also if want to play WoW try not to get addicted 
 to it and play like super long hrs, just play for the fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Let`s start , im gonna give it to you straight , this game is highly addictive like no others i`ve 
 played since Lineage maybe or so and I say that not just in my oppinion I have lots of friends 
 playing WOW. Im not going to say this game is perfect because in this world nothing Is but.. as 
 a MMORPG I can say this is the best ever made BY FAR. Every single detail is well thought and placed 
 , it is so complex that`s why Im going to say it again.. not for small lame children or idiotic 
 parents who try to play it in the familly as I read and saw on videos. This should be a strict 
 M rated mmorpg fantasy world for those who have time to play it that have no responsabilities . 
 I could write a novel about this game but im going to try to make it short , the pvp section of 
 the game is OK , the pve incredible , the comunity is lame ( sorry to say it again but i will ) 
 , the buildings the graphics are very well constructed just as fit for everybody`s rig atm . All 
 in one this game is worth the money and the time but don`t let it consume you ( easy to say , hard 
 to do ) . Now for the bad part. The game is too repetitive same instances same mobs.. same rush 
 for epic items.. this ruins the game completely and many players will leave because nobody has 
 1 year to get the best set in the game and then blizz releases new addon and then we all must start 
 from scratch no sir. The relationship between alliance and the horde.. isn`t like it should be.. 
 too much hatred and for what ? it`s just a game for example some moron people kill you and wait 
 at your corpse a night what is that lol ? Pftt a very good game with alot of flaws.. the respawn 
 rate.. ahh and so much more im bored tiping.. My advice get it , try it , consume it than get rid 
 of it and move on don`t let it be the only game you play. Conclusion BC doesn`t worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasancalgary
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the one folks, the real MMORPG of them all with 8.5 million subscribers, its no wonder 
 the World of warcraft is amazing and immersive and will keep you on for hours on end without boredom. 
 Looking at the games aspect, it will keep you occupied for the longest time, with the orignal wow.. 
 ( getting to lvl 60, but now if you buy The Burning Crusade) the level is capped at 70, just getting 
 to these high levls can take an avg player a while, say 6 months. The game has Different Classes 
 to fit your playstyle, Warrior,  and Mages and Warlocks. 
 Lots of choices here it really depends on what you like, if u like magic and sorts mage and warlock 
 would best suit your playstyle, but if you like to bash things up, Warrior or Paladin would be 
 a fine choice. This game hovever does have a steep learning curve, you have to learn your classes 
 role in the world of azeroth, (ex. Warriors have to tank) This can be pretty complicated on the 
 new players and learning to play the game takes time, and being skilled and having good gear requires 
 ALOT of TIME input.
  
  Meaning if u want to be the best and have the best of sort, u have to give the game alot of your 
 time while the casual players can make way with the quest rewards. But the real treasuers lie within 
 the Dungeons and Raids, these can range anywhere from 5 mans to 40 mans, The 5 mans tend to be 
 dungeons and the 40 mans are raids. Inside these places you can get treasures and the wildest gear, 
 better then your avg quest rewards or anything you could find in the auction house.
  
  Lots of gameplay in this game, lots. You really have to go out there and see it to beleive it.
 
  
  Now most people will argue that the WoW graphics areCartoony" , this in fact is sort of true 
 BUT these graphics are very great detail , and is playable on very low end machines even . It will 
 look very nice even on your low end 4 year old pc, but if u run it on high and everything maxed 
 out, you will enjoy it ALOT it' beats alot of current mmorpgs such as EQ. Moving on to the sounds...
 
  
  I really dont prefer the sounds of azeorth , its mostly opera type of music, changing to wild and 
 omnious types when you enter combat and calm and peacefull when walking, lots to exprience here 
 if your that type of person
  
  Value:
  
  This is where the game shines, with 30$ for every two months of play and this much gameplay you 
 Cant go wrong, this will keep you occupied for a LONG time, i myself have been playing since spet 
 and have yet to stop, soo much to do.
  Dont get held back by the monthly fee, it is soo worth it , for all you get, very very worth it. 
 And you yourself can try it too without paying a penny, you can either ask your freinds for one 
 of those 10 day trials, or go to the store yourself and pay $2.00 and get the dvd and a 14 day 
 trial key.
  
  With all this to offer and nothing to loose for trying, its no wonder 8.5 million people are playign 
 this massive immersive game, go ahead and give it a try too, you might just become addicted ;) 
 ill see you in Azeroth or maybe even Outland xD =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micthell1992
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game in my eyes is just about the best game iv played and iv played a few firstly its graphics 
 which are damn gd but the down side is when you see a cloth cape looking like a plank of wood since 
 it doesnt move small things like that put down a good game.
  
  The gameplay is about the best part of the game there is almost nothing not to do theres always 
 a quests or an instance (dungeon) that you havent completed or explored and considering that there 
 is over 5000 quests then if that doesnt satify your exploring senses then i dont know what does 
 there is also a huge range of weapons and armour to choose from for  
 etc. but only certain classes may where certain armour for example mages can only where cloth but 
 warriors can where all types of armour. It is an almost perfect mmorpg since there are always players 
 from different countries to make friends with and complete dungeon runs with. The gameplay of this 
 game is unparallel to all other games and that is why i shall leave it there since i just cant 
 talk about all the other activities to do in World of Warcraft.
  
  The sound has often been rumored to be the best part of this game since for every city, province 
 or world there is a different song whether it has been performed by an orchestra or sung by a stage 
 singer the music never ceases to amaze.
  
  A downer on this game is that there are websites that offer power lvling and gold to be bought 
 which can spoil the game, Like when you see a lvl 60+ character that are being controlled by a 
 complete noob.
  
  That concludes my review of World Of Warcraft you are free to disagree or agree but i havent even 
 broke the surface of this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zallomallo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I found this game fun for a pretty long time. Then after a while it became boring. I would recommend 
 this game, but sadly remember it won't last you forever. While one of the most fun games I have 
 ever played it was kind of too good. At first it absorbed all of my time and became repetitive 
 because of it. While it does have a very good, and useful UI, as you get to higher levels it tends 
 to get very disorderly with you having 10 billion different key combinations for different spells 
 and abilities. So in conclusion, it was fun while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rintaran
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, beloved and reviled by many in the gaming community offers many intriguing additions 
 to the Warcraft series. It offers an expansive world that rewards you for exploring its insanely 
 colourful terrain. I've been playing, off and on, since the game first came out, and every time 
 I come across the same problems that cause me to leave the game.
  
  The Normal PvE servers have no level of immersion as players openly talk about their weaponry, 
 and reveal every aspect of any upcoming area, provided they decide to talk in the first place. 
 In PVP, enjoy the wonderful experience of being ganked, repeatedly, when you're still just barely 
 breaking 20th level in a zone where the opposite faction has to go through as 40th. In RP, enjoy 
 the brilliant splendors of children asking What does RP mean? and then continuing to act as though 
 it's a PvE server even after you explain it to them. RPPVP combines the ganking of PVP with the 
 cluelessness of people who don't know the meaning of RP.
  
  On the bright side, the game is very easy to learn. Basically, point and right-click. Set up your 
 quickbar with your spells and abilities, and run. The quests are all very straightforward, so if 
 you need a game that doesn't require much thought in these areas, then WoW is definitely on your 
 list. Forget about anything approximating a real storyline though. The quests are, more or less, 
 haphazard and unconnected. You'll often find yourself with a quest someplace, only to return and 
 complete it, and then be given a quest from the same person that sends you right back there again, 
 after you've take all the time to run back and forth a half dozen times, your quest giver is now 
 out of pointless kill &amp; collect quests. Far be it for them to perhaps advance some sort of 
 overarching plot line! No, you're left on your own and must find some other quest giver to supply 
 you with yet more pointless quests that have no purpose other than helping you gain a few thousand 
 experience.
  
  The battlegrounds offer an excellent experience, if your character has been twinked. For a normal 
 character, who has not been supplied with the absolute best equipment by their level 70 main, you'll 
 be entering into a slaughterhouse. But instead of a the butcher, you're the lamb. And your opponents 
 will want to butcher you, again and again, while your twinked teammates deride you for trying to 
 actually get involved and enjoy the game without all the benefits of the absolute best equipment 
 that a gold-farming community was able to provide them.
  
  Additionally, if you're an occasional gamer, or the type that likes to play around with several 
 games at once, with WoW's monthly fee, you're going to find yourself not making very good use of 
 your real world cash. The rate is high, and for the limited number of hours that you may be able 
 to squeeze out, you can't even think about running those time-intensive instances, even if you're 
 lucky enough to be in a real guild with players who will actually help each other.
  
  I've blown way, way too much money coming back to this game time and time again. Why do I come 
 back? Because many of my friends play and tell me of their exploits. But every time I go back, 
 I see right through those tales and am confronted with an ultimately disappointing experience that 
 leaves me worse off financially than before I decided to hang with my friends in an online game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Just a quick review:
  
  World of Warcraft is the secound ever MMORPG i played, the first being a trail of Everquest 1, 
 which i loved while it lasted. World of Warcraft is an amazing game, its huge, colourful and just 
 all around fun . I first created a paladin and had loads of fun exploring the Barrens, it really 
 was amazing to me. Eventually however i quit WoW due to my finding the paladin boring, and therefore 
 the game.
  Later on in the year i came back into the World of Warcraft, made a hunter to 59 and had so much 
 fun in an amazing but small guild, i then had afew 60's but i became frustrated at end game, which 
 is big, flashy but ultimatly dull as can be. Some people might get enjoyment from attacking one 
 Scripted Encounter for 20 mins over and over again, while having frustrated Swedish/Dutch guild 
 leaders stressing over Vent, i however didn't. I've gone offtrack abit so i'll just say this:
 
  
  WoW is a great, fun game, but it will eventually get repetitive and seem smaller. The community 
 is aweful and a real Downer for the game. End-game is what Blizzard cocentrate on and this is fun 
 for awhile, but the vast amount of time spent doing it is not. PVP instances are sometimes fun 
 with a good team, outdoor PVP is fun for abit also. Monthly subscribtion is a drain.
  
  I would say its worth buying and playing.
  
  Oops, that wasn't very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethereal_ShoKai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Best MMORPG I have ever played. Graphics are great, gameplay is great, and overall it rocks in 
 any other category I can think of. It starts off slow when u just begin to play but as you go on 
 to higher levels things get easier and a whole lot more options are opened for you to discover. 
 Thjis game keeps evoling and adding new things constantly, I promise you will not ghet bored. Great 
 way to keep in touch with friends over seas, meeting new ones, and starting a group. You can play 
 by yourself or with friends but however way you decide to play it you'll get the same great experiance. 
 Oh yeah and a little hint to beginning players, if you need help with a quest or objective just 
 ask higher level players to help you and not just stand there like an idiot. Going in a party is 
 alot more easier way to stay alive throughout the game while ur still in lower levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is the ultimate of noobility
  its too easy
  too fast
  too simple
  
  the game took every succesful aspect of previous MMMORPGs and roled them into one game suitable 
 for children ages 5-7
  
  unfortunately i can not say everything on my mind about the players of WoW due to the rules of 
 reveiwing.
  
  but basically, a noob game requires noob players, and there are 6 million of them
  
  please 
 play anything else...
  DAoC
  CoV
  CoH
  EQ
  EQII
  BF2 (which, btw, is a MMOFPSRPG)
  NEOPETS!!
  
  save yourselves and the lives of 40+ men living 
 with their parents' the pain and stop playing.
  
  no respect,
  tom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katya2010
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Great Game long lasting and always something new..... i have been playing for like 5 months now 
 and im still learning things about the game.... even with my lvl 66 that i have now with the burning 
 crusade upgrade. The game is really good for the tech we got now days ^_^ ha I must say that it 
 is a very very long game and even at lvl 70 you'r not done... only thing wrong with it is the sound 
 at some parts are just horrible =/ Anyways i give this game an overall of a 9.4 which is really 
 great. The atlas and strategy guides are worth the money to spend on not only to help you build 
 characters but to find those places you can never find on your own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye_89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  i think that WoW is a very go mmorpg. this been out for a few years now and it continues to grow. 
 Even tho it lacks some enique aspects that some other mmorps might bring such as Vanguard. It still 
 makes up for that with the game play and just vast area. The game has so much to do and lots of 
 people to play with you can have endless fun also the fact that its realtime andthe pvp is awsome 
 as well as the pve. The different clases make up for alot of class decissions and the expansion 
 just makes the game even better and hudger. This game is worth playing go check it out! everyone 
 plays it lol ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoeshine60ace
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -- Highly addictive
  -- Easy to level
  -- Casual Players can engage in easily
  -- Lots of fun things to do after hitting highest level (game actually becomes more addicitvie 
 when you do)
  -- Quest are fun and some areent just typical grinding
  -- Loads of places to go
  -- No gay penality for dying (yes im looking at you CoH, xp debt is 
 ultra-gay)
  -- PVP is very fun and done good
  --cartoony graphics are actually a cool feature Cons:
  -- Money is hard to get if your a casual 
 player
  -- Bad community of people (almost 70% of the time, your gonna see some rude people lol)
  -- 
 Unless you have a guild at max level, game gets boring quick, espicially on lsow server.
  
  Overall, its truly the best mmo i ever played, it is highly addictive, but fun can run dry at times. 
 I recommand everyone give a try, first month is free anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin? This game is so massive it's hard to describe it all. I won't do my usual Gameplay, 
 Sound, Extras format because this is my first MMO review.
  
  Let's start with the reason I think the game is so great. Well, I can't, it's just so fun and addicting. 
 The formula is the same as other games in the genre, but Blizzard just hit the nail on the head 
 with WoW.
  
  Gameplay seem simple at first, which is great for newbies, but not long down the road the world 
 becomes much bigger. Physically and figuratively. The options are just overwhelming. You have 2 
 factions with 4 races each (5 with the expansion) . Then there are 9 different classes. The variety 
 is great, it makes you want to try everything out all at once, which can be a good or bad thing 
 depending on how you look at it.
  
  The basic formula of the game can be somewhat repetitive. The majority of the quests are your standard 
 gather, escort or digital circle variety. There are the odd new and original ones though. Apart 
 from the quests, you have tons to keep you interested. Professions are one example. You also have 
 instantces, world events, battlegrounds and just general chaos.
  
  The story is one of the main downfalls for me. Although present, it's hard to keep up with, or 
 even believe. There is enough text for quests, but ongoing story doesn't sit well with me when 
 enemies and npcs respawn after I kill them for some reason.
  
  Lack of story is hardly enough of a reason not to play this game. The amount of content, and overall 
 quality warrants the hundreds of hours you will undoubtedly put into this excellent game. I should 
 mention the sound and music as well. I've often found myself humming a few of the themes.
  
  The only reason you might want to pass on this game, is if your afraid of losing yourself in 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  A very well produced MMORPG - where every effort has gone into every detail of this game. Particularly 
 impressive are the controls and user interface. Even after three months I was still discovering 
 new commands, tools and actions. It's all very intuitive and it all works very smoothly and perfectly. 
 And so it should. The amount of money Blizzard make out of this game is phenomenal. Warcraft is 
 a game, but is also a World, a virtual world where you can spend most of your life. You develop 
 online friendships with people you other online players, form clans, and explore this world together, 
 go on quests together that become ver more difficult. It's really quite an amazing thing, to visit 
 Stormwind for the fist time, and see the bussle of activity of players dualling, trading on the 
 streets, shopping, and bidding at the auction. So much going on everywhere all the time; and such 
 vast worlds to explore. But be prepared to spend a lot - and I mean *a lot* - of time in this game. 
 I think Blizzard try to find ways to keep you playing, because while you are playing, your paying 
 them. If you play it constantly - you might complete it in two months. For the average player, 
 this game could go on for a year, just to complete all the quests, which going to cost you at least 
 150 Euros on top of whatever you paid for the box. .
  
  No problem with paying if you find it entertaining and fun; but the problem with World of Warcraft 
 - at least I found - is that after your character gets to around level 35, it starts to get a bit 
 boring. All you're really doing is killing monsters, over and over again, only it gets harder and 
 harder until you can no longer kill them by yourself. True, there is player to player combat, but 
 again. it's just fighting. So I found I got bored with it after a while. But it is a very nice 
 game, one of the best ever produced, and in the future it will earn a place in the hall of fame 
 of classic computer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This will be a short one.
  I've been playing WoW for almost 2 years now, ofc I have some breaks now and then but you still 
 get this feeling that this will never end and I don't want it to end XD. You will get all freedom 
 that you want and all the things that you can do is just mind blowing. It's like all other MMORPG 
 games you can be mage, hunter, warrior and so on and you get alot of different cool spells threw 
 the game and you can choose Talents that makes you character better in different ways. I can just 
 say that you will enjoy it really much and it really grows and you but be careful it can swallow 
 you whole :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvisbond
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is epic. Its one of the greatest games of all time, ever. The only reason I didnt give 
 this game a 10, is that it takes your life away. Meaning those casual gamers wont be casual any 
 more beacuse this game is so good. I love this game. I got it recently but I honestly cant put 
 it down. This game is great in almost all aspects, One problem is that you cant trade between realms 
 and cant move your charecter between reamls without paying for it. Other than that this game is 
 a must have, even if your not an MMO fan. Another great thing is that it only cost $15 a month 
 and it dosent have high system requirements! GREAT VALUE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael666
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  I have played WoW now for 5 months. On average I would be logged in for 3-5 hours at a time. What 
 I have learned from this is that the creaters of WoW have no expanded imagination. The quests all 
 seem to be the same few different types. Go here and then there, or kill X of that, or the ever 
 rare explore and gather that (the dungeons) .
  
  Also I have found one major flaw in the games running. If you have a spyware infecting your computer 
 the game server will detect it and you will lose any and all characters you have plus your account 
 with no chance of getting it back, because the server detects spyware as a third party mod. program. 
 So unless you are sure you have a clean computer or don't mind spending time and money for nothing, 
 invest in another game please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stozter
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I purchased WoW on a whim in November of 2004, and I became immediately hooked on it. The gameplay 
 was great, the players I met were pretty cool and fun to talk with, and there seemed to be no end 
 to the gameplay.
  
  I hit level 60 within a few months of purchasing the game, and then I thought, well, now what? 
 I asked around about what happens when you reach the top, and I found out that there is still room 
 to expand your character, but you have to do it through something called raiding. Raiding is when 
 you join a large group of other players and go into dungeons to kill large raid bosses, which drop 
 good equipment, called Epic equipment. A raid can take anywhere from four to six hours (yes, that's 
 four to six hours of playing in one sitting) .
  
  Interestingly, the people I had come to be friends with throughout my first few months of leveling 
 soon got epic fever and joined guilds that focused primarily on raiding. Nobody I knew actually 
 had fun raiding or enjoyed the idea of it, but they were obsessed with getting better gear for 
 their characters.
  
  Soon, more and more dungeons were released in patches, and the raiders had more and more content 
 to conquer. People who didn't have the time to raid began experiencing the joy of being killed 
 in one shot by these players who spent so much time raiding that they were completely decked out 
 in epic equipment. A huge disparity arose between casual players and hardcore players, mainly due 
 to the incredible gear gap. The gear problem seems to have been fixed with the release of The Burning 
 Crusade (expansion pack) , but TBC is also very heavy on raid instances, requiring hundreds of hours 
 of additional playing in order to even have a chance of setting foot into some of the raid-oriented 
 dungeons. Only time will tell whether or not the same gear gap arises in the expansion pack.
  
  Lastly, the endless tweaking of the classes seems to cause a lot of problems in the community. 
 Some classes might be really great to play now, but in a few months, some of their core abilities 
 could be diminished and tweaked to the point that the class is not fun to play anymore. The horrible 
 customer support exhibited by Blizzard has even caused players to have virtual riots and protest 
 marches in capital cities. While Blizzard has suggestion forums and class forums for people to 
 discuss problems with each class within the game, the company seems to completely ignore the thoughts 
 of its player base and just does what it wants. It changes things that don't need to be change, 
 and leaves broken parts of the game untouched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasmar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It's such an amazing game, with over 6 million pople playing it, it has to be good, but it grips 
 you from the very start, you just want to keep on playing and playing. You'll never be bored because 
 there's always something new to do, whether it's pvp or 40-man raiding, you'll never want to turn 
 your computer off the minute you buy it, worthy of a 10 out of 10. You have to keep on going, battegrounds 
 are player versus player, and you can do instances with other people to kill monsters, final bosses 
 and excellent loot, every gamer needs this game, if you haven't played this game, you need to fast, 
 it's something you just can't miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAS1024
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played any games like this before then this is the one to get. Its really like a 
 world that you can play in. Plus there is like 8 million ppl playin so finding a team should not 
 be very hard unless you are playing at 4 in the morning. The classes and races are cool. Kind of 
 reminds me of lord of the rings. Combat and spells look and sound really great. The only bad thing 
 is that you have to pay 15 bucks a month. I wish they would make it free : ( Although it is really 
 fun, its very time consuming so its good to play on the weekends if you go to school. Try the free 
 trial on warcraft. com. iF you like, then buy it. it's great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying it's a horrible game though.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Mmorpgs generally i feel are made for the person who wants a more indepth experience and can hold 
 his attension for many years. I wont however say hardcore and casual because that determines how 
 long you want to spend on the game yourself, WOW allows you to play very hardcore grinding raids 
 for the best gear or honour. However when i was playing i got to 32 before i started getting abit 
 bored of doing the same thing over and over again...... Go colllect quests kill 20 of this and 
 return or deliver this and return, it's that or grind on 3000 mobs till you hit next level which 
 is boring. Unfortunately if you do not like this then you wont like any mmorpg and find the genre 
 very boring.
  
  Once you get to level 10 the BG PVP will start however you'll be completly useless unless your 
 the last level in the group stages which are 10 - 19 20 - 29 30 - 39 etc etc. Also Twinks where 
 high level people transfer money to a lower level character and buys them the best gear so they 
 can own honest lower level characters makes it unfun.
  
  Once you get past the boredom from 40 - 60 or 70 now of doing the esact same of what you've been 
 doing before hand, your end game will start. However the End game is the worst part of the game 
 and you'll end up thinking why did i waste all this time to just get bored?
  
  PVP end game battlegrounds are overflooded with afk'ers that are taking honour ruining it for everyone 
 and unbalanced classes. Hunters seem to make up for 70% of the class population, it gets abit boring 
 fighting them constantly.
  
  Only other options are to do high level raids which take more of a hardcore player whose ready 
 to dedicate 4/5 hours of their day and doing this constantly every week. It becomes boring doing 
 the same raid over and over and you'll really start to wonder what else the game offers....
  
  What does the game offer apart from this? Nothing.................. It's a pretty shallow RPG/MMO 
 and i felt quite disappointed after all the hype its gotten.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Stunning and the Art is fantastic, however i'll have to mark it down for the tech side because 
 it is quite dated. If you do not like the cartoony look of Warcraft however you wont be able to 
 play the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is very good but i find alot of the actual sounds reused and repetitive which gets very 
 annyoing after a few hours.
  
  Value:
  
  Its standard for a mmorpg to have a monthly fee however i do not agree payign full price for a 
 game and expansion when your paying the fee every month. End of the day if you like the EQ format 
 of WOW then you'll probally like this game. If your into a deeper game with Crafting and player 
 housing etc etc then you'll probally be quite bored. It's a all combat all action mmorpg with little 
 for anyone else. Also just ebcause you like Warcraft doesn't mean you'll like WOW.
  
  It's a good above average game but just doesn't hold my interest very long for a mmorpg. I can 
 say however it's the most polished and bug free mmorpg i've ever played and Blizzard are evry good 
 for that. The Customer service as usual for blizzard STINKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft... Oh yay! Yet another boring MMORPG. Hey Blizzard, how bout making a new ***STARCRAFT*** 
 game?!?!?!?! Well lets see, the graphics, I could draw them better. Sound, nothing great.. I could 
 make better sounds with my mouth. Value, if you call value doing the same stuff over, and over, 
 and over, and over, and over AGAIN. Then this game is for you. But if you dont like to do the same 
 stuff over n' over. This game ISNT for you. THIS GAME ISNT FOR ANYONE. This game just gets so boring. 
 I dont know why people thing this game is sooooo great. In reality it's soooooo boring. Again I'm 
 going to say it they should have made a new ***STARCRAFT*** game. Am I wrong? How about where You're 
 a marine and you get to kill all those WORTHLESS, GENERIC LOOKING ORCS? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugsy44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting and Fun! Once you play this game you'll probably be instantly hooked. 
 This game is amazing and has a very worth while expansion pack. This game never ends, over 7 million 
 people play so you wont ever be alone, Many cool things you can do. Blacksmithing, mining, leatherworking, 
 animal skinning, herblism, and alchemy. In this game you can level your character up to level 60 
 (level 70 with the expansion) , it takes a while to get to level 60 (or 70) so you will be playing 
 for a few months before you get to 60. There are 8 species (10 with the expansion) and about 9 
 classes. Races: Human, gnome, dwarves, night elves, orcs, trolls, undead, tauren, (plus draenei 
 and blood elves with the expansion) Classes: Warrior, rouge, paladin, hunter, druid, priest, mage, 
 warlock, and shaman.
  
  You can also raid dungeuns with friends, make guilds (clans) , and make friends and chat.
  
 
  This game costs 15$ per month but it is worth it!
  
  So, if you like mmorpg's buy this game.
  
  Happy gaming! (my server: Burning legion my character 
 Archtheif 
  
  Hope to see ya online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonkiller55
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about the idea about Online games, i thought that would make the games so boring. 
 But when i started playing Wow on Christmas Eve, i was stuck in the whole MMORPG genre, and i loved 
 it! I never thought that this game would be so fantastic, fun, timeless and so addictive. Everyday 
 when i come home, i always start playing this game before doing anything else, like writing this 
 review. The best thing about WOW is that theres so much content. It doesnt matter which level you 
 are, you will still be able to have so much fun, get great armor, weapons and such, completing 
 quests and so much more. The graphics is really stunning, you wont get this beautiful graphics 
 out of such a huge game!! The only thing in the game that i give a minus for is the quests. All 
 of them are really fun, but some of them dont tell exactly where you should go or where does creatures 
 are. Thats said, the game is still really fun, Belive me, this is the only game you will need in 
 your whole life. Buy this game!!!! Now if you excuse me, i have to go into a dungeon!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graham400rr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  So you've heard the good stuff about it, and i bet you've also heard the bad stuff about it. You've 
 heard the stories about couples splitting up, you've seen clips on the net of people losing it 
 completely for this game, and hopefully you've also seen South Park's parody on the game. (if not.. 
 i recommend you do! a good laugh) Well the truth is that this game, in spite of what everyone warns 
 you, is absolutely great! But as all other great things in life, you have to be able to control 
 yourself with it. I've been playing for over a year now, have a couple of high lvl characters, 
 and loads of smaller ones running around. Whats really made me love the game is the sense of adventure 
 one can get from just exploring new areas and meeting new people in different circumstances. The 
 freedom one has of being what he wants, and also RPing to whatever story he/she seems fit! I'm 
 not going to go into the mechanics of the game and how i think stuff should be improved or this 
 and that.. what i want to say is that if you have the chance of playing the game.. even if just 
 for and hour at a friend's house.. i recommend you do. It really is the next generation of video 
 games! Sometimes i find myself whispering about the game to people as if its a bad habit or some 
 serious drug abuse or something. It funny that i have come to do this because now people will label 
 you as one with no life if you play the game, irrespective of how long you play it, what you have 
 accomplished in real life while playing, and the fact that i have been playing games ever since 
 i got my first Amstrad CPC6128! Well... for those who are still considering jumping on the bandwagon.. 
 i would do so.. even if just the once, give it a go and then rethink your impression :)
  
  game on people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afatoldman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best game I have ever played and one thing i like about it is that the 
 other people that play are very nice and not rude like other internet games this game might take 
 up a lot of your time but i think its worth it and thats what i do waste my time in WoW as you 
 gain lvl you get to buy equiptment spells proffessions ect... and i think that most people could 
 get into it accept the only thing is that it cost 15$ a month but i pay for it any way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  men if your planning to buy this game for the pvp forget it you like to be freaking rinch and be 
 a low life or no life loser to play bg whit high gear and stuff for freaking low char am telling 
 you this this game suck for pvp cause people playing it just do that for their life other wise 
 the game is fun but says goodbye to pvp item tho. gl cause otherswise your doom . hey to all those 
 freaking no life twink lvl 19 go get a life or go kill your self otherwise your ruining the bg 
 for everyone else sycker loser 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panush
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright, i have to say this.
  A couple of months ago, i was playing some Free MMORPGS on the net with my friends, and at that 
 time, we were saying F*** WoW, we'll never play that nerdy crap, im sure it sux . And about one 
 month ago, my friend bought a 2 week trial of the game, and he said he loved it, so he bought the 
 whole version of the game, plus 2 months pre-paid card = 90 days. I felt alone sometimes when he 
 was playing the game, so today, i made a decision, right before school, i also bought the game, 
 installed it when i got home after school, about 16:00, and i was truly NOT dissapointed. For many 
 year have i underrated this game, and now i think its one of the best games ever. The world is 
 f****** huge, takes weeks and weeks to explore. The possibilities are endless, the environment 
 is xtremely good looking. When it comes to the graphics, they are f****** great, and they would 
 look even better when you turn them up to max, im running it on a little bit lower than max. This 
 truly is a game for everybody. Alot of people say that the only thing you do in this game is walking 
 around, EEEEH! NEGATIVE, you only walk around while doing quests, thats whats taking that much 
 time, but if you want to explore @ ur own, nothing stops you. You'll see monsters and dungeons 
 and caves everywhere you go.
  There is tons and tons of weapons and armors, loads of spells, skills etc. etc.... What will you 
 destiny be? The choice is your... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZianGama
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, I read alot of these newest posts and if ne1 has thought about buyin WoW to try it since there 
 is a xpack now it IS worth it alot of you complained about it bein slow and that's true for the 
 first 10-15 lvls it is really slow not every game is perfect but after that the game picks up the 
 pace and the pure joy of the game kicks in im not ashamed to say ive devoted atleast 400hrs to 
 that game I have no life but im telling you that it's worth the money once you get a mount and 
 start getting nice gear and make friends the game is just like a life away from life and thats 
 where you can enjoy yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This MMO was a breakthrough at launch, but after playing it a good while, and loosing plenty of 
 social life to it, I just couldnt play it anymore.
  At first it seems fun, but all that ends up happening is grind, quest, grind, group, grind... and 
 so on. Yes, the ability for any class to solo is nice, but after level 40 you realize that there 
 isnt anything more to this game than one big grind. Im not a PVP person by any means and since 
 most of the new content is PVP based, I quickly lost interest.
  
  Gameplay 6- Fun for a while, then relaity hits and you realize that there is nothing to do but 
 grind endlessly.
  Graphics 6- Okay graphics, colorful, but blocky. They remind me of games that were out 5 years 
 ago.
  Sound 6- Music good enough to not turn the speakers off while playing. But nothing we havent seen 
 before from MMO's.
  Value 6- Try the trial first, best advice I can give. Decide if you really want to play it before 
 you start paying the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0293jesse
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of those games that you just can't stop. There are 10 races to chose from, 
 and 9 classes. A troll mage i very different from an undead mage. Everything is always changing 
 for the better. As you continue in the game it can get dull... just go to another place! Each area 
 has several quests to do, and items to get. It is also one of the best multi-player games out there. 
 There are thousands of people playing, for you ........ or against you. You have to be tough and 
 be determined to get where and what you want. It has a learning curve and a difficult gameplay, 
 but if you have patience and experience, its one of the best games you have ever played. Its good 
 enough for 8 million people, its gotta be good enough for you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kushan8008
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Quite simple for everyone thats saying, Magic doesnt exist, and the combat is boring, the quest 
 a *bleep, bleep, mcbleeping* You've never played Warcraft 3, or the expansion to WC3, then maybe 
 you'd gte the story I personally went out and bought WC3 just to understand WoW, so enough on that.
 
  
  Finally, about the game.
  
  From the get-go you get helpers on the load screen, and down near your experience bar. So no need 
 to worry about a learning curve. After about 30 minutes I picked up that you couldnt just click 
 the monster you have to walk up to it and attack it, which I think is a great idea cuase' then 
 you just do not turn your screen and click, BOOOOOOOORING. PvP, is fun you can really mess with 
 Warlocks, and Mages, ALLLLLOT. Then when your boasting a night elf rogue comes up and stabs you 
 in the back, all in good fun though, the quest are never ever the same, Some quest you need to 
 deliver something others you need to map and area and kill a couple of trolls. Instances and Raids 
 are the best, the frst raid I ever went on I was a lvl 31 Dwarf Hunter, Yeah the only thing I did 
 was mark he target cuase that could'nt get a high lvl unter to do the Raid, anyways it quite fun 
 and still is I'm still working on my Dwarf dude So f our ever on Arygos send Onola a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tentpole
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Okay let me start off by saying, before purchasing World of Warcraft from my local best buy 2 months 
 after it came out, I was an avid EverQuest player and I absolutely loved the game. Everywhere from 
 the magical world to explore, the groundbreaking graphics (at least for that time) , the amount 
 of online players you'd see in one server ... it was just an experience like non other but I felt 
 it was time to move on at one point when the EverQuest community was quickly switching over to 
 the NextGen MMORPGs of EverQuest 2 and World of Warcraft. I was really looking forward to this 
 game looking up all the screenshots, videos, news, etc. that I can find on the net and when I finally 
 got the game, I honestly was hooked. I mean normally I don't really spend the entire day playing 
 video games but I just could not get off it. I mean it was fun for about the first 2 weeks and 
 after I was around level 40, it was really getting old and tiring. I would have liked to quit at 
 that very moment but I still had about another 2 weeks of subscription time left so I figured, 
 I might as well at least keep playing till my free month was up. At this point it was feeling more 
 like work then for relaxation and enjoyment like video games are supposed to me. Believe me here 
 folks, the more you play this game, the deeper you'll be pulled into this game and the harder it 
 will be to quit because maybe you might think, I'll quit for sure when I hit level 60 . It just 
 isn't that easy because the next thing you know, you got some of the weakest gear for a level 60 
 so you go off and do instances and raids which take many hours to accomplish with no guarentee 
 you'll even come out with that gear you wanted.
  
  I'm not going to lie, this is an extremely well made game and Blizzard truly knows how the gaming 
 market thinks. The graphics are absolutely top-notch. People have criticized the game for cartoonish 
 graphics compared to its preddecesor, EverQuest 2. I have no complaints, it's very easy on the 
 eyes, the world is beautiful down to every little detail and is just very enjoyable all around. 
 The music in this game is like non other I've experienced in an MMORPG, or in any game really. 
 I love the different types of musics played in major cities anywhere from the patriotic music of 
 the noble Human's Stormwind City to the drum beating and roaring of the deadly Orcs of Ogrimmar. 
 While the leveling process of constant grinding and questing is very time consuming with the average 
 number of days to get to 60 being anywhere from 15 to 30 days (in full days so, 24 hours in a day 
 x 15 = 510 hours played) , I've seen people who have been raiding instances who've played well over 
 2,000 hours and have some of the best gear in the game. Basically, it just isn't worth it. The 
 social activies you'll be missing with your friends, the amount of time you'll be spending on your 
 computer chair, the little work or productivity that will be involved in your life isn't worth 
 leveling up in this game and getting virtual gear. Of course this doesn't apply to everyone. Many 
 people learn to control there WoW cravings but you'll quickly see it's difficult when your not 
 playing at least 6 hours a day because you'll quickly fall behind and many players in the game 
 tend to watch to juice out as much of the $15/month subscription as possible. If you have the time 
 to play this game and/or you have no social obligations in life then play this game because it's 
 probably best for you. If you know you have a good thing going on in your life right now, DON'T 
 touch this game. Not even the free 10 day trials that your friends might offer you or that are 
 on the net. As I've said earlier, the more you play the game, the deeper the whole it will put 
 you in and trust me, it's not easy to quit.
  
  After a good 1 1/2 years of playing this game and leveling up 3 characters to level 60 getting 
 some of the best gear in the game at the expense of about 1,500 hours of my life, I knew it was 
 time to move on because I saw my life quickly was falling part because of this game and the fact 
 that I couldn't really control my addiction to the game usually playing for about 6-8 hours a day. 
 I had to stay away from this game as far as possible, I sold my Collectors Edition World of Warcraft 
 box set which I paid a fortune for at the beginning and deleted the entire game from my computer, 
 deleted all the World of Warcraft fan sites and whatnot from my favorties list on my Internet browser. 
 I'm not really sure how to rate this game because I'm not going to lie, it's a very very well made 
 game but it simply isn't good for people who don't want to waste there lives playing this game 
 on the computer chair. For those who didn't want to bother reading this huge boring review, I'll 
 break down the pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Huge and gorgeous world
  -Great variety of music
  -Sound effects are top notch
  -Hundreds of thousands of quest so you 
 always have something to do
  -Tons of people who play on the same server
  
  Cons:
  -Servers that crash often with no explanation from Blizzard
  -After your first max level character, 
 the game become a repetitive grind fest
  -Terrible and immature community
  
  All in all, if you plan to play this game for the first time to level 60 (or 70) , it can be pretty 
 fun but the game will be soon become a repetitive grind fest for gear, ultimately killing hundreds, 
 even thousands of hours of your life. Stay far, far away from this game, you'll thank me for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternaldj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is easy. That's all that needs to be said. The reason why so many people play this is 
 because it takes about 5 minutes to learn. If you play a MMO like Dungeons &amp; Dragons or Everquest, 
 you would take a little longer learning about how to chain your moves to maximize your DPS. This 
 game may start out fun because most new things you try are fun! Then as you grind your way to 60... 
 then 70 if you have the expansion, things become dull and boring. You do the same thing over and 
 over again. The community is mostly the younger ages and aren't exactly mature. You can tell by 
 the way they all talk to you and others. This game may be worth playing if you enjoy sitting in 
 front of your computer pressing the same buttons over and over and over... and over. World of Warcraft 
 would be good, if it required a little more thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigheman
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I own two accounts, thats $50 per game, times two when it first came out (Thats $100, 
 for those that don't know) plus around $30 a month between two accounts which is around $360 a 
 YEAR! Now an expansion comes out, the sensible thing to do is just make it a free download, but 
 NOPE now the money sucking blizzards got you paying $40 (Times that by two) which is $80 plus a 
 $30 monthly fee... Over $110 in a month because of an expansion pack... its like saying Yea, I paid 
 40 dollars to level up 10 more times and play on a cute new map . I can't wait for a better MMOG 
 to come out and clear WoW off the charts and put it in the past with it's diablo's... but by then 
 Blizzard will have made millions from its customers... Once again, what a RIP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an excellent game, maybe not the BEST game, but it's up there. Read on...
 
  
  Gameplay: From the get go your getting quests and grabbing new equips, exploring the areas and 
 enjoying the scenery is fun. Once your about level 11, you move to a new area, with higher level 
 monsters and more quests. After you get to about level 17-20, you start running instances and grabbing 
 tons of loot and gear, which is always nice. From then on it's a mix of quests, instances, and 
 grinding, which can definitely get tedious, but the fun PvP helps make it more fun. Once your a 
 high level, you can start doing raids, and from then on you can do as you please. Overall it is 
 fun gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Toony, original, and fun. Not the absolute best, but good enough.
  
  Sound: Decent, 
 good for a while, then not so much. I prefer to put on my headphones, turn the WoW music off, and 
 listen to something more appealing.
  
  Value: Fun every time around, from your mage to your warrior, every time is fun. The multiple number 
 of races also make your new characters have a different feel every time. I recommend that you check 
 it out, you'll probably enjoy it. If you don't, nobody is making you play. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh-2468
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  When I bought the game I thought it was going to be really boring and dull where you just have 
 to go around and learn new magic.
  
  But it really isnt anything like that! It is a really addictive game and I have been playing it 
 for hours and hours, you just want to explore and explore! The graphics to are amazing! And they 
 have done a brilliant job on the map. But the thing that lets it down for me is that it has extra 
 charges every month which is a bit of a downside since the game is &pound;30.
  
  If you have played on Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion and thought that was good, then this has got to 
 be the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zigmond1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game requires complete devotion to even become fun. It makes you wonder how sucked in people 
 can be when you notice a level 70 character from one of the expansion races. One can't even explore 
 the world even if they didn't attack the other team. Alliance will attack you on sight (most of 
 them) . Lag can become a big problem in big cities like Ironforge and Org... whatever its called. 
 Some people on there talk in such a weird way you have to ask them over and over again what the 
 hell that means. By now Blizzard should have lowered the subscription fees because if the box is 
 true then they're making 7 000 000 X (how much it costs) + everyone who gets subscriptions. Thats 
 a crapload of money. It would probably be more fun if you didn't realise how long this game will 
 make you sit at your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  I never thought I would play this game. I figured it was too addictive and I would get sucked in 
 to it. Plus I don't have high speed internet, so I never got it. But a friend of mine bought an 
 account for me and lets me play it over at his house. Last time we spent about 10 hours grinding 
 trying to get me to level 20. I gave up at level 13. (He just called and told me he got me to just 
 below lvl 20.)
  
  It's a game with countless things to do. From starting your first quest to PvP to farming and grinding 
 to exploring both continents. The different races offer enough variety and professions to keep 
 someone entertained and practicing for quite a while. The secondary proffesions can be changed 
 so if you get tired of mining, you can switch to skinning. Of course there's always the classic 
 Leveling up so I can gank suckers walking along the roads. But that's not a profession, that's 
 just there to tick people off and ive you a good laugh.
  If you ever do get bored with the game, there's always enough propoganda and jokes going around 
 the internet to keep you entertained. There's also a countless number of mods on the internet (some 
 of which are not kosher) that can level you up or give you directions or keep track of your health 
 more closely. I never thought I would see hand-painted-like graphics in a game. The look of the 
 trees and the buildings are something to pay attention to. The rate at which the locales change 
 is quite rapid, so you may never get bored of traveling around. The races, of course, differ from 
 each other. You can either choose your favorite-looking one, or the one that you think will work 
 best for you. The various things that take place in this game are also remarkable. From the crabs 
 scuttling on the shores t the boars walking in the forest.
  
  The sound is something I never paid attention to. When I was at a friend's house we just listened 
 to music. So I can't really comment on something I haven't heard. But what I did hear was at least 
 some good voice acting, mainly from the /silly and /flirt commands. This game will not keep you 
 entertained for days, it will for years. There's always something to do. Trade in your social life 
 for a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  MMORPG are nothing new, they've come and gone and we've seen pretty much the same features. However, 
 World Of Warcraft takes the best of everything and puts it into one game, this gives you a very 
 immersive game over one of the largest maps to ever be put into a game.
  
  When you first start, you pick a realm, choose a side [horde or alliance] choose a class then you 
 start at level 1, levels are your strengths/stamina/defense/hp etc etc, the more XP you get the 
 more levels you advance making you stronger and better and able to use better weapons. You can 
 gain level points by completing quests, exploring the map etc. WoW is very easy to get used to 
 compared to most MMORPG and isn't just about going around hacking and slashing creatures, you can 
 take up trades, buy/sell at the auction house, hang out with friends at an inn, meet new people 
 etc. This game is truly deep
  When your walking through the game universe, each time you'll notice something different, through 
 out the year the game world does change, there are internal festivals for times of the year and 
 each month there are certain events in the game which is fantastic and will make you want to keep 
 coming back even when you reach level 60 [or 70 with the expansion pack] . Quests are the best way 
 to progress your XP however sometimes it can be hard to find a quest that isn't too hard to complete 
 or is a group quest, this does mean a lot of walking which is more reason to reach level 40 and 
 get a mount! It is a very good idea to introduce other people to the game and get a guild together, 
 or you can solo through the game. Once you have finished with your character you can make alternatve 
 characters and try a different race or try the horde which will let you see the other half of the 
 game.
  
  I'd like to have seem a way for players with lower levels to get horses, that was a bit dissapointing.
 
  
  The game has 3 downsides, firstly its subscription only and has no offline mode, so you have to 
 pay to play, Secondly it has a few stability issues though they're not as bad as some games. Finally, 
 the long install times, if you've got the DVD version then it won't be as bad as the 4 CD version, 
 the game will take about 15-20 minutes to install, not too bad, however once installed you'll need 
 to download about 4-5 patches, ranging in size from about 15MB to 650MB or so.
  
  Conclusion:
  A very good game that you really should try, it does look a bit childish on graphics 
 but you don't notice it, you will need to set a few hours to installing the game, but expect many 
 days of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_StarFox
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  What was I thinking? Listing, I had high hope for tis game, which was why I downloaded 3.5 GB for 
 the 10 days trial demos, all I can say is, im glad I did. Now I know that I should indeed not buy 
 the game, but it was decent none the less.
  
  I think I should start on which I thought it was bad about.
  
  First of all, the gameplay is 
 really flawed and completely repetitive, sure all games are repetitive, but they usually add some 
 replay value on it. I know this is an RPG, but this seems like a horrible wannabe Action RPG or 
 just some messed up active time battle. The attacks feels way robotic and when I try to dodge an 
 attack it comes straight at me, even if im 5 meters away from the guy I still see my blood going 
 a bit loose.
  
  As for the graphics, they were great for it's time, but not great enough to make you pay monthly, 
 FOR A GAME YOU ALREADY PAID. First off, the character are abit blocky and the graphics aren't that 
 superior compare to PS2/Xbox/GC games. But other than that, they look fantastic.
  
  The sound there's not much to say, you hear the same sounds, over and over again when you die. 
 It's also annoying to hear a monster scream when it's hurt. Their not impressive and once again 
 repetitive.
  
  As for the replay value, it's a game that never ends but it comes with the gameplay. For one, the 
 game isn't as fun as id be expecting and it feels more like level griding and it's a pain in the 
 ass. Also they add all of these quests which are dulls. They're always Get this from these things 
 , Go talk to him , I want you to kill these things , I need this amount of gil to... , you get 
 the point, they're all clich&eacute;.
  
  As for my experienced, I hated it honestly, I swear I was expecting alot from it, it's a decent 
 game for me to pay, but definitely not worth my money. But you should still give the trial a shot 
 if you want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinzero1526
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I like this game its fun its a RPG and i love to play them im going to get the new The Burning 
 Crusade to play from what i have seen on TV and on here on the computer it looks good and i have 
 had people tell me stuff about it that have the new one and they said if u like the warcraft game 
 you will like the new Burning Crusade game because u get new stuff to find quest to do but from 
 what i have found out its a good game and so if u want to talk or now more about what i thank message 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mephistroth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard is a company I have been following since the old days of Warcraft the 1st, now.. World 
 of Warcraft and Burning Crusade are nearly perfect the only things that stop them, are the lack 
 of customization, I mean even city of villains/heros a terrible game had more customizations and 
 although I think its so players could jump right into the game.. I think people would enjoy an 
 advanced character creation tab just cuz some people like me would never be truly satisfied if 
 I hate my very own character I play as
  
  Other then that this game has far blown all expectations of an mmo ariel flying mounts, pvp an 
 mmo has never seen be4 this good. and on top of that many styles/maps to pvp in.
  
  Open Ended, Yet it goes quick unlike Oblivion even with a horse or the fast map travel it felt 
 utterly annoying
  
  All in All.. Simply Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeilPerrin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Being a player of the original Warcraft game back in the late 90's then going on to play Warcraft 
 2 and 3 getting into the WoW has be a very pleasant surprise! Blizzard has done an awesome job 
 of keeping the story line and Warcraft world alive and kicking in WoW. You get that Tron feeling 
 of actually being in the game you once controlled with Warcraft 1,2 &amp; 3. Once I was a user, 
 now im the player... (Tron reference for you old skool guys) Once you get sucked in there is no 
 turning back with WoW, I started out playing after the LOTR Online beta went from beta 1 to beta 
 2 and was off for two days I needed somthing to keep me entertained. So I tried the demo, then 
 got a 60 day player card at best buy and now Im addicted..!! WoW is immersive, expansive and just 
 plain HUGE...!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  For such a brilliant game, World of Warcraft has an amazing habit of getting you ostrisized from 
 near all groups in society. And for a game with 8 million or so players, this leaves a whole lot 
 of outcasts. But this aside, WoW is one far and away the best MMORPG on the market.
  
  Starting the game out as a new character, you are graced with a short in game cutscene scrolling 
 through the starting zone, with a voiceover explaining the basic backstory of the race that you 
 are playing. From the end of the cutscene for the next 30 days or so of playtime, you'll experience 
 a huge variety of events, quests, dungeons and environments, almost all of which are all of high 
 quality.
  
  One of the most amazing things is how hugely the pace, play style and overall game experience changes 
 between classes and zones, playing as a Night Elf Warrior in teldrassil could as well be in another 
 game to say, playing as an Undead Warlock in Zul'Gurub, and it's all fun.
  
  In terms of graphics, most of the original zones (The newly added outland being a strong exception) 
 are quite bland and repetitive. However, the amazing art style present throughout the game is amongst 
 the most beautiful and brilliant seen in any game. ever. Sound is simularly repetitive, but fits 
 most areas and situations well, and remains relatively fresh throughout the massive ammount of 
 time you'll inject into the game.
  
  Once you've plowed your way through (the first) 60 levels, the game truely opens up, with Player 
 Versus Player becoming a big aspect of the game, as well as raiding and a return to the pace of 
 the earlier levels (which tends to be a little faster and better) . In fact, the late and endgame 
 content (particularly that which has been added since launch) is amongst the most brilliant of 
 all, and keeps World of Warcraft engaging for player of any style.
  
  World of Warcraft is an amazing game, and is truely an essential addition to any PC gamer's library, 
 even if it's just to give it a shot. Although some people may hate it, it will probably stand to 
 be one of the most amazing MMOs ever. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  OK, 1st of all.. forget the person who gives a very low score to this game. They hate the game 
 becuz either they dont have money to play or they are not truly a RPG gamer. Ive been played RPG 
 games since 2002, and start to love it and bought any RPG games i could afford. NWN, NWN2, KOTOR, 
 KOTOR2, Baldur's Gate 2, Icewind Dale 2, Dungeon Siege and many more.. just look at my profile.
 
  
  Back to the game, the game massive world makes u never tired to play over and over again. This 
 game is just not about grinding (most MMORPG are just for grinding) , its about doing quests too. 
 The quests are very interesting from the 1st lvl. And make u feel the story. The games graphics 
 are beautiful and sounds are fantastic. The games graphics are balance, so that person who have 
 average or low PC can still play this game without much problem. The musics are just fantastic.
 
  
  The gameplay is great and the control is better than typical point and click. The control just 
 like in Knights of the Old Republic. Easy-to-use user interface. U can learn 2 professions, mining, 
 blacksmithing, alchemy or even fishing. So whenever u tired of grinding in dungeon or questing, 
 u can go mining or collect herb to sell or whatever u wish to do.
  
  I got that alot from many WoW haters, they hate becuz many stupid and annoying reasons, dont have 
 money to play, jealous of their frends that can play the game, hate doing quests.. aww that just 
 stupid. Just forget about them, period. This game really worth your money. If u dont believe me, 
 then why the players in this game still growing? From 5 million to 7 million. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Terrible, just terrible. The lack of graphical quality disturbs me, and the boring repetitive quests 
 dont help its cause. PvP is just bad, gameplay is slow. stupid story line and chunky looking characters 
 even on my DELL XPS,8.000$ computer and this game is still bad. The A. I is plain dumb on any enemies 
 and you have to have absolutely no life to get to level 60, or 70. This game is just bad, thats all 
 .dont believe what people say about it. just try to avoid buying and paying online for a worthless 
 game! Just trust me youd have alot more fun playing football with the World Of Warcraft game disc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Addition to my previous experience:
  I bought a $30 plus tax card to continue my trial copy. NO way! They don't let you use it! Be aware 
 of that bunch of money hungry people - Blizzard!
  Don't let your kids get addicted!
  
  I think this is a good game. But wait you have to pay 15$ a month. RIPOFF!!
  The graphics are 
 good if you like cartoons. Did I mention that you get to step inside people. Big problem, so prepare 
 for seeing your character with lets say 4 arms because of another guy. If you bought this game recently 
 like me, prepare yourself to download 4 hours worth of patches before you can play. It wont let 
 you play without those patches.
  
  Because of the Burning Crusade lets meet lvl 70s while im a lvl 60, hmmm.
  Its awesome to swim 
 and fly instead of letting you only walk all day. The problem with quests is you have to either 
 kill something or find something, so the quests are just wrong. Why? Because it gets boring to do 
 quest after a week or so. When you kill a target you only have to push a couple of buttons over 
 and over until you kill the target. Pretty good variety of races. Flying on zepplins is kind of 
 fun and beautiful. Lots of bugs and things Blizzard thought would not happen. Lets say I went to 
 IronForge and jumped in one of the holes full of lava, oops after that I jumped into the wrong 
 hole with my ghost and cant get out. OOPS, I cant play for my character anymore. Why? Because each 
 time you restart the game your ghost is still in the same place you exited the game wow. Good sound 
 each time you enter a different reigon the music changes. Say goodby to the same music over and 
 over.
  
  Over all this is a fun game to play but hass a LOT of problems. MONTHLY PAYMENTS ARE JUST REALLY 
 SAD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziilla
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly immersive. You can choose your race, looks, gender, etc. etc. You can play 
 the game through to the NEW lvl. cap of 70 several times &amp; not become bored with it. From instances 
 to raids, it's all entertaining. Also, for $15 dollars a month charged to your credit card, this 
 is an awesome deal. If you are to young to own a credit card or don't for any other reason they 
 do have a pre paid game card that costs $30 for 2 months of play. Now that's a GOOD deal. I play 
 it quite frequently &amp; I think you will too if you decide to purchase it. You get the first 
 month free too. If you like Everquest, Star Wars Galaxies, any non-online RPGs like Zelda, Fable, 
 &amp; many more, well, this beats them all. I REALLY urge you to buy this game. :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth_Vll
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever in my opinion. I love it. I've played it for more than one-hundred hours. 
 My character is level 67. This game is the reason that I play games on my PC. It has no flaws. 
 I only have two games on my PC: World of Warcraft (this is including the expansion pack) and Half-Life 
 Two Episode 1. I love Half-Life 2 also but World of Warcraft is so much better. I'm a sucker for 
 really long Role-Playing Games, like The Elder Scrolls lV: Oblivion, which I also gave a perfect 
 10 to. The graphics are great. The gameplay like I said is insanely good. The sound is great also. 
 The expansion pack, World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, adds a lot of more gameplay. But I 
 have to tell you that the only way to really experience the expansion is if your character is at 
 level 60 or higher. I can't stand those people who say that this game is horrible because they 
 probably haven't even play it enough to enjoy it. World of Warcraft is a great game and play it 
 if you don't believe me!!!
  
  Note: you can only classify the game with one word but I would also put Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of the most popular games on the planet. It has colourful areas, the characters 
 look great and the world is so immersive that it's hard to believe that it is just a game at times. 
 There is very few loading times and the graphics are smooth on most computers. On top of that, 
 it's a very stable game and sounds immaculate. Each swing has a different sound and each death 
 sounds fantastic.
  
  Like other MMOs, the basis of the game is killing monsters and leveling up. You collect items, 
 and gold and then upgrade your character in armor, and weapons. What is really customizable is 
 the skills you can invest in making most characters of the same class play differently. With 9 
 different classes and many different races, the combinations can be endless.
  
  The gameplay is quite fun especially until level 60. You can do missions and kill monsters and 
 collects goods. There are so many different areas that it can seem endless. Though some of the 
 areas are well done like Elwynn forest near the Human capital, some others feel tagged on. Going 
 near Netherguarde Keep for example, gives you little to nothing. The area is covered with high 
 level monsters and yet there is little reason to go there.
  
  Another issue is at level 60, if you want to get good gear, you have to join massive raiding groups 
 that have forty people or less. After two or three hours, you may get three pieces of equipment 
 that is useful for only a few classes and then by odds, you will get nothing. The end game is completely 
 catered to people who plan their life around the game. If you pick up the game and go, you don't 
 have six hours to blow with 39 other people so many level 60s can never get decent items forcing 
 their characters into remedial positions.
  
  There are hundreds, probably thousands of players on each server who play more than they should. 
 Some brag that they have played 300 days. That is ten months of playing on the game. There is little 
 time for loved ones, bathing, eating, or working. The game is so addictive for some, that it has 
 actually destroyed some lives and some relationships. Like anything else, some people are more 
 susceptible than others. Not everyone drinks to excess, or gambles their house away but this game 
 has so many addictive qualities, it is easy to see why.
  
  Another issue with the game is the cost. Paying 15 dollars a month for this game is not worth it. 
 If you play this game for three months, that's a cost for a brand new game. Is the game giving 
 you enough content equal to a new game? The servers are poor and are capped. At times, it is not 
 uncommon for there to be a waiting queue of a thousand people on some servers at some times. Instead 
 of making more stable and more populated servers, Blizzard has decided to make more poor servers. 
 World of Warcraft is a fun game, for a while. Unfortunately, with all the aforementioned problems 
 with poor servers and cost, the game ultimately doesn't work out well. Millions of people still 
 play the game but I for one, will not. If you have a girlfriend, wife, or family and have addictive 
 tendencies, give this one a pass because no one lives forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is phenominal! Graphics: pretty good., weaps and armour customization out the yin 
 yang! Sound: Incredible! Full out orchistra soundtrack!
  Play: Hundreads maybe even thousands of quests, lots of spells and skills, neat and fun character 
 classess to play with. Crafting: BEATS THE HELL OUT OF EVERQUEST 2 CRAFTING! Forget dozens of hours 
 trying to make something stupid likea simple piece of armor or a wooden plank! Fast and makes great 
 stuff. Harder to GET the items then to make them, much better than EQ2 and the game isn't a total 
 grindfest like Lineage 2 and funner than City of Heroes. Hats off to Blizzard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aricdolokar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  --- Gameplay ---
  If you are new to MMO type games well, this isn't the place to find out what they are. WOW doesn't 
 really introduce anything new gameplay wise, they have taken what has worked and expanded on it. 
 This is what blizzard is good at. The game is simple almost to a fault. The leveling process is 
 fairly short compared to some other games in the genre. The world is fun to explore and there is 
 enough story for someone paying attention. It does feel that the earlier levels 1-20 had more attention 
 paid to them and often if feels there is a goal you are reaching for, eradicating Van Cleef's presence 
 in westfall is a good example of this. The mid levels up towards the end feels more like a freelancer 
 moving from area to area cleaning up mobs and doing odd things for the people of the world that 
 seemed to misplace some valuable item or need skins, teeth, bones, whatever.
  
  Most of the quests are essentially the same, go kill x creatures and get me x items. Go find Tom 
 and deliver this to him. Escort me to saftey/while I do this/while I search for something.
  
  There is crafting, again very easy to do compared to others in the genre. The gameplay is well 
 suited for those new to MMOs as you can get right into the game very quickly and I have seen a 
 number of people that have never played games get into gaming through WOW.
  
  --- Graphics ---
  
  I love Blizzard's art style for WarCraft, the game is very pretty and some 
 nice scenic areas but doesn't require a super power house of a machine to get good performance. 
 The graphics really set WOW apart from many others in the genre that were trying to go more realistic 
 with complex shading and lighting and huge amounts of polys.
  
  The animations are by far the best in the industry, there are spots where they could be slightly 
 better but you can tell that they spent a good deal of time working on character and creature animations.
 
  
  A note here, not everyone will like the art style and much of someones view of graphics is their 
 personal preference. --- Sound ---
  
  From the creature sounds to players and ambient noise blizzard has done an exceptional job. The 
 sound adds to the game with out being distracting or having an overly annoying sound track. --- 
 Value ---
  
  You will get tons of playtime out of this game even with a monthly fee compared to other forms 
 of entertainment it is dirt cheap and a great value.
  
  --- Final Notes ---
  
  WOW isn't the second coming, it is a great game and a blast to play. There are some tedious parts 
 and some people may find that the game doesn't really suit them. However if you are new to the 
 MMO scene this would be a great game to play as an introduction to gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSF2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  WoW ( World of Warcraft ) is currently Played by over 8 Million People World wide! . What makes 
 the Game so popular is its Addictiveness if you have never played it before, once you play its 
 very hard to stop playing... witch can be bad sometimes when we all need to get out of the house 
 for some fresh air, but anyway on with the review!
  
  WoW is the First 3D 360 Degress full view games by Blizzard , Starting on from 3 ~ 4 Years later 
 after the war of the Warcraft III version of the game. The imense world and its beautity make this 
 a very realistic game. Environments and the Gameplay are seemless witch is one of the first few 
 games without Alot of Loading between places, witch can be good for many players. Instances &amp; 
 Dungeons provide Challenging and Exciting Game Play for all , New &amp; Veterans alike.
  
  While you have to pay for the game its certainly worth it for the social and game play structure, 
 meeting new people and making friends is very easy in this games , and forging guilds with many 
 other players would mean a Guild would be able to Conquer end games dungeons easily , but would 
 be merely impossible with Random Groups.
  
  A very good game made by Blizzard. Cant wait for the Expansion to the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  And now time for my point of view from my 8 not 10 day free trial. It says 10 day free trial but 
 you spend 2 downloading everything. Pillocks. Right to buisness. Truth be told I played this game 
 in wonder as to what it was so hyped about. I can see whysome people enjoy it with the whole really 
 big really ooh fantastical feel to it. But it is a bit dull. I mean you don't do alot do you.
 
  
  'Right lets go questing!'
  
  'Where shall we go?'
  
  'Wherever this guy says to'
  
  and you click around for a bit, get a head of some sort go back 
 following the same clicking procedures only to be killed by some level 60 ponce. Lovely. This happened 
 to me 13 times in one bloody day. Quite frankly I'm not too bothered you know cos it is the only 
 place in the world he can feel powerful, at least at the end of the day in the world of reality 
 I still have at least a billion more friends than he does and a better social life. Want to know 
 whats more fun. PAINTBALLING. And on that note im off to skirmish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HueyFreeman_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best mmorpg's around, it has great gameplay, a good environment, good graphics 
 and good people. Blizzard has really out done themselves with this mmorpg of greatness.
  it bases around the constant war going on between Horde and Allaince.
  Its tons of fun with its 
 pvp system and questing. The terrain looks amazing along with its great story line. CONS
  
  Could we have better character creation?
  
  Every quest your either delivering, killing somthing, 
 or talking to someone... come on man..
  
  PROS
  
  Great graphics and environment
  
  good story line
  
  fun pvp
  
  its overall a fun game, completely worth it. 9/10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is Blizzard first MMORPG. They did a great job with it. One can see that with 
 its 5 million or so players. Its very newcomer oriented but with a few mods and such veterans of 
 MMO's will enjoy this game. You get some solid choices with race and class wise. Although some 
 doesn't really suit the Warcraft lore. For example, orcs have warlocks but after reign of chaos 
 Thrall banned anything magic to do with the Burning Legion. Well besides that everything fits. 
 Now when I played I had a great time. Lots of fun. The environments were fantastic. Sometimes I 
 would stop questing and actually just got sighting seeing. Well as far as a level 23 dwarf paladin 
 could go. Now the player can go into 4 styles of servers. PvP (player vs player. At anytime someone 
 can kill you) , PvE (player vs enviroment. This is where its just you questing and only small pockets 
 of PvP area) , RPPvE (This is roleplaying PvE. Most RP server GMs want people to roleplay. Yet sometimes 
 people don't.) and RPPvP (this is PvP but with roleplaying.) Soon your lil character will go into 
 the world. Now the world is divided into 3 areas (now with the expansion) Azeroth, Kalimdor and 
 Outland (new continent) . Now all the areas are pretty similar in feel cause you start in a small 
 village and then after doing the quests there, you move on to the big city or other towns. From 
 there the world is open to you. Now there were some bad things that stood out. 1) Doing quests 
 helps you level but mainly grinding will help ya. 2) Its the same thing over and over again. The 
 quests, the landscape , the dungeons. 3) There are people online who take this game way to seriously. 
 Although this game is for everyone, sometimes people take it too far. Overall this is a great game 
 if your willing to put 15 bucs or so into it every month. If you like it, its totally worth it. 
 Keep in mind its not everyones cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjacksonn
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Millions of Gold Farmers ruin this game completely for me and many other players. The cartoony 
 graphics also make this look like a joke similar to the flinstones. Come on guys! This is the 2000 
 decade!!!! Blizzard really dropped the ball in creating a balanced game, because gold farmers infest 
 it and make it very tedious. Not to mention running incessantly for the vast majority of the game. 
 Bleeecch!
  
  Good points? Well, the game has much value, if you enjoy repetitive gameplay and frustrating quirks 
 that pull the game away from being fun for very long. WOW is really a terrible game. In my opinion, 
 I dont see how anyone would rather play this than some of the other great games currently available. 
 Even Gothic 3 rules over this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  You may think 'World of Warcraft is for geeks who like elves and goblin and sit around playing 
 it in their underpants'. You could be forgiven for this, however you would be wrong. If you have 
 never played Warcraft 1, 2 or 3 the great thing about WOW is it does not matter, it does not really 
 have a plot. You start out by choosing either alliance or Horde, Good and evil basically. Then 
 you choose a race and you are ready. In WOW there are lot of quests, however unlike other MMOs 
 there is a lot of variation between them. They can vary from stealing pumpkins to destroying a 
 mill. The races are great as well, and one of the best parts is that you can have your own little 
 pet do do all your fighting for you if you are a lazy man!. With a HUGE game world, some great 
 music and comical sound effects, topped of with thousands of great quests and items makes WOW a 
 must for any pc gamer, believe the hype!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodofUndeads
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  The game is good. Graphics are very good at very low. Nice to meet some new people once and awhile. 
 Work as a team, help one and another. The sounds is great. The music is well done. Should get it 
 if you want to experience the game itself. (DAMN! My text is not a 100 text yet! Or words, whatever.) 
 Hmmmm, I'm out of words. Still not at one hundred words. *yawn* If I spam, will you guys kill me 
 for it? *yawn* Sucks I got school, or I would've been playing WoW at the moment. Why do we really 
 need 100 words? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basher4444
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  only in amrica! ... but i guess those forign folks get to play it also ... so ... only on earth! 
 anyone that doesnt play is the devil. and you all suck. chris sucks at all video games. class is 
 boring ... my dog smells of elder berries ... i hate this need one hundred words to make a review 
 ... this is to many words only in amrica! ... but i guess those forign folks get to play it also 
 ... so ... only on earth! anyone that doesnt play is the devil. and you all suck. chris sucks at 
 all video games. class is boring ... my dog smells of elder berries ... i hate this need one hundred 
 words to make a review ... this is to many words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSayan7Goku
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  So WoW... heard so much about it, basically it's a game that makes you feel like you are living 
 the game , kinda....: P: P kiddin , it's a great game because you are not just killing monsters you 
 are helping ladies , you can have a job and have a bank account :P you can receive items , letters 
 my mail , and you can roam through a giant map which you must uncover and gain a level to go further... 
 the quests , well some of them are entertaining and i liked some quests where you had to buy a 
 girl flowers from her husband and give them to his wife... or look for a princes wich you later 
 find out that it's a pig ... anyway my advise is that it's worth buying and playing.... i liked 
 that it's a real world... when it's winter in the real world it's winter in wow... it has night 
 and day you can swim can fly with a gryphon or other flying mounts (don't have a char with the horde...) . 
 Anyway buy it , enjoy it , have fun with it...!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JagsMan28
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect! If you are 14 years old and like replaying the same instance over... and over... and 
 over.
  
  This game is perfect! If you like reaching max level in one month with no difficulty at all.
 
  
  This game is perfect! If you like no crafting system, no community, no fear of death, **** PvP, 
 and millions of Gold Farmers.
  
  Wait a second... this game isnt perfect... its GARBAGE! This game is a disgrace to the MMO genre. 
 It was addictive for the first 6 max levels you can get in 4 months, then you are just left wondering 
 what you accomplished. There is no immersion, horrible cartoony graphics, gold farmers everywhere, 
 and is a total waste of time. Overall - Crap. Sorry folks, but its true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, what can I say about World of Warcraft that has not already been said. Probably nothing, 
 but that doesn't mean I still can't write a review and give my pov of things. I had heard from 
 a couple of friends for months that WoW was great and that I should try it. I finally checked it 
 out when Blizzard re-opened the trial period and I have to admit that though a bit skeptical at 
 first, I have now been playing the game for 2 months. I have really enjoyed playing the game and 
 experiencing what the world has to offer. I am a little over halfway to maxing out my character 
 (not counting the extra 10 levels you can get from the expansion) and still having fun. I will 
 admit, that like any enjoyable game this game can be addictive, and if you are not careful, you 
 can lose a lot of time playing it. However, there are many different races and character professions 
 to explore and try out. I would suggest anybody who would like to see what an MMO can be to try 
 out the trial and see what you think for yourself. The trial gives you a chance to check out the 
 World of Warcraft for free with no financial commitment. Once the trial is over you will have to 
 enter credit card information if you want to continue playing. Check it out and maybe you too will 
 find yourself lost in this massive world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amin_m_201
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best on-line game that i have played so far there is a lot of stuff that u can 
 do and there is a choice for any type of player. besides u can play it in groups with ur friends 
 around u. s. or where ever and make the fun doubled or even more. i've been playing wow for a while 
 but still i enjoy playing it cuz of veraity that it has so u never get board and u r always have 
 something to do. So it would be a good idea to go head and at least the free trail there is nothing 
 that u can loose.. u'll enjoy it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donught_luver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Three months ago you would have a very hard time finding any kind of role-playing game in my house, 
 the closest thing i had was GTA. I was really into FPS's (Halo's, Graw and and Gears of War) and 
 sports games (Madden, and an assortment of driving games) But now World of Warcraft (WoW) is really 
 all that i play. The thing that got me to buy was the fact that there was 7 million players playing 
 in this massive world of monsters and magic, The thing that kept me playing was the amount of things 
 you can do in this game. You can go meet up with your buddies and go fight a dragon in one of there 
 millions of quests. You can go become a herbalist and gather herbs to make potions to fight monsters 
 to get meat from the monster and cook it up and you can do it all with eather your friends from 
 real life or the friends you meet online. Theres only a couple things that piss me off about this 
 game. 1) The level cap at level 60 (now 70) , why couldnt they make it like 100 that would be sweet. 
 2) the trade network when you go into a big city, its a whole bunch of level 60 people constantly 
 chatting in the window about stuff that 6 million of the 7 million that play WoW don't understand. 
 3) they Charge monthly to play! how stupid is that have they not makin enough money! besides from 
 those 3 things and a couple other minor ones those are the only reasons why i say no i dont want 
 to play World of Warcraft right now. its an absolutly amazing game that if your into RPG's you 
 should check out but stragly enough even if your not into RPGs you shoud probably check this out 
 too. (= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CabeBiken
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is With out a doubt the best Online game of all time.
  
  I know i my sound like a Nerd Who has nothing better to do but play Video Games all day {i do have 
 a life FYI} but this game is great Its a HUGE world with an ongoing war between the Alliance and 
 the Horde. All Sides have five races the Alliance consist of Humans, Night Elfs, Dwarfs, Gnomes, And 
 the new Dragiy {Im sorry if i spelled that wrong im not familiar with the alliance charcters} And 
 The Horde Consist of Orcs, Tarrien, Trolls:} Undead: {, and BloodElf.
  
  Tis game is amazing some storys that happend in the game are liek the Barrens a massive savanna 
 Me and my friend DennyDust were fighing of Lions when we looked over to a near by thee we saw to 
 people that looked some what like orc so Denny waved {yes you can wave in this game} and and i told 
 Denny That i didnt really know that these were Friends we look a Dwarf and a Gnome us Being on 
 the Horde look at how strong they were a Level 16 there were two of use so we could take him so 
 we fought him and killed him but we didnt know near by was a Dwarf Level 30 and that the gnome 
 called so after killing the gnome we Ran to a ear by Horde camp and as soon as we got there there 
 was the dwarf following us all the Hord guys got ready to attack the the Dwarf stared at us so 
 i Being a hunter got my bow and shot him a few time the Dwart pulled out a musket and killed shot 
 me twice and killd then my friend
  
  This is every day things in the game
  
  If any body with a PC has Any doubt of geting this game I am tellign you it worth its Monthly Fee 
 {$15} World Of Warcraft 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanctify80491
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  To some WOW (World of Warcraft) is just a silly game. But, once you start playing it, you soon 
 realize that you can make it an analogy to life. People ask you to help them, and if you do, you 
 get expierence points, money, and even a good item! Those are all benefits to help you level and 
 grow as a more powerful soldier in azeroth. Ive been playing since august, and i still do not have 
 a level 60, even though with the amount of time i play a day, i should have about 5 of them. See, 
 there are soooo many classes and races and factions in the game, i can never decide which one to 
 be!!!!
  
  Just like everyday life, you learn something new everyday in the world of azeroth. Whether it's 
 the history of the jungle trolls, or how to talk in general chat (believe me, it takes a while 
 to figure out, but its /1)
  
  The key to this game is that even once you get to 60 (70 currently) there is always things to do, 
 you never have to stop playing b/c you can never beat the game. You can pvp, which is always fun, 
 especially in the battlegrounds, or you can try to get your end-game armor set, which is extremely 
 challenging, seeing as you need like 40 ppl to do this with you.
  I hope you have enjoyed my game and may elune be with you in the world of azeroth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything you thought it would be when you bought it and more. The sheer amount of 
 time you can waste playing this games is amazing, and the fact that it almost never ends is amazing. 
 You can complete the game as one character, and the start up another one. The gameplay is amazing, 
 a revolutionary, considering the fighting effects that have been in previous ones. The graphics 
 are unparalleled by any other MMORPG game I have ever seen or played. Not to mention the sheer 
 amount there is to do, if you are bored of just questing, then join parties or raids, and go questing 
 in dungeons. Not up for that? Well then try looking for the missing ingredient in a recipe you 
 have been desperately looking. The people on it are amazing. These people are (more often than 
 not at least) , friendly, and will try to help you out with as much of your current quest, or dungeon 
 as possible, and great bonds of a near-kinship like emotion grow between players. It has even been 
 known for people to get married, and some people have married by meeting over the game. So believe 
 the hype, there is a reason why there are 7 million people playing it, and if you dont have it 
 then get it and find out why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaliRei
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  MMORPGs are an interesting lot. They typically have excellent ideas and intriguing plotlines filled 
 with wonderful characters of fantasy, heroism and horror. Many RPGs have those same aspects but 
 MMORPGs take eveything a few steps furthur by allowing you and thousands of others to be the main 
 heros in the story. The intial thought of such a concept filled me with awe, epic honorable battles 
 of Horde versus Alliance while on the side you have trekking through amazing dungeons and investigating 
 political corruption; If I had any time left over I could even craft my own potions and sell them 
 to other heros to aid the Alliance! Enter reality. The biggest advantage MMORPGs have is that they 
 have tons of people in them that like RPGs. The biggest disadvantage MMORPGs have is that they 
 have tons of people in them that like RPGs. Yes, people are the most frusterating part of the game. 
 While the fact that the chat channels will fill with people spamming this and that about Chuck 
 Norris is inevitable, the people that follow you around to kill your character time and time again 
 is painful. It would be a fair thing if they were potentially defeatable, but often you will find 
 that they will 'camp' your body for hours with a character that is four times as powerful as yours 
 in every aspect. Next you have the people that will irritate you by failing to assist in you in 
 party combat because they appear to have either bought their character illegally from an online 
 website or are simply horrible players.
  
  I covered the tip of the irritation iceberg from players; imagining that you are able to avoid 
 all of that you have the game's 'end-game' problems. You seem to be left with three choices once 
 you have powered up your character to the highest point (60 or 70 with the expansion.) 1. You could 
 raid. Raiding involves tons of time spent organizing a dungeon crawl with 19-39 other people plus 
 tons of time spent preparing the necessary equipment for said adventure. Then the actual raids 
 take many hours of time. Sadly, this is usually done when most people have time available, which 
 often seems to be every single night. How so many can devote so much time to raiding I may never 
 understand, but somehow they have the time and they pull it off. 2. Okay, so maybe raiding isn't 
 for you. Try Battlegrounds. The battlegrounds are not so much battles as they are minigames with 
 battles involved. One is a capture the flag one is a hold the point game and one is a 'run past 
 everyone else and fight their NPCs' game. These can be fun, but also involve lots of time spent 
 to climb the ranks. You will often need a group of friends to play with because the organization 
 of random groups is typically pretty sad. The initial concepts behind the BGs are pretty good. 
 However, some classes aren't outfitted for battle as much as others, especially in the hold the 
 points game. Also, the most epic battle that could have been a true warzone (Alterac Valley) has 
 devolved into a mad rush to see who can kill NPCs the fastest. 3. You can reputation grind. This 
 is the least used option. It involves killing monsters almost endlessly to gain reputation with 
 factions who will then sell you powerful items. This is the only one you can really accomplish 
 on your own time, however, some classes will take significantly longer than others to complete 
 this long grind. It yeilds the weakest rewards of the three options and possibly the least enjoyment, 
 but you can at least do it on your own time, and not on someone else's insane schedule. Don't get 
 me wrong, I quit WoW and explored most of the other options and eventually came back to WoW (I 
 recently quit again, not looking for more.) WoW IS the best MMORPG there is, but for the gamer 
 that has to work, go to college, and maintain other hobbies and responsibilities, MMORPGs and WoW 
 in particular can be too frusterating and too time consuming to be viable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iam360fan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a Role playing RPG where you create a character on either side the Alliance 
 (Human's, Night Elf's, Dwarf's or Gnome's) or you chose to play on the Horde ( Orc's, Troll's, 
 Tarein or Undead and you battle you'r wat to level 60! There are many different classes example 
 (Warrior, Hunter, Mage, Warlock, Shamain, Druid or Palladen's) All differet classes have speacial 
 abbilities Hunter's can tame pet's but only when they reach level 10. To gain level's in this online 
 fantasy you either complete quest's given by random computer made character's or kill stuff. You 
 can either choose to solo quest's and Kill stuff or you can group up by finding people with a great 
 chat log. The chat log feautures different channel's you can join and when people talk on thosae 
 it will show up if you have that sertain channel working ther is also privet chat wich is called 
 whispering. The game is easy to find people to group up with because there is over 61 million people 
 playing the game. To make the game not to too laggy they put in the feature that ther is over 100 
 relam's that they split up into but you cannot talk people on other relam's and you may not talk 
 to other people on the horde even if you are on the same realm. Another feature is the battle grounds, 
 it's a place where you can face off against horde player's that are on the same relam as you. There 
 are different battlegrounds for different level's. The different battle grounds feature different 
 terrain and different tatic's. Warsong Gultch (WSG) is a battle grounds where you'r objective is 
 to capture the falg and you can start it at level 10 to 19 and then it goes to 20 to 29 and so 
 on all the way to 59 then at level (lvl) and at lvl 20 you can go into Arathi BAsin (AB) and that 
 is capture and comand bases. the lvl ranger's for that is the same 20 to 29 and so on all the way 
 to 59 but when you hit 60 you have you'r own (WSG) and (AB) . The BattleGrounds give you Medal's 
 that you can trade in for epic item's and when you hit 50 you can do ALterac Valley. In that battlegrounds 
 you'r objective is to kill the leader. TO gain lvl's you kill stuff or do quest's like i said before 
 but to know when you are going to gain a lvl you will see a Line at the bootom the line is divided 
 into 20 bars and when it is full you gain a lvl then it becomes 0 again and then it takes more 
 expirience till the next level. I would recomend WOW to anyone looking to have a Great time! :-) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redman100111
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The download was extremely song at least from my computer I didn't buy the CD Disks, I first downloaded 
 it awhile ago and played the trial I hated the trial then I downloaded it again and played it by 
 paying for it, it was addicting and fun,
  The Good Parts-
  lots of things to do, lots of quests to do,
  lots of monsters to fight,
  lots of skills to 
 learn,
  Lots of people to meet
  
  The bad parts-
  Dying, it can take you awhile to get to your body unless you want a spirit to take you but hen 
 you reduce your item durability's by 50%
  
  In the beginning when you first start not alot of players, can be hard to know where to go, no 
 tutorial, really basically no help.
  
  
  But all around great game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyStorm_VN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  IF YOU DONT LIKE THIS GAME SO YOU DONT LIKE MMORPG 
  
  If you think that Guild Wars is better than this game , you was wrong:
  
  1. Almost all game 
 websites score WOW higher than GW.
  2. WoW has a larger World and more detail, so play WoW is much more enjoyment.
  3. The movement, 
 controling systems are much more comfortable, just like a TPS.
  4. ....... so much more that you will find ONLY when you play SERIOUSLY ! (Don't be fool by the 
 old graphics)
  
  GW only have a more beatiful Graphics and Design Styles. (And GW is for people that dont have much 
 time for playing Game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXx_Phenix_xXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The game's RPG layout really had me hooked. It was the best RPG that i played since Diablo 2. In 
 fact - it was better than D2 and that's saying something because i was infatuated with D2 since 
 2000. The level cap is perfect, the community is huge and the world is literally thriving! The 
 games fast paced PvP gives the great game that extra bang for your buck along with all the little 
 bells and whistles thrown in. The story line is vast and the possibilities are endless! The graphics 
 are not quite up to date, but they're still really good and it still feels like the Warcraft environment 
 from WC3. I recommend this game to any RPG or Adventure fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Its an addictive game and it IS really fun to play. If you dont enjoy MMORPG's don't bother posting 
 anything. The game is really good from my point of view because you can either solo or party up 
 to to get further in the game. Obviously at some point you will need to party up with other players 
 to explore the game in greater detail and get items and other stuff you can't get while solo play. 
 In the end this game is worth trying out and for all you people who say its boring... well i wonder 
 why this game has over 6 million subscribers? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamahl316
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin... I've played most of the Warcrafts, specially Warcraft 3, so when i heard World 
 of Warcraft and saw some pics i really thought WOW!! I've learned something, i'm never going to 
 trust the pictures again...
  
  This is one of the most boring games i've played in my entire life, the fighting system is one 
 of the worst things i've seen, this is a game that doesn't take skill, just click once and wait 
 till the creature or whatever you are fighting is dead, keep walking and do the same over and over 
 again.
  Seriosuly, the idea of the game is to do the same thing many times but the only difference is that 
 you will gain level and new items, there's no action and it will never make you smile after you 
 beat something, like when you play and you try the same level 30 times and when you finally beat 
 it, it makes you happy.
  
  Honestly, i played this for 6 hours, i know it was 6 hours because of Xfire and that's all i needed, 
 i uninstalled it and i never want to play it again.
  
  So i was reading the gamespot review, on the top they say:
  The Good: Huge, beautiful, seamless 
 world; high streamlined and conducive to short or long play sessions; exciting, action-packed combat; 
 elegant, easy-to-use interface; excellent music and sound. 
  
  I agree with almost everything, but i really disagree with action-packed combat . What??? What 
 the hell have i been missing? There's absolutely no action in clicking once and waiting until the 
 creature dies, in my opinion.
  Maybe i've played too many REAL action games and i will never understand this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Good: Awesome battle system; literally thousands of quests to do in the game; expansion packs are 
 supposed to come every year so you can keep playing for a very long time; differsity in items is 
 amazing; each class and race is unique and special; Horde vs Alliance adds great PVP action, combined 
 with duels you can do with your own faction; guilds are a big part of the game; there are alot 
 of professions to choose from; getting money in the game isnt too terribly difficult; battlegrounds 
 are extremely fun; transportation is awesome in the game; skills and talent system are great.
 
  
  Bad: I hate dirty Gnomes; some quests are too hard; horde always wins in battlegrounds; it is too 
 hard to level up when you cant find any more quests that you want to do or even can do.; have to 
 wait forever to get a mount, and even then they are way too expensive.
  
  My favorite PC game at the moment period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGO2003
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When I started World of Warcraft (or 'WoW' as it is abbreviated) I was not prepared for the amount 
 of time I would be spending playing this game. I jumped into the game via a 10 day free-trial offered 
 to me by Blizzard, and spent most of my time during those ten days wasting away at my computer, 
 leveling, looting, and loving the world WoW had to offer me. As I reached my free-trial level cap 
 (Level 20) I yearned to see more. I found myself attempt assuage my anxiousness by accessing higher 
 level areas regardless of the fact I wasn't supposed to be there yet. Needless to say, I died many 
 times over. Days later, I unlocked my account by purchasing a copy of World of Warcraft, and I 
 and my level 20 Human Warrior were well on our way to new areas. The people I met and befriended 
 became harder to leave behind and became an integral part of my playing experience. I had played 
 MMORPG's before, but nothing like this had happened with the other games. With WoW I was immersed 
 in a gargantuan environment and absolutely astounded by all it had to offer. My positive take on 
 the game (though detrimental to my outside social life) was a good experience. The only thing I 
 have to complain about is, of course, the monthly fee.
  
  While I completely understand (and what all pro-WoW activists will not forget to tell me) that 
 $15 dollars a month comes to a mere .50 cents a day, or that Blizzard needs the money to create 
 new content and expansions, it still doesn't make me want to fork over the money as easily. Though 
 I will, as a result of the fact that I cannot shake myself of my WoW-addiction.
  
  The game starts off easily enough, and is extremely simple for any gamer to pick up regardless 
 of their gaming background. This may seem like an overstatement, but when you jump into the game 
 and begin playing without any in-depth tutorials, you'll know what I mean. It isn't until you leave 
 the starting areas that you begin to really be challenged. I managed to get all the way to level 
 10 before I died my first time, and it seemed to happen more often every time after that... The 
 soundtrack for the game is something to be admired, as nearly every new area has a theme to go 
 by, which makes the player enjoy the game all the more.
  
  Though I am only at level 32 so far, I can safely say that I know there is much more for me to 
 experience, and can proudly say that I am up for the challenge. If you buy this game, prepare to 
 surrender a good chunk of your free time playing it, and approximately $130.00 a year paying for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  THE HYPE, buzz all of it, not true, i dunno about wow players but i own Guild Wars Factions and 
 nightfall, and they 2 pawn WOW. I played wow for a free-trail account, k at first its awesome but 
 it loses its value after weeks of playin, say 2 weeks min, i created a warlock and ok sure players 
 are fun, qeusts, minions, skills, and everythin, but 2 me its only good for a couple of weeks. 
 Besides as i said GW franchise pwns wow anytime as it has more to it, and leveling and quests are 
 more easy, interesting, and fun. LOL, for wow maybe when u grow up to be like 30 or be married 
 u may reach lvl 60-70... Bottom line i think its better to purchase GW or any other game instead 
 of payin fees each month... Btw graphics are kool.
  
  Thus, i think its an extraordinary experience if u play it on private servers, that way I would 
 rate it a 10/10... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xivoni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This games is the most perfect game of the world
  no coments
  this game is the best of the best of world of warcraft
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
 
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no 
 coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no 
 coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no coments no coments no coments no coments
  no 
 coments no coments no coments no coments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  this game is just great there is a huge world to play on you could play for a year and never discover 
 it all, once you start playing its hard to stop you just want to get to the next level so you can 
 unlock new types of skills and armour. anyone who likes fantasy style of games HAS to play this 
 game its so good. the music suits the game so well each area has its own type of music that matches 
 it in some way which adds to the enjoyment of playing. because of the large amounts of things of 
 things you can do it can take a long tie ot figure out what to do and how to do it but once youre 
 there you will never get off it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjun_axl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Ok, so after about 2 years, of my friends telling me I should really pick this game up; i finally 
 gave in. Well kinda at least, I downloaded the 10 day trial from the WoW website (which I can recommend 
 to everyone, hell it's 10 days of free gaming) . After about 4 hours of downloading, (damn this 
 game has a lot of patches) , I started up WoW and joined one of my friends in a PvP server.
  
  At first I was mesmerized by its beauty, and the cartoonish way everything looked. Blizzard 
 did a good job of making the game still playable for people with crappy systems (me) . It looked 
 good, and it took only about 30 sec, before I figured out the controls. When I started playing 
 it all looked pretty straightforward, and I stayed in the game about an hour, before I threw my 
 mouse to the other side of the room. It's a nice game and all but so effing frustrating. it wasn't 
 the game I was hoping for, even when I started another character on a normal server, it still wasn't 
 free. I really had the feeling I was locked up, and couldn't leave where I was at, because you 
 I got killed almost instantly when I did. So all in all its a good game, just expect to put a lot 
 of hours in it, before you really start to enjoy it, because the dungeon/team quest take a while 
 before they get introduced. My recommendation to everyone is just to download the 10 day trial, 
 and then just make up your own mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danpak610
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I never played a real MMO. I've played runescape. For a free internet game, runescape is pretty 
 awesome. Then i picked this game up. It's really good. You can do everything here. Make your own 
 stuff. Whatever. Also, dying is not very annoying. Ok, it is. BUt, at least you don't lose all 
 of your items or any of that crap. You just have to resurrect. It's a great game, no doubt about 
 that. IT IS JUST SO ****ING ADDICTIVE. I've heard stories of people who get addictive. I'm surprised 
 that it really is addictive. Wow... (as in the expression, not WoW... nvm) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I never liked third person games. With Lara Croft's first pc game incarnation, I found myself boggled 
 by awkward control via camera views that made me feel like a 16 year old trying his first bottle 
 of Jack Daniels. Unfortunately, the same still applies to this game.
  
  I decided to see what the fuss was all about, with 8.5 million subscribers to this game. I was 
 amazed to see the graphics quality - something I'd expect to see about 2001. The whole large free-to-roam 
 aspect is a good one though, and kicks butter over other games that put the player on rails the 
 whole way thru.
  
  It's sad how the lowest common denominator often ends up being the most popular choice of the masses, 
 but hey - I don't choose what game becomes a hit! With brilliant games like Deux Ex Invisible War 
 and No One Lives Forever 2 and Undying etc etc finding themselves at the mercy of popular opinion 
 and ending up in the bargain bin.... it's no wonder that games like this are so popular. Bring on 
 the cheese, cuz this is the McDonald's of video gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolzlolz123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure ownage and has everything you need for playing even if you first start to play 
 it. I play Guild Wars and Knights-Online but playing a game like this is best experience I have 
 had so far. Ive always seen on everything that Guild Wars is way better then World of Warcraft 
 and to me my own opinion is its pretty much true. This game features lots of intense gameplay and 
 alot of good systems from PvP-RP. But this game doesnt have the intense pvp system Guild Wars have 
 and that disappoints me because this game i have lots of expectations on and I am hopping when 
 I get the Expansion that the pvp will be intense and have better ways of playing this game is 5 
 Stars and I'm sticking with that. Keep up the good work this game is better then all out there 
 besides the comparison of Guild Wars pvp systemand is recomended to buy at the price rate of $19 
 only! Thought monthly fee is a killer its great game and if you dont want to pay buy Guild Wars 
 free online story mode isnt great as WoW but has a intense pvp system and will grow more intense 
 every time they release a new Campaign. Recommend this game to everyone out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackmage_Goat
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start off by saying I love WoW. I might be a bit biased, but I think this game is great, 
 I really do. Especially with BC recently released. And I play on Horde, which I believe is the 
 most helpful and friendly side.
  
  Gameplay- Wonderful. It gives you so many paths to choose. You can be a Rogue, Druid, Warrior, 
 Mage, Hunter, Warlock, Paladin, or Priest. Each class has different pros and cons. I personally 
 like Rogues. You can choose from a great amount of skills and abilities, each with their own use. 
 Then, talent points, which you recieve every level from lv 10, improve or add to those skills. 
 Really great!
  
  Quests are pretty good. A lot of quests are killing monsters, but there are other kinds. You can 
 group with other people and kill huge beasts together. Or, you go around and collect items from 
 certain places. In one quest I remember going into an enemy's base and stealing their plans. Then, 
 you can raid dungeons and even PVP with the other faction. Overall, It's pretty nice. Music- I 
 remember walking to a new town and hearing this wonderful music play. It was majestic and made 
 me feel pretty good. The other music is half bad either. =P Graphics- Oh these are extremely well 
 done! Excellent. It's so pleasing to the eyes and character customization is wonderful. Great, 
 great work, Blizz.
  
  Communtiy- On Alliance I found that if I asked for help I would be called a newb and receive no 
 help. The general chat was... scary. Horde was better. I got help everytime I asked and even grouped 
 with multiple people multiple times and developed bonds. I formed a guild and made even more friends. 
 Great! Overall I strongly suggest checking it out. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casual33
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Do you like clicking the mouse a million times for hours upon hours and walking around endlessly? 
 Then this game is for you. The graphics are mediocre, the fighting system is just boring and monotonous, 
 and the amount of time and effort you'd have to put in to actually play this game is just absurd. 
 If you like this game then you have an unhealthy relationship with video games and you obviously 
 need to get out of the house and play a sport. Sometimes games can just be too involved and this 
 is one of them. It doesn't offer enough fun to outweigh the incredibly boring parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Being one of the three main franchises for Blizzard Entertainment, and the first massive multiplayer 
 online role-playing game Blizzard ever put together by the long running developer, it would seem 
 almost too easy to have success with World of Warcraft, but it takes quite a bit to put together 
 a MMORPG nowadays that will captivate not only long time fans of other MMOs like Everquest, City 
 of Heroes/Villains, Lineage II, and Ultima, but also to get players whove never tried a MMO to 
 start and play for a monthly fee. Releasing onto store shelves on November 23rd of 2004, Blizzard 
 Entertainment tried to rise above every other MMORPG out there. Could Blizzard do it? br /&gt;
 
  
  Having a huge success with the Warcraft series already, Blizzard chose this franchise to create 
 one of the largest MMORPGs to date with World of Warcraft. Taking place ten years after the end 
 of the expansion for Warcraft III known as the Frozen Throne, World of Warcraft begins with the 
 Horde and Alliance back at each others throats. The Alliance consisting of Humans, Elves, Gnomes, 
 and Dwarves, while the Horde consists of Undead, Orcs, Taurens, and Trolls. Although there are 
 only eight different races compared to some MMOs who have no less than fifteen, World of Warcraft 
 (WoW) takes these different races and make them unique from each other giving them not only different 
 attributes and starting areas, but also different roles in their own society and personalities 
 with which to play them with. While some of the races share starting points, this doesnt take 
 away from the size of Azeroth, which consists of two separate continents that have quite a bit 
 of space to explore and dungeons to raid. The story itself for the game is simple enough, and although 
 some of the quests to move you along this all encompassing story as you progress through the 
 quests, youll never really be captivated to the point of caring too much about the entire story 
 of whats taking place in WoW. Instead, Blizzard made the quests interesting enough on their own 
 to make you coming back for more. Instead of its predecessors following you through a main plot 
 line with cinematics and in-game cutscenes, WoW will hold your interest with the individual quests 
 you partake in. At least, for the first few times you play through up till level 60. After that, 
 youll memorize the quests you need to level the fastest to become elite in the realm that youre 
 apart collecting epic gear by raiding and re-raiding dungeons along the way.
  
  When you first begin the game, you get to choose which realm/server you want to be a part of and 
 that can consist of a normal realm where theres only player vs. player (pvp) when asked, or through 
 different battlegrounds, or you may pick a server where its all pvp wherever you are at any point 
 in the game giving you a little more risk when out doing quests. Theres also roleplaying servers 
 to explore if you ever wanted to act as a orc or dwarf when youre out and about progressing to 
 level 60 for those who truly love to get into character. After youre done choosing which type 
 of server youd like to start in, youre given the option of creating your character by choosing 
 between either Horde or Alliance, and from their your perspective race, class, appearance, and 
 then name. in WoW, there may not be as much customizing of your characters appearance as you might 
 be used from other MMOs, but that matter much after you start collecting different gear along 
 your travels. Youre able to change hair style/color, facial hair, and facial features, but thats 
 about it. Again, how much do you truly look at the front side of your character during gameplay 
 and after you get helmets and armor, you wont even notice that a person right next to you designed 
 his character the exact same way. And with gear, Blizzard did quite well with many each piece unique 
 and different from the next to provide players the variety in appearance that they may be looking 
 for. There are literally hundreds of different pieces of armor, and multitude of different looking 
 weapons to control as your progress
  
  After creating your character, you dropped into the world of Azeroth. What type of race you choose 
 at the start of the game chooses where youll start your quest that could last for hundreds upon 
 hundreds of hours. As you begin, youll be doing your run of the mill quests like collecting a 
 certain number of items for a quest or delivering something from one place to another. Although, 
 the quests may seem a little boring early on, just exploring the world and the detail that the 
 Blizzard team put into it, for the first time, is quite fun. Staying true to the lore of the previous 
 titles in the Warcraft series, players and fans alike will recognize certain enemies or places 
 as they scour the world of Azeroth completing thousands of quests to gain experience for their 
 player to gain levels in their quest to become a level 60 elitist, but this certainly isnt something 
 that happens overnight because it will take quite a long time to gain enough experience to level 
 to 60, but thats just the fun of it. My suggestion would be to try out the different races/classes 
 leveling them up a few levels to see how they play, from there, choose one and then level that 
 character up alone because if you keep trying out different characters, youll probably wont make 
 it to level 60 too early and youll be missing out on the great raiding content present at that 
 level. Along your questing ways, youll come across dungeons where you and friends will be able 
 to travel through, entering your own instance and from there, youll have to battle through the 
 rest of the dungeon completing the quests all by yourselves without the help of outside players. 
 Whether you make it or not throughout the entire dungeon is up to you and your party. Just taking 
 along your friends through the different dungeons is fine and dandy if one of you exceeds the actual 
 level for the dungeon, but if not, if youre traveling without a healer, youll be finding it quite 
 hard to progress through the multitude of enemies that youll come across while navigating the 
 instance to the end. You are able to solo quite a few quests in this game, and if youre good, 
 you can almost solo up to level 40, but the dungeons will always need some groups unless you a 
 much higher level than the actual dungeon.
  
  While leveling up your character, youll be able to join a guild of your choosing to be with friends 
 or players with similar goals. There are hundreds of guilds out there waiting to pick up more players 
 for the benefit of being able to strategize different techniques ore with different classes and 
 races. All you need is an invitation and from there, you can buy your own tabard to wear around 
 the world of Azeroth to proudly show which guild youre apart of. This guild keeps you in close 
 contact with other players who can help you out in different areas and quests. Theyre almost always 
 helpful in whatever you need, but be forewarned, you might get into a guild that could care less 
 about you and my suggestion for that, is get out right away, youll find another guild along the 
 way to play around with who will be more than willing to help you along your way to level 60. Because 
 WoW is so huge, Blizzard has offered a mount for each race to ride, but only once youve attainted 
 level 40 in which youll have to first buy a mount and then pay to be trained to ride. I would 
 suggest to start saving for a mount when youre around level 35 because it costs quite a bit.
 
  
  The graphics in World of Warcraft arent the most up to date, but theyre not ugly by any standards. 
 If youve been a long time fan of series, the graphics just fit the series in their design and 
 layout. What I mean, is that the world of Azeroth has a sort of cartoon flavored graphic sense, 
 but it more than works for this great game. Something that is nice is that you dont need a top 
 of the line computer to enjoy this game and that helps Blizzard widen its marketing strategy to 
 almost all gamers unlike some MMOs with the latest and greatest in graphics almost making the 
 player buy a brand new system to play it with a FPS over ten. Days pass by you just the same as 
 they do in real life with the schedule of the servers being correlated to different times zones 
 and this simply works. Of course, if youre on a server thats on your time zone and you only can 
 play during the night, be prepared to play in the dark most of the time, but thats okay. If you 
 dont like it, join a different server and Blizzard will even let you transfer your character, 
 for a fee of course, unless the server is being overloaded with players, where Blizzard will then 
 allow free transfers. World of Warcraft is totally seamless except for the different instances 
 across the world of Azeroth and those load times are quite nice and quick compared to some other 
 MMO load times.
  
  The sound in World of Warcraft is excellent with Jason Hayes composing the soundtrack. Blizzard, 
 like Lucas Arts, always provides its games with some of the best sounds and World of Warcraft is 
 no exception to the rule. As you travel across the seamless, youll be able to listen to some of 
 the best in-game music from area to area across the two different continents, not to mention the 
 dungeons and battlegrounds where you can compete Alliance against Horde. The music keeps you motivated 
 throughout the many hours that youll be playing this game. There is minimal voice acting in the 
 game, but you dont really notice it as you progress through your levels doing quest after quest 
 for different people.
  
  With most other massive multiplayer online role-playing games, World of Warcraft has a monthly 
 fee that amounts to $14.99 a month; paying for more months at a time will lower the cost down to 
 $12.99 which isnt a terrible deal. Many people will complain about the monthly cost, but you either 
 will pay monthly for a game or you wont. Your mind will not change because its a certain price. 
 But if youre teetering on the edge of actually going through with it, look at it this way. Youre 
 paying virtually fifteen bucks for a load of entertainment, safe entertainment, with friends and 
 possibly family. But there is a different cost that isnt the most talked about. Its the cost 
 of the time youll spend playing. If youve been a long time gamer for quite some time, you may 
 not have trouble limiting your playing time, but there are those choice few who cant handle saying 
 no, or turning off the computer; always trying to get that next level and those people are usually 
 the ones who become addicted, lose interest in everyday things. Those people are the same ones 
 you read about online who lose their jobs, wives, family because all they do is play this game. 
 Is that a con of WoW? Not at all, you kind of have to applaud Blizzard for creating such a fun 
 and engrossing game.
  
  Has the game had its quirks and bugs along the way? Yes, but Blizzard has been very adamant about 
 fixing those as fast as they could. I couldnt even begin to guess the amount of patches that have 
 been available to download since release back in 2004, but I will say this; if you were to install 
 the game today and want to play, you would have to download over one gigabyte of patches to start 
 playing the game. Are those all bug fixes? Not at all. Since release, Blizzard has created and 
 given away new and fresh content for the game that has enhanced it quite significantly. It seems 
 whenever a class starts to do better than the next, fans scream for a fix to make that class not 
 so godly, but Blizzard has take into consideration if that classes is simply overpowered or if 
 people are exploiting some bug of the class, but in the end, Blizzard is quite far in its decisions 
 on what to add or take away from the game.
  
  There is simply too much content in the game to surmise in one review, so I suggest pick up a copy 
 today for only $19.99 and play free for month and decide for yourself.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 10
  Story/Plot: 9
  Replay Value: 10
  Stability: 9
  Multiplayer: 10
 
  
  Overall: 9.44 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesehunter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Even though with the rest system Blizzard says you can play from minutes to hours, that pretty 
 much sucks the fun out of the whole thing.
  
  Seeing that I am one of those underpriviliged people, I don't really have time to go on raids or 
 even go through a instance, because there just isn't enough time.
  
  Social aspects while combat is one of the key elements, but that's only my opinion. Usually fights 
 between healers and dps classes argueing since the dps class is aggroing and acting like a tank, 
 while others are left in the middle of it. This is usually how groups get disbanded.
  
  Though, if you do have a lot of time, like I did for once in summer, your playing time is wonderful, 
 thus you have to deal with the arguements, but everyone around that time is calmer, and won't be 
 as stressed say, they had a bad day at school or work.
  
  I do have to say though, once you kill your first monster and get talents, by that time your interface 
 is memorized and you know every single hotkey, I mean really, my ten year old brother was like 
 that, heh heh.
  
  Levels 1-10 are a total thrill ride, it's when you get into the beginning of the game at first, 
 seeing the vast enviroment and all of the creatures that have been played out.
  
  Levels 10-20 though can make you a bit bored of the vast enviroments but that's when a key aspect 
 of PvPing on battlegrounds come in, sometimes it's a huge blast.
  
  Levels 20-30 are nice and all, you think you had fun with the last kind of PvP this one is going 
 to be great... right? Okay let me put it this way. To many Alliance players, for starters, this 
 battleground SUCKS. There's always some sort of group that always splits up and gets overrun by 
 people that use tactics, everyone wanting to get more points and things like that. Though around 
 level 20, you get to use helmets, therefore if it's that bad, covering your filthy ugly hair that 
 you made in the beginning of the game. But if it's awesome, then you can always go to the options 
 and not show helmet.
  
  Levels 40-50 are the levels I left around at. What it is, is a basic grind and get gold for your 
 spectacular mount that you can get, after the first few hours of traveling around, you get bored... 
 really bored. Walking around I really have to say was kind of fun, especially in a group. Sometimes 
 people don't have mounts and you feel like you have to catch up with them. Once you get your mount, 
 you have to now go through lots of tedious grinding all the way, and with my time, I was dead before 
 I could even reach level 48. I'm Cheesehunter, and there's a extremely slight chance you might 
 find me in the Thrall server.
  
  For those of you that got stuck around levels 40-50, sometimes you get shamed because the expansion 
 already came out and you're missing out on all the great things that it offers, that's kind of 
 what happened to me.
  
  Well, that's all the time i have, cya folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianman1203
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  I owned and played warcraft for a few months but then just suddenly stopped. But recently i have 
 been driven to pick it up again and give it a shot. I can officially say.... I LOVE THIS GAME! From 
 the full terrain i can travel to all the things i can kill with my friends or even friends i can 
 kill, i can officially say i've never had this much fun in my life. I'm addicted to this game and 
 for all the right reasons. It plays good, graphics ain't nothing to sneeze at, the fun factor, 
 and the welcome to the n00bs by starting them off easy. Everyone has a chance to be great in the 
 game that is great. Never again will i be bored with a game, because now i have the world.... of 
 warcraft to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  If you like long lasting, never ending, endless possiblity, time consuming games, this is the one.
 
  
  This game is so time consuming ive wasted about 3 months of my life on it, playing time btw.
 
  
  Graphics- amazing on a high end computer.
  Gameplay- Never ending, life consuming, pateince needed game
  Sound- Awesome sounds and good 
 instense songs
  
  Buy this game if you want a game you'll never stop playing. Buy this game if you never want to 
 play another game -ever again-. Addicting, time consuming patinece needed though.
  
  About WOW-
  
  Level cap of 60. Takes about 10 days playing time if you play around 4 hours 
 a day and dont play on Weekends. Professions are time consuming in itself. Instances is where its 
 at... a game inside itself. **** awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalhenry11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing from all angles! The views are great and everything about it basically...
 
  
  Sound --
  This is one of the amazing things about the game. If you go into forests at night you can here 
 the bugs screeching and tree's braches above your head crunching together. Owl's hooting and the 
 beam of the moolight through the waving tree's. In the dawn of the day, birds tweeking and fresh 
 morning breeze sounds.
  
  Landscape --
  Once again, another great thing about the game. The landscaping is amazing. 10/10 i will say. In 
 the mountains, they are beautifully snow capped. The season's on the game is amazing. Snow, summer 
 etc. Dinstance landscape is great, the water is cool.
  
  Gameplay ---
  Absolutely amazing. This is soo great. Running around into the complete deep forests (i run around 
 i get lost most of the time) The world is beyond imaginative of its size. It is HUGE. Proberly 
 the best thing about the game is the size of it. So overall it is a great game! I reccomend this 
 is a game for anyone and everyone. It's worth the monthly cost! I think the cost is &pound;8 or 
 &pound;9 - Worth it trust me! This game out-rules Runescape by miles! Runescapes world compared 
 to W. O. W's world is like a Ant compared to the Universe! Please do NOT get too addited to it as 
 it is very addictive. Have a rest every hour i'd say. Because you still game experience when the 
 gain is turned off! (How cool is that) Play with Millions of people around the world, So enjoy 
 the game it is great! Thanks for reading my Review =)
  
  P. S It has great monsters on it too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I know if people read this, I will get flamed. 6 million people play this game. I for one, have 
 better standards than 6 million people. And I played for 168 hours. 168 hours I wasted.
  
  My idea of fun is not pressing a button over and over again (twice maybe. Maybe three times) . For 
 all you did (really) was right-click (or press your numbers, or click on your spell bar) , to attack 
 the monster. There were NO PUZZLES. So all you do is click/press with your friends. No challenge 
 to it.
  
  Sure you may die, but you can die in almost every video game. No matter how good or how bad. To 
 tell you the truth, I found Guild Wars way better. IT challenged me, had a nice engrossing storyline 
 I was thrown into, and had the entire world to myself (excluding cities and mission areas) . I don; t 
 even enjoy instances. It's still the same thing.
  
  If you want to right-click/press/click on a spell bar, then by all means bye this game then pay 
 a $15/month fee. But if you want a good game, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strifeblade1041
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is really all on your opinion! now i've looked at all the reviews who gave it a low score 
 and i'll break down their reasons
  
  - its waayy too expensive! 
  well i guess that is correct i mean it is pretty annyoning to have to get a monthly bill. (i have 
 to live off of the 10 day trials) but thanks to that they can fix all errors and make constant 
 updates
  
  - too long for a normal person 
  yaa this game does require you to have much patience but in the end its all worth it!!! dont play 
 only 12 levels then quit cause then you wont experience the whole thing that makes it so popular.
 
  
  - people who play it have no life 
  well thats a stereotype i'm about to break!!! quess what? i have a life and about 5 million other 
 people do as well!! the people who say this have no life but are too afraid to admit it (trust 
 me i know)
  
  - PvP is terrible 
  well i'm pretty glad about it actually. although some people WILL complain until you accept their 
 challenge but you cant blame the game for that one ^^
  
  now i'd like to say that this game is a risky choice to play cause it is VERY addicting. thats 
 why there are 7 million people playing duh!
  
  i personally love it and this game's graphics are really cool cause when this game came out the 
 graphics at that time werent very good. also some of the things you get to use and have in there 
 are really cool if your an rpg fan that is. if you arent then you never know, go on ahead and try 
 out the 10 day trial before thinking about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper909
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Those who play on WoW understand it at times will get boring i recomend this one for fans of MMORPG 
 or For those who have alot of spare time, hehe i have been to raids. Done everything and i say 
 Buy it , it features good graphics, Good pvp , Never ending quests and mindblowing dungeons full 
 of monsters and bosses from the moment you step into Stormwind everything changes fight as the 
 Hoard and run about anoying aliance or fight under the holy light and raid Orgrimar have fun its 
 worth the small cost does have a steep learning curve and hard to get items you want at higher 
 levels everything needs gold :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Greedo
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that I have played this game. Over 900 hours. Check my Xfire if you 
 don't believe me, it's greedo1.
  
  Anywho, to the point:
  
  The gameplay is horrible. All of the quests in this mediocre game are Go get X from Y so I can 
 Z , where X = Item, Y = Monster, and Z = Purpose. The one that you don't have to care about is 
 Z, since quests never have more than one path to complete them. There are some unique quests, where 
 you have to (guess what?) kill multiple monsters! Ooh the fun!
  
  A strong point in the gameplay department is the dungeons. They are very fun for the first time, 
 but after that you find out that you have to keep doing it over and over again since either your 
 item didn't drop or someone rolled a higher score than you on his dice. Yes, this game still uses 
 dice.
  
  The falling point of this game is the blandness in it all. Blizzard proclaims that you don't have 
 to grind... Well, isn't grinding doing the same thing over and over? Thats what this game is. Kill 
 a monster, get a crappy reward. Kill some more, get another crappy reward. Level up! Repeat for 
 59 more levels.
  
  Most of the quests are soloable, and those that aren't will be in another level or with more potions. 
 Playing with friends is kind of fun, but if they have to leave during a dungeon you're screwed.
 
  
  PVP is fun for a while, but it gets old because in lower levels, people create twinks that are 
 basicly low levels with crazy armor and the highest enchantments on that. Not fun to be faced by 
 five of them.
  
  Once you reach 60, you might think those days are over. WRONG! The people who hang out on their 
 computer for days at a time (which make up the majority of the fanbase) all have their Tier 3 armor 
 sets and explode your face as soon as you set foot in a battleground.
  
  What is a battleground? It's Blizzards way of trying to destroy world PVP. Yes, Blizzard doesn't 
 like it when players have fun and get together in huge raids to try and take out an enemy city. 
 There's even civilians that will attack you, but if they die your whole group looses a ton of honor 
 points.
  
  The different zones in the game aren't really that different. Some have more trees, and some have 
 different colors, but the enemies and environments stay largely the same.
  
  The graphics are alright for the games time, although Blizzard never thought to update them since 
 it was released so now they are all bland and dull.
  
  The sound is pretty bad, too. The music will get on your nerves, and if your a magic user you'll 
 be driven to insanity.
  
  The $15 a month fee is not worth it, due to the game being buggier than Toronto with 40C weather. 
 The community won't accept new players usually, and if you ask a question don't be surprised to 
 get the answer lol noob learn2play . I think this is caused by the stress and tension of having 
 to do the same thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrackoSoldat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I have a job. I have a girlfriend and spend lots of times with her. I have a /life/.
 
  
  But for me, World of Warcraft is still fun.
  
  I nearly always hear Those that have no life like WoW ... or in reality Th8se d8t hab on lyve like 
 wO. w . Honestly, It isn't important if you play the game for 2-3 hours or 24/7, you can still play 
 wow and enjoy it. Honestly, unless you don't like MMORPG's, or don't like fantasy/warcraft.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 Blizzard made my day with this one. The graphics are warcraft-ish, sometimes 
 funny, sometimes creepy (I. E. The Undercity) , but the graphics are enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: Hmm... Kill monsters for money and levels? No. WoW is more orientated to the story of 
 warcraft ,that you ,yourself can interact with, which is again, many times fun. Hard quests, Difficult 
 enemies, Many skills make warcraft not only one of the best MMORPG's Made, but also a very enjoyable 
 general kind of hack and slash game (if you're a fan of that) .
  
  Sound: Just... God. Best sound I have heard for years. It rarely get's repetative (for me at least) 
 and it isn't boring or annoying in the bit least. Just... Great. ... Fantastic...
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Problems : Lag. 
 Yes, It does lag often when there are many players. ( Get a high speed computer and that will dissapear 
 would be the anwser for your typical rich-gamer. For the poorer ones - Sadly, try to minimize graphic 
 quality. Should solve the problem) But this is the biggest of the problems.
  
  Players can be show-off's, annoying and other types of players, that can ruin a game for you.
 
  
  Enemy .. well... movement. They just can't move that well...
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  To sum it Up, WoW 
 Is a great (yet, addictive) game, that could use some tweeks and then it would be perfect. Blizzard, 
 Please, Tweek up Wow, Make many more area's and continue the great work. Wow Is intended for everyone, even 
 for those that can't spend much time on it. Even a few hours are quite enough to play a great gaming 
 session.
  
  (P. S. This review was made in my personal opinion and no offense towards anyone is intended.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  i usually just play guild wars but after that got boring i got WOW and. at first it seemed almost 
 exactly the same as GW. run around kill stuff do same missions in different places. get gear. nothing 
 Insanely special. it is the most well polished mmo out there i think but the monthly fee really 
 drags it down. i almost didn't try it. i will say i haven't been able to get a character past lvl 
 30 without losing interest. i buy a game card every few months. but it requires WAY too much dedication 
 which cuts into your social life. its got a cool style that will fit for a few years even though 
 its not top notch graphics. i guess the only problem i have with this game is the monthly fee as 
 i do with all MMO's but that won't change. i am able to play and maintain a social life but i will 
 never be able to get the best gear because that requires making WOW your life which is just sick. 
 just don't make this the only game you play and you are fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eb0
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is solid any way you look at it, there is one big flaw. That flaw is, if you 
 don't half days of free time then you won't put a dent in this game for years on end. Usually games 
 need hours of free time, World of Warcraft however requires you to play your character for 12+ 
 hours on end just to level up! Even if you are only focused on leveling and questing, the XP needed 
 to fit those hardcore MMORPG player isn't suitable for the normal gaming enthusiast. Now I never 
 thought I would say this, but World of Warcraft takes TOO long to level up! I sat there playing 
 for an entire day at level 35 and barely made 25% the way to the next level!
  
  Now playing this game has its good sides also. Whether that been running throught dungeons with 
 your friends, auctioning those class specific items you picked up but can't use, or leveling your 
 profession to create utter masterpieces. The graphics and gameplay are very impressive. They didn't 
 cut any corners when making this game! Which usually would be a good thing! But, with Blizzard 
 and all their knowledge, they should've thought, how can we adapt this game for those people who 
 only play a game for 1-2 hours a night when they can squeeze it in! After letting my game sit for 
 5 days on end, I get double XP for killing a beast, questing or anything else that will get me 
 XP. This might sound like a great idea, but leveling still TAKE FAR TOO LONG!
  
  Therefore, I say this game is fantastic, but one of the biggest time leeches with practically nothing 
 to show for it! When you get this game you will be left with one of two options. Either 1, play 
 this game 24/7/365 and forget about any sort of life you had going for you prior to your purchase, 
 or 2, play the game whenever you can squeeze it in and become completely frustrated with how little 
 impact your 5 hours of gaming during the week will make on your character!
  
  Battles become redundant, you'll hear the same grunts, swords slashes, voices and dumb sounds throughout 
 the entire game. This gets old quick. Changes in sounds and battles would be a welcomed update/
 
  
  Your choice but in the end, this game will become the biggest waste of time you will ever embark 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvtos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  OK. An MMORPG. 8 Million people play this game, or have played this game, and that number will 
 increase with the expansion release. What can i say, i bought this game in May 2006 just before 
 my college semester ended and wanted to give this revolutionary game a shot, being that this marked 
 it as my first MMORPG to participate in. I even dumped 6 months worth of time onto my credit card 
 thinking i would still be playing by then. Wanna know what happened? I played it for june, july, 
 and most of august. The highest lvl i got to was 33, but i had like 4 characters, the other three 
 being lvl 22, 19, and 4. I just couldnt get enough of the variety. But it hit me real hard... this 
 game is just too time consuming. I love it when Blizzard says that you can play for 30 mins at 
 a time and still get stuff done. They are right... but they should add too that statement that it 
 will take you YEARS at that pace to get to the end level. And thats a lot of money. Others have 
 said this and let me add myslef to the others THIS GAME IS GREAT AND CAN BE ENJOYED AS LONG AS 
 YOU MAKE IT YOUR LIFE. WARNING TO THOSE WHO HAVE A LIFE... DONT PLAY THIS GAME. THIS IS NOT A GAME 
 TO SPEND 10 MIN A DAY ON.... THAT IS COMPLETE BULLSH__.
  
  For those who still want to play this game... read on.
  
  The Gameplay is great. Thats why i 
 stuck with it. You run around killing, escorting, retrieving, and yeh those three over and over 
 again in variable ways to get to lvl 60. The variety makes it fun. Yeh grinding can get boring 
 but thats why its called grinding.
  
  Graphics, ummm ive seen better but its understandable considering all the stuff and people around.
 
  
  Sound, nothing spectacular but it aint crappy.
  
  Value: LoL The value is limitless. You make the value. Spend 100s of hours on one character and 
 then start over from the begining and do it again, until you done it with all classes and races. 
 OVERALL: I gave it a shot and found out that this game requires a lot of time to enjoy. But that 
 time ran out for me when school started again and i realize that i will never return to WoW. May 
 be if some accident puts me in a wheelchair for a couple months, then yeh i might get back into 
 it :)
  
  But hey, if u got the time to waste, and intend on wasting it, go ahead, you wont be disappointed. 
 I know I wasnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  While I am writing this the expansion will have been released but this is where the most popular 
 MMORPG began. While some points of it may have been annoying, like trying to find three scroll 
 pieces in the Badlands which I found the first two in 10 minutes and the third piece in three hours, 
 it helps you do one thing... level up. Nothing is quite as exciting as leveling up to get new skills 
 and use a new weapon that has been waiting for you in the bank, gnawing at you to level up until 
 you can weild it. Truely mesmerising.
  
  At this time I am level 45 but dont play it since I have other important things to do, although 
 the expansion pack is tempting. The thing that realy annoys me is when you make a mistake and realise 
 how stupid you are. I bought a mace at the auction house for 12 gold for my hunter who is an elf, 
 after I bought it I went to a weapons trainer to learn it and then when I couldnt I asked my guild 
 and they told me elves cant use maces. I was incredibly angry as you would be.
  
  Except for all of the mistakes I kept making in the game I found it great fun and got into it thanks 
 to my cousin and in return got a load of my friends into it. Going to dungeons is great as you 
 all need to watch out for each other which is great fun. One thing that was really annoying was 
 when me and four others went through a really difficult dungeon and as we all reached the end, 
 one of them took all of the goodies and teleported out. One problem though is the people who take 
 it too seriously which is pretty weird as its only a game and its all for fun.
  
  While th training up can get a bit boring and seem strange at the beginning once you leave the 
 place you start and vernture out you realise the true beauty and vastness of this game, it makes 
 all other games looks tiny! Fighting monsters is great fun with parties especially the bosses, 
 but Player vs Player is truly unquie. Both sides are teleported to different sides of arenas and 
 objectievs have to be completed. It is good fun but very annoying when people gang up on you and 
 some modes are extremly difficult.
  
  Overal if you want to start an MMORPG this is the only one to recommend, while quite expensive 
 it is genius and a great new experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  After playing through the trial I was starstruck by what I thought was an excellent game in every 
 way possible, after playing the game for well over 100 hours I can tell you that this game isn't 
 all its cracked up to be, when you first start off everything seems so.... awe inspiring, so big, 
 the game does that very well, but after awhile it really doesnt seem so big. When I first started 
 my trial I started playing with some random guy, a guy I've ended up becoming very good friends 
 with, after my trial ended and I bought WoW I deleted all of my characters because it all seemed 
 too overwhelming, I didnt remember anything, so I deleted my characters and started from scratch 
 new names, new races, new identity, I played for a few levels and received an invite to a guild, 
 I cant remember the name of the guild because I ended up leaving it a day or two later (heheh) So 
 anyways, I received the invite and talked in the guild chat for a day or so, when this guy said 
 he'd make some armour for me, he said he's switch over to his alt, a level 30 something dwarven 
 hunter, it was the same guy I had met during my trial, this really put the WoW into perspective, 
 out of all the people in the server (Aggramar) I end up getting a guild invite from him?! The chances 
 of that happening are... well, 1 out of however many people play on aggramar.
  
  Graphics: Guild Wars Does a much better job here, it doesnt quite have the same open wide world 
 feeling, but it looks ALOT better than Wow does, although Wow doesnt do a bad job with the graphics 
 either
  
  Sound: To be honest, after awhile the sound gets repetitive, there are only like 3-4 soundtracks, 
 I ended up just turning off my music, battle wise the sounds are pretty good though
  
  Gameplay: This one really depends on what you are into if you like PVE this game is for you, If 
 you want PVP action, go grab guild wars.
  
  This game really sucks the life out of you, it is time consuming, you CANNOT just sit down for 
 half an hour and expect to accomplish anything, you have to grind for at least 2-3 hours to get 
 anywhere, if you have a life, go grab guild wars, if you have no life at all, no intentions of 
 getting one, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubalibres
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This is my first time playing a mmorpg, but it is not my first warcraft game. I chose this game 
 over City of Heroes, because i have played warcraft be for and liked it. And i Could not be happier 
 with my choice. The fighting in this game is easy and quick to learn, The time to heal and recover 
 mana is a good pace, and leveling can be done quick if devoted to it or at a decent pace by just 
 questing. Best thing though has to be the ability to play with the million other people that have 
 the game. including ur friends and family.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The review in gamestop said it and i am agreeing with it the art style in this game is awsome. 
 and the animals look great, and the fact that when u change ur clothes ur character changes into 
 it was awsome.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The music in the game is good and changes with the environment. The monsters you fight yell for 
 help or let out a screch when losing. very solid part of the game.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  It has alot of stuff put into this game it takes 5 cd's to put it into ur computer. thats just 
 unheard of. The monthly fee is a bummer but really most the games i buy i get sick of in like a 
 couple of weeks. so i dish out 30-60 bucks for maybe a couple months. but here i pay 20 and then 
 go monthly so i figure if i go over 3 months then i spent what any other game would cost but atleast 
 i am still playing it.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  It's Warcraft but on a much bigger scale, Enough said.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I cant give this 
 game a higher score only cuz the servers can go wack at times. Other than that this is a must have 
 for mmorpg players or anyone for that matter. {reviewed by you'r [] D [] [] \/ [] [] D} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kienothas
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  When I started playing WoW I was in college and had plenty of free time on my hands to play; around 
 6+ hours a day. At that point the game was fun, and I really didn't care if WoW didn't live up 
 to its promise of being playable for the casual player. Leveling your toon is fun if you find some 
 friends to quest with. My favorites times in this game were running around Azeroth with a bunch 
 of my friends, questing, killing alliance mercilessly, and just getting into trouble. But if you 
 have a job, just forget about being competitive in PvP.
  
  Level 60 really puts a damper on the experience. To get your gear, plan on running each instance 
 multiple times, that is IF you managed to get into a decent guild which, being generally comprised 
 of 50-70 teenagers, has the very distinct chance of experiencing some adolescent drama which will 
 then break the group apart (but this is not new to MMO's) . The 40-man instances were fun the first 
 time and just downright boring the 50 times after that. They can take up to 5 hours a night depending 
 on your guild, and a hardcore guild usually raids 5 nights out of 7 every week. In these instances, 
 prepare for loot fights, constant argument, name-calling, and all other kinds of dissent. And if 
 you are really really lucky, you'll get to bid (usually with DKP) on an item. But more than likely 
 you'll pass out at 3 a. m. without anything to show for it.
  
  Now here's the catch. Don't feel like spending 30 hours a week raiding? Then forget PvP. You will 
 be so gimped that you will be unable to compete in PvP. The gaps between decent gear and uber gear 
 are so vast, you'll feel like you are still lvl 40 fighting lvl 60's. You may read posts on the 
 forums about skill beating out gear etc. Do not believe them, this is not true because there is 
 very little skill involved in this game. Like most MMO's, gear is the main factor.
  
  So, if you have a job or a family or anything else in your life more important than video games, 
 do not get this game. Don't get me wrong; it is a great game, but is not and was never geared toward 
 casual players, despite what Blizzard claims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rakinur
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  WoW I like this game it kinda good but it would be much better with new sword and speed up more 
 all tho i love it. thanks i love to play this games in free time. but when i play some time cause 
 of my computer it get slow. i think the speed requare of RAM need to be lower. i also think the 
 price is not so bad its in a perfect place. i think WoW is one of the fastest growing game i have 
 ever seen and i grantz them on their sucess. keep up the good work and bring us some more new WoW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Behold the masterpiece of Blizzard Entertainment. After enjoying Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, 
 and the expansion, Warcraft III: Frozen Throne for hundreds/thousands of hours, I decided that 
 I had enough faith in Blizzard to try out their MMORPG. The only MMORPG I had really played before 
 WoW was Maple Story, which was free and decent-quality. But this game redefined MMORPG for me, 
 and has brought anything and everything to the genre. With 8 million players and growing, World 
 of Warcraft is EASILY among the best games I have ever laid my hands on.
  
  You begin as a creation of your own. You can pick Horde or Alliance, Human or Gnome, Undead or 
 Orc, Tailor or Blacksmith, red hair or blue hair, broken jaw or beautiful face; your character 
 is what your imagination and your liking can create.
  
  You are then ready to set off in to the World of Warcraft. Protected starter villages provide a 
 safe and convenient place for new players to get used to gameplay, the quest system and the world 
 in general. It provides a place to meet friends which you can team up with to complete harder quests, 
 or just to discuss various aspects of the game. Finally, you are ready to go out into the bigger 
 parts of the world, often unprotected by your alliance, brooding with powerful enemies, but computer 
 and player, that are also trying to find their place in the world.
  
  The gameplay is absolutely amazing. You can choose to be a Warrior, Mage, Paladin, Warlock, Rogue, 
 Druid, Hunter, Priest, or Shaman that is either a Human, Gnome, Dwarf, Night Elf, Undead, Orc, 
 Tauren, or Troll. Every combination features different abilities, a different look, and different 
 storyline pieces that you put together in your world. This game features a MASSIVE quest system, 
 with endless quests to take part in which reward you with plethora of items, weapons, EXP, and 
 friends. The way battle is conducted is a masterpiece for an MMORPG, whether it be a solo fight 
 against computers, a PvP fight against another player, or a 40 person raid group trying to take 
 down a massive dragon. No matter what it is, the innovative system will always keep you interested, 
 and addicted.
  
  The world is absolutely massive. It can harbor hundreds of thousands of characters simultaneously, 
 with ease. Each area of the world it meticulously designed with stunning scenery and landscape. 
 Every new area will bring different skies, different weather, new mountains, or rolling hills, 
 or even a flurry of snow. Wherever you go, may it be the barrens, the ocean, or the snow-capped 
 mountains, you will never cease to be amazed by the beautiful landscaping.
  
  The soundtrack of the game is great. Sometimes songs can get repetitive in-game, but then you will 
 enter a new area, and the song you've been wanting to hear for hours will begin to play. The songs 
 are, in general, a feat. Seasons of War is the best in my opinion, as I can find myself humming 
 it sometimes to myself.
  
  The graphics are very good. Like I said earlier, the scenery and the landscaping are the magic 
 of the game, and they use a blend of real and almost cartoonish aspects in characters. In the opening 
 cinematic of the game, you see BEAUTIFUL graphics infused in a 2-3 minute sequence with Seasons 
 of War playing the background. You can tell lots of work went in to this alone, and I watch it 
 sometimes when I'm bored. This alone makes me want to jump on, and get right back into the action.
 
  
  The value of this game is easily a 10. You can meet life-long friends in this game. There is no 
 end to the diversity of its people. You can meet anyone from a 7 year old kid to a 60 year old 
 married couple enjoying the masterpiece that is World of Warcraft.
  
  I have only given a perfect 10 to one other game before, and that is Final Fantasy VII. Blizzard 
 Entertainment has come close in the past with Warcraft III: RoC and FT, but this is an undeniable 
 masterpiece and deserves a 10 without a doubt. With 8 million players and growing, this is a necessity 
 in ANY gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is highly overrated. I have nothing against this game but its just doesn't convince me 
 its the best game ever. idk how people really like this game i get that it has a HUUUUUUUUUGE environments 
 and all the different monsters u can fight. What pisses me off about this game is that u have to 
 pay to play yep its sucks when u think about it. This games does not have top notch graphics its 
 looks like crap. guild wars looks better if blizzard can make it lok like that then ill like the 
 game. This game does not impress me the only great thing is the cinematic but when u think about 
 it all blizzard games have awsome cinematic to me this game is a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muboyboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Yo Yo!
  
  This must be the best MMORPGFTDA ever created man!
  It has hundreds of monsters, dungeons, weapons, armors, classes, quests, talents, proffesions, 
 bosses, towns, and alot more!
  You can choose to be an alliance or a horde.
  The Horde is like the bad guys in the world of warcraft and they got the orcs, troll, undead and 
 the taurens they like own the half world and got there own class The Shamans.
  And if you choose to be one of them you will like help the burning legion to grow big and powerfull 
 again.
  
  But you can allsow choose to be an alliance.
  In the alliance you can choose to a human, night elf, dwarf or a gnome.
  Your quest is to grow 
 strong and get to high lvl and destroy the horde and the burning legion.
  They allsow have a special class the paladin.
  
  The highest lvl is 60 and when you come that 
 far you can mostely relax or you can to dungeons and get epic stuff or go to the battle grounds 
 get honour.
  
  You can creat your own guild or join one.
  
  With your guild you go to dungeons allot more.
  
  Well anyway it is an amazing game.
  
 
  Cya when my review comes on the BC. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moobaka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  After reading some other reviews about this game I was left in shock. How can anyone rate wow so 
 badly? The answer to that question is that they are single minded. Graphics are outstanding, you 
 just need a graphics card that is of quality, and even if you don't agree with me there, who cares 
 about graphics? The gameplay is what makes a game good, and when it comes to wow, the gameplay 
 is amazing. Its very simplistic, very easy to learn, but yet there is a certain deph to it that 
 just becomes incredible. If you have not reached level 60 then you should not rate this game, because 
 of the simple fact that, that is when you can truly experince this game at its core. Getting to 
 level 60 is simply the first layer to many in wich will leave you in endless upon endless hours 
 of gameplay. I've been playing wow for 2 years non-stop and I still can't get enough of it. World 
 of Warcraft is the best MMORPG that has ever been released and if you havn't played it, and looking 
 to get it, then do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbcnoob
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I own The best MMORPG on the planet, World of Warcraft. And to find this game interesting and amazing, 
 acocording to my friend, left me following the shadows of the people who spend time and money to 
 get to Level 60.
  
  Well the gameplay is way too simple. Maybe if the combat was actually in your control it would 
 bring much more fun and excitement into the WoW. The most fun i ever have on WoW is talking to 
 my friends. The graphics are so n64 like it makes me sick. To own an Xbox 360 is an excitement, 
 but this WoW brings no happiness. I just sit there looking at the screen, barely moving my hands, 
 going back and forth from place to place. While im traveling, i hear the most boringest music ever, 
 i almost fall asleep. With the regualer Ahh, Huura from people and creatures and the Pshu sound 
 from Leveling, this game is nothing to compared to Oblivion.
  
  Yes this game is a waste of time, but a waste of time that sucks your brain. What i would love 
 is to see an Elder Scrolls MMORPG. Now that, that would be paying the 10-30 a month fee. Other 
 than the delayed graphics, boring leveling system, way to easy combat, hours of time gone by, start 
 creating a mental insanity, you may want to put ur mouse down, go outside. Or if you dont like 
 that go outside, go to your local Eb/Gamestop and buy a PS3 or Xbox 360. Not the Wii, too childish, 
 like WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  I've been playing for 11 months now and been with a end game guild for the last 8 months. After 
 a year of play this game is my primary gaming entertainment; I can't get enough of the end game 
 raiding. The benefit of being in a low maintenance, high end raiding guild helps; without the guild 
 the game would be boring only because there is not enough 5/10 man group content available to keep 
 me busy for months. WoW is a great game... too good in the matter of fact, but not perfect. It 
 still eats into my social life a tad more then I like, but that's my fault. Burning Crusade with 
 25 man content should help get more social life in too. In the end I'm dying for Burning Crusade 
 to keep me humming right along; but for now I'm playing Guild Wars while I wait several more days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekno_monkey12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  WoW has GREAT gameplay.. i love it, an almost unlimited world, with liek 2 second load time in beginning 
 andthats about i.... the downside with the unlimited world (no load time for new areas) is that 
 the graphics have to be toned down, and so he graphics are worse than Guild Wars which has more 
 polygons and HDR Lighting... other than that GREAT GAME
  then again so is GW =D
  
  WoW has a a mediocre minimap system, i hate it, its hard to find things, compared to Guild Wars's 
 navigation system. This is one more con... very easy to get lost...
  
  BUY THE GAME!! BUY THE GAME!! BUY THE GAME!! BUY THE GAME!! BUY THE GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrike00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, ask yourself if youve ever played an rpg in your life. then take those happy moments you 
 had questing through dungeons with a small party on your windows 95 and delete it. get rid of it 
 all cause what you have bought or are going to buy will change your life.
  
  this is the ultimate game.
  i say again the ultimate game! and i dont even like rpg...
  im 
 more ino fps but once i got started goodbye moh and fear..
  i even bought extractionpoint and havnt opend the box ive been playin wow
  so much.
  my girlfriend 
 know what i do at night mostly, sit on msn talkin to her and playin wow..
  you may call it sad but blame the game, its just too good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shlubber
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best overall mmorpg to date.
  
  Plenty of things to keep you busy once you get to level 60 though the journey there can be very 
 boring and repetitive unless you know good quest paths.
  
  The PvP side of things has recently been made more accessible to the casual player which has it's 
 good and bad sides depending on what type of player you are.
  
  I personally found the PvE side of the game very very boring. You can pretty much get through the 
 40 man instances using only 2 or 3 buttons, not so much in Naxxaramas but personally I found MC, 
 BWL and AQ40 to be boring as hell.
  
  The 20 man raid instances can be quite fun though with varied boss fights and shorter reset timers.
 
  
  The main problem with this game for me is the customer support which is the worst I have ever come 
 across. 90% of the GM's are idiots and don't know what you are talking about most of the time so 
 you usually get a copied and pasted reply if you even get one at all. There also seems to be no 
 consistency in what they say (e. g. pertition the same question/problem twice and your likely to 
 get a completely different answer) .
  
  Servers can go down for lengthy amounts of time with no explaination as to why or when they can 
 be expected be come back online. The games community is pretty poor too which you can notice just 
 from having a quick look at the forums.
  
  If you do intend to start playing this game then I warn you that it can be extremely addictive 
 and of course time consuming.
  
  This is based from playing the EU game which gets far far worse service than the US one does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC2pwnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has finally made a mmorpg that has gripped the world. The game has proved its worth by 
 having so many players and a system of admins that keep the game running and keep the fun flowing
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a unique way because of how the stories from all the quests drive the 
 player and how it has a creative creatures and clever moves
  
  Graphics: Truely excellent graphics and near perfect designs of creatures
  
  Sound: Great, albeit 
 similar to many other pieces of work
  
  Value: This game is worth a lot with the flat $20 and the $12-$15 a month fee is worth it for for 
 such a game
  
  Tilt: kickass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the single most addicting and fun MMORPG ever made, World of Warcraft will literally 
 swallow you up in its massive regions and breathtaking cities. World of Warcraft boasts immersive 
 quests, intriguing secrets, and over 2000 quests for you and your friends to fulfill.
  
  World of Warcrafts gameplay is much like any other MMORPG, but it takes the complexity to a whole 
 new level. The on-screen interface is simple to understand along with the minimap, hotkey system, 
 and other miscellaneous helpful buttons. You can expand the minimap to the massive world map and 
 view various locations discovered or other landmarks. I like the hotkey system because there are 
 six different trays you alternate between so can put hotkeys on. I prefer to organize them in 
 categories like magics, special skills, and macros. The other buttons include a button to access 
 a window showing your player, your players skills, etc., a help button with a nice search interface, 
 and an engine to find people or groups. The battle system is basic in the arenas of magic, ranged, 
 and melee in that you simply click on the foe to engage in combat. During this time you can cast 
 various spells from either the spellbook or the hotkey menu. Controls in general are comfortable 
 as you must just use the arrow keys to move or just use the mouse. Either way provides a nice way 
 to move. You can even press NUM LOCK to move automatically. The games social system works just 
 great after you meet some people and join guilds. You can whisper to people over a private channel 
 and talk on a public channel only visible by other guild members. You and your friends or other 
 guild members can group together and take on quests, which is very fun. Other than all of the basic 
 things an MMORPG would include, World of Warcraft offers extras like buying pets, mining, cooking, 
 creating trinkets, and experiencing special events like Christmas and New Years Day. For example, 
 on Christmas Day I traveled to snowy Ironforge to open a bunch of gifts left to me by Greatfather 
 Winter (World of Warcrafts equivalent to Santa Claus) . Youll even see towns such as Goldshire 
 decorated with wreathes, lights, presents, and trees with little sword ornaments. Other things 
 include the purchase of egg nog and ginger cookie recipes and snowballs. And New Years major cities 
 such as Stormwind City celebrate by shooting off fireworks in the night sky. Just the simple fact 
 the game adds new things during these special times makes it that much more enjoyable. Gameplay 
 is so vast and so immersive one must really get into it to experience it. Speaking of experience, 
 you will be able to increase your players level when you battle the numerous monsters, discover 
 new places, and complete quests. On the game interface theres a purple bar that has numerous littler 
 segments, this is your experience bar. Once filled, you gain more strength, health, mana if a spellcaster, 
 and something called talent points. Depending on your class will depend on what kind of talents 
 you will be able to use. Basically talent points are used for putting more power into specific 
 skills such as holy, protection, or retribution. The talent system will remind you of Warcraft 
 III if youve ever played it. The experience system is nice because you should fight monsters close 
 to your level, and anything not within five levels of your own you will gain no experience. This 
 just forces the player to look for stronger foes to fight, thus allowing for more experience.
 
  
  In World of Warcraft, you truly enter a new world. The world is seamlessly blended, which means 
 transitions to different areas of the continent there is no loading, but with one or two exceptions. 
 The water is blue and flowing, and the trees are green and swaying. The foes are designed nicely 
 and the dungeons are made very well. Youll have fun just browsing around Ironforge or Stormwind 
 City just looking at the spectacle of beauty. The only cutscene in the game is at the beginning, 
 but it is done to perfection as it shows each of the races in their respective environments. During 
 combat magic spells are done nicely and the blood, though somewhat pixilated, looks very nice as 
 well. And each region differs greatly, and they are each very unique. You can explore around in 
 Elwynn Forest, take a trip to the barren Westfall, then maybe go through the creepy Duskwood, and 
 then maybe a trip to the nice lakeside getaway of Lakeshire. I love it when you can take trips 
 on the Griffon Riders, then you can see the vast landscape. World of Warcrafts world is absolutely 
 huge, for it has two huge continents. One is basically for the Alliance (the good guys) and the 
 other for the Horde (the bad guys) . And thats just the two main continents, not to mention some 
 of the islands. Exploration alone will keep you very busy.
  
  World of Warcrafts sound is just fine. Youll hear the music playing that fits the area you are 
 in, such as in Darkshire in Duskwood where the music is pretty somber or in a tavern where the 
 music is jovial. Other than that, the sound is pretty standard. Youll hear the swinging of an 
 axe, the grunting of your player, or even the choo-choo effect when doing the train emoting. 
 The closest thing to talking is when you do the silly emote where your player will tell a silly 
 joke, of course depending on race as well. So sound is solid.
  
  Now value can be an issue. You can buy the game new for $20 at EB Games, but then comes the monthly 
 fee. You have to pay $14.99 a month to play the game, but the first month is free just to see if 
 you like it. The game is long, hard, and very rewarding, so youll probably want to go through 
 as different races and such from time to time. $15 a month is steep, yes, but the game is worth 
 it. World of Warcraft is one of those games that is classic and just plain awesome. I decided that 
 it was worth it to pay just to play the game. I think the steep fee is worth it, people, most definitely 
 worth it.
  
  Tilt will keep the player coming back. Though the leveling up is tough in the higher-ups, and youll 
 be likely to die several hundred times before you really get going, the quests and people you see 
 are epic. I recommend World of Warcraft to anyone looking for the ultimate MMORPG, and whos willing 
 to pay the fee. In my opinion, World of Warcraft is the best and master MMORPG out there right 
 now. You'll make friends, you'll make enemies, start guilds, join guilds, and innumerable other 
 things. World of Warcraft is epic in scope and flawless in gameplay. Dont miss out on this incredible 
 online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbtrey3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I have never given a 10 to any game I have played but Warcraft is certainly worthy of this achievment. 
 This game is actually so good that it may ruin all other games that you play after this. Let me 
 expain...
  
  I enjoy RPG games. I loved Zelda as a kid and quickly became captivated by the Elder Scrolls franchise. 
 However, all these games lacked in one area. After the hours upon hours you put into the game what 
 do you have to show for it? Sure, you can invite a friend over to show them your new armor or weapon 
 but what's the point? Warcraft takes all the fun and enjoyment from games like these and allows 
 you to share your accomplishments with the world. If you spend days working to get a new epic horse, 
 you get to proudly use it in front of the online world, who can all appreciate the time and effort 
 spent.
  
  Of course, the MMO style of gameplay is nothing new in today's online age. What Warcraft has done 
 is perfect this type of gameplay. The character customization is excellent and most importantly 
 all of the classes are balanced and have equal strenghts and weaknesses (despite everyone's complaints 
 they really are very well balanced) . Finally, Warcraft has recently announced an expansion to their 
 already enormous universe. So if you are reading this review to decide whether the game is right 
 for you, then know this. You will be able to have months if not years of gameplay with your purchase 
 of this game. Yes, Gears of War is a great game but it's over in less than 6 hours. With Warcraft 
 the game never ends, the world is always changing, and every minute you are away you are truly 
 missing out on the excitement.
  
  If you are on the wall about whether or not to get this game.... get up right now, go to the store 
 and buy it! You will never look at video games the same way again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  i fell in love with the warcraft franchise right in the beginning many moon ago, and i'm not talking 
 bout the mmo! But for some reason i just never picked this one up, untill much insistince from 
 friends convinced me that as an avid gamer i was missing something:
  
  My initial impression was disapointment at the level of customisation in your character's physical 
 appearance, there is really none other than a few hair styles!! The graphics while not horrible 
 are toontown childish, think fable but poorer quality.
  
  Gameplay is very hard to nail because this is a timewarper, the tasks are so simple and require 
 so little input from you that it is highly addictive, and thats scary, (think mining ore on Eve) . 
 Your brain literally shuts down and 12 hours later with drool coming from the corner of your mouth 
 you say to yourself what am i doing? .
  
  Social interaction and the world size is what makes this game, ITS A 3D ONLINE CHATROOM. The world 
 size is enormous and the expansion will add more!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! To sum up: the biggest let down 
 is letting the combat system, no skill required. higher level+ higher weapon wins, there is basically 
 no talent necessary in this game as thats not what its about, if ya wanna hook up with friends 
 in 3d costume, and have a bigger number on your tag than the guy beside you, then this is the one 
 for you. If you're looking for a game that lets your  shine 
 then its a let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumpyz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Well if you are reading this, it means you have clicked on the link and are looking for some juicey 
 details to World of Warcraft or better known as WoW too over 7.5 million players which WoW reached 
 on November 9, 2006. WoW is created by the company called Blizzard and is the fourth game in the 
 Warcraft series excluding any expansions and the cancelled Warcraft Adventures: Lord of the Clans. 
 World of Warcraft is set in the world of Azeroth which is currently divided into to continents, 
 the continent of Eastern Kingdoms and Kalimodor, which both respectively are populated by the Horde 
 (Undead, Orcs, Tuaren, Trolls, and recently added Blood Elves) and the Alliance (Humans, Elves, 
 Gnomes, Dwarfs and recently added Draenei) . Well enough of history lets get into the review, after 
 all that is what you came for.
  
  I will be giving WoW a review on five major categories: Gameplay, Music, Story, Community, Price.
 
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  
  The gameplay in World of Warcraft is very good, you have the freedom of doing what you would do 
 in real life, well almost, the movement doesn't feel bulky, where in some games your character 
 running feels like your pulling on a two ton elephant. Blizzard has done a good job in giving the 
 players a very lenient control, and with the add ons you can do a lot of things. WoW like any massively 
 multiplayer role playing game or better known as MMORPG is a typical hack and slash game, you will 
 spend a good time of your gaming killing endless amounts of mobs for xp, for a quest or just because 
 there isn't anything else to put your time in. There are a wide variety of mobs with a wide variety 
 of levels which gives you a good chance of killing and gaining some descent xp. One thing to note 
 is that with the mob marking, where when you land the first hit on the monster it esentially becomes 
 linked to you and that way you will not lose your kill if someone comes by in the last second and 
 kills the monster not only stealing your kill but whatever goodies the monster was going to drop. 
 And a final thing to note is that everyone needs some sleep, so why not ingame, if you stay in 
 an inn or a major city for a period of time you become rested and every kill will give you double 
 the xp, so for those casual gamers, this gives them a bit more chance to level quickly. All in 
 all the gameplay is fairly solid.
  
  Music 9.5/10
  
  The music in WoW is very excellently done, and I am mad in love with the little tune that plays 
 when you enter an inn, my good I can't resist that little tune. Every instance, which I forgot 
 to mention in the gameplay section has its own music, which gives it a nice little touch depending 
 on the terrain and the environment. Overall the music is nicely done, but there are times when 
 the music somehow just annoyies me crazy, and I turn off my speakers when I am going past that 
 place. **Now that I have a little more space I will have to explain that WoW is one world, with 
 many instances, so you are basically all logging in one server, with everyone else, but you are 
 spread out in multiple instances, which is how they reduce the lagging, and there are currently 
 a wide amount of servers to choose from, from PVE (Player versus Environment) to Normal to PVP 
 (Player versus Player) there is a bit for everyone. If you join a PVE server you are basically 
 going to have all your experiences with the environment and questing, but you can still PVP through 
 different battle grounds such as Warsong Gulch and the Arathi Basins. A Normal server is the middle 
 ground between PVE and PVP where you can turn on and off PVP through chat commands and you can 
 enter PVP whenver your heart contents, and change back to PVE when you want questing, and everyone 
 knows what PVP is, these servers especialize in player versus player, and most likely a good amount 
 of your time will go into doing that. This should have went under Gameplay.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  The graphics in WoW aren't as good as Guild Wars, but I like it, it is blotchy 
 at points, when you are laggin but over all the graphics of the game hold it together to deliver 
 a good gaming experience. BTW Blizzard I like the coloring of the game, it just feels so good in 
 some instances you just dont want to leave. The sceneray is very good, and I enjoy sitting on top 
 of a very huge mountain while being attacked from behing by 10 mobs watching the senery and eventaully 
 dieing because I didn't look at my health, and then running my ghostly self to my corpse to find 
 the mob hasn't moved back yet, and I have to wait a few more minutes. I like that there is no death 
 penalty besides time, but sometimes that time is very important, and when you die a lot of times 
 your gear takes considerable damage which takes considerable money to repair. The economy is set 
 up in Copper - Silver - Gold. 100 copper makes a gold, 100 silver makes a gold, 100 gold and your 
 a rich person.
  
  Story ??/10
  
  I still havent figured out if there is a story, there is a nice little intro movie in the beginning 
 of the game, but so far I still havent figured out the main story, its like one of those movies 
 that you watch untill the end trying to puzzle out what is story in it. Basically as soon as you 
 start the game you start questing, and the questing system fairly good, although I still wish they 
 gave you an arrow on your minimap telling you where to go next for your quest, like it does in 
 Guild Wars. So I will give the questing system a rating instead of the story, all in all it is 
 pretty solid and I am liking it so far, even though you do the same task over and over, kill this, 
 bring that, go there do this kinda thing
  
  Questing - 8.5/10
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  Community 8.9/10
  
  Yes I will not give it a 9, 
 cause you cant make me :p, but the community in WoW has a descent number of 10 year old snobs with 
 their sarcastic remarkas, allthough I haven't heard it as much as in other games, if you ask for 
 help 7/10 times you may find someone that will help you, and 9/10 times the people will answer 
 your question without the witty remark of 0mG l00kz at the n0ob! . I enjoy it, and making friends 
 isn't hard, basically if you ever join a party 9/10 times you will find someone that will friend 
 you, and you can add them to friends really easy. I guess Guilds will come under community, there 
 are a wide number guilds roaming around in game and a number more being created each day. You can 
 get invited to a guild as early as level one, and usually by level 5 you will figure out that this 
 guild will never go up. I have guild hopped and I am currently in my fiftth guild, and I hate to 
 admit it, I will leave this one as well. The biggest problem is to find a guild that has an active 
 number of players, not just you being online everytime. Over all I find the community very pleasant, 
 and maybe next time I will give the community a 9/10
  
  Price - 8.5/10
  
  Yes people there is a price, you will get chraged a shiny penny every month you play this game, 
 when you buy the game first time you are given one month free upon subscription to more months, 
 and for those who don't want to give out their credit card number you can use the pre-paid game 
 cards which I use, because currently I have no credit card, and paypal account I have not created. 
 Overall I pay a littleover $22 Canadian per month to play this game, and I have decided to play 
 it atleast for a couple more months before I decide if its good bye time. If you want to try it 
 out, you can get the game $29 Canadian with one month free, try it out see how it is, you may never 
 know if you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baterxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  You ever played MMORPG, you ever played Warcraft, that is less important thing when it comes to 
 WoW. Game is easy to learn how to play, but your skills must grow if you want to become someone 
 in game. When you first start the game u won`t feel it right, but when you spend few hours there 
 you will understand. This is best game ever, there is something for everyone, this is game without 
 end. You will spend lot of days just to come to the beginning of real playing, leveling from 1 
 to 60 lvl is just really good pregame, but 60 lvl is something special. When you reach 60 lvl there 
 is whole new world in front of you. Words can`t describe this game, nothing can describe it, you 
 just need to feel it. But, not everything is perfect, after many, many hours spent in game you 
 will feel like everything is same, but Blizzard resolved that problem too, nuw patches are regularly 
 updated, with new contest, new istances and much more, and every year there will be expansion with 
 incredible impact to game. Blizzard really done incredible job. I write this review few days before 
 first WoW expansion is coming out, i must admit that i stop playing WoW, but this is best game 
 ever, i quit becous some other reasons, and that don`t have much with this game. In my final word 
 i want to say that you don`t have any reason not to play this game, you must at least try, give 
 it chance to show you what it got. Monthly fee isn`t problem, surely it`s not too much for this 
 game, you should play it if its twice as expensive as it is. This is game for you, this is game 
 for everyone, just don`t let the game to ruin your life, don`t become addict to game, it game, 
 play it for fun, fun and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I can see why alot of ppl like this game. Its simple. Very easy. Highly repetitive, and you dont 
 risk much at all at anytime. Its a nice safe mmo for the whole family. Pvp is ok i guess, and endgame 
 consists of endless 8 hour raids. (Hmm wonder is that has anything to do with p2p. Anyways I cant 
 say anything really bad about it but I cant say anything really good about it either. I tried it 
 of course to see what all the hype was about and again hype has left me wanting. Try it, you might 
 like it. If its not grown up enouph give it to your kids. Youll prob never see them again!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyOz300
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has brought gaming to a new level with an entire world to explore this game is amazing. 
 If you are the type of person that likes to explore and see what you can find this game is just 
 for you. The world is massive with caves, forts, and towns filled with enemies that are just waiting 
 to fight you. Find a few friends to play with and you can explore the world together collecting 
 items and seeing what new enemies are out there that you haven't seen. If you just want to get 
 to doing missions then all of that is there for you there is an endless amount of quest to do. 
 If you were never into all that you can level up then go to the pvp, player vs player, or battlegrounds 
 which is an extreme amount of fun to do. Nothing makes you smile like killing another player proving 
 your character is more superior. Now this game isn't for everyone if you never liked RPGs just 
 because they aren't fun to you then don't bother with this. If you never liked them because there 
 was nothing to do after you finished then try this game there is always something to do when you 
 hit the max level of 60. Such as raids which you go into an area to kill a big boss for a special 
 item. This is something you need to be level 60 to do. As for the monthly fee it is 15 dollars 
 a month on your credit card or 30 for two months if you buy a time card. I recomend buying a time 
 card because if your like me and have other systems or maybe your planing on buying another game 
 on your pc then when your two months is up then you can stop playing for a while and get to other 
 games then when you feel like coming back you can. This game doesn't look the greatest but its 
 ok because some areas look amazing with a kind of cartoonish feel to it. But with graphics like 
 this it make the game less laggy and easier to play for people, like me, who doesnt have a 2000 
 dollar computer. Building up your character doesnt take as long as you would think but its not 
 going to take one week unless you really get into it. But once you get the hang of the game, which 
 isn't hard at all, its easy to level up. Plus when you get friends on the game they can help you 
 out if you decide to start over.
  
  This game is amazing and if you like rpgs then get it if not then get it with out a doubt. If your 
 kind of not sure then ask a friend to install the game on ur pc then ask for the free trial its 
 2 bucks just try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thirtydeadfoxes
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So why do i love this game so much? This should be the first question you ask me, and it's the 
 question that i hope this review answers.
  
  Quite simply, WOW is unlike any game i've ever played WITH THE EXCEPTION of Final Fantasy X. No 
 game has ever captivated me since that game... and to be totally honest, i never thought a game 
 would.
  
  Then one day, me and two of my friends discovered something. World Of Warcraft Game cards... and 
 we thought, why not give this game a chance. We had reached our peaks in guild wars and needed 
 something new, so we all bought this game.
  
  One of my friends, knew someone that played it, and he filled us with stories about what his mate 
 got up to. It sounded amazing... when it arrived and it finally installed... i was captivated right 
 from the entrance video. A tauren smashes down his mighty hammer on a poor human and a Dwarf unleashes 
 his rage on an orc... WOW indeed.
  
  I had played Warcraft III, but never really got into it too much, so let me just say you don't 
 need to be a complete warcraft geek to get into WOW! it does explain itself pretty well..
  
  Anyway, back to the story. I then had to wait for my friends to install it, and we all chose 
 server (Laughing Skull EU) based on the fact that my friend had a classmate on that server. We 
 then decided to roll horde as they looked freakin awesome.... heres when it got beyond good for 
 me. I knew that the character i chose, i would have to live and love for the next year. I knew 
 that this was going to be my alter ego, and i had to choose the right one. I was torn.. Mage or 
 Warlock?? Should i go mage, and be like my Elementalist on Guild Wars... or go Warlock and try 
 something different? In the end i chose the latter.
  
  Over the last year of playing, i could recite countless stories of PVP, slaying monsters, fun with 
 friends, meeting new people, exploring, dinging 60, questing... but i won't. You need to experience 
 it for yourself. Does your social life become non-existant? Only if you let it... i didn't, and 
 i balanced the two very well and had an awesome time playing. I must admit, i didn't study as hard, 
 but no game has engrossed me so much, and payed off so much.
  
  Don't be put off my the monthly fee... it's worth it to play this game, and with the Burning Crusade 
 coming out... START NOW.
  
  Thanks for reading... oh and if you play Guild Wars... dump it and come to WOW... we want you ;)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoZfan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  When MMO's were first developed over a decade ago, gamers from all over the world connected to 
 each other through an online connection. These players would spend hours every day socializing, 
 killing monsters, and just having fun. This was expected by the game developers, but what was not 
 expected was that this community would become separated from the rest of the world. They developed 
 their own gamer language and became total nerds. Now Blizzard Entertainment and Vivendi Games in 
 Montreal, known for their award winning series, Warcraft, have added a new member of the MMO universe, 
 World of Warcraft.
  
  However, WoW cannot be compared to other MMO's of the past; for, not only does it build upon a 
 set standard of gaming, it also creates something that is totally unique. It is no wonder why WoW 
 has generated a full 7.5 million customers. This world expands the MMO community. It immerses its 
 players into a huge world, offers them many options for customization and personalization, then 
 it allows them to venture their own path, make friends and become heroes.
  
  All of this is set in a sureal fantasy setting. The graphics, though now outdated, quickly become 
 lovable. Environments are lush and diverse providing a multitude of life and monsters to battle 
 through. Many of these environments provide a gateway into a menacing dungeon called instances. 
 This is where players can fight their way through many mobs of enemies only to come to many and 
 a final boss who drops better than average gear. These dungeons are many and variable making them 
 an exciting experience.
  
  In many respects, WoW is just like ever other MMO: A person creates an avatar of a certain class 
 to go battle evil. They grind through monsters in order to increase their level and get better 
 gear and more money to buy spells and abilities. However, WoW is just able to improve on this engine 
 by providing many themes and plots in the chore task of grinding. This is made possible by the 
 rich Warcraft lore from previous games. Also, with an expansive musical score ranging from quick 
 intense boss melodies to Russian monastery chanting. This music enhances the addicting nature of 
 the game
  
  Just like most MMO's, WoW supports a hefty monthly fee of $15. Although many a player will find 
 that this amount really becomes quite trivial if they can afford it. Gamers will find that they 
 greatly will play many times over the value of the game. This is so considering that many $50 games 
 will be played for a couple months before they are set down, amounting to 20 hours or so. WoW boasts 
 hundreds and maybe thousands hours of enjoyable gameplay. Just like life, WoW may become frustrating 
 at times due to the vast imature community. However the player will find that the good moments 
 are more numerous than the bad, it's just that the bad are louder than the good. Socializing in 
 this game is the key to succeeding. Most of the quests and dungeons require the player to work 
 as a team with other players. The player must fill the role of his class, otherwise the group will 
 fail and the time spent would have been a waste. Thus, communication and socialization are the 
 high points of the game and one of the things that make this game worth your time.
  
  Good Points: Huge immersive world with many things to do, lush environments and a multitude of 
 creatures, exciting musical score fitting all situations, a huge communty of other players to socialize 
 with, and the monthy payment will become trivial when the player plays long enough.
  
  Bad Points: Sometimes repetitive, large portion of players are imature, the monthly payment may 
 sometimes cause the player to rethink his investment, too much time away from the real world is 
 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Ten years have past......
  
  That where the first words i heard, when you see the intro movie you see directly that this must 
 be a great game. World of Warcraft takes you on adventure within the world of Azeroth and the World 
 of Azeroth is Amazing and HUGE!!!! so you have plenty of hours to spend. The game takes place ten 
 years after Warcraft III RTS serie and let you be a Night Elf, Orc, Human, Troll, Tauren, Dwarf, 
 Gnome, Undead each one of the races has special things such as the undead, Shadowdamage is much 
 lower then other races and Night elf has the abilitie of shadowmelt that says that they cannot 
 be seen until they are moving. But you must also choose which one. Will you become a Warrior or 
 a Hunter and will you be in The Alliance (Human, Dwarf, Gnome, Night Elf) or Horde (Orc, Undead, 
 Troll, Tauren) you got the following classes to choose from and which race this classes got: Warrior 
 all Races
  Hunter Dwarf, Night Elf, Tauren, Orc, Troll
  Paladin Dwarf, Human
  Mage Human, Gnome, Dwarf, Troll, Undead
  Priest Dwarf, Human, Night Elf, Troll, Undead
  Druide 
 Tauren, Night Elf
  Warlock Gnome, Human, Orc, Undead
  Rogue Orc, Troll, Undead, Dwarf, Human, Gnome, Night Elf
  
  
  When you create you Hero and 
 given it a name than you can begin in the world. You begin in a zone that is called a Newbie Zone, 
 that is a zone where you first start your character and take your first quest, in the begining 
 it is very easy but later in the game is it very hard but when you grow in lvl it will becoming 
 easy, or you can invite somebody to help you with a sertain quest.
  
  You can also learn a sertain proffesion, suchs as Blacksmithing but then you must also have learned 
 mining because you need iron, copper to creat armor. You can also can learn skinning to make leather 
 armors. Professions are important things to upgrade or creat armor or posions or special weapons 
 to trade with or to fight with.
  
  The World is so big, you can walk the whole way but there are also flightpaths and ships to make 
 traveling a lot easier. The world is split in two on side is Kalimdor and on the other side are 
 The Eastern Kingdoms. Kalimdor is Horde territory there are also Alliance territories so don't 
 be afraid and on the Eastern Kingdoms is Alliance Territory but there are also Horde Territories.
 
  
  There is much to tell about this game but that must you find out for yourselve
  
  The Good: Huge, Social witch other players, Well Balanced, hours of play time
  
  The Bad: You 
 must pay to play this game online 25 or 30 $ in the two months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StegoKing
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I do not need other video games anymore. World of Warcraft is simply the most enjoyable, longest 
 lasting piece of pure joy that has ever existed. And now The Burning Crusade is coming. Another 
 ten levels to grind for my toon. Bliss.
  
  Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. I do not need other video games anymore. World of Warcraft is 
 simply the most enjoyable, longest lasting piece of pure joy that has ever existed. And now The 
 Burning Crusade is coming. Another ten levels to grind for my toon. Bliss.
  
  Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. I do not need other video games anymore. World of Warcraft is 
 simply the most enjoyable, longest lasting piece of pure joy that has ever existed. And now The 
 Burning Crusade is coming. Another ten levels to grind for my toon. Bliss.
  
  Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Before I quit from addiction, this was the best game I had ever played. There are infinite paths 
 to take, from all the races and classes to all the guilds and all the instances, there is no game 
 I have played that even compares to this. People complain a lot from too much of a grind, but what 
 game isn't. This game has everything. I knew what it felt like to have **** gear, to having full 
 tier 2. From going from devout, to prophecy, to transcendence, it was fun the whole way. (I was 
 a priest in a Naxxramus guild) . The end-game is very fun, and so are the other options for playing. 
 But, many quit from addiction. I would spent 8+ hours a day on it, and it ruined my life. But if 
 I could play one game for the rest of my life, it would be this one for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfire117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is to date the most played MMORPG of all time, with good reason. The game takes 
 place 10 years after the events of Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne, and allows players to wonder 
 a war-torn Azeroth as a member of one of 8 races, which are divided up into 2 factions, the Horde 
 and the Alliance. The Alliance consist of Humans, Dwarves, Gnomes, and Night Elves. The Horde is 
 made up of Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Undead. Playing a character all the way from level 1 to level 
 60 (the games current max) is one of the most memorable experiences I've had gaming wise. Aside 
 from the standard PvE, there are also many PvP battlegrounds where players can duke it out with 
 the opposing faction. As much content as this game has, and considering all that the upcoming expansion 
 is supposed to add, World of Warcraft will remain the king of MMORPGs for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been trying to find a good MMORPG for a long time now. One where you can meet friends while 
 roaming the world and not just in cities, one where you can level up and make a very powerful character 
 that's very distinguishable from lower characters, and one where you can gather gear and has a 
 good leveling system. World of Warcraft met all of these. I was scared away from it for a very 
 long time because of the monthly fee. However, I finally suckered in and got hooked. I played only 
 this game for a solid good two months. I can see why it's the most popular MMO, however I was surprised 
 at myself just stopping the game completely after a while.
  
  One of the first reasons why I like World of Warcraft (WoW) is because you can just meet people 
 questing or fighting monsters; not just in cities or dungeons. Later on though, I found this wasn't 
 always the case. Most people you meet are through your guild or looking for groups for dungeons. 
 Lots of people play the game but the world is pretty big to the point where you'll only meet most 
 people in key areas such as cities, dungeon entrances or popular questing areas. The community 
 is great; lots of people are friendly and intelligent. Of course like any other game, you'll meet 
 people who you do not like but for the most part, you'll bound to find people you'll become friends 
 with. One thing that I noticed, is that guilds and strangers tend to mostly talk about the game 
 and nothing outside. A few other MMO's I played, people talked about various things and it was 
 almost talking on IRC or MSN. However, this doesn't mean everyone is a hardcore WoW addict that 
 only talks about the game.
  
  The graphics are great, I was expecting them to look bad (videos and pictures didn't look that 
 great) but they are actually top notch. The engine is really well done, you can play the game windowed 
 or minimize with no problems (one of the great things about this game) and you don't need a top 
 of the line gaming rig. I really like Blizzard's type of graphics, it isn't necessarily realistic 
 but it's not cartoony either. There are also small little things that help with the experience 
 such as the feeling of actually being in a large looming city with tall walls or when you fly, 
 you actually fly in real time and you can see players and monsters beneath you.
  
  The leveling system is great and so are most quests. I really like the rest system and the talent 
 points are great. Not controlling your stats (strength, intelligence, spirit etc) works surprisingly 
 well. I was also surprised how gear has such a large impact on your character as well. A lot of 
 parts in the game, it's hard to find good grinding areas and the game mainly encourages you to 
 do quests over grinding since quests give you more xp. This normally would sound like a good thing 
 but at times it can be a bit problematic. Some points, you don't have any good quests left or just 
 don't want to do your current quests and you simply want to kill monsters. There's a lot of areas 
 where you can just go and repeatedly kill but a lot of them are ineffective as far as xp. There 
 are certain levels where there are great grinding spots but most people just grind for gear.
  
  Another problem is the level cap. There has to be one because of the pvp portion of the game. 
 If there wasn't a level cap then there would be a select few of people that would be level 180 
 and overpower the rest or the guards. The problem is once you reach level 60 it's all about gear 
 or pvp. I'm mainly a pve (player vs environment) person which is why I like WoW since it has a 
 great pve part. You can still do dungeons (instances) when your 60 which are plenty (the game somewhat 
 focuses more on the higher level instances than the lower ones) with great boss battles but then 
 it's all about gear, quests or trying new instances for the first time. You'll either then forced 
 to go into pvp or make a new character if you don't like the option of running through instances 
 (or just goofing around and helping other players) .
  
  Overall, WoW is a masterpiece and is really well done. There's nothing wrong with the game on the 
 outside, it's just small little things. I actually completely stopped playing this game just over 
 two months. I'll probably get back into it some day like I do with a lot of games I enjoy but the 
 game isn't flawless. You pretty much need a good guild to get full enjoyment of the game because 
 that's how you mainly meet people (or have your friends introduce you to their friends) . Nonetheless, 
 the engine and the world are amazing. The monsters and characters are creative and the leveling 
 system is well done. It's just the small things that hold me back saying this is my favorite game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawslover
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game it seemed boring and dull. But after about 30-60 minutes, when I 
 had got use to the game, it become very fun and addictive! The sound is great, with the music being 
 the highpoint. The graphics are amazing for a MMORPG. I mean, obviously, they will never rise to 
 Oblivion's level, but they are amazing for a MMORPG point of view. Everything is highly detailed, 
 and the view distance is incredible! The value just exceeds the 10. Thee are more quests then I 
 can count, and the world is gigantic, and will only get bigger when Burning Crusade, the World 
 of Warcraft expansion pack, comes out. Overall, an excellent and addicting game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isuko-Iyoka
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Although it the game requires a good computer, it is definitely worth it. There is nothing about 
 World of Warcraft you can't love. It has everything a good game should have. Perhaps the only issue 
 have with WoW is its incredible addictiveness. That aside, WoW is a great game.
  Each aspect of WoW is rich with quality. The game play is vast and expansive with many things to 
 do. There is a lot of variety between the many activities in WoW. Each system, such as the quests 
 or talents systems are solid. I also find that the difficulty isnt to hard no to easy, and that 
 leveling your character up takes rational amounts of time. One thing for sure, Im never bored 
 when Im playing WoW.
  The graphics are lavish and full. Whether your exploring the lush jungles of the Stranglethorn 
 Vale or the scorched cliffs of the Searing Gorge, there is great detail. Everything is clear, with 
 little confusion as to what you looking at. The effects on spells and magic are also gorgeous. 
 All in all, its worth buying a good graphics card for this game.
  The sound in the game is pretty good. Theres no doubt that sound affects are good, and the voices 
 are well done. For the most part, the music is decent; though I feel some pieces are a little dull. 
 Still, there is plenty of good music, such as the themes of Orgrimmar or Ironforge. The music could 
 be slightly better but is nonetheless well done.
  The game has great value for sure. There is nothing unreasonable about the price of the game software. 
 I love that the patches are free and I am not disappointed that you have to buy the expansion, 
 rather than download it as a large patch, because it is definitely worth the content. The $15 a 
 month isnt too bad, considering you can save money by paying for a longer subscription. WoW is 
 worth the money for sure, and you will not be disappointed if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Here is THE game you should play if you like exploring vast, amazing, immersive worlds.
  
  Here is THE game you should play if you like creating and upgrading your character with a plethora 
 of items.
  
  Here is THE game if you love to interact with thousands upon thousands of people and battle through 
 epic dungeons and landscaped.
  
  And finally:
  
  Here is THE game to avoid if you want to fight other people and have a unique character.
  
 
  Unfortunately, this game falls short in my eyes in those two areas. Before you start sending me 
 evil e-mails for daring to speak like this, let me elaborate:
  
  PvP does not work well in this game. There appears to be little variety or true skill involved 
 in battling in a battleground or even dueling a friend outside a major city. This is mostly because 
 90% of any class you see will be near to exactly the same as any other member of that class you 
 see.
  
  Every priest has exactly the same skills as any other priest, with the exception of perhaps one 
 or two. Every rogue will stealth and ambush you with the exact same attacks as any other. Every 
 mage will freeze you in place and run away and bomb you from afar. Battlegrounds and any PvP battle 
 will look strikingly familiar to the one you participated in a week ago.
  
  That is why PvP falls short of what might be expected in this game. It's always the same. It always 
 has been and most likely will be for the rest of the existence of this game. All the priests and 
 mages and rogues and warriors and the rest all have access to the same skills and will most likely 
 use them in the same way every battle because doing it any other way doesn't make sense. You COULD 
 spread out your talent points across three disciplines, but then you'd be weak in every area. You 
 COULD try to mix it up and not get some skills, but then you're just limiting yourself.
  
  Please, by all means, get this game and go explore the World of Warcraft. Go battle epic monsters 
 and crusade through immense dungeons and immerse yourself in a fantastic world of adventure that 
 is very true to Warcraft in it's entirety.
  
  But stay away from PvP. You'll think it's cool the first one or two times, but then you'll find 
 that it starts to become monotonous and repeated. It is ultimately just something on the side that's 
 there and has no real value or purpose. You'd better spend your time adventuring with friends and 
 exploring the most amazing virtual world ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas_prince
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  In the past i play many MMO-RPG games but that games show so many problems like no continuity, 
 and so many bugs, but that game World of War-craft is a real good game, had good graphics and the 
 history its very good, the game show a very nice world, the transport between cities, and the mechanic 
 of the game, the game does that you submerge in the game as if it was a real world, the game offers 
 a quality of very good continuity and the interaction treats itself about a game of many persons 
 between persons this one very well designed, besides this the combat pvp is excellent The game 
 is actually the best in MMO-RPG that has played and the history is a continuity of the already 
 very good history of war-craft the local design that they had showed before in War-craft's games 
 they are very well recreated.
  
  In summary the game makes that you live a very cool World of War-craft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wow_pwns
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  this game is easy to start and easy to learn, you get addickted after some hours. it is many rases 
 and many classes to chose, human, gnome, dwarf, nitgh elf. and horde site, undead, troll, orc, tauron.
 
  and you can be  i love the game becose it 
 is so many things to do, when you get to lvl +18 you can go instances to get beter stuff, the firts 
 instance you can is Deadmines. iyou must kill many deifas workers ( evil people, lol) to get to the 
 bosses, when you are lvl 5-6 you can chose proffesions, like  
 then you can make things you can use, like in engineering you can make bombs and stuff. it is a 
 MMORPG, you can get tired of the game when becose the only way to get to lvl 60 (the higest lvl) 
 is to qvest..... thats boring, but when you are lvl 60, you know you have earned it: P FFS i forgot 
 to tell you about the tallent points, when you reach lvl 10 you can use tallentpoint to get skils. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (or WoW as I like to call it) is the game that all MMORPG fans have been waiting 
 for. Ever since the days of rolling dice in D&amp; D, RPG players have been leveling up, collecting 
 items, and defeating evil monsters. WoW is no exception to this tradition. I have been playing 
 WoW for about 4 days, and my lvl 10 night elf druid has been the only thing in my mind. Before 
 you even consider purchasing this game (or even playing the free trial) , let me first say that 
 this game is VERY VERY VERY VERY addicting.
  
  A RANDOM ANTICDOTE EXPLAINING HOW ADDICTIVE WoW CAN BE!!!!!
  
  In fact, I estimate that about 
 one half an hour of playing time (how long you think you've been playing for) , is about 1.5-2 hours 
 in REAL LIFE. Thus, I could sit down at my PC at about 3:00 PM , saying well, i think ill only 
 play for about 20 minutes . about an hour or so later I might look at the clock and see that the 
 time, is in fact 4:30 PM. Then I may say to myself, WTF!? That was NOT 1.5 hours! , and I may start 
 yelling more incomprehensible gibberish. Then again, if you really have nothing better to do for 
 the next few hours, why not play WoW?
  
  GRAPHICS- 9/10
  The graphics in WoW may not be as good technicaly as Everquest II or Guild Wars, but the art design 
 makes up for the outdated graphics. The world looks truly amazing. The trees, houses, monsters, 
 all look unique in their own individual special way. The houses in the night elf city of Darnassus 
 look wooden and purple, while the castles in the human cities look very neat and stoneish and whatever 
 else a castle might look like. Also, no two towns look the same. They all have landmarks that are 
 easy to recognize so you know where you are just by looking around. It's all the good stuff like 
 that which really stands out when your playing WoW.
  
  SOUND- 10/10
  The sound in WoW is really well recorded. The sound effects all come in to play at the appropriate 
 time, wheather it be a sword hitting a wildabeast or footsteps on a paved road. The music is also 
 really good, with a flute or birds or song or something in the forest, and trumpet or something 
 cheery when your in a city. One thing I did notice was that a lot of the sound FX are from Warcraft 
 III. That isnt a bad thing though, since the audio in Warcraft III was pretty good. I think it 
 fit since the game was supposed to be related to Warcraft III. All in all, everything looks good 
 in the audio department.
  
  VALUE- 10/10
  I think that WoW gives tons of value to any player, wheater it be a LvL one newbie or a Lvl 60 
 veteran. You grow attatched to your character, and everything you have, so you tend to treat your 
 items as if it were real life. WoW really immerses the player into this world, and gives players 
 a sence of excitement and adventure that everyone craves. WoW also lasts a long long time, and 
 since it never ends, playing WoW never really ends, either.
  
  GAMEPLAY- 10/10
  WoW plays like any other RPG, and it is turn based. That doesnt mean the action is slow, because 
 the player often needs to comand their character to perform different spells that are unique to 
 their class. Characters can also pick up two professions, such as mining, herbing, fishing, cooking, 
 alchemy, etc. These profesions individualize the character, and give them something else to do 
 in the game. There are tons of quests availible to the character, ranging from easy quests to ridiculously 
 difficult quests. They give your character XP, and are a must if you want to level up quickly. 
 All of the options the player has in WoW gives them a great sense of freedom. The PVP mode works 
 great, with contested territories bieng laid across the map for players to fight eachother in on 
 PVP servers. Thers also the horde vs alliance thing, giving you a team to fight for. Theres some 
 stuff about battlegrounds to. Just go to worldofwarcraft. com and see for yourself, im too lazy 
 to type it all out.
  
  Overall- 10/10
  WoW is truly a great game. Although the 15 dollars a month is pretty steep considering its just 
 a game, it does offer enough to make the game worth the cost. So if your looking for a budget friendly 
 game go buy Guild wars and knock yourself out. Meanwhile, everyone else in WoW will be having a 
 great time questing and slaying wildabeasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 15, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all this isn't a bad review, world of warcraft is the best MMO I have ever played. 
 The problem is wow is too popular. Curently around 8 Million people play it, and it cost's (usually) 
 $15.00 a month, that means blizzard is making about $120,000,000 a month from wow alone. I loved 
 blizzards real time strategy games starcraft and warcraft, even much more so then wow. wow has 
 made a huge problem for me and i'm sure for many others who liked warcraft and starcraft; because 
 of wow they arent going to make any more real time strategy games, and they have no reason to. 
 So yes, maybe wow is the best MMO ever made, it's definetly my choice for an MMORPG but it has 
 practiclly destroyed even the possibiliy of a warcraft 4, starcraft 2, or Diablo 3 which has made 
 me immensly dissapointed. If they do however continue there original games I'll be happy if they 
 continue to make this the best MMORPG around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, WoW is the most refined, stream-lined, and accessable MMO on the market. The overall 
 packaging is what you would expect from a Blizzard game. Everything is top notch. I can't write 
 too much about this game because it doesn't excite me all that much. My biggest complaint about 
 WoW (other than Blizzard should have made it World of Diablo) is it has a fairly linear character 
 creation. I don't know about you, but when I play an RPG, especially an MMO, I want to have the 
 ability to make my character as unique as possible. WoW doesn't offer this flexibility. Access 
 to skills are based on level restrictions as well as previous allotments of sp in to certain spheres 
 of power (such as Fire, Ice, or Etc) , and because of this everyone's character has a copycat running 
 around somewhere. Anyhow, this game is not for me, but it has a LOT to offer the casual gamer as 
 well as the serious one. I mean... 8million people can't be wrong huh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is nothing different from other MMO's , but its just a hell of a lot better than 
 those! Ihave played this game for about 3 hours everyday for the past week and a half. I have fallen 
 in love with this games and im sure u will to.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics in this games arre real nice. The landscapes are very nicce and in depth. If you have 
 a good graphics card like a ati radeon x 1900 series and you set the resolution to as high as you 
 want it looks amazing.
  There is some pixelinaztion in ther but it still is hard to notice.
  
  Sound 8/10
  You really 
 dont need the sound for this game but if want the sound its pretty good. There are some god sound 
 effects, like when you and the troll or whatever your fighting hit eachothers sword it sounds like 
 two swords hitting eachother. The voice acting in this is nothing special they really dont say 
 much but it's still cool.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  I don't know where to start? It's so addicting you will have bloodshot eyes from playing to much. 
 The gameplay is amazing, the storyline not much of one i don't know why i just included that, but 
 the quest are fun and time consuming, but its worth it. Most of the quests when you first start 
 out is to do some hunting and bring back like boar meat or something, but other quest are like 
 to deliver things in different citys. It is really time consuming when u have to walk to these 
 places beacasue they are so far away, but once you get there it's like O my god i made it. A cool 
 thing about this game is that when you die you turn into a ghost and you have to find your body, 
 but that can be annoying to beacuse the graveyard could be in another city. Don't worry there is 
 the ghost god or something like that. She will revive you, but all your stuff will take 13 damage. 
 Then you have to start out at the graveyard not where you died. You can upgrade weapons, armor 
 pretty much anything. It is not easy to level up either. If all you want to do is kill things to 
 level up have fun once you get past level 5 or 6 its so much work cause you only get a little bit 
 of exp. so i suggest that you do quests.
  
  Overall 10/10
  I love this game and i will play for ever! So i deffinetly suggest this game to anyone who likes 
 MMO's. MERRY CHRISTMAS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Developer Blizzard gives players a new perspective into the popular massively multiplayer Warcraft 
 series with its new title, World of Warcraft. See the world of Azeroth like never before, exploring 
 expansive 3D environments that range from mountains, to deserts, to forests and more. Create a 
 custom character from one of the many classes and races in the Warcraft universe such as Humans, 
 Night Elves, Orcs, Tauren, and Dwarves. Online multiplayer capabilities allow for thousands of 
 players to quest together. Ever changing gameplay varies from month to month as new missions and 
 items are constantly updated, adding to the countless hours of adventuring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicadermcq69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is what i like about the game, the graphics are good, when you start playing you dont want 
 to stop, you meet many people, it is always changing, and actually itsnt expensive.
  
  \what i dont like about the game is that there is sometimes lag because of the large number of 
 people playing, the sound is always the best, it isnt loud nd overwhelming like i like it, when 
 you start off they kinda just throw you in there, if you dont read the large book they give you, 
 you wont know how to play, and it is like 190 pages that you have to memorize, lol. but if you 
 have the experience it is very very fun and well worth the trouble i think overall i give it a 
 9.6
  
  James
  
  Geniuses and clinically insane are only separated by a thin line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I think this game is most funny game ever. You need chose one of u're favorite races and one of 
 you're exaiding class. But if u chose race and class just that becouse u heart of others that is 
 best so u dont feel what u have.
  Graphics? what I can say about that? Like 2004 years its reallly great. but one thing I dont like 
 a grass. The grass is dead. But I think in WoW: BC I hope it move. But most important is gamplay-no 
 words
  Sound: In all game of blizzard the sound is great.
  Value: no words :D
  Reviewers tilt think what u whant but its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  OK, I have played this game for 1year, and I can tell ya straight out, if you got a nice life with 
 friends and stuff, dont throw it away!
  
  If you wanna start playing World of Warcraft you have to sacrefice all! I mean sure you get to 
 play an TOTALY awesome game, but all you do on your spare time, is play, talk or think world of 
 warcraft... Its kinda sad, cause nearly all and everybody I know that once started, havent quit... 
 Its a disease! You will probably hear that its like the bestest best game ever, (and it might in 
 some perspective) and you will start liking what you hear, unless your a tre gamer that hasnt got 
 much friends (IRL) then I wouldnt advise you to start Gaming this stuff, its to adictive to quit, 
 even if you want to you couldnt find a more adictive game. currently 7 mill ppl play it, and more 
 keep comin'
  
  Is a game this evily adicting and overpriced (gamecards) realy that good!?
  
  You just think 
 so! And if you think for 1 sec that thought : I can quit when ever I want or I dont play that much 
 Then your all wrong!!
  
  You will see that other games are uselessly boring compared to it.
  
  THE REAL SUCCESS: This 
 is nothing but online competition for who will get the best gear or who will get to lvl 60 first... 
 You will not let anybody be better than you! You have dream to own all in Battlegrounds to be invincable!
 
  
  IF this game wasnt online, very few ppl would actually play it. It would be an outstretched singelplayer 
 RPG. Cool but not online.
  
  TAKE MY ADVISE: CHOSE LIFE, NOT WORLD OF WARCRAFT!!
  
  PS: I am the only 1 with enuff willpower (that I know of) that has managed to quit this game. (been 
 7 months now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game may be more addicting then crack. There is some much you can do it seems like an endless 
 game. Do quests, PVP, dungeons, work on your profession, get armor sets, join or create guilds, 
 etc. So many different locations to explore. You can play with your friends or alone. Many races 
 and classes to choose from. There is so much replay value. I cannot say enough about this game 
 if you have never played it. The graphics are detailed but I wouldn't give it a 10. Same with the 
 sound, No talking, but it seems to work well in the game. Great musical soundtrack. Overall, be 
 careful if you are thinking of buying this game. Once you get into it, you may not be able to stop. 
 I know people who have lost their jobs and had problems with their marriage because of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilromeo0606
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  So my friend bought me this game and i though okay no loss, but because i had to pay 15 bucks a 
 month i only played it for a while. So i have read other reviews and found that people enjoy spending 
 hours playing quests and dungeon raids, and looting. There has even been world of datecraft to 
 give a whole new meaning to PvP. I am not critizsing people, i am just saying how World of Warcraft 
 has affected human socialization. After playing this game i come to realize that is repetitive. 
 You always either collect x number of items or kill x number creatures. Okay i have to admit that 
 because its such a large world and a beautiful layout of the world of azeroth, and seeing what 
 the different places look like would be somewhat breathtaking. I can't see myself playing this 
 game for just a few hours, and thats basically one dungeon raid for me. Its takes 1-2 hours to 
 go through an entire dungeon and unless you get all the quests you would have to go through it 
 several times, which at times is okay when you want items, but going through more than 2 or even 
 3 times is just tedious. After beating it one time, you get another quest that requires you to 
 obtain an item, and you don't want to because you just finished it. There are times when i wish 
 i was going out with friends, but instead there were playing the game and were in the middle of 
 a dungeon. Again, i am not hating on the people that are playing this game, its just that this 
 game is characterized as a drug and that is is addicting, but i don't see the addiction. After 
 reaching a certain level i decided to try a new class and race. After reaching a certain level 
 in that character i made a new one. There are people who have leveled to 60 in two weeks or less, 
 or have 3 or 4 characters at level 60 in a short time. I don't even have a character at level 40, 
 and i played the game for about 3 months. This game got really boring really fast, and if didn't 
 want to play it anymore i had to cancel the account, and when i did have the urge, i either had 
 to buy a card that was 30 bucks for 2 months, which is too long for me, or get a credit card and 
 go through the whole process. This game would have been so much better if it did not involve the 
 pricing of 15 bucks a month. Though it may not be much, its just the hassle that i have to go through 
 the process of account management whever i don't feel like playing or want to play later on. I 
 still have the game but never bothered playing it for about a year and a half, and just felt like 
 writing this review. Like i said before, this game is fun... for a while, then its just gets boring 
 especially when traveling a such a far distance in a place that is not that appealing in some ways. 
 Morrowind was a different story because it was more exciting when you had to walk a long way and 
 see the beauty of the world. If i was to play this game again and play it a couple hours everyday, 
 it would take me too long to even get to level 20. WoW just takes too much time to build characters, 
 time that i could spend on more important things. So unless you are someone who has a lot of time 
 on thier hands, this is a game for you. And if your willing to dish out 15 bucks a month, take 
 your time with this game and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seventh_reason
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Yes, World of warcraft is here, and by far its the best MMO out there. World of warcraft (or WoW) 
 can be one of the most played games over the past 2 years, spanning a huge variety of content to 
 any game player, either if your an RPG veteran, or maybe a FPS veteran - you will find a bundle 
 of joy in this game!
  
  World of warcraft is set after the RTS part of the series. This MMO is a break through in the MMO 
 genre, taking this style of gaming to a new level. Of course, there are drawbacks - which can be 
 written in pernament ink, and good points, which can be decorated with little red ribbons and roses.
 
  
  The good points:
  Lifespan:- Huuuge!
  Learning curve:- Depends on the player - its more of a... teach yourself, although everything is 
 recognisable from the start - with a few pointers along the way. And a little help from other players 
 will never go a miss.
  Gameplay:- Fun, great environments to explore, a vast world for you to get lost in! Live a totally 
 new life here.
  Graphics: Superb graphics - 1GB RAM is needed to play at its fullest, but games are becoming ever 
 more demanding. You could possibly get this on 256MB RAM.... but it would be sketchy and somewhat 
 dissapointing.
  
  The bad points:
  Repetetive:- Alot of the missions require you to collect a certain amount of items, or get to this 
 area and talk to whoever and report back to me. Apart from the lack of inthusiasm in this department 
 - the story has its good moments, moments we will never forget.
  Childish:- Colours and gameplay style can be childish. If your paying to play - a lot of adults 
 could be playing. I feel the adults where forgotten momentarily - they play games too!
  Patch updates:- If our behind a firewall... download them when you wake up. Dont expect to play 
 until the evening. The patches take forever to download.
  
  Overall a brilliant game with superb graphics, and a lot of fun for mixed ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  To preface my review, I should say that I played through the closed and open beta of WoW way back 
 in Sept.-Oct of 2004, had my preorder of the collector's edition, and suffered through the pains 
 of the biggest launch in MMO history. I played from that first day on to about a year, where I 
 had two level 60 characters and a slew of other alternate characters, some nearing level 50. I 
 hit my first level 60 after 14 days, 15 hours, 59 minutes. 14 DAYS? I had played over 350+ hours 
 on just one character, not to mention all my others. That didn't include any of the time after 
 hitting 60 that I spent raiding, looting, PVP'ing, etc. At some point, I realized I had lost about 
 a year of my life to the game and decided it was time to move on. The level 60 endgame raids weren't 
 holding my interest, and I felt like they were a colossal waste of time for such a little payoff. 
 I sold my account and didn't look back.
  
  Well, here I am about a year and a half later, with a newly purchased copy of the game (got it 
 for $10 from Best Buy) , ready to start over and go through the grind again. Why? Because it is 
 the funnest grind I've ever experienced. To put it simply, WoW spoiled my taste for other games, 
 whether online or offline. I tried Everquest II (for my first free month) , Oblivion, which held 
 my interest for a while (I even gave it high marks on my review here) , and even Guild Wars (great 
 for the no monthly cost - but just not the same) . I took other diversions, like Titan Quest (I 
 still play that one occasionally) , Need for Speed and others in all gaming genres (Rise of Nations: 
 Rise of Legends, Heroes of Might and Magic V, just to name a few) . But when it comes down to it, 
 WoW is crack in digital form, and I need more. Besides, I pay $50 for a game that lasts me about 
 2-3 weeks, where I can pay $15 a month for a game that never leaves my consciousness. It is the 
 only game that I have actually gotten up at 5:00 am simply to play before I go to work.
  
  Even if you are not into the party MMO aspect, WoW has your number. I spent the majority of my 
 time questing solo, and only partied up when I really wanted to complete a big quest in an instance 
 dungeon or some high-end quest at the end of a quest chain. The artwork, mechanics, sound, controls, 
 interface, quest system, navigation, transportation, NPC interaction, crafting, etc., all fits 
 so well into the Warcraft lore that I find it hard to leave, even when I'm not playing it. I would 
 spend my time with coworkers looking up quests and blue or purple items on the Internet to see 
 where we would go on our next scheduled instance night. Granted, the game does have a few issues, 
 such as stability, especially after a Tuesday morning maintenance down time. If you aren't into 
 committing 3-4 hours for raiding, then the level 60 end game won't hold much for you either. Also, 
 you can guarantee you'll see some issues with the servers when the Burning Crusade expansion goes 
 live. But it is just a testament to the power of the game that people keep playing in spite of 
 the issues they run into. If you are any kind of RPG fan, you owe it to yourself to try this game 
 - go get the free 10-day trial, and if that is all you play, then at least you've experienced a 
 part of gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Every part of the world in world of warcraft... is AMAZING.
  The graphics of this epic game is one of a kind and there are no loading scenes at all (well to 
 the part where I am playing at) The gameplay is pretty addicting and there is SOOO much to do in 
 the game it is unbelieveable.
  
  The first time I started playing I was like, oh this is going to be one of those game takers and 
 it is going to be just like baldur's gate but in a warcraft form. 
  
  .... I was wrong.
  
  This is one of the most unique and fulfilling games I have ever played. and everyone should 
 play it.
  
  Graphics: Amazing
  Gameplay: Unique and Addicting
  Sounds: To die for
  Value: This game goes forever so you dont have to worry about beating it.
  
  I recommend this 
 game to EVERYONE (even if you dont play these types of games)
  
  It will make you stunned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjfru
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright to begin this game will take you life and IS a drug.
  
  It's an amazing game, perfectly designed, and set up. Few to no bugs. Unbelievable the amount of 
 things you can do within this game. Any fan of MMO's shouldn't overlook this game. Also with 7 
 million people playing, there's always someone online.
  
  Graphics: These are pretty darn good for a two year old game. They are cartoonish, but if you've 
 played the older Warcrafts you'll feel at home. I love them.
  
  Gameplay: This is perfect. So many things . . . hard to explain them all. If you love MMO's than 
 this gameplay is perfect for you. The classes (mage, priest, warrior, etc.) all play a role, and 
 it's amazing. You could choose any class, any profession, and still have tons of amazing things 
 to do. The lvl progression takes forever, but is amazing, and when you hit 60 you can do raids 
 and whatnot. People say after you hit 60 that's when the game really takes off, and it's true. 
 Well designed game, really well.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good, the swords clashing, magic and whatnot. The sound track is pretty 
 good too, very warcraft like feeling. I sometimes play different music in itunes in the background, 
 but all in all pretty good:
  
  Value: Like stated in gameplay, this game is highly addictive. The replay value is . . . . . . 
 well this game is nothing but a drug. You don't even know you're playing sometimes! It's crazy, 
 this game WILL suck you in. Each class is incredibly unique, so you usually want to make a ton 
 of different characters just to try out every class. The lvl progression takes FOREVER and even 
 once you hit 60 there's a plethora of things to do! I don't think any player in the game has actually 
 acquired the very best armor, weapons, and defeated everything (actually . . . . i'm not sure how 
 accurate that is haha :P) . My point is it'll take you forever to do EVERYTHING in the game, i'm 
 sure most people wouldn't even scratch the surface of the entire game. IT'S BIG! lol. Also with 
 an expansion coming out soon . . . . . . whew lets just say this game never ends and leave it at 
 that.
  
  Tilt: I give perfect tilt, this game deserves it, and the hype is REAL.
  
  Great game, and for 15 bucks a month it's worth it, because you won't want to buy any other games 
 for a long time (so those 15 a month would technically be the money you spend for other games anyway) . 
 Plus Blizzard always adds new content, so they're def. using that money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keg38671
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing in every way, it just rocks. It is extremely addicting though,. If you 
 are trying to find a suitible MMO for you, this is the game you want. It is only 15$ a month and 
 some other games are more expensive like Toon Town that game is like 30$ a month and it sucks! 
 I have probably played this game more than any other game i own. It has cool features like mail, 
 gryphons, boats, zepplins, thousands of weapons and armor, the battlefield, the arena (newly released) 
 , im looking foward to the expansion pack.
  
  The races are cool, other games like Runescape and Maple story , you don't get to choose your race. 
 To sum it up this is one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayzorbacks
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is so  the only bad thing about world of warcraft is 
 that u can only pick 2 professions in stead of being able to pick many like mining, smithing, herblism, 
 alchemy, tailoring etc........ this is my favorite game of all time ive spent so many hours on world 
 of warcraft. i am a lvl 10 human mage and a lvl 40 orc warrior and i do not regret the money that 
 i have spent of this game because its worth every single penny... and another kool thing is that 
 u can have groups or clan in which they help u complete quests and help u conquer the enormus world 
 in world of warcraft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeM8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Dude... whoa... nice game! I mean... seriously. I enjoy this game for many reasons. One reason: 
 Many, many people, which means many people to tick off when spamming and/or trolling the chat. 
 Trust me, it's fun!
  
  Another reason: I never had more fun killing all those wolves. Seriously. I don't know why, but 
 it is fun.
  
  A third reason: I like the forums!
  
  Ok I'm too lazy to think of any more. Uh. It's a game, and it's a good game. And not only a good 
 game, but a good MMO. Have fun. I did. I'm on my 3rd account woot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asphaltmedic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Its a good game dont get me or this review wrong, but understand its not very indepth.... and its 
 kinda hard to RP a cartoon. There are a good amount of adults that play but its a very much so 
 Teen and kid dominated game. On a good note the developers of this game have set the bar extremely 
 high for other MMOs, forcing other MMOs to offer their players more or start losing players to 
 the WoW beast. So to make the long story short its a good MMO but not a great MMO, but its forced 
 other MMOs to take a good look at what their doing and what they offer their players. The high 
 WoW MMO Bar is garenteed to improve other MMOs for the better.... hopfully 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bardega
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game comes with everything you want in an MMORPG. There is so much variety and it looks great. 
 The difficulty in this game can differ depending on what quest you do and what you are exactly 
 doing. The learning curve isn't that long, this game doesn't even have a tutorial because the interface 
 is easy to adapt to.
  Now the five Attributes!
  Gameplay - 10
  This game has so much variety and is filled with so much fun that any person who plays alot or 
 a little will enjoy it. With so many classes/races/professions the possibilities are endless to 
 make your very own unique character.
  Graphics - 10
  The graphics in this game are truly amazing. The texture detail and environment look amazing. The 
 weather and terrain make this game feel as if you were in it. Truly amazing!
  Sound - 9
  This game has very good background music, like the graphics it makes you feel as if you were in 
 it.
  Value - 9
  This game is good for any person who plays a little or alot because of the inn sleep system. If 
 you are a player who doesn't play that much then don't turn away because you can log off at any 
 inn or capital. While you are logged off and depending on how long you are logged off for, you 
 will gain double experience! Not for too long though, it's not like it's rigged but it does help 
 those gamers who don't play as much as their friends! Everything you want in an MMORPG is in this 
 game. Period!
  Tilt - 9
  As I have said before this game suits any kind of person even if you are not the biggest of MMORPG 
 fans. This game is a must to atleast experience because I guarantee you will be playing it for 
 a while!
  Overall - 9.5 Superb
  It is superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mufcbarlow1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, like any MMO, is a tough game to score. Your play experience will have no concrete 
 resolution, and content and character class balancing will make for a slightly different experience 
 from one month to the next. And WoW had some debilitating issues at launch trying to handle the 
 record-breaking number of people filing in for subscriptions. After having written about the extremely 
 long queues, they have dwindled to almost nothing, even at peak playing times, and the game has 
 become much more stable. I still get the occasional crash, but WoW still has a polish that puts 
 most other MMO launches to shame. Almost a victim of its own popularity, World of Warcraft quickly 
 found its feet, serving up no fewer than eighty-eight servers across the country, with more likely 
 on the way. Gameplay - Highly addictive with a perfect learning curve for each class
  
  Graphics - plain and simple not great in detail but has lots of charecter
  
  Sound - some decent 
 tunes that create an atmosphere, nothing spectacular
  
  Value - Its just HUGE This is one of the best RPG's ive ever played and is worth the &pound;9 a 
 month, but, if you cant afford it the... thats just unlucky :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yero2115
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  A game like World of Warcraft doesn't come around too often. It is simply one of those rare games 
 that grasps the amazing factor. First thing you should know is that WoW requires a fee of 15 dollars/month, 
 but you may also purchase time card at various stores. Once you install the game, make your account 
 and log in, you will be at the character creation screen. This is really a huge key factor as to 
 what makes WoW so successful. The character models are very nice looking, and you can do a fairly 
 good job of customizing your horde or alliance character to your choosing. I do recommend doing 
 some researching into the various classes, as all of them have their ups and downs. Once you create 
 the character, the game starts loading, and you are in for one of the best gaming experiences a 
 RPG fan could ask for.
  
  
  
  You will start at your home village, depending on what race of character you chose. More than likely 
 you will immediately see other players, and be in awe at the graphical detail of the surroundings. 
 One thing that makes WoW so cool is the ability to freely move around, rather than click-and-go. 
 You can either use W, A, S, D to walk and move around, or you can use the arrow keys. The feeling 
 of being able to move your character around however you choose is really awesome, and is a definate 
 plus.
  
  Once you get the basic controls down, it's up to you to proceed in WoW life however you choose. 
 There are so many places to go, people to see, things to do, it's downright rediculous. Don't be 
 discouraged with early level grinding, once you hit level 20 the game really begins to pick up. 
 Be prepared to be immersed in things like raiding, PVP battles, and hunts for the most epic items 
 the game has to offer. The number of quests available is mind boggling, and Blizzard is constantly 
 adding new features to the game.
  
  There are a few downsides though, as with any game. Something I noticed is the usually rude community. 
 Don't get me wrong, you will more than likely find people over time that you love to run around 
 with, but there is a good population of jerks that will always think they are better than you. 
 Your best bet would be to ignore them. You payed for the game, you play it, and have a great time 
 doing so. Also, for people that don't have good patience, constantly killing the same object over 
 and over can get extroardinarily repetitve.
  
  For example; There is a quest in the game which requires you to kill Crag Boars, collect their 
 ribs, and bring it back to the questgiver so he can use them in a recipe. It can take some time 
 constantly killing the Crag Boars, because not all of them drop the ribs. Really not a huge deal, 
 but if you are someone who likes fast action, non-repetitive games, then you may want to look elsewhere.
 
  
  
  Overall, WoW is definately the most immensive, beautiful, and fun game I have ever played. If you 
 are skeptical, you can download and play the free 10-day trial, and see what you think. This is 
 a must have for anybody looking for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loya_Darkspear
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I will not dwon this game on accounts of playing another MMO ect., I will explain 
 what I truly feel about the game through my experience. If you have flames, please refer them to 
 my PMs, thank you. Gameplay
  --------------------
  In PvE terms, love it.. solid gameplay, the downtime inbetween fights isn't too bad, you kill one 
 thing, eat for 10 seconds drink for 10 seconds and your on, or in a Rogue or wars case, kill sumthin 
 bandage for 5 seconds and move on. As you progress through then game, you gain levels, which makes 
 you more powerful... and I know, most players that play MMOs are addicted to power, so that want 
 of power makes you want to strive to become lvl 60 with Elite equips from either end-game instaces 
 or PvP rewards, since patch 2.0.1. The dungeon set up is very nice. respawning of non-bosses makes 
 you want t proceed through them and so do the drops. BUT, on the other hand.... Normal servers 
 are good... so are PvP, they always keep you guessing, but on PvP servers... ganking by superior 
 players is abundant. My main thing is on RP servers, the players on them slow the game down too 
 much, which can be a real bummer to newer and veteran players alike. Also on the classes topic, 
 as in all oher games, horrible players mask the true skill of ones class, abuse of certain things 
 ect. which causes nerfs which ticks off the actual good players who the nerfs hurt even though 
 they had nothing to with it. Now on the topic of PvP (Probably the biggest dissapointment in this 
 game) It is way too equipment based, so lower lvl PvP such as 10-19 to the 50-59 ones, and even 
 sometimes even the 60 PvP, but even with all that... all PvP is, is glorified PvE. 9/10
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------
  These graphics were good when they came out, but now they 
 have become outdated and putdown by other highly rendered games, such as Guild Wars. Plus even 
 with all the graphic specs turned up... it looks like something cartoonnetwork would put on thier 
 channel as a time-wasting movie, so definatly these graphics deserve a 3/10, in todays standards 
 (At least its 3-D)
  
  Sound
  ------------------
  I love how the sounds ect. mix together and such within the game to make is sond ok, but after 
 about an hour of listening to them, other things sart to sound better. SO I usually find myself 
 playing my i-tunes library after about 15 minutes of play... 5/10
  
  Value
  ---------------
  This game is definatly worth it's weight in money... they say the good things 
 in life cost money, well this is proof of it gameplay-wise, the 15$ a month isn't too bad so it's 
 definaly worth even if you do play it 3 hours a week or over 20.... 8/10
  
  Overall
  --------------
  Overall, if you enjoy online-games i suggest trying WoW at least, but if you 
 are a hardcore gamer.... PLEASE try this game, it will be worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  holy cow kids, it's been nearly two years since this baby hit the shelves and its popularity is 
 still growing. pretty much everyone in the civilized world has heard of this title and it's not 
 just hype.
  
  as it stands no other mmorpg has ever been as friendly, inviting or encompassing. there's something 
 to do for every gamer at every level, there are places to explore and a rich culture of veteran 
 players to experience it with. there have been many great mmorpg title in the past, some revolutionary 
 and visually spectacular but few are the combined package that world of warcraft offers up day 
 after day in such an easily accessible format.
  
  this game is fun to play at every level and at any skill. enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  this game has the best of mmo online gameplay and is very nice and learning curb is low, i started 
 playin it yesterday and im lovin it so far but killing animals for most of the time is kinda boring 
 but its nice when ur dueling, im on a trial account and i love it, i might just play to get to 
 lvl 60, and then get burning crusade, this game is worth checking out for at least 2 months, the 
 graphics might not be good but the gameplay is nice, many cuztomizations to choose from, and it 
 buts oblivion+online u get WoW
  
  cant wait for burning crusade, but they gotta lower the 15 monthly fee, if it was around 5 bucks 
 this game will be more popular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmpenguin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  There is only one reason that I'm not giving this game a 10, and that is because you can't move 
 or resize any elements of the interface. I really, really, really hope they fix this in the expansion. 
 This is a standard feature in every other MMORPG out there, and it is very disappointing that it 
 is not included in the game. There are an absolute ton of special powers that you can use by clicking 
 buttons on your skill bars, but unfortunately all of them are locked at the bottom of the screen 
 (or in some cases up the side) . I like to have my button bars right next to my character so I can 
 quickly click what I need to click without taking my eyes off the action. Otherwise, I'm stuck 
 staring at the bottom of the screen the whole game. There ARE mods that you can download that allow 
 you to change the interface and they are VERY good, but obviously they are unsupported, and EVERY 
 time the devs patch the game (about once every three weeks) you have to wait days for the mod guys 
 to also patch the mod, start from scratch with setting up your interface, and in some cases completely 
 reinstall the game.
  
  That being said, this game is definitely worth this and any other minor annoyances that you might 
 find with it. I personally believe that this is the best game ever made. Some people say they don't 
 think the graphics are that great. What the graphics lack in technical detail they make up for 
 in sheer coolness. The first time I visited the undead race's capital of Undercity I gasped it 
 was so awesome. There is a LOT to see and do, and almost all of it is really well thought out. 
 Some people complain about the $15 fee, but you will spend so much time playing this game and not 
 playing other games that cost $50 a pop, that I think you will end up saving money. Some people 
 say that the end game is lackluster, but I feel like there is a ton to do, especially now that 
 they added these really cool pvp battlegrounds. I would still be playing the game if it wasn't 
 for my interface issues, but I think I am just overly picky about that and I have never seen anyone 
 else complain about it. If you like the ability to solo with your character and not be forced to 
 play with a team, then you will really like this game.
  
  If you join a pvp server, then expect to get pwned by level 60 characters who will travel miles 
 out of their way to kill a level 20 character minding his own business. I would seriously recommend 
 playing on a non-pvp server if you are just starting out unless you really like running back to 
 your corpse over and over and over again or you know that you will only be playing at 4 am when 
 fewer people are on (but even then expect to get ganked every 20 minutes) . The road to level 60 
 is a long one, and even when you get there you will be severely handicapped against players with 
 uber gear they obtained in raid instances. Solve the problem by joining a non-pvp server and if 
 you feel like pvping go into a battleground (which are pretty cool anyway) .
  
  The WoW rogue class is the most well done thief class that I have ever seen in an RPG. They are 
 just so cool and easy to use in this game. If you have ever played another RPG and thought that 
 you would like to be a thief but that in reality the class is completely unplayable, then you will 
 love playing a rogue in this game. The only issue with rogues is that you will have a tough time 
 finding teams, and at level 60 you will really have a tough time finding 40 man raid teams for 
 the uber loot instances.
  
  Crafting can be great fun, but I wouldn't expect to make a ton of gold doing it. As a rule the 
 best loot drops, and since anyone can craft, everyone does, and the market is flooded with player 
 crafted items. Raw materials for crafting actually sell better than crafted items, because people 
 will spend gold to buy grinding materials if nothing else. I would seriously recommend that you 
 start out with mining/herbalism or mining/leatherworking as your two crafting picks, so that you 
 can save up some gold to buy your horse at level 40 (and probably you should stick with these until 
 you have been at level 60 for quite some time) . If you pick mining/herbalism (which is ridiculously 
 lucrative) , then you should set up two hotkeys so that you can switch your mini-map back and forth 
 to check for each. Once you get a horse, switching the mini-map as you ride around quickly becomes 
 habit and you will make very good gold for minimal effort.
  
  As for the whole Guild Wars versus WoW debate: Guild Wars is a great game, but just because it 
 doesn't have a monthly fee doesn't mean that it is superior. Guild Wars may be pretty, but it is 
 not nearly as cool as WoW and really WoW is just a more expansive and better game on almost every 
 level. I beat the Guild Wars campaign fairly quickly, but then I quickly grew bored and I never 
 bought any of the expansions because I figure I've done that all already. If you want to get all 
 three expansions for Guild Wars then you're talking about $150, so you should keep that in mind 
 if you're the type to worry about the $15 fee. I think some people really HATE paying a monthly 
 fee to play a game way out of proportion to the actual time/value that is being realized. If you 
 go to the movies, it will cost you $10 and you will be back at your house in 2 hours. But honestly 
 I think that you shouldn't even worry about it since WoW is worth every penny (until you get tired 
 of the interface, and then you can simply cancel your subscription) . 8 million subscribers can't 
 be wrong (well, they can be, but they aren't in this case) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyTriumph
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  WoW is immersive, giant, and best of all; diverse, but it's extreme diversity and OVERLY large 
 landscape, mixed in with monthly fees and a horribly time-consuming premise that makes this game 
 a disappointment in my views.
  
  I didn't enjoy taking 20-40 minuets to get to an area, especially after I'd die, I'd go to that 
 area after a 15 minuets walk and OOPS, PWNED again! And when I did finally do that quest/kill that 
 monster and recieced my half-assed reward and continued to wait for it to respawn again I'd realize, 
 what the HELL am I doing?
  
  It almost seems like there's 100 things better I could be doing, another big irk was the fact that 
 so many people are high levels now that new-commers have virtually nobody to gang with. Speaking 
 of which, ganging is NEEDED in this game and that's something people, especially low people and 
 ESPECIALLY low people with paladins or warriors don't understand.
  
  When a mage or warlock asks a warrior for help, he means GET OVER HERE AND HELP ME, not take a 
 stab and go back to doing your own business, it's almost like players don't WANT to be a team.
 
  
  I've tried three classes, and this is actually where I enjoyed the game; they're DIVERSE they all 
 have special abilities and powers, as well as weapons and armor sets, this I liked, because it 
 made you feel unique.
  
  One other thing I hated was the inability to change the color of your items, good luck finding 
 anything that matches and isn't purple, gold, or orange.
  
  Another thing I realized is that big things, like Mounts just are SUCH a waste of money, if you 
 do NEED a mount choose a warlock or a paladin, considering their mounts are basically free.
  
  The sound in this game is good, but the graphics... not so much, I felt uber-ripped when I saw 
 Guild Wars screen shots.
  
  Pros: Diverse community, nice races/classes, some cool weaponry, fun if you play with friends, 
 a fairly clean community, nice sounds.
  
  Cons: Too large, newer players are getting gipped, bad looking armor/robes/cloaks, WAY too time 
 consuming, even for an MMORPG, cheesy graphics, especially in the character models, monthly fees 
 need to be dropped $5.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drude
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I dont usually like to play long role playing games but my roomate convinced me to give this a 
 try. Biggest surprise to me that I Loved it. The game is never ending and I always want to play 
 some more. No matter if I am trying to make my character better or just want to stay low key Blizzard 
 has thought of everything. From raids when you are into playing a long shift or quick battle grounds 
 when you have only an hour or so. The only problem with WOW is that once a week the servers have 
 to go down for maintence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fffire24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  WoW is one of the greatest games i've ever played! I used to play guild wars and beat Factions. 
 Yeah it's a good game, before i played WoW. I haven't played Guild Wars for more than 5 min since 
 i got WoW. Paying for it is not a problem. It gives it an extra excitement to the game. If you've 
 played guild wars you will notice that the ppl on WoW are a lot nicer to you and you will make 
 friends quicker. You will forget about paying when you start playing. I've gotten to Lvl 39 and 
 i'm half way to 40. For how long i've played it it has never gotten boring , it's gotten more enjoyable. 
 If you get your g/f, family, or friends into it will be a great experience. It could be one of 
 those things that you do with your family every friday night. It's is really easy to make money 
 in the game for your lvl. It is amazingly big, if that's a word. It's is definately up there with 
 Oblivion sized. It's not a game of instant gratification, other than buying things or getting drops, 
 so if your an instant gratification type of person this might not be the best game for you. PVP 
 is really fun and underrated. Guild wars is known for it's PVP, but I like WoW's a lot better. 
 The pvp is not based on how much of a nerd you are. In WoW it has a seemless enviroment where the 
 only loading screens are when you switch islands and go into instances. An instance is a private 
 battlefield for your group only so no one is going to steal your stuff. Instances are one of the 
 funniest things in the game, especially with friends, where you can find the best items for your 
 lvl. Sure the graphics aren't great, but the enviroments are untouchable. Overall WoW is an amazing 
 game. I look at guild wars as a warm up to WoW. So get the game. Pst me at Warriorswan on Steemwheedle 
 Cartel. If your new pst means message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalon91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the trial version on Saturday and have only missed one night of playing. My wife is 
 pissed at me, and my kids think I am a freak. I will definitely be getting the full version once 
 I am allowed near the computer again. It doesn't matter what kind of gamer you are, you will love 
 WoW. If you are married and your wife does not like or understand computer games, then be prepared 
 to get an earfull. This game will hook you and there will be no turning back. When you first start 
 playing, it will be a little slow getting around, because you do not have a mount nor will you 
 get one until level 40. It will be a little troubling when you see other players traveling past 
 you at twice the speed. DO NOT let that discourage you from playing. Half the fun of this game 
 is to watch your character progression. With the different races and classes there is something 
 for everyone. I suggest that you do a lot of research on these before you get into the game. This 
 way, you will be able to get the right character for you to start with. I will guarantee that this 
 will not be your only character, and you probably will not stick with one faction or the other 
 (I suggest you try both) . The game is easy to start and build experience, and has a great user 
 interface. The quests help you to venture out to different areas, and the trade skills give a nice 
 option from just going out and killing all the time. The resting state is an ingenious touch for 
 those who are casual players, and it also has nice rewards for those who will be on it all the 
 time. The only downside that I see, is that you might loose some friends or a girlfriend, from 
 playing so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  everything is great in this game! i love the massive landscapes! the sound is very amazing. i absolutely 
 love the graphics. you need to play this game no matter who you are! the fact that you get your 
 first month free is really cool! the only thing i didn't like about this game was the fact that 
 you have pay pay to play it! you get to choose from about 4 or 5 races. i love this game! but i 
 dont have enough RAM on my computer to play it. you need a lot of RAM on your computer to play. 
 there are patches you download, too. so make a lot of clear room for your computer before installing. 
 well, you NEED to get this game. that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonfb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- at first it seems like every other mmo out there, but after thirty minutes, you realize 
 its something much, much bigger. charcter creation is like most mmos, choose a race, hair, facial 
 hair, skin color, and so on. then a cool cinematic tells you briefly about your race and culture. 
 combat is different then alot of mmos. it has the usual just click on a enemie and youll run up 
 and wack at him untill it dies, (or you die) . but in you can launch combos and cool moves with 
 your classes energy type, be it mana, for spellcasters, rage, for warriors, or skill point bar, 
 for rouges. with several combos that do different things, you can help but smirk as you finish 
 of a pesky giant spider by spinning your body around slashing the enemy repeatably. you dont have 
 to be a fighter either. you can choose a fighter class, but be a peacefull traveler by making an 
 honest living. these are skills you can learn, such as mining, or leather-working. you can have 
 two skills at a time, and it might be wise to do the ones that go together, such as skinning, then 
 being able to turn the hide into leather armor with leatherworking. or mining, then turning the 
 ores into metal armor with smithing. Graphics- although slightly cartoony at times, the graphics 
 in WoW are impressive. the forests are teeming with wild-life, including deer, rabbit, wolves, 
 bears, boars, and once in a while a bandit camp. you get to see these enviroments splendidly when 
 you ride a griffin, which are the puplic transport in WoW. when you fly in the skies you see the 
 land flooding beneath you, and it makes paying that 2 silver for the ride worth it even if you 
 didnt make it to your destination. the cities bustle with activity from hundreds of players and 
 npcs. it takes a pretty strong computer to take it all in without a drop of frame rate though. 
 Sound- the sound is well done in WoW. it truly immerses you when you hear birds chirping while 
 the sound of steel on steel rings in the distance.
  you shout when you attack strongly, as if you tried to really hit hard. and enemies scream or moan 
 when they die. you can hear your sword swing through the air before you hear it chop into flesh. 
 or you hear that arrow whistle before it thunks into the skull of an enemy. or even the crackle 
 of flame as you burn an enemy with a spell. Value- you will play this game forever. youll get to 
 lvl 60, then an expansion will come and let you go 10 levels up again, which is very hard when 
 your high level. with a massive world to explore, and legendary creatures to slay with an army 
 of comrades, that are called raids. as well as pvp, where an army of alliance players battle an 
 army of horde players. overall- with an A in all aspects, WoW sucseeds in bringing the next age 
 of mmos to the public. WELCOME TO THE WORLD OF WARCRAFT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  I wirte this review because I certainly diaprove this game. This WoW game changed the face of Blizzard 
 for me. In my childhood Blizzard was my favourite company. Now I hardly rate it at the bottom of 
 top 10. Another thing is that this game dosen't worths the rating of gamespot. How can you rate 
 this with 9 on gameplay while lineage has 5????? Or 9 graphics while lineage has 8. Is WoW's graphic 
 better than ncsofts masterpice??? I defenetly say NO! But on my most sincere calcule I rate this 
 game as a good game even though I would never play it again. If it is to change something at this 
 game Blizzard should shirnk the map and detail the graphics more than it is. Three years ago I 
 was playing Diablo as a maniac day and night... You can imagine very clear that this game really 
 upsets me...
  And one more thing is that you must play this game toooooooooooooooooo long to reach the maximum 
 level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPMackel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I have been playing WoW for about 1 and a half years now and just cant get over how good it is. 
 Every now and again I will just be playing it and think to my self HOLY CRAP!! this is the best 
 game I have ever played 
  
  When I first started playing it took about 45 mins to get into, but once you are into it and have 
 mastered the basic gameplay it is almost impossible to leave :O Many would describe the graphics 
 as cartoony maybe even lame but to be honest I think they provide a nice touch. Also people need 
 to remember this is an MMORPG and better have average graphics than insane lag...
  Over all this game is superb, maybe a little too addictive at times but who cares, if you enjoy 
 it :) One of the only problems with this game is large scale PVP battles, although understand that 
 it is very very hard to have loads of characters on screen at once i think this should be something 
 blizzard need to work on in future, if you try to raid one of the major cities, you will get insane 
 lag within the first 2 mins, with all the poeple piling in and then you will have to leave to stop 
 you from being disconnected from server. Finally i would just like to say thank you to blizzard 
 for making this game so amazing and thank you for reading my review.
  
  60 Paladin, Berofen, Deathwing
  
  PS: any one who tries to compare this game to runescape is 
 an idiot... WoW is just a MMORPG and so is Runescape... the only similarity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydz3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  good really good hard need groups to do most quests but theres a looking for group thing and yea 
 i recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
 recommend recommend recommend recommend recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  this is a truly remarkable game in the series of warcraft blizzard has outdone themselves once 
 again lets give them a round of applaus ok now i reccomend this game for 13 and up because this 
 game takes pacience u cant be a kid who has adhd or be on steriods and play this game and if your 
 like in college of watever u got sum spare time awesome game to burn the hours cuz if u got the 
 pacience u can play all day and night for the rest of ur life ok so basically once u play for a 
 month on one character on this game u can do a bunch of awesome stuff like pwn nubbies join raids 
 and make fun of nubbies and laugh at them continuesly :) the disadvantage is theres a monthly fee 
 but i think its well worth it specially for people without a gf :D cuz then they got nothin to 
 do but if u dont have pacience or ur just a blizzard lover play warcraft 3 the frozen throne that 
 is also very fun and does not take n e pacience really and it doesnt give u a headache for u nubbies 
 out there xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overweightshino
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to say first that this game is for people whom NEED to burn time. When you are 
 in combat, blows can be up to 7 seconds apart, it can take 40 ACTUAL minutes to walk to where you 
 need to go, and the longest flight path (the fastest transportation you can take) can take 10 minutes. 
 40 minutes holding down the W key. 10 minutes watching yourself fly on a bird. I'm not captivated.
 
  
  With a warrior, you can right-click an enemy, lean back, and watch the fight. If the enemy isn't 
 at least two levels above you, its a sure victory. With a rogue, you have all these specials, but 
 it just turns into a routine after a while. Nothing new ever happens. Give this to your grandparents. 
 Oh, wait, thats right, the graphics look like they came from a children's animated film without 
 the smoothness and fluidity. What is this games audience?
  
  Leveling up your character can take DAYS after you are past 30, and they continue to give you cookie-cutter 
 Kill X monsters , collect X  , and deliver this letter to 
 some guy on the other end of the opposite end of the other continent, travel ALL the way back, 
 give his response to me, and I'll give you a nickel. 
  
  Almost every party I was with has a typical oh, I just remembered I have to go somewhere person, 
 a ninja-looter (Someone who rolls a need roll on an item they don't need, when a greed roll should 
 be appropriate) , and the idiot who runs into a mob, sees he's in trouble and runs back to the party 
 and gets everyone killed. Nice going, idiot, now I have to walk 40 minutes back to the instance.
 
  
  To sum up: I don't like this game, and can't see how anyone could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  this is a fantastic example of a good mmo. there is always stuff to do, no matter what lvl you 
 are. There are a few inlaied problems with that, one being the classic idea of mmo add. you may 
 go into the world to do one quest but nine hours later you havent finished that quest because somebody 
 asked you to join them in scholo or some other instnace. the air travle takes way too long, there 
 are some flight paths, such as UC to Burning steppes that take over ten minutes to travel. There 
 are however many great things in the game, for example the mail system, auction house, and raids. 
 The post game (60+) takes way too much time to do anything of substance... pvp rank after blood 
 guard (horde) requires major time commitment, being in a raid guild means you have to quit your 
 job to progress further and get better gear. And the $15/month gets a little annoying (and expensive)
 
  
  Scarymary, 60 undead priest, stormreaver 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakita87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game, in case you didn't know already, is much like Runescape with many many new features 
 and improvements on existing ones. Most important, credit card is not required! You can buy time 
 cards, probably just wherever you buy the game locally. Movement is more fluid, although now you 
 can't simply click where you want your character to go, but you can use your mouse or arrow keys 
 or both. Much better graphic, not cutting edge, but at least you can see what things are supposed 
 to be. The worlds or servers that you can play on aren't as conjested, but depending on which one 
 it is, it can take a long time to get into the game. Old players on new characters aren't 'forced' 
 to undergo boring training procedures, but also new players aren't left at the mercy of the monsters 
 either. Also for new characters it starts out weak but it does get harder, mostly leveling up simply 
 from quests and finding new areas. Overall, the game still needs work, like not so much dependency 
 on the mouse, graphics could use tweaking, more variance in background music, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyralph023
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay so my neighbor Dru gets me into a lot of things. He got me in the Asian explosive phenomenon 
 DDR, and that was fun, but honestly I stopped playing. The point is, most of the stuff I start 
 playing, I usually lose interest because there are better games out there like Sneak King featuring 
 the Burger King King (cheap pop, check out my review) .
  
  So he got me into World of Warcraft. I bought it, I played it, I still play it, and I can't wait 
 for the expansion pack. After logging about 24+ days into the game, I have managed to get my character 
 to the highest level at the moment which is 60. My attention is now turned to getting really cool 
 gear for Ralphius, my Human Warrior.
  
  The game is absolutely amazing, and I recommend it to almost all. Instead of a review which simply 
 explains stuff like Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Value, etc., I'm going to let you all explore my 
 reasons, and reasons from personal experience as to why should get this game - especially if you 
 haven't already:
  
  #1 - If you're unemployed
  If you don't have a full-time job, this game is your new full-time job. It will consume you. Never 
 in all my years of gaming have I played over 24 DAYS on a game. The downside is you probably might 
 need a job to afford the monthly charge. If not, just rob your local bank or CoinStar machine and 
 have the best time of your life.
  
  #2  If you dont have a girlfriend
  Girlfriends consume time. Ive had my fair share of online girls, and quite frankly if they dont 
 type in pink theyre not hot. Thats just my philosophy but thats beside the point. If youd prefer 
 to have a chick, by all means dont buy World of Warcraft. If you want to take your woman out 
 to dinner, I dont expect to see you in Azeroth. If you want to take a long walk on the beach with 
 your significant other, lets make a bet that we wont see you in Naxxaramas. ON THE CONTRARY 
  if shes butt ugly and you want to get rid of her - - buy World of Warcraft. Booyea!
  
  #3  If you love your parents
  Well since most of us do, Ill be more specific: if you never 
 want to leave their house. Heres a typical scenario Ive encountered with my predicted conclusion:
 
  
  Little Jimmy is twelve years old. His cousin Terrence bought him World of Warcraft so they can 
 quest together on the Suramar server. For five years Jimmy has been questing. Jimmys parents asked 
 him why he doesnt want to go to college. Jimmy simply responded: All day and all night I pwn 
 elites. Not only did I down Hogger on my first night playing, I also cleared VC on my first try. 
 If it wasnt for the l33t macro skillz you handed down to me, I would never of got this far. I 
 love you both, and I know you will both comfort and house me until the day the server goes down.
 
  
  #4 If you want to give up smoking
  If you've been nagged t give up smoking, and you just won't listen because you want a new addiction, 
 WoW is for you. WoW will make you forget that you smoke tobacco, and instead it will do other great 
 things for you. It will help cure your insomnia, because after a long night of raiding you'll be 
 so tired sleep will come to you so easy. So put down that ciggy and put your hand over that mouse 
 and start clicking.
  
  #5 MMORPG&gt; RL
  Last but not least, if your philosophy has always been this simple equation, WoW is for you and 
 I need not to explain any more reasons to get this game. You live your life, and Ill live mine. 
 Thats your mission statement. In all seriousness, WoW is a great game even for the casual gamer. 
 All the aspects are there, it occupies your time, and it pwns in all ways a game should. Done. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crispichikon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I bought WoW about 3 months ago and started playing. i had never played it before. when i started 
 it up... IT BLEW MY MIND!!! all the things you can do in the game are awsome. theres a bunch of 
 classes to choose from and all of them are complately different in their skills and abilities. 
 plus you can choose two different trade skills which allows you t make things and sell them or 
 put them to good use for yourself.... anyway if youre thinkin about buying an MMORPG get world of 
 warcraft just because its the best one out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid-Maddox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you pick up, and then the game consumes you... you eagerly, eagerly 
 anticipate on getting to level 60... within leveling up towards 60, you get to venture various 
 locations on the two continents they give you... test your technique in various instances... and 
 murder and murder and murder, then looting their dead bodies... some would call this game boring, 
 but they wouldn't be appreciating what the game gives you...
  
  if this game is as fun as I say it is, then why are people leaving the game??? I'd have to say, 
 because once you've done most everything the game has to offer, get to level 60, and feel everything 
 in the game is the same... you'd have a hard time helping, not to leave...
  
  final synopsis: fun for beginners, gets old in the end... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kl3pt00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Simply put World of Warcraft is the single most addicting game i have ever played I learn somthing 
 new about it everyday and theres always somthing to do. If you don't feel like doing one thing 
 theres a ton of stuff do do for example if you are sick of doing quests you can go do some battle 
 grounds or work on your professions or just go out and kill things. This game just has everything 
 and more than i expected and blizzard updates and adds new things constantly. I know that this 
 opinion probably isnt terribly different from what other people say but i am an addict and i need 
 to justify it by simply saying WoW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johansbro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game contains some now out-of-date graphics but it's still a good looking game, At this time 
 i'm making my review, v2.0.1 is up, it has has HUGE HUGE diffrences than other games. City of heroes 
 for example, to me looks a bit plain with the spells, Warcraft spells look more Professionally 
 made. Simplely, if you have seen other MMORPG's you will know Good and bad. i have seen games that 
 look like i made them and games that look like 100 years of making. World of warcraft is one of 
 the very few that i can say is professionally made. So many people think so, they have to make 
 new servers all the time! How do they do it? You tell me! Just for the scoring difficulty depends 
 on the player and class/race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhannibal
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  ok first off all this game is not great for many reasons one, when u buy a game u shouldnt have 
 to pay to play it. like if someone charged u to play ur ps2 or xbox games im sure u wouldnt pay 
 to play them. The game is pretty simple u select a class and than a race, each class has many different 
 ablities and none are really the same, the races are different two and u will be seperate like 
 humans and orcs. This is a good thing this game does. most of the people in the game are **** and 
 dont want to help u out although u meet a few friendly people. Now the combat u just clikc on the 
 creature and thats it u can cast spell but u never have the option to block like a normal fighting 
 game unless ur stuff is real high.
  
  if the game was free i think it would be better and id prob play it but u should not have to pay 
 to play a game. espcially a medicore game at that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperdog89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  No doubt about it, WoW has got it all great graphics, sound, tons of thing to do if its questsing 
 to lvl, or just sitting around talking to people.
  The downside to it has to be the fees it, 30$ for two months get old after awhile, ands also if 
 you dont have a up to date computer you are going to have some choppy gameplay and lag issues, plus 
 you better have some free time cuase this game with steal your life. If you you are new to rpgs 
 or not i think this game will be for you.... and also check out the espansion comin out jan 16 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watermelon_head
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since its release and I think its a great waste of time. If you're 
 the kind of guy who likes to just play one game for long long time and dwell on it to figure out 
 all the in's and out's then WoW is for you. I don't even look at my computer as a computer, I think 
 of it as my WoW machine. There really isn't any other game I play besides WoW. People say they 
 hate this game because its too repetitive. Their problem is they can't immerse themselves into 
 it. It's either too big or they don't know how to play. This game is a great distraction with lots 
 of things to do. PVP is fun for all classes, I imagine its as fair as can be. I pwn on it regularly. 
 Sure the graphics are different than other games, maybe they don't look as crisp but if you get 
 into the game, you'll see its just elements of artwork and it all flows and works together. Sounds 
 are fine, music is cool in many places. Gameplay is SUPER. Tons of people to play online with, 
 tons of things to do. Give it a try and you might see entire days pass as soon as they started. 
 It goes on and on and on... well for me it does anyway. I can always find something for me to do 
 in the game :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayXIII
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest MMORPGS ever made, only because of the availability of players in the 
 game. No other MMORPG has as many online players as World of Warcraft.
  
  There's one thing about the players of World of Warcraft, they really get into it and some even 
 lose their social lives over this game. There is so much content in this game, it takes years to 
 complete 100%.
  
  There's really nothing wrong with this game at all... the servers go down quite often, but that's 
 the only downside to this game.
  
  The only real quarrel I have with this game is the cost per month to play. Although it makes the 
 realms more successful in not crashing, it is very expensive over time. The best alternative to 
 this game would be Guild Wars, with much less content than this game, it is free after one price... no 
 more monthly payments, or bi-annal payments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  First of all I have nothing good to say about this game. There is nothing at all that stands out 
 about his game whatsoever. The graphics are mediocre, nothing special, the sounds are repetative, 
 and over all the gameplay is nothing special compared to other mmorpg's. A common reason for support 
 of the game is the massive world in which it takes place. Again, not that revolutionary. There 
 are other games with equally massive environments, and some of them were around long before wow. 
 Take for example Asheron's call, or perhaps Ultima online. This game does nothing that hasnt already 
 been done before.
  I may be critisized for not giving the game a chance because I have only played on the free trial. 
 But lets clerify something right now, I would not have continued playing even if I had purchased 
 the game. It was horrible, and I fell asleep while playing it ON MY KEY BOARD! The gameplay was 
 simply so repetative, that I didnt really need to do anything, and I was just so bord.... Not to 
 mention that I ran across a high number of very mean players online. Mostly, the other players 
 I ran in too were only interested in making it difficult for a new player to succede, and were 
 only interested in taking advantage of others. Granted, not all players were that way, but there 
 were a lot more of those types of players than on other mmorpgs I have played such as guild wars.
 
  Perhaps the worst aspect of this game is that, for some reason unkown to me, it is increadibly 
 addicting. One of my college roommates last year started playing in the second semester. In the 
 first semester, he had very good grades, but when he started playing wow, he started skipping class 
 in order to play. He failed every single class that semester. Not to mention he hardly ever ate 
 and would nearly wet himself trying to hold it in so he could play more. This indicates to me that 
 there is something unhealthy about his game. Not to mention that the money he spent playing the 
 game was more than he, as a college student, could afford. Which brings me to my next point. Why 
 should I have to pay for a game that is, quite frankly, a bad game when there are much better games 
 out there that are free? It simply taking advantage of franchise name, and the fans of that franchise 
 (being warcraft) which, to me, is immoral.
  On a less lengthy note, the pvp system is total crap, and leads to the exploitation of new players 
 and low level characters. Not to mention the game is far to easy and unchanging as you continue 
 through it to maintain replayability. All in all, this game has no outstanding qualities, and a 
 lot of reasons why is just plain bad!
  On a final note, however, I would like to kindly request that please, just because you do not like 
 my review do NOT flag it for abuse! This has happened to me more than once and I do not appreciate 
 the closemindedness! I do not mean to offend, nor have I ever, and if you are offended I sincerely 
 apologize, by do not box yourself in to the stereotype of the obsesive fanboy, by censoring those 
 whose opinions differ from yours! Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelLuton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  There's nothing I can say about World of Warcraft that hasn't already been said. It's one of the 
 most addictive games of all time. The South Park episode convinced my wife to get into it which 
 is amazing considering she doesn't normally play these kind of games at all. Judging from some 
 of the other people we've run into in the game we're not the only ones who came to the game like 
 this.
  
  We've been playing for a little more than a month now and are still excited about it. Any game 
 that keeps both me and my wife interested for this long is definitely a worthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexFunk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  First, let's talk about The Grind. In a traditional persistent online RPG, you advance your character 
 by killing an endless string of monsters, and by doing FedEx quests where you get some money and/or 
 experience points by delivering an arbitrary item from Point A to Point B. As your character advances, 
 his or her progress begins to slow. It takes longer and longer to get to the next level, because 
 you need more and more experience points each time, yet the experience returned from monsters and 
 deliveries does not scale accordingly. Yet you feel compelled to continue because at Level X you 
 get a really cool spell or other ability that's supposed to make the game more fun. 
  
  The second part of the grind is downtime, the amount of time it takes to recover from each monster 
 (or mob ) encounter. When I played DAOC, it typically took every ounce of my resources to defeat 
 an enemy that would give me respectable experience. Then I would sit down and wait while my energy 
 bars slowly refilled. Then you'd have to wait awhile for the next batch of monsters to spawn again, 
 and you'd typically be competing against other players and camping this same spot all day long.
 
  
  Now, imagine an MMO where your experience is a string of quests where you're rewarded with a cool 
 item, recipe, or a decent amount of pocket money. A game where the grind is virtually eliminated -- a 
 game where downtime is relatively nonexistent, where enemies respawn rapidly and dynamically according 
 to how many players are in the local area; where you can use a healing spell, or bandage yourself, 
 or eat some food, or all three, before diving right back in again. Your character's death doesn't 
 result in the loss of many hours of experience points, or one of your items, or any money (although 
 there is item decay, so whatever you have equipped currently takes a 10% durability hit) . When 
 you die, you resurrect as a ghost who moves quickly, runs on water, and cannot be harmed on its 
 way back to its body. You can also have a player resurrect you in a matter of moments, even after 
 you have entered ghost form. This is a game that understands Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayedThemAll
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  For a long time I loved this game. I played it for a year and half, but now, I've come to the conclusion 
 that's is just a big waste of time. The only value you get out of this game is farming. That's 
 all you do is farm, and farm, and farm. This game is all about gear. There is no other reason to 
 play it, other then collect rare gear (which everyone has) and show off how great you are in PvP 
 based on using superior gear then your foe.
  
  It get old, and the expansion won't help this game. You might as well call it the World of Warlocks 
 now.. as it's clear blizzard loves to buff Warlocks while nerfing every other class.
  
  The only real value I got out of this game was the friendships I made. Farming Raid Dungeons, Farming 
 Rep, and farming consumables all so I could show off.. It's just a waste of time. Look for a game 
 that has an ultimate conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  When I first heard of my friends playing a game online for hours on end and into the wee hours 
 of the morning I was like many don't you have something better to do? Well I first just sat there 
 watching them play this game that was just a wonderful site to see. After watching my friends play 
 for a few minutes I became bored (as with anything when you're not the one playing) . Later one 
 of them showed me how to control their character and had me run him to a new place for him while 
 he made dinner. I was amazed at the scenery. I realized although it wasn't life like it had a desirable 
 look. They had given me a dose of the game and I was hooked. I bought the game two months later 
 after I had a new PC. I have played the game loyally since then. What make this game so fascinating 
 and addictive are gameplay, interaction, and the ease of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  World of Warcraft is a very fun game to play especially for those who like role playing games. 
 The game has two sides Horde and Alliance. You can play for either one and in each faction you 
 can play an array of classes ranging from the strong warrior to the healing priest. You create 
 a character and then start the game. You start the game as in any other game; you know nothing 
 about how to play it. The game teaches you through experience. As you play you learn to use your 
 character better with each advancement of level. Playing the game is as hard as you make it. You 
 can spend a lot of time just beating on lower level creatures or go full boar into the higher more 
 aggressive monsters. A long the way to becoming of the elite players you must enter into dungeons 
 and battle grounds where your talents and skills as a player come in handy. The game plays very 
 smoothly and you rarely find problems in the game. Fighting in the game is the simple point and 
 click but with a twist of flare as you may be able to magic of just plain frighten an enemy away. 
 The mechanics of the strength of each player is based upon armor, weapon, class, skills, talents, 
 race, and overall stats. I have yet to see two characters that are alike. The game is simple in 
 many aspects but as with any game with freedom the game can become difficult very fast. Overall 
 the gameplay is excellent.
  
  INTERACTION
  Now I must say this about this game. I would have quit the game if real people weren't playing 
 with me. I'm not saying the game is boring but the game just wouldn't hold you if it was just you 
 running around doing solo stuff all the time. Interaction with others in this game is a must. Without 
 others the game would just not work. People make this game fun and addictive. You form alliances 
 among factions and even within your own alliances there are some close friends with stronger alliances. 
 The game is very dependent on people working together. If you don't believe me then you obviously 
 never have seen the dragons that are in the game that require at least 40 people to kill. The game 
 is interaction and people love this game for that reason. Friends are meet through it that otherwise 
 wouldn't happen. The interaction of the game is the game.
  
  FINALE THOUGHTS
  I really like this game. World of Warcraft is fun and just a very cool game to play. I have met 
 some very awesome people on this game. The game itself is very addictive but I have thought many 
 times about if I didn't have friends on there I wouldn't be playing it this long. The game is user 
 friendly and can be a kids game. Although there are some people out there in the game who are 
 just not kid friendly people. This game will be remembered for being a game for all ages and for 
 all types of people. With 7.5 million playing and still growing its no wonder this game is already 
 huge. Be sure that Blizzard will be making a major sequel to this game. Go out and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirebladeC
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  From all the hype of how they now having over 4 million players I decided to give World of Warcraft 
 (WoW) a try and I can say I am not WoWed they did their best at preserving one of their great games... Warcraft, 
 however they did it by making it from a RTS to a MMORPG fair enough its something new but it feels 
 to much away from the actual Warcraft seris it feels just like any other online game it uses the 
 same type of battle system as most FREE Korean MMORPG's out there and doesnt feel at all unique 
 regardless of it being set in the world of warcraft.
  
  Once you start to play you get 30 days to play, 30 days to *cough* enjoy it, many will say its 
 great, others will say nothing as there busy playing it, while those with common sense will see 
 this as just another money making attempt as it is monthly charges! how annoying always credit 
 card, visa, debit why?? you pay &pound;30 (I know by now its gotten cheap) for it and you have 
 to pay monthly after or a day game card which cost nearly the same as the game! when I bought it 
 I truely thought that it would be a brillant game and the Gamespot review even made me say to myself 
 it is a brillant game that was all before I actually played the game.
  
  The gameplay its self well when you start make an account, log in choose a Relam theres like 20 
 out there *urgh* choose a race Allaince or Horde Good or Evil I dont care its your choice then 
 you pick a Race 8 in total Humans, Dwarfs, Gnome's and Night elfs which make up the Alliance and 
 then theres the Horde whic consist of the Undead, Tauren's, Orcs and Trolls then after that a little 
 thinking time of what you what to be and what you want to look like then more thinking time to 
 choice what Class your going to be quite a few and I can't be botherd to list them. Once your done 
 you what every game has a... loading bar! Your now finnaly in the World of Warcraft once that loading 
 bar is go you wont see one again (no loading times) until your off which isnt for long as if your 
 like me you would be qutting the game right there. If you continue and let your curiosity and excitement 
 run wild then you'll discover a world full of the same repative things. By Now your thinking im 
 just going to say nothing but negative things well your wrong there is some positive stuff in the 
 rest of what is below.
  
  Moving on to whats their to do starting with the quests. The quests are the most pointlessly, time 
 wasting, repative parts of the game which makes it boring entirely its the same thing as any other 
 MMORPG kill this, get that, find these, speak to them, collect these over and over you'll probally 
 thinking but any other MMORPG has this too and I know they do but World of Warcraft makes it even 
 more annoying by making the world really really slow and annoying by the fact that they expect 
 you to go adventuring! one place to another is on foot well or course once you get further on you 
 can get travling aids but thats further on what about at the start of it. It could just be me that 
 hates the slow annoyance of traveling on foot every where but thats just me. Battling well a good 
 thing (which is a first) is that you can move around using attacks thats about it so no problem 
 of if I move I cancel my attack. the PVP part of Battling can go over the top but can also be the 
 only enjoyable part of the game as it just lets you kick you into the action nothing more nothing 
 less.
  
  Leveling can be tought I surrpose expert I mean obessive gamers could get to level 60 in around 
 three weeks for those who just started it will take time a lot of time seeming how that battle 
 system is basic and enemies to me always feel stronger than you the only good thing about gaining 
 exp is when you rest you gain double exp depending on how long you've rested for another is perhaps 
 that fact that you can learn new skills and abilities from trainers is also good.
  
  Graphics its been designed to run on both PC and MAC and which is something for all just goes to 
 show that not all PC users can dread this game MAC users can too. but when you see the graphics 
 the first thing that hit my mind was too childish with its cartoon colour graphics yet when you 
 look at it you go yep it suits it entirely and thats in a good way as it also means that those 
 which low spec PC/MAC's can play it.
  
  The Servers avaiable by saying this im not going to list all they have would take hours, no what 
 im saying is abou the servers is the most annoying and hateful part of the game that fact that 
 you cant speak to friends on other servers, same server chat away different servers... silence one 
 reason why I dont see many talking to one another. What life is left in it.
  
  Lifespan well like I said its a MMORPG so regardless of it being good or bad it will always have 
 people playing and paying so it could go on and it already is right now and for even longer when 
 the expansion pack is released, so its like Marmite either you love it or hate it all I can say 
 dont go by what I say give it a try see how you like it I may not be a fan of how its been made 
 but others are so either buy it and take the risk like me and hope its worth the money or get a 
 trial to the point if your interested dont go by someone elses review go by your own thoughtful 
 review. Overall to me it can be sort of World of Warcrap but to others it can just be WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAthena_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  I began to play the World of Warcraft a few weeks ago. I've been watching my roommate play it before 
 that. Until I began to watch I didn't have any interest in an MMO world. I didn't want to put up 
 with having to get together with a lot of people, make appointments to play (and be obligated to 
 be there) or be forced to log many hours so as not to fall behind, not to mention finding out that 
 maybe all the people playing are jerks who would like nothing better than to pick on a newbie.
 
  
  So far, my fears have NOT been realized. Blizzard was smart - they made an MMORPG that could be 
 played, in a large part, by myself, and yet make the world more interesting by having other people 
 there.
  
  I can group with others if I want, but am not obligated to do so (unless I join a guild with their 
 own set of obligations) and probably until I get much later in the game, I don't think I'll have 
 to make appointments (may be necessary for large raids) .
  
  The world is huge, so there's much to explore. The learning curve is nice, so that even on day 
 one, I was able to get to level 6, just by doing the available quests in the starting area. They 
 also move you around gradually, getting you used to the environment and keeping you in (mostly) 
 safe spots, gradually getting you to areas that are dangerous, but manageable.
  
  And while you can do many of the quests alone, you still have to help each other in other ways. 
 For instance, each person gets only two professions (where you can gather or manufacture things) 
 so that you can't possibly do EVERYTHING. Also, each class has distinct advantages and disadvantages 
 and your play style changes whether you are playing by yourself or in a group. This keeps the combat 
 interesting in that you might have to change your strategy depending on what sort of a person (especially 
 Class) that you're playing with in a group.
  
  There is also a clever idea of having an auction house in the major cities so that people can buy 
 and sell items, and the market DOES fluctuate daily. It makes certain items that might be created 
 (or found) only by certain people available to everyone - for a price. It also allows you to make 
 in-game money, which you need not only to buy better weapons, armor and other objects, but also 
 for training in your class abilities and professional skills. They also have a trade channel (through 
 their chat log) that allows players to buy and sell things directly with each other.
  
  So far, people have been nice - usually helpful, going around casting beneficial spells on others, 
 or helping out when the fight seems tough. And Blizzard has put in a great first tag system, where 
 the first group or first person to tag a hostile person or creature will be the one to get the 
 loot and most of the experience, preventing someone from just walking up and stealing a kill that 
 you've been working on for awhile.
  
  The world is beautiful, with such varied terrain. While some of the quests can seem similar to 
 each other (collect a certain amount of some type of, kill a certain number of some creature, fetch 
 an item for an NPC in a dangerous areas etc,) they are not boring. and will give you opportunities 
 to explore. Also, leveling up your professional skills will make you want to go to new places to 
 discover resources you'll need to gather for your profession, or to get new formulas (such as tailoring 
 patterns, alchemy formulas, etc.) And even though I've been playing for only a few weeks, these 
 have been very enjoyable weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dansicon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I seen and tried that game and it looks fun and plays well. Though I find it really too catoonish. 
 Overall the graphics are OK.
  
  The game play is good but reprents absolutly no evolution for the past 10 years or so. It's a generic 
 action RPG. With quests and loots and blablabla...
  
  The sounds... nice. Good. Does a great job.
  
  Value. That's where I don't follow. It's fun 
 to re-visit a game sometimes but I often ask myself what's the point with whatever kind of game 
 (video or any other type) that does'nt have a winner? No ending. Never.
  
  Ok, I guess for what it pretends to be, this game is good. But the truth is I lost a friend in 
 that game and someone I work with almost lost his job. So I kind of hate this kind of game.
  
  I know it's not exactly the same type of game but I almost lost my girlfriend and my health 
 playing Guild Wars. I came to the point where I realized that I would not go far in my life investing 
 50% of it in the same game over and over without any kind of ending or final reward.
  
  But not for me. I think there would be ways to have great online game that has a start and a finish 
 line after let's say around 5 or 6 hours. Even a week would be nice I think.
  
  But of course those games are not made to be that great. They're made to be addictive and bring 
 in cash months after months.
  
  Overall I think everyone could try it because it's not that bad but beware. Restrict yourself.
 
  
  One thing I don't understand is that many people won't pay for an original game while I always 
 do. Then why would anyone pay over and over again for the same game. I would not use windows or 
 any other software if I'd had to pay for updates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpetebojangles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Best game, played it for almost 2 years for an insane amount of hours. I came into thisgame thinking 
 wow Rpgs, ive never played one before because they are nerdy and ill never like this Im glad my 
 friends recommended it because it was an amazing time. I only quite because I went to another country 
 for a year and am curently still here. A beautiful, fun, amazing, immersive, social game, competetive, 
 tough, huge, game. Atleast try it if you havent already but i doubt it. If there is no other reason 
 then you are bored and havent even really plays games you should atleast give this a try, you will 
 def not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoma
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Pros - Very fun and can be played solo from level 1-60, huge expansive world, nice music, not too 
 harsh on lower-end PCs, and is a game that will only become better through evolution of its systems.
 
  
  Cons - End-game material requires hours of devotion, gameplay is based on gear rather than story 
 or role-playing, 40-man raid dependancy, lag issues, sticky glitches, ugly character models, laughably 
 bad character animations, unbalanced classes, and would not be functional without third party mods.
 
  
  Wow, this game is fun but don't fail out of college, ignore your friends, forget your family, quit 
 your job, stop bathing, or start buying coin just yet - this game diverges at the point known as 
 the end-game .
  
  Now, the expansion might clear up some of the boringness that is to come, but allow me to explain.
 
  
  In the end-game, there are three kinds of people; leaders, followers, and quitters. I, and my grades 
 can prove it, was a guild leader. I marched my proud fellows into the depths of the Molten Core, 
 the jungles of the Zul'Garbage, the tedious Black Wing Lair, and the worthless AQ40.
  
  All for what? Purple text and numbers on my gear? The thrill of killing the bosses? The respect 
 gained from the devotion to my guildies?
  
  You bet your ass that's why I did it. And for a while it was fun. But, after doing the same thing 
 90 bajillion, I began questioning my World of Warcraft existence. Finally, after two long years, 
 I let go and sold my account. Anyway, ignore all of that, please. World of Warcraft is an awesome 
 game, and although very addictive, can be paced and played in such ways to enjoy everything that 
 it has to offer. But beware, the game can become extremely boring to the point of asking yourself, 
 Why does this game feel like a part-time job? and if it comes to that, you should probably be honest 
 to yourself and take a break until the expansion comes out.
  
  -Philosoma- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Ok so as you read ALL the Wow reviews, you will notice that the negative reviews all read like 
 this. I hate this game, i spent a year of my life playing... If you spent a year playing anything 
 you liked it. In the end a lot of users get disenfranchised w/ WOW because blizzard can only provide 
 so much top level content. I did not make it to level 60. I did not power game until i was bleeding 
 at the fingers. So all in all for the casual type of player, you will find this game emmense. I 
 would however suggest you pick your friends wisely. there are a lot of young people playing this 
 game. Being in a guild literally run by 12 year olds or teen agers for that matter can be pretty 
 annoying. The community is hit or miss. Lots of geek egos out there. This would make sence however, 
 in that most geeks have a hard time succeeding in the real world, but in a fantacy world where 
 time played rules all, geeks can be kings!
  
  Past that if you have never played massive. This is the one massive to rule them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  this is a great game and can keep u going for hours but there is one huge problem mayby its just 
 me but when u buy a game u should be able to play with out any hide costs but this game is bumping 
 me &pound;20 every 2 month which i think is a rip of after all its only a game i dont want to be 
 pay money just to play a game .
  see when i bought my copy of the game it said it can with a 1 month bill pay for u but wat it dosent 
 say is that u need a credi card or debit card to clam it and that just pissed me off so much .
 
  but if the money dosent mater well i would say buy it cause it does look good and the frame is 
 steedy only with a good internet connction the sounds in the game good and the cobat in the game 
 great there is loads to do in the game but u have to explore all the worlds. so if think of getting 
 and money doesnt mean much get this game. if not dont think about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazynerd
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I put a lot of time into WoW and had some nice times playing it. It took me reaching level 60 to 
 realize that i utterly despised this game as i played it. I developed the same feelings for EQ, 
 which i of course had an ongoing love/hate relationship with - as many mmorpg players tend to have. 
 Blizzard always brings out a polished product time and time again, but they still bring out games 
 that are, unfortunately, sometimes so good in certain areas that they are literally stripped from 
 the bone and left with a somewhat hollow gaming experience. My biggest gripe with WoW was the disgustingly 
 massive amounts of jerk-offs and a-holes, not to mention the repetitive questing system (which 
 at first is quite exciting) and unbearable dungeon crawling raid groups later in the game (i hope 
 to never see this in a game again) . I always play these games as a quiet adventurer, but ill try 
 and do what i can to help other gamers enjoy their experience in some kind of way. Typical though; 
 these types of games bring out the egos in all of us nerds. The good thing about WoW is that it 
 brought me to realize that playing such a good game could turn me off from ever paying to play 
 another mmorpg again... well at least i hope so. -Lazynerd's bro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trublevr92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  lets just say im a straight A student, but when i played the game at a freinds house, got home 
 and downloaded the trial there was a match made in heaven, from the 1st 2 minutes i was jumping 
 around like a maniac screaming i love this game. It has great graphics, awseome controls, just 
 the right difficulty, if u dont own it and have a life to ruin buy it, you dont know what your 
 missing, and dont believe anyone who says its a waste of your time because they only hate it because 
 it messed there lives up worse than average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMafia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an very well-made MMO compared to most other ones. Even though you have to 
 pay 15$ a month its well worth it. It offers many different things to do in the game besides it 
 being one of those grindfest games (even though it does take time to get to lvl 60) . The only things 
 that annoy me are that the graphics are pretty good but could be better and that it takes large 
 amounts of time to level when you get a higher level. But in that process its a really fun game 
 and if youve got time to play, play WOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanmason
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  i just got this game and its great i mean i have a horable computer and it runs like im on an alien 
 ware. there are some issues but most have been worked out. its fun its easy to lev i played for 
 five min and im lev 10 all ready unlike star wars galaxies this game is easy and very additing. 
 if any one needs any help look for maekar hes a lev 60 mage a little short guy im never on him 
 tho. aslo what i though was cool was you can raid citys great pvp. but if you dont get a mount 
 and cant aford a griffin ride you out of luck because you have to walk very far i give this game 
 top rating and hope to see more people on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kTamorel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  2nd best game ever!
  
  I rate the early days of Star-Wars Galaxies as truly awesome. Such a sense of community and so 
 many things to do.
  
  WoW, on the other hand, is all about the 'gear', and to obtain said gear you must have 2 to 3 hours 
 of game time to run an instance (dungeon) . I don't have this time on a usual night after work so 
 my character was always gimped compared to the others.
  
  But fantastic, addictive game if you have all day to live inside it. It could have been made better 
 by rewarding power-gamers with other non-skill perks that allowed casual gamers still a chance 
 to compete in PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pupaluppa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  WoW is one of the most enjoyable experiences you can have in gaming. However, it can totally blow 
 if you let it consume your life. The key to enjoying this game is learning to manage your time 
 wisely and not become addicted. At the time of writing this review, I'm an addict. Maybe I'll get 
 over it someday. This is a long review... I doubt any of you will have the gusto to read it :p
 
  
  Gameplay:
  WoW is your typical MMORPG. The first thing you must do is choose your realm (server) . There are 
 several types of realms: PvP (in most areas players of oppossing factions can freely attack each 
 other; this is the more hardcore of the realm types) , Normal (also known as PvE; players cannot 
 attack each other unless in battleground instances or if they choose to flag themselves for pvp 
 combat) , RP (roleplaying, essentially a normal server in which players choose to act out their 
 gameplay through role-playing dialogue; there is no actual difference between RP servers and other 
 servers aside from teh fact that you can get reported for breaking character sometimes) , and RPPVP 
 (Roleplaying Player versus Player; essentially just a RP and PVP server mixed) . Once you choose 
 your realm, you create a character based on eight (ten in the upcomming expansion) races over two 
 factions. You can be part of the Alliance (Humans, Dwarves, Night Elves, and Gnomes-including the 
 Draenei in the expansion) or the Horde (Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Undead Forsaken-including the 
 Blood Elves in the expansion) ; you can also change various visual aspects of your character including 
 age, hair color, skin color, and accessories. Once you create your character, as wtih any MMORPG, 
 your main focus is on leveling. Your character starts at level 1 and can level up to 60 (increased 
 to 70 in the upcomming expansion) . If you devote all of your free time to the game, or if you just 
 know how to level up effectively, this 1-60 span can take about two to three months (supposedly 
 getting to 70 from 60 in the expansion will be as hard as getting to 60 from 1) . You level up by 
 earning experience points. You earn XP by killing monsters and completing quests. There are also 
 various professions and skills that your character can learn in order to make money/items or just 
 for fun. This is an MMORPG, so socializing is a huge part of it. You won't go through WoW without 
 grouping up with other players many times, and most of the game is only accomplishable by doing 
 so. You can join a party of up to 4 other people or a raid of up to 39 other people depending on 
 what you're trying to do. In WoW there are essentially two types of play: PvE and PvP. PvE stands 
 for player versus environment, and basically means non-competitive gameplay against AI-controlled 
 monsters WITH other people. PvP stands for player versus player, and is the true multiplayer competition 
 aspect of the game; in PvP you strive to kill people of the oppossing faction for honor in order 
 to get gear and such (or just for fun) . It's not as if you have to choose, as each aspect of gameplay 
 is interchangeable depending on what you want to do that moment, but many players will focus on 
 one aspect over the other. Anyhow, the big reason WoW gets a huge thumbs-up in the gameplay department 
 is because of its ease. You don't have to be, by any standard, a pro at MMORPG's or RPG's (or even 
 video games) to play WoW and enjoy yourself. The game outlines the rules and gives tips very clearly, 
 enabling noobs to get into the game very quickly and easily. Taking and completing quests, combat, 
 getting into groups, and making items are all very easily accomplished, but they're still fun to 
 do. Granted, the game isn't completely mindless, and in raids/pvp it takes skill and wit to master 
 the game. ***So, basically, WoW's gameplay is great because it's: easy, simple, fun.***
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in WoW are by no means amazing. However, you have to take into account 
 that it's a vast MMORPG. If it had graphics of the quality of Half-Life 2, no one's computer would 
 be able to run it effectively. Even so, the fully 3D graphics are still impressive on some scale. 
 The bloom light effects and terrain-based bump mapping look nice if you've got the hardware, and 
 it's more artistic/cartoony style as opposed to realism is refreshing. The models are not uber 
 high-poly, but they do feature some impressive detail. The environments (especially those featured 
 in Outland in the upcomming expansion) are breathtakingly beautiful at times.
  
  Sound: As with the graphics, WoW's audio is nothing innovative or amazing, but it's just plain 
 good. The music is fully orchestrated (or at least it sounds so) and epic, and the limited voice-acting 
 is funny and entertaining. The various sounds on the monsters, weapons, weather effects, and spellcasts 
 make the world sound very alive.
  
  Value:
  Essentially, WoW is one of those games that owns your soul. I only (only, lol) have two level 60's, 
 and since starting my mage in May of 2006, i've logged on 720 (that's one month of playtime in 
 a span of six months) hours to him alone, that's not even taking into account my lvl 60 warrior 
 and my various other alt characters that I've made. The game is very easily addicting, and I strongly 
 caution you to limiting your time to an hour or two a day or only on weekends. My grades in school 
 and my social life HAVE suffered from WoW, but that's no reason for you not to buy it. I have bad 
 time management, but that in no way means this game isn't amazingly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santamin
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  This Game may get good reviews, But, it does suck. I played it for about a year, now, i hate it. 
 It has little value or anything, just flashy graphics
  
  Take my word for it, it isn't worth it. It actually GIVES you Stress! All my friends went zombie 
 until they quit. One kid started insulting me and my Boba Fett Obsession when I asked him how long 
 he played!
  
  It sucks! Quests are crappy, you get killed by gnomes and trolls, who spit on you a laugh their 
 heads off for an hour waiting for you to spawn.
  training is repetitive and you want to rip out your hair after you kill a noob, and He gets his 
 whole freakin clan after you!
  
  IT IS A FREAKIN LIE! IT S EXPENSIVE AND A NEW WAY TO KILL YOURSELF!!!!
  Unfortunately, training 
 takes soooo long and your being forced to level by your clan, forcing you to go on every day! It 
 has a good feel once you kill a other player, but it is obliterated when that rouge you saw in 
 booty bay has followed you around and is right behind you poisoning his daggers!
  
  I switched back to Runescape and guild wars
  A java game beats it by a mile!
  
  Thank you! 
 and AVOID THIS PRODUCT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xarnabyte
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Before i start this i want to get something straight... dont try and compare this game to Elder 
 Scrolls 4: Oblivion. those two games are totally diffrent. ok... iv got that across. this game is exellent. for 
 a pc MMORPG the graphics are pretty good. of course this is when its on full graphics and shaders 
 and all that. if not... its still pretty good. any problems? well yes there is. sometimes the game is 
 prone to a bit of lag whenever you enter an area thats pretty populated eg Orgrimmar or any of 
 the major citys. also the server is prone to kicking you off randomly and you have to wait in queues 
 to play in your server. thats all of the bad points i can find so now onto the good points. the combat 
 is great. its not really hack and slash but more of a combat system related to KOTOR games. you click 
 the command and your charachter will do it. also you there is nothing like doing a big dungeon raid 
 with your freinds. its really great stuff. Blizzard are also updating the game nearly every day so 
 it keeps the game fresh and more stuff to do. all in all if your deciding to get an MMO then i would 
 highly recommend this gane as its the best you can get. just great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itachi-Uchi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has got such a great recipe for an MMO that the only thing it seems to be lacking 
 is flashy graphics, but who pays attention to that when they are engrossed in something so gripping, 
 it could take your life, social life that is. When I heard of World of Warcraft, I thought: Pay 
 to play? I already payed for the game! So, I decided, since it's online, I'll wait for a friend 
 to get it first. A month ago, a friend did indeed get it. So, it was time for me to give it a shot. 
 By then, the price had dropped to $20, so that was a plus for me as well. When I installed it on 
 my computer, I didn't know what the hell I was doing. I made a Night Elf Hunter first, but grew 
 bored of that, but after a couple of tries of different race/class combos. I finally found a good 
 one for me: Dwarven Paladin. I've played a good chunk of the game to know that I'll be playing 
 it for a LONG time. The gamplay starts off with you picking a race from either the Alliance or 
 Horde factions in the game. Then, picking a class: hunter, warrior, paladin, mage, priest, warlock, 
 or shaman. Depending on what race you choose, coincides with what class will be available to you. 
 For example a Night Elf cannot be a Paladin. After that is all chosen, depending on what race you 
 chose, you will be placed in a starting area . There, you will complete low level quests, getting 
 the hand of using skills and spells. Eventually making your way out of there and onto more exciting 
 places. The sound in the game is one of the best I've seen.... err heard. Some of the spells and 
 skills have cool sound effects, not to mention, cool to look at too. As long as you have some good 
 pair of speakers, that aren't as old as the N64 in your closet, you'll be fine. Speaking of low 
 system specs, these are some of the lowest I've seen. But, that does make a chain reaction, leading 
 to the poor graphics. Though, like I said, you won't care about that when you are questing and 
 getting sucked into leveling and gold farming. Still, the low specs. make it available to more 
 players. I mean, being able to play on a 56k modem and a graphics card with 32 MB at recommended 
 specs. That's just great for BIG time budget gamers.
  
  All in all, you'll be playing World of Warcraft until you have absolutely nothing left to do and 
 that will take hundreds of hours. Even then, you'll probably be so addicted that making another 
 character just sounds like heaven. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacMonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a fantastic game; I have always thought that the world of the game Warcraft 
 was really awesome when you think about. Its just 8 races that have split into the Horde (Orcs, 
 Taurens, Trolls, &amp; Undead) and the Alliance (Humans, Night Elves, Gnomes, &amp; Dwarves) . Pretty 
 much you get to create one of these warriors, you chose the race and you chose the class of your 
 character, the classes are Paladins (only for Humans &amp; Dwarves) , Shamans (only for Horde) , 
 Warlocks, Rogues (my personal favorite) , Mages, and Warriors. I like the type of games where you 
 go through your characters lives completing quest, discovering new cities, fighting in epic battlegrounds, 
 and evolving your character into an extremely strong warrior (a level 60 character for example) . 
 Also since its Multiplayer you get to fight with hundreds of real people. I really recommend this 
 game to all gamers; the only thing that sucks is you have to pay monthly. but in my opinion its 
 definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tester962
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I love World of Warcraft. Had 4 60's overtime but the main problem is not the better party of the 
 game. Leveling to 60 is some of the most fun I have had in any game in recent memory. After 60 
 though it kinda hits a wall. Raiding guilds have become like 2nd jobs and that just isnt fun to 
 me.
  
  All in all a great game that is a bit held back by the endgame. I would definetly recommend it 
 but do realize that unless you want to dedicate yourself 2-4 nights a week at the least for endgame 
 raiding that at 60 you will simply have to grind alot out of boredom or create a new character 
 to level to 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing more left to say. I play this game on a daily basis for over 18 months now. And 
 it still as something new everyday.
  
  My social life suffered when I bought this game, it helped me get through the worst period of my 
 life... What is more left to say?
  
  I could always say that the graphics are great (for the time) and the artwork is amazing, that 
 it's an extremely varied game, that the gameplay is easy to learn and really, really fun, the +7 
 million players worldwide, the hundreds of addons created for this game...
  
  Trust me. If I could play just one game on your entire life, I would definitely would choose World 
 of Warcraft. It's THAT good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenOakTree
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I truly believe this game is meant for any type of gamer. I have been getting my friends to play, 
 who originally said they never would and or said, I quote, That game is stupid. This game is severly 
 addictive and posessive? True! I often fight with real life friends over game issues we disagree 
 about. In the long run this game has a bright future and is definitly worth the monthly payment. With 
 The Burning Crusade Expansion coming out with two new races, the World of Warcraft only increases 
 in its magnitude. Playing this game through makes you really appreciate the reward of your epic'd 
 out or awesome character. Some people make more then one because the first expierince wasn't enough... who 
 am I kidding? All that play make alternate characters it's that addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sclmltar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game, Great variety of races and classes. 2 enormous continents with multiple environments 
 and allot of monsters. Very social game, you can meet all sorts of people (only not in person) . 
 But the game could get a bit boring after time, but something always makes you start playing it 
 again.
  I only wish the free servers could be better, I haven't seen 1 server that has even gotten near 
 the potential of the Blizzard servers. The graphics are awesome if you have a good PC and the Sound 
 isn't half bad either ( who can forget the sound of a buzzing Wrath spell or the hiss of a fireball 
 ) . Gameplay, some say, is kinda slow , others say that is just right and I just play and don't 
 give a ****. CAN'T WAIT FOR THE EXPANSION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnome123abc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok..... heres my reveiw i think good game but after about lvl 20 u geT same thinGs just diff rank 
 which dont change. i have 41 hunt but really boring. but still great game. This game awsome just 
 u need to have alotof free time i only Stayin till christmas. get if u have ALOT OF TIME! REALLY 
 FUN! IF U DONT HAVE A LOT OF TIME FORGET ABOUT. BUT GOOD  
 GOOD, BAD, NOT UGLY FUN BUT GETS REALLY BORING. WELL THANKS FOR READING HOPE U LIKE MY I THINK GOOD 
 REVEIW LA LA LA LA LA LA I NEED HUNDRED WODS CAN SAY ANYMORE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Iv played for awhile and lvled many characters up to the high lvls and still have fun doing it. 
 the game becomes very addictive and is easy to jump into. the combat system make the game fun becuase 
 of all the different skills you can perform to get the upper hand. The PvP is decent but its best 
 in open grounds. the feeling of running through the game in a contested territory with a group 
 of friends and killing people weather they want to fight or not is very enjoyable.
  
  The worst things in the game is the frequent glitches and mobs sometimes can crush you in second 
 where you should be able wade through them. other then the glitches the PvP rankings, as of now, 
 are extreamly hard to reach and then maintain without countless hours of your life being wasted. 
 The thing i can say about the game is that if you want a PvP rank that is high you should kiss 
 your friends, family, and relations with the outside world goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nano-ha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  it is a realy good game you got 8 races trols undead orc and tauren for the horde human gnome dwarf 
 and night elf for the aliance and you begin with 3 difrent starting points the first you notice 
 is how immense this world is when i started playing i have no cleu where to go i did some qeusts 
 and some instances and a few days later i was a lv 30 mage and wow i still had the feeling WOW!!!! 
 itsss sooo bbig and a few months later i still had it when a game can suprise you after months 
 of playing then i say it is good!
  the small things like the train the citys and the festivals suprised me much but i became 60 after 
 around 13 days played time and when i hitted 60 i noticed that the game started to realy begin 
 there i did some high level instances like moltencore blackwing layer anhqiray and got my stuff 
 it looked all fun but i have seen a few things like the paladin and the shaman is more powerfull 
 then the rest !but it is a realy good game if you havent playd it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagetora007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT! I have never played a better MMORPG. GAMEPLAY: GREAT! You get to choose a race, 
 get a job, and partake in quests. Highly addictive.
  
  SOUND: Great effects. Sounds EXPLODE and SLASH and all sorts of other stuff.
  
  GRAPHICS: Look 
 at screenshots. Now, what do YOU think?????
  
  Anyway, I highly recommend this to anyone who has played Warcraft games, Guild Wars, Runescape, 
 etc. Because it is even BETTER!!!!
  
  It follows in the steps of its predecessors and leaves you begging for more after every session.
 
  
  Also, here's another reason to run and buy it NOW: The Burning Crusade is coming soon and you KNOW 
 you want that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the perfect game to own I have only been playing for a month or so and im thinking 
 to myself why did I not get this when it came out (1 reason was because it was full price) . Before 
 this i had dabbled in 1 other MMORPG which was Star Wars Galaxies and i thought that was a good 
 game but when this was finally reduced to the price of $24 AU I just had to buy it and from as 
 simple as telling the World of Warcraft billing agency that i would pay monthly then later canceling 
 that and using my first month I found out that it was and extremely addictive game and that It 
 was really easy to learn how to play.
  
  As I inched my way further through the game I found out that it is useful to be in such things 
 as guild or groups for elite quests. And when i had started 1 character of every class i then had 
 to make the choice of what professions they should learn such as Blacksmithing, Mining, Tailoring 
 etc. that the games depth kept on growing and that the Size of the game was just mind boggling 
 and the fought of the soon to be released Burning Crusade expansion it was only going to get bigger.
 
  
  In my absolute opinion either get or try this game you may find you like it or dislike it but its 
 probably the best MMORPG to ever come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbradford2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I started this game a couple months back and was truly amazed at the content of this game. I was 
 hooked after two days playing it. Weeks passed and I finally realized that I was playing this game 
 way too much. I'm in my mid 20's and have a family, this game was distracting me from those things.
 
  
  The point is if you have plenty of time to spare and do not have a lot of responsibility, then 
 play this game. But if you are like me, stay away from it.
  It truly has plenty to do for all players and it reminded me of the old days of ultima online. 
 I wish I had started playing when it first came out, instead I was wasting my time with city of 
 heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channing6000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have ever played in my entire life, even better than zelda, orcarina of time. The 
 game never gets old. You just make a character, who can be 8 diffrent races and plently of classes 
 and the fun begins. You have a whole world to explore and almost unlimited stuff to do. I started 
 playing this game at the start off 2005 and i dont see myself quitting any time soon. You have 
 to get this game, there are no flaws and when thr expansion comes out there will only be more things 
 to do. The only thing i do not like about the game is every tuesday they have maintance and you 
 cant oplay for 2 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0wtehnub
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I played World of Warcraft for 1 and a half years, almost 2. I quit though, because it just wasnt 
 my thing. Everything about it is great, theres only one problem though. the community. The graphics 
 are great, same with gameplay, sound, everything. Blizzard just doesnt really know how to listen 
 to thier costumers really, they lack common sense in a way. Dont get me wrong, Blizzard is a great 
 company, but thier customer service isnt A+. Funny thing though, when i quit, it asked me why i 
 quit. and when i was scrolling down the reasons, it said Will of the Forsaken nerf . Now thats 
 just sad.
  
  -Gameplay- 9.5/10
  It is ofcourse, a MMO. which means, massively mulitplayer online. the content that blizzard have 
 given gives us ~1 year of content, if you take it average. Hardcore gamers will probally run out 
 of content in like 6 months. The PvE in this game is awesome, becuase it is a PvE game. You can 
 pick a side, Alliance or Horde, which does effect certain things. There are 8 races (10 in expansion) 
 and a small variety of classes. Alliance: Humans, Dwarfs, Gnomes, and Night elfs. Horde: Orc, Tauren, 
 Troll, and Undead. There are 4 types of servers as well. PvE, PvP, RP, RP-PVP. PvE is recommended 
 for newcomers, because there are gankers on PvP servers, which thier sole purpose is to make you 
 quit. RP stands for Role-playing, where you kinda talk like your character, get into character, 
 etc. RP-PVP is a PVP server with morals.. maybe. I have never played on a RP or a RP-PVP server. 
 Anyways, back on to the gameplay. Each race starts out in thier little area, except for Dwarfs/Gnomes, 
 and trolls/orcs. they share the same starting area. Trolls just have little huts and stuff, while 
 the gnomes hometown had a lot of nuclear fallout. The game is relatively easy to level up in, but 
 heres a common misconception with people. levels 1-59 and level 60 are COMPLETELY DIFFERENT GAMES. 
 1-59 is casual, no worries or anything, except for twinks (low leveled characters with best gear/enchants 
 for thier level) , who people hate and think its against the ToS and think its unfair. When in reality, 
 everyone has the same opportunity to twink, they just dont know how. No zones at all, a new thing 
 for MMO's. besides the instances and the contidents, there is nothing stopping you from going anywhere 
 you want besides the level 14 defias pillager. Each race has thier advantages and disadvantages, 
 and special racial traits. Gnomes, for instance, have Escape artist, which is on a one minute cooldown, 
 and takes .5 seconds to cast, and gets them out of slowing/immobilizing effect. The PvP in this 
 game, is skill/gear/class based. but heres the ironic thing about pvp. it is all the same 1-60. 
 except at lower levels, gear is greater, but at higher levels, its 40% class, 30% gear, 29.9% skill, 
 and .1% luck. There is really too much to talk about gameplay, but its a 9.5 nevertheless.
  
  -Graphics and Sounds- 9/10
  Graphics are cartoonish, but still good nevertheless, and sounds 
 are pretty nice as well. there are some collision detection problems, but they are all for the 
 better.
  
  -Community and rants-
  Wow, just wow. you wont believe the amount of whiners and complainers and elitists that play this 
 game. Just an example, Some warriors went on strike (i think they were warriors) , becuase of some 
 change, AND THEY CRASHED A SERVER. because they didnt get what they want, and think thier class 
 is broken. Every class is broken, every class is overpowered, every class in underpowered, every 
 class needs a nerf. that is what you see when you go to the boards. Some have legitimate excuses 
 becuase of bugs and such, poor itemization, and such. Which i agree with because itemization has 
 gone out of hand. The other people are basically whiners, like mages and rogues. Theres also Ganking, 
 Ninjaing, Cybering (its decent cybering too) , everything.
  
  But all in all, this is one of the best MMO's on the market. my community and rants section you 
 may seem biast (i cant spell) , but it holds some truth. If you want a good MMO, id recommend this 
 one, or if you are faithful and want a brand fresh one, this isnt one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Ok, ill try not to say to much about all what game have to offer because i would never finish. 
 First, this game is always updated the fix bugs, add stuffs, add dongeons, add weapons etc. Also 
 you get to meet so many players from all around the world. PVP is another good part of the game, 
 where you can confront the horde vs the alliance into epic battles. Buys stuff at the auction house, 
 take trip on flight path from one part to another, venture into dongeons to get new stuffs, a almost 
 infinite number of different items and quests, 8 races, many classes and professions. In this game 
 you will have NEVER nothing to do. The only bad part about this is that you must pay a fee per 
 month. That's the only bad part. once it is done, you will be incorporated into a universe of intense 
 story and fights. I HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone. If your computer don't run it, go buy 
 another one immediatly and go buy this game. the graphics are good for the size of the world, but 
 it is not the best they could have done. nice water effect or death effect tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamancam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Won't write much of a review here... Just a few thoughts...
  By far and away the best game I've ever played. I can't imagine how I'd still enjoy games if I 
 hadn't discovered WoW... Started playing when it was released, levelled one to 60, and didn't know 
 what to do... So I took up Guild Wars, spent a few thousand hours on that, then came back to WoW 
 at the beginning of this year.
  That's when I got into the end-game content. Take Note - If you're new to this game, and are disgusted 
 with how long it takes to reach lvl60 - Take heart! It's worth it a million times over, trust me. 
 End-game raiding annihilates every other gaming experience I've ever.. experienced, for want of 
 a better word. So immersive, exciting, challenging, however you wish to describe it, lol... The 
 best thing is, that unlike most games, where once you reach the 'end', whatever you might call 
 it, the game doesn't peter out and leave you with nothing to do. It just gets better and better, 
 leaving you with a wonderful sense of satisfaction as you move on up the game's challenges, from 
 Molten Core to Blackwing Lair, on through Ahn'Qiraj finally to Naxxramas, each with new, unique 
 encounters that will take weeks to master. With the expansion coming out in just a couple of months, 
 there's no game I'd recommend higher right now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud75x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This MMO may seem unlike any other MMORPG out their, but it isnt. Most MMO's either have outstanding 
 realism, or chartonnish appeal to it. This game has a mixture of both. As many feel to realize, 
 this game is a... shall i say in your face adventure.... of the popular strategy titles. The graphics 
 are kept traditional to the warcraft series because, well its warcraft. Instead of controlling 
 vast armies and races to victory, you now get to become one of those soldiers. You get to explore 
 the very BIG world of azeroth. You also get to learn from day one.
  
  Now this isnt a walk in the park. This game may start out simple but it gets hard depending on 
 your class. Each class has a roll to do in a party and if they fail, the team will likely fail. 
 The beginings in leveling are not the greatest but as you level and gain new abilities, more of 
 the world is avialable and so is the armor and weapons. Certain classes gain new things at level 
 20 and level 40. All classes gain a ridable mount at level 40 and can upgrade at level 60. But 
 remember, the game doesnt begin till yoru level 60. Every level from lvl1 to lvl 59 is for training. 
 End game content is like nothing you'll see before until you reach that level. So get to it!
  
  Replay value is very high. Their is so much to see and so much to do. Also their are many ways 
 to build your classed characters and many armor pieces to use. For each piece there are about 10 
 or more to choose from (exp: you may be lvl 28 looking at a lvl28 helm, if your a healer you migth 
 want more intelect, or if your a warrior you want stregnth, etc.) . For classes that can heal, cast 
 and even attack, theres the desicion to aid in healing or attacking, so the choices are almost 
 endless. The game is full of adventure where ever you are. You are almost certain to come arcross 
 horde and alliance alike. If your pvp flagged, get ready to fight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starwarrz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game eats though your money and for what? A game with repetitive missions and a bad storyline. 
 there are 8 classes but they are divided into 2 groups the alliance and the horde. So you and your 
 friends MUST all be in the same group if you wish to do any quests together. So that takes the 
 character selection down to 4 to choose from. And even then you would want to meet your friend 
 as soon as you start playing right? Well your characters start in very different areas. l If you 
 are a night elf and your friend is a human. you are looking at around 4 to 5 days untill you can 
 meet them. And not every character can be every class like a dwarv cant be a mage. sounds like 
 a fun way to make the character unique right? Wrong. Now if you want to be a mage you are down 
 to only 2 characters. And if you want to be a druid you have only 1 choice. Night elf which is 
 a pink elf with huge ears, or a tauren which is a cow. So if you still want to get this game than 
 i strongly suggest that you get the trial first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I played this game til lvl 15 - it has its good points but if youre an mmo vet or intermediate 
 dont get too excited. The levelling pace seems about right but information on how to grind is hard 
 to access as an unguilded n00b and you end up doing random quests for poor xp with other clueless 
 n00bs. Apparently if you grind the quests til later on then a good guild will clue you in on what 
 to grind.
  
  A very well rounded game - given a huge budget the graphics show and the cartoony style pays off 
 to give even mages a fun edge. The music and cut scenes are pretty top notch too. Couple of problems 
 emerge tho - the community is too mixed with literally millions of minors playing the game. The 
 game involves intense amounts of walking and doesnt seem to feature any sort of recall function 
 at low level. The quests are a bit too many too - Youre often not sure which to do OR can end up 
 with 10 quests youre too confused about to do. Generally the games a bit too quest orientated for 
 my liking but as a social game it works quite well as you easily form parties with people seeking 
 the other silly objective to your quest.
  
  As a first mmo its a good game but dont take this game too seriously - its a well paced introduction 
 to the mmo genre, its terminology and game play style. Most people migrate from this game to a 
 real mmo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilgunney612
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  I have spent many hours at my computer drinking mountain dew and listening to music while playing 
 this game, and i think i am experienced enough to write a reveiw on it.
  
  Gameplay - The first few levels were exelent, Questing, killing monsters, doing new instances that 
 you have never done before, playing wsg for the first time was awsome. then came a boring part 
 from lvl 30-40, there wasnt much to do that you havnt done already in the past 30 lvls in the game, 
 you would quest a bunch, go through VC or Stocks, then do it all over again till you felt like 
 throwing the game in the trash but then realised that the pvp pwned and decided to play a bit more. 
 Then came the fun part... your first mount and a whole slew of new instances and a new lvl of pvp 
 without a bunch of noobs losing the pvp match for you. charish these lvls, cause after lvl 60, 
 there nothing really to do besides pvp and raids. Sure if you have another million hours to burn 
 on this game you can go around collecting a full set of epic armor, but that only helps you in 
 PvP (if you are into that kinda thing) . So in the end i have realised that without pvp this game 
 is nothing.
  
  Graphics - Well done with a huge world like Azeroth, But if you have anything less than 1GB of 
 RAM you will be getting low fps. I also love the effects in the game, alot of pretty flashes and 
 explosions make the game seem more than what it really is.
  
  Sound - I personaly did not like the sound too much, not enough Dialog and too many sound effects, 
 I really dont know what else to say about it. The weapon sounds and casting sounds are o. k but 
 everything else was just bleh for me.
  
  Value - 13$ a month isnt horribly bad, but id say that its worth about 7$ a month in the end.
 
  
  Overveiw - Its overal a decent game, more experienced WoW junkies and newcomers may disagree but 
 after a half of a year playing this game, i find that PvP is the only fun part to this game. I 
 wouldnt recommend this game to any midcore gamer, you will get bord with this game very fast. But 
 if you love mmo's and you like to spend countless hours grinding questing and maby taking a little 
 break with pvp than this is the game for you. But i wouldnt call it the best game ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benitez555
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  this game deserves an award for the best online game ever made witch im sure its already received. 
 WoW is like most mmo's, its just alot better than the rest. the best feature of the game is that 
 u can gather with a bunch of your buddies and play together for example: if your having trouble 
 with a quest u can share that quest (if they have not completed it yet) with ur freind or freinds 
 and complete it togethere. thers alot to do in this game once you have reach lvl 60. U can join guilds 
 if u want.
  
  the bad thing about this game is that it takes away time from ur social life.............. like 
 not having a life at all, thats why i quit and never going back.
  but im going to give a good review about this game anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review only after having plaid WoW for the past year. Graphics are fine, and the 
 music is great. Sound effects are good too. Technically, its solid, and the Talent system and crafting 
 system are all good. Gameplay, starts out fun and accessible. You can solo your way pretty far, 
 and when you do run through a dungeon, getting a decent group together is usually no problem. Theres 
 plenty of cool items to pick up along your way to reachign level 60. The problem arises after you 
 max out your level though. The end-game dungeons are long, and unforgiving. Molten Core, Zul-Gurub, 
 and even Onyxia are reasonable. But Blackwing Lair, Naxxramas, and the likes punish players for 
 not investing their lives into the game and making repeated runs in raid instances to get Epic 
 items. I want an endgame experience that poses a challenge, but can be approached casually. The 
 fun starts to disappear when you have to run through Molten Core 5 times racking up DKP (a term 
 you're familiar with if you join a raid guild like I did) , and not getting the armor you want and 
 eventually need. On a positive not, Blizzard does provide very good support for the community, 
 in regular updates and maintaining a reasonable, friendly playing environment. That doesn't mean 
 you aren't bound to meet your fair share of turds and griefers, but thats never new with online 
 multiplayer. PvP, while fun, is in need of some work (which they may have started by now, I haven't 
 played in a while) . My experience with Alterac Valley was fun, yet the battle felt very drawn out, 
 and kept me from enjoying frequent playing in that particular area. I'm fine with a battle drawing 
 out for 2 hours, but when you're still going at it 4-5 hours later, it gets old. So, WoW is great 
 at first for a casual gamer, but when you hit end-game, it really punishes you if you dont dedicate 
 your life to the game. And personally, i dont like that. I love my gaming, and MMO's; but I also 
 love my friends, family, and girlfriend. Plus you have to keep a blance between that and work and 
 school... I think Blizzard sometimes forgets us who have a life, and enjoy gaming more as a hobby, 
 rather than a way of life. That aside, World of Warcraft is still a fun game, and my views on it 
 shouldn't keep you from giving it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murray235
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games yet. IT is much more better than Guild Wars because guild wars doesn't 
 offer as much choices and races and classes and skills on what you can do. You wolud get addicted 
 to this really easily. I did. I would say wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow. 
 It i a great game. The most best game. It might be a little costly though for each month but it's 
 worth it. Just don't get too addicted or you might have no life (not to be mean) but you should 
 get exercise reguarly if you play this and see the SUN. But anyway all in all it's a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (wow) is easily one of the best games for the pc ever the depth of the game is 
 intense u feel like there is a whole different panet in here. Only thing i would change is the 
 pricey subsribtion. WoW brings you and teaches you the trade easly this game has one of the easiest 
 learning curves. I think if u can play pokemon on the games boy color u can play this. But ppl 
 this is way more that just an evolved pokemon game depending on what graphics card your are using 
 this can be a real life expeirence. With 4 characters to start with in either the Horde or Alliaince 
 youll have choice tp pick about everything to make your own character wat u want it to be. And 
 the level or places are magnificent and beautifiul. I definitely reccomend thig game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is decieving. The early levels can be quite fun. Plenty of quests, huge game 
 world, tons of items, and pvp for all levels. You might progress fast at this time but once you 
 reach 60th its.... raids, raids, and more raids.
  
  If you want access to epic set armor, and other items you have to raid. This involves spending 
 excessive amounts of time redoing the same instances everyday. Unless you pvp, which is a huge 
 grind trying to farm honor to gain pvp ranks so you can buy armor and weapons. Many quests require 
 you to be at certain levels of reputation for a faction to get the reward. So you also have to 
 farm reputation.
  
  Essentially, you are rewarded for not having a life. If you consider your in game status a life... 
 well this is the game for you. If you have a full time job, family, wife/girlfriend, no this isn't 
 the game for you. The more time you put into WOW the better your character will be. This game isn't 
 for casual players. The other negative aspect with World of Warcraft is the population imbalance. 
 The large majority of people play Alliance. Naysayers try to downplay this, and most of these people 
 play Alliance. Take a look at the statistics,
  
  Population of PVE servers; Alliance 1,533,619 (70%) Horde 650,804 (30%) Population of PVP servers; 
 Alliance1,068,751 (54%) Horde 913,796 (46%) 1,982,547 What does this mean ? Horde have been outnumbered 
 from day 1. Since Alliance have a larger player base they have more items on their auctions. The 
 average Alliance player is better geared then Horde. They also have a much larger pool of players 
 to choose from when forming guilds, or replacing players. In some cases a Horde guild can lose 
 one player and thats the end of their raiding.
  
  The common response from Alliance imbeciles who try to downplay the imbalance is to say that Horde 
 is for Hardcore players. This was a common misconception from the start. The reality is that Horde 
 is pretty much the afterthought realm.
  
  The other issue, is that insecure people don't want to play ugly characters. While this might not 
 be an issue come Burning Crusade since Horde will have elves... I've seen plenty of people choose 
 alliance just because they didn't want to play ugly characters, so they all choose human, or nite 
 elves.
  
  Case in point the population of humans &amp; nite elves combined makes up 50% of the total game 
 population. Regarding the population the maturity level is about the equivalent of elementary school. 
 Wannabe l33t kewl dewds are dime a dozen in this game. Coupled with the sheer number of greedy 
 S. O. B.'s you'll be hard pressed to actually find decent people to group with. More often then not 
 you'll tolerate people you hate just to get better loot for yourself which is the case with most 
 guilds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostEdge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly the greatest game ever created. I have spent more hours in Azeroth than in probably 
 every other game Ive ever played combined (Ive been around &amp; gaming since the original NES) .
 
  
  Before you think of anything, the thing you should understand about this game is that it currently 
 is the best thing out there. Everyone that I have ever known to quit has come back whether it be 
 a day, a week, a month or a year. The many gripes people have with this game are taken way out 
 of context when people post them. WHen people say this game sucks, what they mean is, it should 
 be better and a particular game mechanic isnt PERFECT. Heres the thing, no other game comes close 
 to this one in its presentation, sense of grandeur, sense of purpose.
  
  A whole society and dare I say culture has really developed from this game, much like Counterstrike 
 when it first came out. If you come into this game looking for fun, you will find it in abundancy. 
 Most lvl 60 (the maximum level) players have fun just jumping around the capital cities. Raiding, 
 PvPing all have been fine tuned and are just more fun than any other game out there. If you come 
 here looking explicitly for class balance and 1v1 viability you will be sorely dissapointed.
  
  This game will suck you in regardless of who you are. Youre going to have fun playing it. My 
 favorite game before I played this was FF7, when I bash WoW I make many complaints that I really 
 never had with FF7, but I never played FF7 for 200 days (in game) either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patton101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm going to start off by telling a story. For the past two years I've been a Guild Wars/EverQuest 
 2 fanboy. My friends all played World of Warcraft and I didnt even want to give it a try. After 
 months and months I was at my friends house and a few of us were just sitting around having some 
 beers. I got a little drunk and they took advantage. They wanted to show me WoW and I agreed to 
 check it out. It looked good so at 3 am we headed out to Wal-Mart (the soberous of us driving) and 
 I bought it. Got back played it for 4 hours straight (until 7am for you drop outs) and immediately 
 deleted my EQ2 account. Was instantly hooked....
  
  MY REVIEW (Like there isnt enough user reviews for this game already)
  
  Graphics - The graphics 
 arent bad in WoW, but they arent great either. Compared to games like GW and EQ2 they dont match 
 up as well. That may be also because they are just more cartoony than those games. I wont get technical 
 about framerate or anything because you've heard the gibberish before.
  
  Sound - Again, nothing stands out for me in this category. I mean, its ok. The music is decent 
 and I hate to keep referring to GW for comparisons but GW has much better music and sound effects 
 as does EQ2.
  
  Gameplay - This is where I think WoW exceeds from the rest of its competition. It's a real depth 
 game but at the same time manages to be less complex to pickup and play and really adds to the 
 enjoyment of it and a la, the Addiction of it. I cant explain why its much easier than EQ2 but 
 it just is. This appeals to a much bigger audience but hardcore EQ2 players will use this fact 
 for their arguement. EQ2 is more complex but its also a much harder game to play.
  
  Conclusion - You really get your moneys worth in this game. It's got a huge amount of content/quests/land. 
 You will get sucked into this world for hours at a time. Final Thoughts:
  After playing this game enough, I've realized it is vastly overrated. It's definitely not the greatest 
 game ever. Nothing is special about the graphics or sound. But none of that really matters. It's 
 one of the greatest PC successes of all time. And the community continues to grow each day as it 
 sucks the life out of other mmo communities. I'm not going to abandon EQ2 or GW for this game thats 
 for sure but ehh... I do have a copy of Burning Crusade reserved so I cant guaruntee anything just 
 yet ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcmagen_zerohx
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  I'm really disappointed in this game so I shall make things snappy. This game does not live up 
 to the hype. Grossly over-rated.
  
  Gameplay: I would have given a perfect 10 like all the other hasty reviews, that were created just 
 to raise the ratings, but I simply cannot do that after extensive gameplay. The gameplay was fresh 
 at first and pretty much addictive. The fatal flaws were covered up by its shiny facade, but not 
 anymore. PvP was repetitive whereby every action done can have its responses predicted with pinpoint 
 accuracy. Raids are monotypic and mind-numbing. Customization of characters perhaps exists, but 
 does not make enough of a difference to a talented character towards that direction. Quests are 
 a big factor in keeping me addicted, but soon it got repetitive and I managed to finish the whole 
 Dan Brown series while questing in the Eastern Plaguelands. This ought to give you an idea on how 
 quickly WoW loses its novelty and low replay value. I would say pretty much the same for the whole 
 Blizzard productions. But then again, this is just me. Gameplay, from perfect 10 to disappointing 
 1. I can't give a 0 even if there is such an option because essentially, gameplay exists.
  
  Graphics: The comic-like graphics are intentionally made for various reasons from Blizzard. 
 Sceneries are occasionally visually appealing, but the general display of in-game graphics is not 
 exactly impressive, given the technology when this game was under development. Even if it was done 
 so that the range of coms capable of running this game widens, an option to turn graphics high 
 up should have been available for those people who have com that can support kick-ass graphics. 
 Spells and animations are repetitive and sprites are not appealing. Armor used to be repetitive, 
 only of different color, and this still exists, therefore the low, but not lowest rating for graphics.
 
  
  Sound: Repetitive and sounds sometime do not match the impact animations potray. Voice-ins help 
 slightly in boosting this attribute. However, you will experience pretty much the same sound throughout 
 the length of the game (which is usually more than 100 hours because it is an online game) .
  
  Value: Overpriced due to high demand and excess hype. Not worth the money to get started. Cheaper 
 games have provided longer hours of addiction and satisfaction.
  
  Tilt: Disappointing game overall. I used to think Blizzard make good games because of the Warcraft 
 franchise, but even Warcraft became disappointing after extensive gameplay and the inferior substance 
 compared to other games becomes clear. Starcraft and Diablo are clearly not deserving award winners. 
 The only thing that Blizzard has done well was Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, but it is not all 
 that. In fact, my impression of Blizzard is that they know how to deliver games that are addictive 
 at limited gameplay exposure, but not games that are truly addictive over a long period of time.
 
  
  One of the games that should have been seriously revised and reviewed after the hasty rating. Else, 
 games just have to appeal so much at first impression to score a high rating, enough to get its 
 sales up, but turns out mobs of disatisfied customers.
  
  All in all, ratings cannot be fully trusted due to the haste, hype and in factor. Only revised 
 ratings by extensive gameplay should be trusted with confidence. This should ring true as evident 
 from the percentage of abysmal ratings, compared to under-rated games that has only 1% other ratings 
 with the rest under Perfect , Superb and Great . Think about it.
  
  So here's my 10 cents, my 2 cents is free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Briefly summing up, was a fantastic game but even the best games go dry after a year and a half 
 of constant play. As with any game, no matter how good, it dies a death after constant play. The 
 only way to it lasts is through the social elements.
  
  For those who didn't play enough to get into a large guild it became tedious, as those friends 
 you do have are incommunicado, as they are off in high level raids.
  
  So as a result it is a very good game IF you can afford to dedicate enough time and social effort 
 to making it in a large guild (I'm not counting any relaxations of this in the upcoming expansion) . 
 Otherwise it's fun as with any normal game, in fact better than most. However it can't hold attention 
 perpetually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aodhon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. The first 3 days I had this game I didn't sleep or shower. The only thing I 
 did was play WoW. Which, for someone who normally doesn't game that much, is a big thing to say. 
 I really enjoyed the look of this game. I've always been a fan of game with the look of this, rich 
 and immersive but at the same time not so real I think my TV is a window. This game was also really 
 easy to pick up on, so much so that my sister (who doesn't play RPG) was able to pick up and play 
 without reading the manual. Excellently paced, a wide variety of enemies and lands, just a very 
 cool game all the way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lVlajinHeero
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the best mmorpg i've played in my life. When i first saw the advertisment for this game, 
 i was like i ain't gonna get this game cause u have to pay $15 every month!!! Thats so dam expensive!!! 
 After about a year later, i thought about it again and decided to try the game out for a month. 
 So i bought it. Once i logged in, i was shocked to see how beautifully detailed all the graphics 
 were. The other mmorpgs i've played where either good 2D graphics (example is maple story and ragnarok) 
 or crappy 3D graphics. (no offense runescape but you guys got to work on ur graphics a lot.) Although 
 i haven't played others like guild wars or Everquest etc. I knew right away that WoW was going 
 to be the best game i've ever played. Let me tell everyone. The graphics, top notch!! The gameplay 
 is quite good though. Everything is great about the gameplay. There are the battlegrounds, which 
 i personally love playing over and over although its the same objective (i love the killing and 
 the intens-ness of a stalled game when both teams has each other's flag and they race to see which 
 team can get their's back first in the Warsong Gulch. Also when in Arathi basin, when both teams 
 are fighting for a 3rd resource, the blacksmith) Those are probably the greatest times for me since 
 i'm so far only lvl 29 with 2 alt chars just below lvl 20. The sound is quite top notch too except 
 (i don't know if its just my computer but...) sometimes the sounds are somehow cut short and the 
 background music disapears. I fix this eventually though when i log out and log back in. In conclusion, 
 i LOVE this game because its the best game i've ever played (if my oppion counts) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonmanic75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for RPG Gamers, but thats a humble opinion. For me, its one of the best PC games 
 made. I've played the game for a while, since August, and i got the hang of it. The game's awesome 
 graphics make up for the fee. Oh, and if you already have the game, i would suggest that you buy 
 the expansion on janurary 16th, 2007. That is the street date for the release, but i could be wrong... 
 Anyway, the game is awesome, and you have many choices in the game. Some of them might be tough, 
 but once your 60 (or when expansion comes, 70) , you will be indescrutible (well, mostly) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbissar1992
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  heck, this is a fantastic game but what i hate about it is how it is overrated! I honestly feel 
 Blizzard is tipping off review websites to smother other online RPGs...
  Seeing as everyone had captured the good points ill talk about the bad points in this short review.
 
  A) Monthly fees and crap servers... 6 MILLION PLAYERS EACH PAYING MONTHLY FEES AND WE GET THIS 
 CRAP SERVERS! Lag, lag, and even more lag. Cues to log in and server going down frequently. Many 
 disconnects..
  B) Although it was meant to be a do what you want game, i cannot see why a storyline isnt in here. 
 Hell, the setting is great with the alliance/horde business but i would appreciate a solid plot... 
 Kazillions of quests are hard to do with kazillions of players waiting to do the same one... waiting 
 for mobs to respawn...
  C) Holy heck this game is easy, of course you have high end dungeons to explore, but there is no 
 real intermediate difficulty.
  D) Get to lvl 60 then buzz off. Honestly, you get to level 60 then what ? do quests for loot ? 
 I WANT A STORYLINE.
  E) Annoying ovveratings
  F) Detestable graphics glitches, like arms going through bodies, people walking in mid-air etc.
 
  
  IMO the worst thing is how all other online games are UNDERRATED. Hell, lets take Guild Wars for 
 example. Its the only contender to WoW and it is honestly a great game and im not being biasd. 
 Im just pointing out the WoW bad points because the good points have been discussed too much.
 
  Guild Wars has amazing servers yet has not monthly fees, graphics are smoother and are top-notch 
 for a game that size AND its UNDERRATED.
  Factions is probably overrated so ignore that one... it was rubbish anyway.
  Guild Wars prophecies 
 got 9.2 on GS, pretty fair but NIGHTFALL which is better than prophecies got 8.2 because it was 
 too similar to the previous games ! Does that mean WoW: Burning Crusade will get 8 ? Thats why 
 its a SERIES called GUILD WARS. they are similar. What do they expect, a game called Guild Wars 
 which has nothing to do with guild wars. Nightfall adds so much unique content... Sorry, im going 
 off the point.. You got my point didnt you ? Please say yes. Im not being Biasd, i just want to 
 allow other games a chance because to be honest, Blizzard doesnt give a damn if you spend 10$ a 
 month and get crap servers.
  I too bought WoW because everyone said it was good, unluckily for Blizzard i had played other online 
 RPGs so i knew WoW wasnt the best the seocnd a i played it. Great game, buy it but dont exclude 
 other games.
  I mention GW because its the only REAL contender...
  Please read my Nightfall review, and im not a nooblet, im being honest in that review AND this 
 one. Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Warcraft games were an instant hit, with a clever build, and a beatiful art style... the MMO 
 conversion doesn't fall short of its expectations.
  This is the most incredible MMO I have ever played. Its extremely popular, thanks to its low system 
 requierments (While still looking gorgeous) and its insane amount of Warcraft fans.
  
  First off, you might hear people whining about its cartoonish looks, but this is actually a good 
 thing, meaning that even bottom of the heap computers will be able to play it. The game-play is 
 insanely addictive, and there are ALOT of quests available for you. The musical score and voice 
 acting keeps the Warcraft charm alive, talented voice actors keep the game enjoyable.
  T
  he art style sticks to its origins, and it looks mesmerizing, with alot of character. Hundreds 
 of in-game items mean that there are thousands of combinations of gear to wear, affecting you in 
 different skill areas, which can involve alot of strategy.
  
  Special effects pack that oomph factor (You might have heard it in my past reviews) which can really 
 immerse you in the game.
  Character development is the most impressive I have seen. In character creation, if you can't THINK 
 of a name, it can make one for you. (Might not sound like alot, but trust me, when you can't decide 
 on a name, it will help.) plus randomized looks. Certain equipment can modify your strengths and 
 weaknesses, forcing you to look past appearances, which is pretty hard to do in games, there are 
 60 levels to gain, (which can take a while) so it would prbably take you ages to try every class 
 to the level cap.
  Speaking of classes, there are more than five classes, which have there own class specific quests, 
 which can increase replay value.
  
  There is a PVP element in WoW which involves two sides (Four races on each) and not allowing you 
 to speak or communicate with the opposing side. Lanquage filters further immerse you into this 
 different reality, encouraging you to be as spiteful to the other side as fully possible.
  If your not big on PVE combat, you can instead try the Battle Grounds, a PVP Arena which (Now, anyways) 
 will take you less than two minutes to join a party and fight the opposing side.
  
  The WoW game does include a $15 per month fee, so if you can afford it, what didn't just make you 
 run out to the store? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davenesw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  In the end having a level 60 druid loving the game and was raiding in a good guild. However this 
 game is addictive in the 6 months of playing this game hardcore style all you think about is playing 
 the game, when you sleep you still see the game lol. The game will never end you keep on wanting 
 to go on to beat everyone else and you cant put enough time into the game so in the end something 
 gives. I most cases its the real life that goes to hell but couldn't let that happen so for the 
 last 2 months I've gone cold turkey. If you like RPG games which I do and want to try online games 
 this is the one. Its an amazing RPG the storys are well done and this game will take your life 
 lol. Have fun...
  
  21 days 14 hours later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bocaj94321
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a great game and has lasted me 2 years now! the gamplay may seem simple when 
 u concentrate hard but it doesnt usualy.
  helpful interface makes it easy to get stuck into the game and helps the most experienced people 
 still! u can also download more mods to customize it even more.
  there may only be 9 classes, but each one has three different talent tress to specialize in, for 
 Hunter it would be: Marksmanship, they would be a more powerful ranged attacker, Beastmastery would 
 make the pet stronger, and Survival is for melee and traps. so even if ure the same class you can 
 be very different.
  
  Overall this game is brilliant ( although i get to hate the sound... ) and you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex105
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this is one of the worst games ever played theres nothing in the game that will attract 
 a good gamer who knows what a good game is when he see's 1 i dont think ive ever wasted so much 
 time in my life on 1 thing that ment nothing at all what so ever its just a none stop bore frenzy 
 doin the same old same old all the time killing the same boring monsters over an over again same 
 way every single time there are some really annoying sounds also when your killing them you hear 
 them in every kill you make the map is WAY TO BIG FOR ITS OWN GOOD its no fun at all wow its big 
 but whats init which is so great nothing all u do is travel for long periods of time across the 
 most boring places i have ever seen aswell i seriously think MINORITY REPORT the game is better 
 the then this in every way possible SO IF I WERE U PLZ STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS 
 GOOD FOR YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_shorty75
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft has been a brand new experience to the whole rpg gaming style, not only does 
 it add many more unusual classes, races, and etc. this game has many great points but it also has 
 many imrpoveable places. World of warcraft is based upon the warcraft games and instead of making 
 an rts, the rpg game system gives players the choices of 2 factions, alliance and horde, alliance 
 made up of humans, dwarves, gnomes, and night elves. horde on the other hand is made up of orc, 
 tauren, trolls, and undead. the classes are warriors, mages, paladins, hunters, druids, shamans, 
 rogues, warlocks. each class has its own specialty, and after each class, you are able to choose 
 a profession, to profit from or to make some potions or armor or many others. The game can be played 
 in 2 types of servers, player versus player and player versus enviornment, in player vs player, 
 different faction players can fight each other whenver they see each other, in player versus enviornment, 
 players must agree before dueling.
  
  great game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomis_dk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  hmm....
  world of warcraft has so many player, --&gt; for a reason... But isnt it dangerous? I think ppls 
 is wasting their lifes in there... It just takes so much time.. And it is fun, it is amazing... 
 Proberbly the best made game ever...
  
  But after 5 years, and u leave this game.. Try to think ur thougts --&gt; omg i have been using 
 so much time there... Gaming is good for relaxing, getting a bit away, having fun with friends.. 
 But a game cant overwrite the real world.. Many need to wake up and take a look around.. Wow isnt 
 going to last forever, be carefull not to lose ur REAL life... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForestElder
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  When i first stared the game i was addicted like hell. The game world sucked me into it. But when 
 i played longer i noticed that is nothing more then 1 big grind fest, killing over and over the 
 same monsters again. The quest system is also nothing special if you compare them too other mmorpg's. 
 Mostly are killing or collecting quests.
  When you hit lvl 60 there is nothing more too do except doing dungeon raids over and over again 
 for completing your uber gear.
  
  The world of warcraft is big yes but has not much variety in it. You ever noticed that all the 
 buildings and monsters are almost the same? They just got other sizes, names and colors. Its just 
 a big timesink for your own entertainment, so that blizzard can keep collecting your precious money. 
 No this game is too boring for me but thats a matter of taste of course. Now i play Battleground 
 europe: world war II online. No grinding, no boring gameplay just 24h pure action :-) Maybbe i 
 gonna try Vanguard: saga of heroes but i am affraid it will be the same grinding fest like other 
 mmorpg's. Time will tell! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imayellowfellow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Many people say that World of Warcraft is a lame game because it turns people into losers who lay 
 their asses on their chairs and play the game all day however this is the same reason this game 
 is so damn fantastic
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in WoW is one of the greatest experiences for MMO. Unlike City of Heroes, 
 the game is more indepth and less repetitive. The countless raids and dungeons and quests etc.... 
 all combine for hours and hours of gameplay
  
  Sound - The sound is very good in this game. All the skills and attacks have unique sounds that 
 set them apart. Also the music in the game is great. iT is brilliantly scored and makes eachh area 
 very exciting. Graphics - The graphics in this game are good for an MMO. Altthough if you want 
 a good frame rate for the game you mite want to turn them down a bit. However graphics on high 
 can still run in a good fps.
  
  VAlue/story - this game is sort of lacking much of a story, but the real value of the game is the 
 endless gameplay. Therefore all in all World of Warcraft is one of the best MMO's in the market 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has been completely reowned for the classic games of Diablo, StarCraft, and most recently, 
 Warcraft 3. After the end of the expansion pack, everything is left completely open. What does 
 it leave open exactly? A world. A world of Warcraft.
  
  World of Warcraft is set about 3 years after the battle of Mount Hydaj and the batte of the Frozen 
 Throne. The lines have been drawn between the Horde and the Alliance. War has erupted. Everything 
 is left open to you, the player.
  
  When you create a character, you can choose from humans, dwarves, gnomes, night elves, orcs, trolls, 
 tauren, and undead. Each with their own attributes, abilities, and specialties. Once you have a 
 race, you choose your class, such as the warrior, rogue, or priest. Both factions have a special 
 class, which is paladin for alliance, and shaman for horde. Once you're done with that, you choose 
 your appearance and set out into the world.
  
  You start in a beginning area, taking small tasks and leveling up before you travel out into the 
 world. The entire game seemingly never runs out of quests, for it's always getting quests. There's 
 always something to do, even if you have a few minutes or a few hours.
  
  PvP (Player vs Player) is heavily emphasized in the game world. If you're too lazy to actually 
 go out and find an alliance or horde enemy, then you can always enter into a battleground and fight 
 for your faction's glory, fighting against multiple enemies of levels close to you. The graphics 
 are a little bit of a step up from the original Warcraft 3 engine. Everything is flashy, detailed, 
 and colorful, and that's when you realize everything is basically that way. There's not much to 
 really tell you about this, because you have to play it to believe it.
  
  World of Warcraft is rated T for teen, retails for $40 at most stores, and payment options can 
 either be chosen by monthly credit card or purchased game cards, which also retail for $40 at most 
 stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSIFirefly
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game since it came out, and have found it to be perhaps the most entertaining 
 and fun game I have ever played.
  
  Everything about the game is great: everything..... Except the other players. For one, finding 
 a decent guild that will help you get started in the game is pretty hard. Second, if you are playing 
 on a PvP server, you are basically free game for someone on the opposing faction to kill when ever 
 they want. This is the most irritating part of the game. A group of people can simply sit on top 
 of your dead body, and kill you the second you resurrect.
  
  Basically, if you want to get the game, you'll have a blast. My only advice would be DO NOT play 
 on a PvP server. The Normal servers (aka PvE servers) have all the same PvP abilities as the PvP 
 servers, but you get the say of when and where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, what should I really say about it. The game is basically what you make of it. 
 You want to pvp? There is pvp! You want to roleplay, there are RPG-servers. You want to find the 
 best items in the game, you can spend your time on that as well.
  
  So, if all these possibilites are there, what is there not to like?
  
  I guess for me, its 
 spending perhaps 70 hours doing instancing and not getting what you want or need. Its spending 
 this huge amount of time, for pretty petty rewards.
  Playing PvP? Forget it, unless you are with 9 mates you'll be losing 4 out of 5 battlegrounds because 
 of the other factions premade battlegroups.
  
  Alterac Valley then, a huge pvp-place where you fight 40 vs 40. It might have been fun, but as 
 of late it's just been a place for reputationfarmers who yell lose fast so I get rep instead of 
 actually trying to turn the tide of battle.
  
  And the PvE is pretty bland as well, I mean, as soon as you figured out the trick to any boss all 
 you have to do is rinse and repeat. Doing the same thing over and over again. Perhaps some people 
 like the idea of being able to kill huge bosses over and over, making them feel powerful or something. 
 Not me though, I just get bored.
  
  No, WoW is definately for some, but not for all. Id rather read a book to the end and then pick 
 up a new one, instead of rereading the last chapter over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  What this game lacks is speed. The majority of the time you'll find yourself waiting around trying 
 to form a party to go do a quest. Sometimes you'll manage to form a party after 2 hours. Then you 
 get 4 hours into the quest, and two of your party members leave or lag out. At this point you will 
 likely end up failing the quest which you just spent 6 hours of your day trying to complete. I 
 guess you can try again the next day. While you distance yourself more and more from your friends. 
 You're better off doing something more beneficial with your time.
  
  This game would be a lot more enjoyable if it was MUCH FASTER paced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a mmo creation by the developers blizzard that brought you games such as Lost 
 vikings... oh and a little game called starcraft. World of Warcraft is one of the most played mmos 
 ever and rightfully so. WoW ( world of warcraft ) shows an accessabillity that many of its counterparts 
 just seem to lack. Insted of blowing you away with insane amounts of depth, WoW keeps its simple 
 but manages to really keep a level of depth that experianced players will really apreciate sinking 
 their teeth into. World of warcraft starts you out by choosing a server and 1 of 2 factions the 
 alliance and the horde. For those familliar with Warcraft the races will be very familliar. The 
 Factions and are the Noble Alliance which is composed of humans, elves, gnomes , and the hardy 
 dwarves the other factions is the fearsome horde which is comprised of orcs , undead, the tauren 
 as well as the trolls. There are many classes in the game and depending on what race you choose 
 any number of these classes will be open to you. Once you have chosen a race, customized your appearance 
 and thought up a name your ready to venture into the world of Azeroth! The game starts you off 
 in a turotial area to get you used to the basics of the game. The game doesn't treat you like and 
 idiot though, leaving some things to be found out on your own. So really starting out is no problem 
 the game shines really well when it comes to this. The Graphics in the game are nothing amazing 
 and have a semi cartoony feel but they really get the job done and capture the theme of the old 
 warcraft games really well. Suffice to say the system requirements aren't that steep and even if 
 you don't have the beefiest computer on the block you will still be able to run the game at an 
 enjoyable pace. Now the sound right? Its Really good, ambient sounds and epic orchestral themes 
 are all done to perfection and really set a level of epicness to the world. This game like most 
 mmo's offers alot to players who stick with it. Since its being updated constantly and a new expansion 
 is on the way the popularity of azeroth is only growing. So if recent mmos have brought you down 
 , even if you have vowed not to play another mmo ever you should really give wow a chance since 
 it really sets itself apart from the rest of the mmo heap.
  
  Adittional info:
  
  System reqs - Windows:
  98/ME/2000/XP 800 MHz or higher CPU 256 MB or more of RAM 32 MB 3D graphics 
 card with hardware transform and lighting, such as GeForce 2 or better 4 GB or more of available 
 hard drive space DirectX 9.0c or above 56k or higher modem with an Internet connection Mac:
  OS X 10.3.5 933 MHz or higher G4 or G5 processor 512 MB RAM or higher; DDR RAM recommended ATI 
 or NVIDIA video hardware with 32 MB VRAM or more 4 GB or more of available hard drive space 56k 
 or higher modem with an Internet connection Monthly fee: around 15 bucks a month, alternate payment 
 plans avaliable.
  
  - Vamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a few months. I knew that this one was hyped up to be the EverQuest killer, 
 and for all intents and purposes, it probably is, but its not better than EverQuest. It gains its 
 fan base off of all the people who worshipped their RTS games and were given a new toy to play 
 with. I played EverQuest, then EQ2 for about 4 years total, I still hold that to be the best series 
 in the MMO genre, especially with all the modifications they constantly make. WOW felt like the 
 same game with more cartoonish looking characters. The one thing that WOW does better than EQ is 
 their Alchemy and Item creating system. Maybe because it is much more dumbed down than EverQuest. 
 It is simplified: place 2 or more items in your toolkit and viola! you got your item. In EQ you 
 can spend hours trying to make an item... which sucks. All in all, it kept my interest for a while, 
 but I ended up cancelling and going back to EQ2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickflip613
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  This game after being out for 2 years and with a planned expansion pack beiing developed as we 
 speak, the world of warcraft is better then ever, and with the huge player base, it is a very enjoyable 
 exprience. But before you WoW haters start dissing this game, let me start off with some of the 
 pros and cons of this MMO. The BAD - No in game talk support, very annoying that there is no built 
 in voice communication in the game itself, though each realm has a dedicated ventrillo server, 
 it is still a pain to type so much when in a party, because not everyone is going to want to talk 
 on vent.
  
  It is hard to get a group for instances if u do not have a large or good guild. The LFG (looking 
 for group) channel is very ineffective and is often spammed by guilds recruting, and more often 
 than not u will spend a good deal of time looking for people that you need to join your group, 
 especially healers, and tanks.
  
  The GOOD - Has many types of servers, such as role playing, where people act our their characters 
 as if they are a gnome warrior, PVP (player vs. player) where the horde and alliance can fight 
 each other in the contested areas of the game world, and recieve honor for which, where on other 
 servers honor is only recieved through battlegrounds. A very large community and each server or 
 realm, has a lot of people on it, and is great because of the community type services you use to 
 make gold (money currency in WoW) make it worthwhile to work on your professions, because gold 
 is needed for almost everything in this game, and people go so far as to pay for gold from websites 
 with a credit card.
  
  The game does not get boring once you are level 60 (the highest level you can achieve) . Once level 
 60 the game becomes more intense and more things open up to do then ever before at lower levels, 
 and you concentrate on PVP and getting gear, instead of getting XP, and you also have the ability 
 to make as many characters on as many servers as you want, so you can make more than one level 
 60, with one being a healer, and one a rouge or hunter. Conlusion - The game is very good, one 
 of the most played MMO's of all time, and it has a great update serivice, and is being worked on 
 by blizzard constantly, and has a great online community. Most people will totally love this game 
 after a hour or so, because the learning curve is kinda high if new to MMO's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Lindo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the most fun rpg out there. This game has many different things going for 
 it. The positive things about this game are that you get to meet a lot of cool people. This game 
 unlike other mmo rpg's this game is seamless so no load times. This game is way awesome because 
 no matter what level you are this is fun. Some of the more negative things are that this game is 
 highly addictive so if you don't have time then I would recommend a different rpg like Knights 
 of the Old Republic. If you have time though this game is awesome so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I never played WoW before so I decided to finally check it out. I've been playing this game for 
 a week now and I'm simply frightened that my 10 day free trial ends so quickly. Let's face it - 
 all good I heard about this game is one hundred percent true. It has huge, gigantic world, thousands 
 of quests, items, skills and an endless replay value. Today graphics are not perfect i. e. Guild 
 Wars has a lot better visuals but it doesn't matter really. There is so much to do here, so much 
 to explore, so much to fight for and so on. Moreover, it is surprisingly simple to play. Week ago 
 I logged in to the World of Warcraft for the first time ever and I didn't need any tutorial, manual 
 or any help at all. You just plundge into the game and you play, you know what to do after about 
 five minutes. The characters, the world, the music (!) , the whole gameplay - all that is just as 
 it should be. WoW isn't the best game ever made but undoubtably it is one of the best if not the 
 best online gaming experiance you can have in life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamcham
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Good Game/Quest design and balance from Lv1 ~ Lv50. after Lv55 those quest are become time-wasting 
 and boring journey. Faction is also a freaking idea to make u doing same thing 100+ times per day 
 to get a tiny upgrade. u are playing like a bot and funny is that blizzard is banning those bot-software 
 users. for the BC expension pack. we can expect new maps.. new gears.. new race.. but strange is 
 no new class. in the other hand they are going to share the class which each side have their specialty 
 like shm to the horde and pally to the alliance. that's a bad way to make a game looks like fair 
 . even tho we know there is alot of crying about (pally bubble etc) . it take away the original 
 conflict design for each side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpearX
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  This is kind of a late review... I quit this game last year after playing a few months. I got this 
 day on release and played it, and even quit FFXI to play this. At first I was amazed, and very 
 quickly I realised that levels 1-59 were fillers before the real game at 60. Sadly, the game does 
 not have enough end game content to make this approach work.
  
  Gameplay: Well, gameplay is solid, however, it is incredibly repetitive and shallow. The biggest 
 problem is the missing sense of reward. It is so easy to level, it is very hard to be proud of 
 being high level. Which leads to the next problem: Lots and lots of bad players at higher levels 
 which make things a bit frustrating. There is not much depth to combat, it feels really loose and 
 not very cohesive. The game, ironically likes to boast that it focuses so heavily on quests, but 
 in turn, the quests focus mainly on combat. The ones that do not, involve gathering items. People 
 who play the game would like to think the combat requires skill, but really its rarely a reactive 
 system, you usually just cast certain spells in a pre-determined sequence every single time. Graphics: 
 I'm a bit torn on this subject, and I give it an 8 based mainly on the artistic aspect of it. Technically, 
 this is a horrible looking game that was out dated before it was even released, but like I said, 
 the art style makes up for it a bit. I don't see this engine holding up for another year, though.
 
  
  Sound: Music is fantastic as you would expect from a blizzard game, all the spells and such sound 
 great, and monsters and players make interesting noises. I love the /joke command. :D
  
  Value: People would usually give it a 10 in this department because there is so much to do, but 
 in reality, there is not much you'll want to do because there is no reward for doing these things. 
 The game may mature and become much better in the coming years (although the graphics engine may 
 not hold up as well as the gameplay) as more content is added. It feels to me like this game was 
 meant to be a 200 level game, but after being in production for so long, they released it with 
 a 60 level cap. Tilt: I have it a fair tilt, because this game is actually fun for a while, but 
 once you hit level 40, you'll drag on to level 60, and once you hit level 60, you'll become caught 
 in a cycle of tedium. At level 60, you're only really raiding to obtain better gear to raid the 
 same area over and over and over, and by the time everyone has the gear, blizzard releases the 
 new dungeon, where you do the same thing again and again. There is no story to speak of, so the 
 only motivation to continue after level 60, is to get better gear... and why do you need better 
 gear? So you can raid new areas easier to get new gear... and the cycle goes on, you get the idea. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is damn near perfection. So let me begin by explaining the reasons it is just shy of 
 that. In 2004 when the game was released the graphics were technically pretty decent. But its not 
 all about shader models, and tech demo like examples. Artistic work is often overlooked. With the 
 limited engine they had to use the developers made some of the prettiest landscapes and characters 
 ever. The game still looks fantastic. The sound has a similiar fault were there is not a technical 
 marvel here. The music, efefcts, and voices are great though the latter seems lacking for such 
 a huge game. Otherwise, superb and very fitting to the experiance. The biggest issues are in gameplay. 
 Problems will come with alot of repetitive gathering quests. Alot of players, can't wait till they 
 reach 60 so they can be done with those (though they are still there) . The other problem with the 
 gameplay and biggest fault of the game actually comes at the level 60. When alot of the bigger 
 dungeons are not possible unless you are in a large and experianced raiding guild. On most established 
 servers, starting a new one on your own is near impossible. This is the biggest problem you will 
 find with WoW and doesn't come until after hundreds of hours of play. But if you are one who has 
 to beat or take games to an ending of sorts, (which WoW never has due to updates) getting remotely 
 close to that is impossible sometimes. This is the only true deal breaker for WoW and the only 
 thing that you should really consider to stop you from playing. Even if you do start raiding high 
 level, social problems occur and others players will eventually be a factor in how far you get 
 and if you succeed later in the game. Other social issues like farmers that sell gold online and 
 poor chat filters are the other social faults than harm the experiance. Get in a good guild with 
 friends that are equally dedicated and turn off most of the chat option and you have probably the 
 greatest game experiance you will ever have.
  
  In this reviewers opinion, that is everything wrong with WoW right there. It didn't make sense 
 to go on about the positives as you've already heard them and know people are not addicted for 
 no reason. The graphics and sound is knitpicking but the gameplay issues are a legitimate fault. 
 Regardless of contributing social factors the long term gameplay problems keep this game experiance 
 from being perfect. You've already heard enough about it, so if you want to see why its the most 
 popular game in the world, jump in and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_M_172007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  this is the kind of game that realy makes you wanna play it 24/7 its the best online game i ever 
 seen so far you start playing by choosing one of many kind of characters and thier classes that 
 is known to you if you played (war craft
  good graphics a little bit cartoony yes but its good and the best thing is its not only about killing 
 monsters and lv ,you can also raid with max 40 ppl (group) to kill high lv monsters or duel with 
 your friends to see who's stronger or you can just sit and chat with otheres
  good sound effects good vaule buy it you wont regret it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is so incredibly popular. The reason is that, the gameplay is so easy to learn 
 and there are so many people to communicate with. The world is huge, and there are so many choices 
 to make. The game was fun first when I played it, but when I got Elder Scrolls IV this game was 
 nothing. After playing it I saw that there are not much own content in world of warcraft. It has 
 taken content much from Diablo, Diablo 2, The Elder scrolls series, Neverwinter nights etc. The 
 game is not bad, but I will keep my social life up. The addiction of the game will cause serious 
 troubles in the future. If you have a hard mind and you can control what you're doing then you 
 might want to try this, but if not stay out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mv232
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had a change to play WOW yet, too busy going over Diablo II AGAIN, but I've been watching 
 my fiance play and I must say I am rather impressed with where they have taken this game. I've 
 seen a couple MMORPGs before but this really takes the cake. However, I feel it to be a bit too 
 cartoon-ish for my taste. I guess I'm spoiled with the Elder Scrolls series but still, the graphics 
 are not the strong point. All in all though, I gave this game a pretty good rating based off the 
 variety and overall performance of the game and it's engine. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KG78
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is amazing! The best MMORPG ever created. Yes I kinda got mad when I heard 
 that you have to pay 15$ a month but hey its worth it! The only problem withg this game is that 
 the installition takes FOREVER! But once its installed its all fun from there. Yoo can create youre 
 own character and most of the good names are taken but you can create a cool name and its very 
 easy you can join groups, guilds, raids, And much, much more! You must play this game. But here is a 
 warning: IT IS TIME CONSUMING! Dont buy this game if you have Girlfriend cuase she will dump you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoonatanN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game april 2005, and ive been addicted since. Gameplay: Soo many things 
 to do, especially at level 60. If your not 60, at times you may feel bored, but there are alot 
 of stuff for people to do who are not 60 also, instances and quests. But you should get to level 
 60 in 2-3 months anyway if it's your first time. Gameplay at 60 is great: Good and fun PVP, raids 
 that need 40 people to take down one boss (Though this will be changed to 25 later) , reputation 
 grinding (wich may feel a bit boring, but they are going to make getting reputation with some factions 
 much more fun with the expansion) Role-playing if your on a role-play server, harasing low level 
 players :P etc it goes on forever. Graphics: Graphics are kind of cartoony, but they are alright, 
 many beutiful things
  
  Sound: Sound is alright, not much to say about it
  
  Value: Defineatly worth it
  
  There are quite alot of people demonizing the game out there, 
 most of these people are 13 year old punks who are just bored and have never even played the game, 
 or people who have played to about level 10 with a trial account, or Guild Wars players who are 
 pissed because WoW has alot more players. Please, all go crawl into your holes and die. Dont believe 
 them, and try it out yourself if you can, i'm sure you will love it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShibbieZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Back in July of 2006, so about 3 months ago or so, i picked up World of Warcraft. I had no idea 
 this game would be as amazing as it is. I've played for literally hours, upon hours, upon hours, 
 and I don't plan on stopping anytime soon. The game is easy to pick up and learn, and difficult 
 to master, and I appreciate that aspect of the game very much. The graphics, while falling behind 
 in the next-gen graphics rush, are still gorgeous in my eyes, and the lighting effects in some 
 of the larger towns is completely gorgeous. The experience system works very well, you could grind 
 for hours on the same mobs for hours to level up, or do quest after quest. PvP is terrific and 
 well done, and the layout of the world is very well designed. The musical score for the game is 
 also very well done. All in all, World of Warcraft, is completely worthy, of my 9.5 out of 10.
 
  
  
  
  -ShibbieZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocnyhc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  There is a reason why this game is like the best selling game of all time. Huge worlds to explore, 
 countless quests to complete, millions of weapon and armor combinations, and the best community 
 of players. There is always something new you can do to keep yourself busy. The most entertaining 
 part to me is trying to get the best weapons. The graphics are amazing, the whole world is detailed 
 down to the stones on the floor. The soundtrack is great, its very epic and moving. This is the 
 best game to play with your friends because of the teamwork factors that is needed to get past 
 some of the quests. Hands down my favorite game ever, cant wait for the expansion to come out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Well this game have been keeping me busy for a long time now, two years and some betas to add to 
 that. I have left this game about ten times now, and in some strange way returned. As an old daoc 
 player i had alot of hopes on this one to have just as good pvp as DAOC, but no. The PvP in this 
 game is way to item based and instanced. For those who like raiding this game must be a blast, 
 because almost all the end-game is based on raiding raiding and even more endless raiding. For 
 everyone who is thinking of starting this game and have never played an mmo before, just start 
 playing world of warcraft. Wow is simply an mmorpg lite-version. so if you are an old mmorpg player 
 you might be disappointed. Well since i have nothing better to do i will most likely quit this 
 game and return a couple of more times before i start playing Warhammer Online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuill92
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this game was fun, for about a week, after that it was just boring as hell
  i tryed all the races and most of the classes and i finally decided and its like the exact same 
 thing over and over, quest kill sell, quest kill sell, level, quest kill sell... blah blah its 
 boring i would suggest that nobody play this game and make blizzard DIE lol
  its just plain dum, that u hav 2 pay 2 play a game with sucha cartoony immature graffix.... like 
 say... id pay to play Counter-Strike: Source becuz the graffix arent unrealistic, cartoonish and 
 lame
  
  if u want a real game, buy an fps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeylt14
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the world!!! The only thing that I do not like about this game is the 
 online monthly subscription. It is not that bad, but it is just annoying....
  
  *My warning to people that haven't played it*
  Although It is extremely addictive and it has 
 caused my grades to drop a bit and have no life, I love it more than anything in the world... It 
 is definitely worth the money and the time in my opinion, just try not to let it take over your 
 life!!! If you know your the kind of person that gets to into games then don't play it or you'll 
 love it waaayyy too much like myself...
  ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someguynamedjac
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  It normally takes people quite a few months of hard work to get the best epic gears - assuming 
 you ever become a good player in your WoW carrer and is able to get into a good guild. ONLY the 
 top raiding guilds have a chance of obtaining good epic items. Without a guild - you have nothing.
 
  
  I understand that this game is very time consuming, but what is the point of spending so much time 
 and effort into this game?
  
  Right after you have spent all that time to obtain a few good epic items, Blizzard will just come 
 out with another patch and insert better epic items into the game - instantly making the items 
 that you have worked for obsolete. And so this cycle continues into the Burning Crusade, and all 
 the expansion packs thereafter. While players are hooked on this never-ending cycle that turns 
 their previous work into nothing - they charge you $15 / month to play. Which is why they are probably 
 halting development on some other potential games and diverting all energy to WoW.
  
  Don't know about you, but it seems like a waste of time to me.
  I know from experience because 
 after you quit WoW - you will look back and say Boy that was a waste of time.... I could have done 
 a lot more better things with that time 
  The funny thing is, the ppl who are still playing this game don't even realize it until they have 
 quit =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 1.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow waste of time get a life you nerds. This game is a waste of time. South Park made a hilarious 
 episode on how stupid this game is and how all the people who play it have no lives and are fat 
 and ugly. Wow that episode is one of my favorites. So if your a nerd or have no life get this game. 
 If you have a life and is not a nerd don't and instead watch the new South Park episode where they 
 make fun of this game sooooooo good. So watch this episode and crack up its hilarious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game kicks ass!!!!!
  Once you pick it up, you'll never be able to put it down. The graphics aren't too good but they 
 don't have to be, sound inst all that, but it doesn't have to be, the physics aren't the best, 
 BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE!!!!!!!!!
  
  The game is just so fun that you dont need the great physics and inovative graphics!!! you can 
 play it on a junk PC just as good as a VooDoo!!!!! **WARNING** If you have a very social life and 
 dont have much free time, DONT GET THIS GAME!!!!! You'll make time to get your epic mount or lvl 
 up one last time before finally sleeping!!!!
  
  I've actually tried to quit this game five times now, but like trying to stop smoking... IT'S IMPOSSIBLE!!!!!!
 
  
  World of Warcrack will rule your life!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazanator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft shares similarities to the popular online game runescape, guild wars and oblivion. 
 The level cap is 60 which is pretty good for an mmo and you can do anything from smithing to smelting 
 with a great sense of freedom to do what you want and how you want to do it. The graphics are descent 
 and the sound is superb. But the problem with this game sometimes is the loading screens and lagging, 
 which happens a lot in the major cities and towns. The subscriptions no dout will be a problem 
 for some people as you need a credit card, but if you can get it you should. But overall this is 
 on one of the best mmos on offer along with guild wars and oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowmo67
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Don't even try this game unless you have alot of time on your hands... it is highly addictive and 
 immersive. The aspects that I enjoyed were mainly crafting items and then selling them on the auction 
 house, and the huge endless world to explore. The PVP got a little frustrating, you really have 
 to work on your character to be on top, as seen in a recent episode of South Park.. lol
  
  Take your time and do as many quests as possible, as this to me was the most fun part of WOW, don't 
 rush to level 60. I would have given this game a higher score if there were no monthly fee's to 
 play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HCanciano
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, but very time consuming.
  
  To sum this game up, dont play unless you're willing to sacrifice (at least eventaully, if you 
 want to get far in end-game content) 5 hours a day/ 7 days a week.
  
  Now that I have that out of the way, this game is very well made, and balanced (although some disagree.) 
 Its a very addicting game once you start getting ahead, and its very gear based (why it's so addicting) .
 
  
  There are many ways to go about leveling: solo, AOE farming, questing, or instancing.
  
  Solo is pretty simple, just go about killing things, although it gets pretty boring after 1 
 hour or so.
  
  AOE farming is made more specifically towards the MAGE class. its pretty much when a mage goes 
 into a group of monsters (mobs) , and does an Area of Effect spell, which is a move that can damage 
 multiple mobs. very simple, but requires a lot of time (to sit down and eay/drink every 2/3 mob 
 sets) .
  
  Questing is pretty much self explanitory, just go around doing quests that the NPCs offer. there 
 are thousands of quests, and guide for all of them. Its more efficiant than grinding solo, if done 
 properly.
  
  Instancing is where the fun comes in. It requires (depending on instance it verys) 5, 10, 20 and 
 even 40 people to do. They drop the best loot (gear) for the level, and its free. They average 
 around 2-3 hours to do 1 instance. Instances start from level 13, to all the way to 60. This is 
 where the hours come in once you're 60, and looking for end-game content.
  
  The PVP in World of Warcraft is pretty good, but very gear based.
  
  Overall, very good game, 
 but only play if you're willing to sacrifice hours and hours a day, 7 days a week. This game is 
 not intended for casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmityGuitarist
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Well well well. The first time I played this game, the experience was undeniably amazing. Incredible, 
 i felt so small compared to the world, and the feeling of vertigo was all there. I had just gotten 
 the game for christmas and played on a brand new world. SO many people and SO much talking. I loved 
 the atmosphere.
  
  Of course, that was how it was up until about level 25.... where the levels start to get really 
 slow and you have learned more than enough to discover new things and there are already 500+ level 
 60's.
  
  I was amazed to see how lifeless some people are, getting a character to level 60 in 7-10 days 
 right after the start of a brand new server. And to tell the truth, it can get really annoying 
 when they try to get cocky about how long they can sit at a computer.
  
  The graphics, nowadays are VERY low poly and it gets pretty boring to look at again and again. 
 If they were updating the graphics in the expansion, I would buy it. But, alas, they are not.
 
  
  This game does however do a very nice job straying away from the usual grinding there is plenty 
 to do even if you aren't level 60. Nor do you need a group of 5 people to do higher level things. 
 For the most part however the community is nice enough to help you out.
  
  Upon entering one of the large cities you feel a great deal like you are amongst the hustle and 
 bustle of a real town because of all the players. They did a nice job at having reasons to stay 
 in a town, unlike in some other games. The first time entering Ironforge after traveling so far 
 from menethil to get there is a rewarding experience.
  
  The music in the game is good at giving the particular feeling to the area you are in. Which, to 
 me, is a big part of every game. A poor musical score will not get my attention :) This game passes 
 in that area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  FIRST OFF: i only played the trail version, so all of what im about to say is only a few weeks 
 worth of knowledge
  
  
  
  WoW is one of the best games i have played. the depth of the game is so immense. the world is seemingly 
 endless. looking up to the immense buidlings immerses you into 'the world. graphics are great. 
 imo, the graphics dont need to be that good in a game like this, so it doesnt really bother me 
 that much
  
  battles and gameplay are fun. people say quests get old, and yes, maybe they do, but the good part 
 about the quest system thing is that they spread to differnent areas of Azeroth, so your not confined 
 to a specific area in the world and stay there for the whole game. you can fly by animals, zeppellins, 
 boats, etc. to get to other areas in the game. the only bad thing about this game, besides the 
 monthly fee, is the shear addictivness this game has. if ANY of you have seen the South Park episode 
 where they all get fat and stuff, that is bound to happen if you play this game. you wont take 
 your eyes or your hands off this game for quite some time after you start playing it. i think WoW 
 is an awsome game. you will probably will loose friends and maybe even your girlfriend and start 
 to do bad in school if you play this game. GAMERS BE WARNED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zypher56
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  why play a game with crappy pvp and have to pay for it monthly. guild wars' pvp is 30 times better 
 and its FREE. the only thing i like about wow is the free roaming part about it. in my opinion 
 it is a waste of time and u get bored very fast. i dont even want to bother getting the expansion. 
 this game was a total let down to me. i heard alot of hype about it and then i bye it. then i hate 
 it and go back to guild wars. all the guild war bashers out there probably havent even played it 
 and just played this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (or WoW as its commonly known as) is an excellent and well done MMORPG. To a 
 new player, like myself, WoW is a well-made and accessable online game that can be played by both 
 hardcore players and the more casual gamers.
  
  When you load the game up, you are given the choice on what realms (i. e. servers) to play on. After 
 choosing a realm, you are taken to the character creation screen, where you can choose from two 
 different factions. There is the Alliance, which consists of stealthy night elves, charismatic 
 humans, quirky gnomes, and hardy dwarves. Rivaling the Alliance is the Horde, which is made up 
 of fierce orcs, Jamaican-esque Trolls, shamanistic Tauren, and the creepy Undead. Each race has 
 certain race-specific skills and attributes that add a little bit of uniqueness to a player's experience.
 
  
  After choosing a faction and race, you can then choose what type of character you can play. There 
 are magic users such as mages, who throw deadly bolts of fire and ice, and there are warlocks which 
 use shadow power to summon creatures and steal life and cause damage. There are also sneaky rogues 
 to play, hunters armed with guns or bow, warriors, priests that heal party members, and two faction-specific 
 classes: the Alliance get a paladin, a cross between a priest and a warrior, and the Horde get 
 the shaman, a character that uses the elements to cause damage and heal.
  
  The Community of WoW is excellent, as there are always people on (as there should be, with over 
 six million players worldwide) and therefore always people to quest with. While occasionally there 
 is the snobby elitists, there are enough casual players in the game that if someone makes fun of 
 you for being a noob, the attacker will actually have a lot of people making fun of him in return.
 
  
  As for gameplay, it is relatively standard in terms of MMORPGs: you select an enemy, then click 
 on a skill you want to use to damage the enemy. Melee attacks are automated, but special attacks 
 need to be manually selected in order to use them. There are thousands of quests, many of them 
 faction and class-specific, so there is enough material to keep a player busy for months on end, 
 if not years.
  
  While player vs player (PvP) is not as intense as found in other MMORPS, it is satisfactory and 
 more than enough to keep someone happy. Furthermore, it is always easy to find a group to PvP against, 
 and the addition of PvP-only servers (servers where you are flagged for PvP and members of the 
 opposite faction can attack you at will) create a new challenge for the more seasoned WoW player.
 
  
  The only issues I have with game concern a few things. First, the graphics seem to be somewhat 
 dated. While they dont look bad, and the environments are rendered well and are well-optimized, 
 it would have been nice if a better engine were used. Second, I wish there were more options available 
 when making a player: all characters look the same in a given race, and basically all a player 
 is given is the ability to change the face (which are premade) , hair, gender, beard, peircings, 
 and a few other things. An Everquest 2 type of character generator would have been greatly appreciated, 
 so that not everyone's character looks the same. Finally, there is a monthly charge, which alone 
 is enough to drive many players away. However, given the success of WoW, I think many people are 
 convninced that you get what you pay for, and what you pay for is an excellent game, with excellent 
 customer support and a development team that cares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inf3rnus88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will recognize about this game is that it is very large. Even the starting 
 areas are quite large and when you flick to your world map and look at the sheer size of the world, 
 you can easily feel quite overwhelmed. Its not really as large as you may think at first glance, 
 especially when you are high enough to ride a mount. Either way it will most likely still be larger 
 than most game worlds you may be used to. After all any in-game world which needs its own transit 
 system must be BIG! The scenery and character details does look nice. Theres nothing that seems 
 out of place and everything tends to mesh quite well together. Every piece of armor that you have 
 (wrists, legs, belt etc) will change your characters appearance when you change them and there 
 are plenty of pieces of armor to acquire. You will find that the more popular instance items are 
 very common and you mind find others that look very much like yourself. Which brings me to the 
 next point, the character customization in this game is very good. You can select your hair style 
 and color, your face and your skin color as well as other aesthetic details such as piercing or 
 tusks. The game has a very good back story which will develop as you adventure. The story is interesting; 
 however, probably wouldnt compare to other games such as Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 
 in terms of drama and development. However, it is enough to keep you interested in the game world 
 and its characters and events. Character development is pretty much standard. As you levelup you 
 gain attributes (you cant choose where they rise) and after level 10 you gain talent points which 
 can be used to unlock new abilities or enhance certain aspects of your character (attributes/skills) . 
 The customization comes in at the talent build level and the equipment level. For example, two 
 rogues can perform and act entirely differently based on how they are customized. One could be 
 a dagger build which focuses on damage (and would have agility as its primary attribute) whilst 
 another may be more of the stealth variety. World of Warcraft truly is a lifestyle. If you are 
 at least mildly addicted to the game you will quickly find yourself thinking about it when youre 
 not playing it or trying to learn more about it. You may find yourself reviewing the new patch 
 details while on the school computers or text messaging your guild leader for the next available 
 raid time. Very quickly you can find that World of Warcraft can begin dominating your lifestyle. 
 This becomes especially noticeable when you have reached the end of the game and have begun raiding. 
 Organizing twenty to forty (and perhaps more when the expansion is released) people and getting 
 them to work together is no easy task. And it makes it all the more difficult to inform your guild 
 leader that you cant make raids or that you need to leave unexpectantly part way through an instance. 
 To make matters worse raid leaders will often implement a point-system which will tally points 
 earned in raids. It is not unheard of to incur penalties in these points (DKP) if you need to leave 
 part way through a raid or if you make mistakes during the raid. This is all amounts to way more 
 pressure than you need when youre playing a game. Especially when the purpose of the game is to 
 have fun and relax. Im sure a lot of you are familiar with the various funny Hitler-like guild 
 leader movies: Minus 50 DKP for not knowing what the **** to do! Sure its funny while were 
 talking about it now (and it often is when youre replaying it to all your guildies on your teamspeak/ventrilo 
 server) but the reality is that this environment of organized gaming can quickly become stagnant, 
 boring and on occasion unhealthy. Its a lot harder to put down the game when you have thirty nine 
 other players relying on you then it is when there isnt and this just escalates the addiction. 
 If you havent already then you may want to check out these two videos: Pure Pwnage Episode 7 which 
 makes fun of World of Warcraft addicts and South Park Episode 8 Season 10 which also makes fun 
 of World of Warcraft. The message is pretty clear: excessive amounts of this game is NOT good for 
 you! Butperhaps Im being a bit hard on World of Warcraft. There are plenty of great things about 
 this game which enthralled me when I first started playing and there continues to be great new 
 content added to the game monthly. If you find that you are the sort of person that WONT get addicted 
 by World of Warcraft (such a person exists?) and you can play the game in moderation (I couldnt) 
 then there is a lot to see and do in the world of Azeroth. In my opinion the BEST way to play World 
 of Warcraft is to simply create one character (perhaps one on each side) and simply enjoy the 
 game. Sure, play with others, levelup as fast as you want, compete in PvP, but at the end of the 
 day always make sure that you are doing what you WANT to do and not what someone else wants you 
 too. I would steer clear of the end game raiding environment completely unless you can find a guild 
 which is willing to do it, but casually and are fairly laid back about the whole experience. At 
 the end of the day just know this: this game is highly addictive and should definetly be played 
 in moderation. It is a one of kind of experience which most gamers should probably go through in 
 their lifetime but I would not recommend that you play this game for extended periods of time as 
 it may destroy your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Easy to pick-up &amp; play. Large land to adventure with no load times. Game constantly 
 updates, has real-life day &amp; night &amp; decorates for holiday (Time of review there are pumpkins 
 everywere) . You can decide to go with a group or on your own, groups make things much easier. Several 
 classes to choose from, &amp; if you pick a character you don't like you can start a new account 
 no problem. Tons of differant things you can learn from trainers &amp; stuff, like if you ever 
 played runescape, it's alot like that but alot more in depth, &amp; overall it's better then runescape 
 in everyway except the forced monthly fee. For so many members the game is very evened out.
  
  The bad: Servers can disconnect you at any given time &amp; traveling between towns is annoying. 
 Some lag now &amp; then. Graphics fad with age but it's still a major releif from runescape.
  
  Note: I tried to be as honest in my review as possible. I would probebly give it higher score 
 then 9.3. If I could my tilt would be 11/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater015
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  i have one crappy computer, yet the graphics are awsome in this game and performance rules.
  u can do almost anything in this game
  you can pick herbs from a forrest and make them into a 
 health potion
  you can summon a deadly demon from hell
  you can tame an animal from the wild to be your friend and companion
  you can go to the bar after 
 a hard day of training with your friends and party with booze and fireworks
  you can find tresure
  you can make your own weapons and armor
  you can make your own pet squirll
 
  you can invade your enemies land (some hoard players are your enemies if your alliance)
  you can repell their invasions
  you can dual with friends
  you can make an enemy flee in terror 
 from your spells
  you can revive a fallen companion
  you can go on so many quests you cant count them on
  in a hurry? spend a silver peice and go 
 on a gryphon to a town
  the list goes on and on...
  its the perfect mmorpg... no its the perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  If i had to choose one online game to rule all, it would have to be this one. The graphics are 
 better than some of your average pc games, and the interface, classes, races, proffesions, quests, 
 equipment, dungeons and just a lot of the games simple systems are built so you can understand 
 them easily and on the whole are pretty brilliant. In the actual game the levels range from 1-60 
 (in the expansion 1-70) You have to be a certain level to access certain things such as proffesions, 
 battlegrounds, certain equipment and abilities. To level you need exp. This is obtained by killing 
 monsters and doing quests. Now im going to keep this short because if you asked me about the game 
 in depth, then once i'd started typing i simply woudln't stop, so i'll simply talk about each category 
 of the game i previously mentioned (to as much depth as i can be bothered to type for now) There 
 are a fair number of classes all with unique abilities and characteristics. Each class is generally 
 built for serving a completely different purpose, except for the odd few classes that are able 
 to fit into a number of different roles. The druid for instance is able to be a healer, a damage 
 dealer, or a tank with a click of a button (or in some classes there isn't even a need to click) 
 Each class is able to use different equipment. The warrior can initially wear mail armour, but 
 at level 40 can wear the ultimate plate armour, this makes them the damage takers of the game. 
 Hunters start with leather armour but at level 40 get an armour upgrade to mail, i would probably 
 say they are damage dealers but because of their pet they can have their pet adapt the role of 
 tank. Mages wear cloth armour (therefore 1 hit from a high level warrior and your doomed) because 
 of this mages are dps (damage dealers) they do this job exceptionally. On the other hand the warlock 
 is also a cloth armour wearer, but they have a demon pet and they get a number of different pets 
 so therefore their pets can adapt to a lot of roles. The races of WoW are also particularly enjoyable 
 and fun to use. Each race is not only different in the way of looks, but in the way of what classes 
 they can be, and the major difference being racial moves and racial passive moves. Each race is 
 therefore better suited to a particular class i. e. orcs are suited to hunters or warlocks, thats 
 because they have a racial passive move that increases pet damage. A lot of the classes are just 
 damn funny to play as well, but in all honesty it would depend if you enjoy being a gnome and having 
 a tauren 4 times your height staring down at you. Now the proffesions, one of my favourite aspects 
 of the game. In proffesions you are able to craft different items using skills that you have to 
 train and learn. There is a max level for each proffesion depending on your character level, and 
 once they achieve the max level they are able to go to 300 skill in it (that is excluding the new 
 expansion Burning Crusade) . The items craftable in each proffesion are attained either from patterns 
 or from a npc that will teach you them when you reach the skill level for it. Quests are a particularly 
 developed part of the game, and there is a hell of a lot of them! Quests are usually obtained once 
 you reach the required level for them, then you just find an npc that gives that quest and just 
 accept it from them. It's that simple! Once you have reached maximum level, thats when the quest 
 get hard. For those you will have to team up with your friends or other people on the same quest, 
 this is done by blizzard to encourage team play im sure. Even if they didn't have these quests 
 you would almost definately have to team up with people some other time! Now for equipment, this 
 is a particularly difficult subject to write about, because of the fact there's just so much of 
 it! Basically there are four different types of armour cloth, leather, mail and plate. The difference 
 is that they all have different armour values (that also depends on the level of the item) The 
 other difference is that say a piece of cloth armour will give more stats than a piece of plate 
 armour (just to make it fairer on the mages and warlocks out there!) Weapons give different stats 
 as well, but they will rarely give you any extra armour. Some weapons are only usable by certain 
 classes, although the warrior is able to use all weapons, but all other classes are unable to do 
 this. This is by far the best part of the game i think... Dungeons! Now to be perfectly honest i 
 have not been nor seen all of the dungeons that WoW has to offer, but the ones i have been to i 
 100% enjoyed (even the times when our party gets wiped out) The point of dungeons is to either 
 get yourself certain equipment, or to complete quests you have been given. in dungeons there is 
 the normal mobs (although in dungeons these mobs are elites, meaning they have about 3 times the 
 normal health of a mob of that level) Then there is the Bosses, these guys are the ones who will 
 drop rare and epic items but they are a lot tougher than any other enemy and often need stratergy 
 to defeat. Once you've completed your first dungeon you'll always find yourself feeling terribly 
 proud and happy with yourself, once you've done your first dungeon then you'll understand exactly 
 what i mean. Also there is no need to worry once you've reached the maximum level and you think 
 there is nothing left to achieve. Because now you can go to the highest level raid dungeons and 
 get your tier set armour ( this is the armour built specifically for your class, but it does require 
 a minimum level of 51 to use) I've never met anyone who has a complete set of the highest tier, 
 so good luck! I'd like to end this review by saying what a brilliant game i think this is. I would 
 also like to mention that i havn't included information on the Burning crusade expansion because 
 i live in the UK and it has not yet been released, but i might think of it once it comes out. So 
 if you want an online game then its a simple choice.... choose World Of Warcraft, and good luck 
 to you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bconnell02
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. My initial rating was a 9, and needs to be raised. Graphics are not the best but 
 with settings turned to the max, the game looks pretty good. I chose the warrior class, which is 
 relatively easy to get started. I dont like the long walks in between quests and if you die far 
 away from a graveyard, it can take quite a while to get back to your body. Other than that, the 
 game has endless things to do and creatures to kill. I have never played a MMORPG, but if others 
 are as addicting as WOW I should stay away from them or I might end up like the kids in South Park. 
 (Btw, I bought the game after watching the episode of South Park that featured World of Warcraft.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legomann
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft have been around for some time and was the most anticipated game in years when 
 it come out in November 2004.
  
  and is now THE most played MMORPG, and I and i think every 1 that have played the game thinks that 
 it will never be overrunned by any other game.
  i think that Blizzard did a great work in to the game but it would have been better if they made 
 like 100 lv and some more professions.
  
  the game is very easy to get inn to and are you playing alone you can still get a lot of XP.
 
  
  but you will get more stuff wen you play whit buddies and other pp.
  at a point inn the game you will have to team upp any way so it is good to get used to it. the 
 rep. you get by killing pp and doing Q for different ex. citeys
  raid is a large groop of pp going arund killing dudes, some goes inn to kill lage bosses.
  
 
  dungeon are plases you can go and kill dudes for more XP than normal ( they are harder to kill 
 to) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animator23
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I have seen some reviews that say this game is a load of crap. Pay absolutely no attention to that. 
 This game is the best thing I have played on the computer ever. Period. There are thousands of 
 quests and it is extremely easy to get into a group w/ others quick. If you have never tried games 
 like this you owe it to yourself to at least try this master piece. So you think this will suck 
 and drain the hours away from your life. Well if your not carefull it will believe me. But you 
 will quickly gage how long it takes to accomplish a quest or two. And if you can't spend hours 
 upon end playing to get that next level or skill well the game rewards your for haveing a life. 
 If you can't play all the time. The only true draw back to this game is the fact that you've gotta 
 pay that 15/month fee which is annoying and can get expensive. But w/ the new try it cd at gamestop/eb 
 games there is no longer a excuse to not try this game. I mean a 14-day trial for 2 bucks. You 
 gotta be kidding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This MMORPG, I believe is one of the best of it's kind. This is a highly addictive game, that you 
 will find difficult to stop playing. The gameplay in this game is incredible. From slaying epic 
 creatures, to just doing simple quests this game covers it all. The game has gives you the choice 
 of being 8 very unique races (10 when the expansion comes) . Humans, Dwarves, Night Elves, Gnomes, 
 Orcs, Undead, Tauren, and Trolls. Each race has it's own unique racial ability and it's own class 
 type. The graphics in this game, I admit, aren't the greatest I've ever seen. But Blizzard makes 
 up for that by making it so you don't need an ultra powerful graphics card. The game can basicly 
 be run on any computer, including Macs. The sounds in this game fit the area where you are in perfectly. 
 The music ain't half bad either. Over all this is a game that all gamers should consider getting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I might be alone here when i say that this game is overrated. When i played it, I found it to be 
 very samey and a tad boring. The huge world that begs exploration and the daunting aspect of levelling 
 up your character are superb, yes, but I cant help but think the gameplay could do with a revamp 
 to make it a bit more fun and engrossing. What makes it worse is the fact you have to pay a fee 
 every month to play it. This would just about be acceptable if the game was worth it, but i honestly 
 cant say it is. I do have to say though that any MMO fans would most certainly enjoy this, and 
 is still probably the best selection to make out of other MMO's out there at the moment. If you 
 do get into this game, it will last you forever.
  
  The Good - HUGE amount of things to do - Deep gameplay - Impressive technically
  
  The Bad 
 - GRIIIIIND - Most missions (at least early on) consist of go here and kill this - Idiots who take 
 it too seriously can ruin the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austind_21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game has been rapidly growing in popularity since it was released in Nov 2004, and now over 
 7 million people play world-wide. For other games in this genre it just seems like when your fighting 
 it is the same thing over and over and over, but Blizzard put something in this game that makes 
 it 10 times better then any other MMORPG. In the game you explore the world of Azeroth. There are 
 two factions to play as, the Horde and the Alliance. Each facion has 4 playable races on the Horde 
 they have the Undead, Orcs, Tauren, and the Trolls. On the Alliance you have Humans, Gnomes, Dwarfs, 
 and Night Elvs. The game has a unbelievbly huge, neverending world. There is not any real loading 
 times at all except for the loads it takes to take you into the game and when your being transported 
 some where by a hearthstone or going into a battleground. The game is so rich with detail that 
 you feel like your in the game, as the lighting, weather changes, and the scenery changes. Another 
 thing that is great about the game that i great is that its so easy to take ahold of and start 
 playing. As you start to play the game you look at how the game is done and you easily grasp how 
 to play the game and what to do, and all of a sudden you feel like your a master at the game. Depending 
 on which race you play as you start off in competly different cities and each race has very much 
 different culture then everybody else. For instance every race has there own racial ability and 
 has a different dance emote, different quests, totally different things to fight blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah etc. etc. World of Warcraft has some other great things about it that other MMO's 
 dont have. When you die you dont lose any of your stuff or any of your money. The only thing that 
 happens is you lose 10% durablility and go to a grave yard. When your dead at the graveyard all 
 you have to do is walk back to your body and revive yourself. You can also run your own businesses 
 by having professions like blacksmithing, enchanting, engineering and many others. There is also 
 lots of other cool things about the game like a in-game postal service, subway, and special servers 
 just for PvP combat. This game, in my book, the single greatest thing to happen in gaming EVER. 
 Any gamer owes it to themselves to play this game and enjoy the online sensation. BUY IT!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UalNivek
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is good at first, but then it gets very repetitive. Grind/Quest -&gt; Level -&gt; 
 buy new gear -&gt; repeat until level 60.
  By level 60, you would have invested about a month, 2 months or 3 months in playing this game with 
 one level 60, and did that step above about a million times. As you play more, you get more addicted, 
 and it took up alot of my time. This is all my opinion, so dont follow everything i say. But i 
 think when Blizzard adds more to the game, the game gets more and more boring. I feel that being 
 ganked by a million people in Stranglethorn Vale is more fun than being ganked by 2 ppl. Why? because 
 it just is. It's more annoying, but, it also shows that some ppl arent b*stards and love to camp 
 ppl.
  
  But, however, the gameplay is very fun, it is full of energy, and makes you want to keep going, 
 but, when you are a certain level, you go into these special areas called 'Instances' and having 
 to wait for a group really drags. You'd could be waiting to go into Scarlet Monastery for at least 
 two good hours before ACTUALLY going in. and if your group sucks, you wipe a couple of times, and 
 your group gets pissed, and then they disband, and you didnt even make it to 1/4 of the instance. 
 so that was like 2 hours of nothing wasted.
  
  The Classes in this game are pretty good. they give it all, but it, as well, is repetitive, like 
 the rest of the game. Warrior, Hunter, Mage, Druid, Paladin, Rogue, Priest, Warlock, Shaman, and 
 etc. and in the new expansion, the game will be pretty messed, alliance using shamans, and horde 
 using paladins really affects the balance of the game.
  Blizzard, instead of doing that, should have just added a new type of overpowerd class. Sorry for 
 having to have you read this, but imo, it is not for people who are loaded with sh*tloads of homework 
 everyday. because. this game will surely fnck you up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  I've only played the game for a few hours now, but it only takes a few minutes to realize that 
 this game is incredible! This game is nothing like I have ever played. The only game that comes 
 close that I have played is Final Fantasy 11. FF11 is a fun game, but WOW is mind blowing!!! There 
 is soooooo much to do it's on the brink of insanity. But even with so much to do the game is easy 
 enough for anyone to pick up and play. Blizzard has done a great job of binding the gap that keeps 
 a lot of gamers away because of the difficulties of a learning curve. I highly suggest this game 
 to anyone and everyone that plays games hardcore or just for fun. You'll love it!!! The only draw 
 back is time. If your not careful your life will became....... WOW, lol.
  
  UPDATE:
  I've been playing the game now for about 4 months and I must do the right thing and change my score 
 from a 9.4 to a perfect 10!!! Never has a game been so amazing. I just got my cousin involved in 
 the game (and he is not even a gamer) and now he's hooked. Meeting others and playing with family 
 or friends just makes the game that much enjoyable. So, if you have any itch for gaming. Do the 
 right thing and play this game you won't regret it.
  
  WARNING:
  Please play responsible. This game can take up a lot of your time so don't forget about family, 
 friends, and work/school!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djreli
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game, and felt like you were getting absolutely nowhere? Ever felt that 
 going by and killing the same boss or pattern is boring? Maybe its time you go to the next level 
 of gaming, by playing a Massive Multiplayer Online. Would you like the possibility of being someone 
 with un-natural powers other than yourself? If you answered yes to one, or any of these questions 
 it is time for you to take on a game like the World of Warcraft.
  World of Warcraft is the game you should be playing if you havent started already. First thing 
 is first, you really dont need to go out and buy the game. Ask a couple of friends, I can guarantee 
 that at least one of them has it. With over seven million people playing the World of Warcraft 
 every month, its highly probable that there is someone you know playing it. So go pick up the 30 
 day trial from a friend. Trust me they will like you because then you will play with them and them 
 wont think they are as big as a loser as they already are for playing the game too much. This 
 game is pure addiction, just pry off a World of Warcraft player from the game and ask, (if you 
 can) . And what makes it an addiction and a great one if I may say so myself is the game play. The 
 fact that all the buttons are right there on your fingertips means that you dont have to think 
 while playing a for instance if you ever played any fighting game like dead or alive you would 
 have to remember a series of buttons and combinations in order for the character to do a jump kick 
 for instance and with World of Warcraft its as easy as pushing a button. Yep thats right pushing 
 the number 3 for instance will cleanse a character of a disease. The graphics and sound of this 
 game are lack of a better word phenomenal the music actually flows with you based upon your location. 
 So for example, when you are in a dungeon killing some crazy boss, there is specific music that 
 plays. Even some of the bosses talk to you. The visual effects of this game are remarkable. When 
 you travel in the world of Azeroth and you see the game for five minutes and enjoy the atmosphere 
 of the game you will understand what I mean. Visually, the game is a perfect combination of cartoon 
 and reality. It resembles attributes of real places without totally imitating reality, keeping 
 one in a fantastic realm. As you travel you will learn experience from those travels and realize 
 what you need to do as you play you alter ego online and jump into the world.
  Not only is the game fun to play but its also easy to learn, as the game progresses in difficulty, 
 the game actually gets easier the more you play your character. The concept of leveling in the 
 game shows as you get to a higher level. As your character progresses it is more difficult as the 
 level goes up. Unlike most games you can actually play with your friend or friends cooperatively 
 online and actually compete to see who gets to the higher level first or who hits the objective 
 first or even who makes it to a certain point in the game so they have bragging rights to the other. 
 Also, there are cool items that your character can wear in the game; it motivates you to earn more 
 money and level quicker.
  So, if you havent figured it out by now this game in my opinion is a great game to play for the 
 young and old. It doesnt matter if you are 70 or 10 you are going to enjoy this game just as much. 
 The fact that you can immerse yourself into the life of your character and make a quest that actually 
 indulges you in the game like a desert after dinner, or a good book. This is what makes this game 
 get 9out of 10 in my book hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSlyOne
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  As an avid gamer, I had never been successful getting my wife to enjoy my hobby, until World of 
 Warcraft. Blizzard did an outstanding job in making this game accessible to anyone and everyone. 
 A notable feat. Soon, my wife and I were joined by 2 brothers, a sister, a father and stepmother; 
 all questing together through the lands of WoW. Eventually we made friends on-line and joined a 
 guild. The guild became like a second family and everyone helped everyone else on their quests. 
 It was like nothing we had experienced before and we paid homage to Blizzard for giving us this 
 world to play in. Then we all hit level 60...
  
  It wasn't an immediate wall, but we could certainly feel it getting closer. At 60, it was no longer 
 possible to devote a a few hours at a time to fight through a dungeon; 4 hours minimum became the 
 norm. We still fought the good fight and hung in there... until the Raid instances. Raiding kills 
 the game for the casual player. To begin, it is a serious undertaking to gather 39 people to Raid 
 with. If you are in a large guild (a necessity at this point in the game) , you must sign up to 
 get into a Raid group. (This is fun how?) When you finally get into a Raid, be prepared to stick 
 it through, no matter how long it takes, or risk being black-listed for future Raids. Bide your 
 time, and if you are real lucky a great item you can use will drop off one of the bosses you down. 
 However, you have to be extremely lucky to get the item because you are competing with 6-10 others 
 of the same class who need the same item... and they may have seniority over you! So, what do you 
 do? Repeat the whole process over and over and over again. If you have the time and want to spend 
 the money to do this... go for it, you'll probably love it. Blizzard created a beautiful world. 
 Some say it is too cartoon-ish , and it is a bit so; but it is beautiful none the less. The sound 
 is great throughout, with some very memorable capital city music that never seems to get tired. 
 The quests are, for the most part, fun and logical. Taking the time to read the quests adds enormous 
 depth to the game. It is easy to become immersed in this world.
  
  This is a game that should not be passed by any PC gamer. It certainly has legendary qualities. 
 Be warned though, unless you are able to devote enormous blocks of time after level 60, your enjoyment 
 will come to a bitter end. Blizzard went to great lengths to make the early game accessible to 
 everyone, yet they failed miserably to keep it accessible. This is WoW's greatest flaw. The end 
 game drudgery and monotony will make you ask How did it come to this? and Is that it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobg8857
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Well i been playing WoW sent it came out. I think the game is good but at sometimes you find yourself 
 running a round Iron Forge just thinking of the things to do. I say the best part of the game is 
 when you get alot of people to raid city kill the horde love it all LOVE IT. But sent the patch 
 came out were if you kill the civilians DHK and your pvp rank go down but befor that you can kill 
 all the civilians you want, nothing happens. But i say this is a good game i know the stuff does 
 not look real but i think it not about the looks it about the game play and i think WoW got fair 
 game play and i think you will like if not it all good then just dont play it. But at 1st i think 
 it will be hard to get use to ones you do then it all down hill from there. Once in this game try 
 to get in a good guild and a server because at 1st i know it will be hard for the new people and 
 ya it real uncool. I am going to tell you this WoW will take alot of your time I mean for me it 
 didnt but some people it did. It just how long you play this game for.
  So ya like i said get this game give it a try if you dont like then dont play ez as that. Good 
 luck to you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vito25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I play this game alot now and I have to admit I am hooked. I was a bit skeptical at first but I 
 got the 10 day trial and I love it. I'm a level 21 Paladin now and I'm having a blast. I did my 
 first group raid the other night with my brother and 3 other people and it was way fun. This game 
 is a must own. I can tell that I'm going to be doing alot more raids the higher level I get and 
 that is when the game gets really fun. My girlfriend is starting to hate this game, which is probably 
 one of the greatest things you can say when reviewing a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -OuTLaW-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  I simply love this game. The only downfall is the monthly fee, which is not a problem for me, I 
 just don't think it's fair. But if you look on the bright side, the monthly fee sweeps away a lot 
 of 14- who cannot afford it. Nonetheless, I give it a 5 for value. Many people whine about the 
 cartoony graphics, I am not saying that they are wrong, but I am saying that the graphics are just 
 right for this game, and keeps the game running smoothly when the graphics are maxed out. Therefore, 
 I give the graphics an 8. Gameplay got a 9 because even though this game is clearly extremely fun, 
 I do find it that the quests can sometimes be repetitive. Everything else got 10 because everything 
 else is perfect.
  
  I understand how this game can be addictive, but I am not addicted to it at all. I play once every 
 2 days, because I got a life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozen_hour
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  this is the online game of the year!!!
  this is a part lyric of my chemical romance
  
  when i was a young boy my father took me into the city to see a marching band
  he said son when 
 you grew up would you be the saviour of the broken the beaten adn the damned, because one day i 
 leave you a phantom to lead you in the summer TO JOIN THE BLACK PARADE
  
  hehe it's only to make it long sorry...
  
  the best part of this game is that WoW gaive you 
 a new enchantment system that allow you to decide the clan, race, job, etc
  
  this game have the battle-race system to that make this game even cooler
  and you can ride a 
 horse, dragon-tech, and even an undead horse ( it depends on what race you are) .
  
  GoD Bless ORCISH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDizz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is in fact everything you've heard it to be. I've palyed it for so long and got a level 
 60 warrior. It's the perfect game to get if you want to throw away your life. It's so good it's 
 worse than a drug. You get pulled into this world that is too fun to be true, but it is. Before 
 you know it 8 hours have gone by and you've had a hell of a time playing. Once you get hooked it's 
 there until you decide you have to stop for your own health just like a drug or smoking. It is 
 the most fun game out there to play but be warned... it may not be worth it in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Magnificent, superb, breathtaking, astonishing, amazing, fantastic, lets see what are some more 
 synonyms for wonderful. Theres brilliant and a lot more, but most importantly all of these words 
 can be used to describe one game, World of Warcraft. I have expected nothing but the best and Blizzard, 
 like always, shatters my expectations.
  This game is on a completely different level right now compared to the other MMORPGs out there. 
 The other MMOs dont even come close to what WoW has to offer. What you need to do, if you havent 
 already done so, is go out and purchase World of Warcraft. However, I do warn you, you will lose 
 your connection with real life for a good year or so. Let's see let's see where to begin on the 
 actual review. Well this game offers something for everyone. Whether you enjoy playing by yourself 
 or with a party or with a raid (40-man Party) this game can accommodate. If you're going to solo 
 for a while and level up great, then maybe you want to hit the Player vs Player content and slay 
 the opposition and make them smash their keyboards as your melt their faces off with your insane 
 magical abilities. Or maybe you want to be at the top for the World and take on Kel'Thuzad or Nefarious, 
 the dragon king of Black Rock Mountain, with 40 of your closest allies. Dive into this game head 
 first and you will not be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokeman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The game is fun. Why else would everyone and their grandma have an account? Some tards hate for 
 not being graphiclly xtraordinary, but have an avatar of Yoshi (too much sugar in his tank) . The 
 game has infinate replay value as most people have hal a dozen toons, at least. The graphics are 
 incredible if you turn them up all the way on my dell XHD 30 . It doesn't have to look like halflife 
 2 to be good. The world design and colors are sweet! The balancing Blizzard does is exact, you 
 still get a few 6th graders that troll about it in general chat. Barens chat can make you loose 
 brain cells faster than anything you can smoke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  I was always a fond fan of the WarCraft series, or any game by Blizzard for that matter. But who 
 wouldn't be a fan of Blizzard? They've blasted their way to the top with some kick-butt titles 
 over the years ( StarCraft, Diablo II, WarCraft III) , so there is always going to be masses of respect 
 held for the company.
  
  But World of Warcraft is something different. It completely changed my opinion of Blizzard. That 
 gaming company went from Pretty good to ****ing Godlike . Just about every aspect of this game 
 is original, exciting, but most of all, it's in-depth. If you've ever played one of the many free 
 online-rpgs, you'll realise that in-depth content is more important than anything else in the game, 
 as it provides something to do throughout the entirety of the game.
  
  WoW met this requirement, and smashed it. The gameplay is a limitless cycle which will never become 
 boring to you. Many gamers would agree that hitting level 60 (the current maximum level cap) is 
 but a tiny step in your path to greatness in the huge world that is World of Warcraft.
  
  There are eight races to choose from in WoW, four for each side. Each race has their own massive 
 and detailed city (with the exception of Trolls and Gnomes) , their own huge lines of quests, mounts, 
 skills, abilities, and more. Like all RPGs, you can play as one of several classes with your character. 
 From warriors to warlocks, from hunters to priests, rogues to paladins, this game offers a class 
 to suit any sort of character. Like to charge in and bludgeon your enemy to death? A warrior's 
 for you! Like to summon demons from the chasms of beyond? A warlock is awaiting you! There is an 
 endless possibility when you pick your character's race and class.
  
  WoW offers a series of instances or raids for people to team up and tackle together. There is a 
 strong element of teamwork and co-operation required for some of these instances, and can require 
 a lot of time to get through (as long as seven or eight hours) .
  
  The graphics are great. A lot of people dislike the game solely because of the cartoonish style 
 graphics. To be honest, you never notice when you're playing. The graphics engine is fantastic, 
 and the game looks great on any system, whether it be an 800mhz system to a high end 4.0ghz system. 
 The game isn't such a resource hog, and it will run fine on just about any system, which is great 
 for all.
  
  Another awesome thing is that there is hardly any load time. The only loading screens you'll EVER 
 see are:
  a. Main load screen
  b. When you go across continents by boat/zepplin
  c. When you enter an instance.
  
  So when you're travelling around on one continent, it's seamlessly 
 connected together, so you'll always spend your time playing instead of waiting.
  
  The sounds are pretty basic. Sure, the voice-overs, musical score, and some other sounds are pretty 
 awesome, but the general sounds you'll hear a lot of the time leave a LOT to be desired. There's 
 just a limited sound-scheme available for most moves/spells/whatever that it get's rather annoying 
 at times.
  
  There's two things that bring the quality of this game down, and that's the horrible server quality, 
 and some of the idiodic people that play the game. Sure, the game is fantastic, but that doesn't 
 guarantee the player's are fantastic.
  
  If you play Alliance on most US based servers, you'll find a fair few idiots who seem to find nothing 
 more entertaining than spamming the chat channels, harrassing other players, or being a general 
 idiot. You'll also find that some players take the game a little to serious, and you could become 
 subject to some online-verbal-abuse if you make a mistake in a difficult instance.
  
  This problem seems to be mainly in the Alliance side, and it hardly happens in the Horde side.
 
  
  The other bad thing is the servers. Blizzard earn millions a year, yet the server quality is still 
 dog ****. Every Tuesadya at 3AM EST, the servers go down for five hour's maintenance. The maintenance 
 has no affect on quality, and it's fairly common to get lag spikes (a period of say a minute with 
 a ridiculously high server-response lag time, which can really mess you up if you're in a difficult 
 area) .
  
  For all you dial-up users, I wouldn't expect lag-free play time 24/7, though having dial up shouldn't 
 deter you from buying the game, as it'd run fine all the same.
  
  With the negatives aside, I'll gloss over a few more things. First of all is the learning curve. 
 This game is so big and expansive, that it'd be nearly impossible to learn every aspect of the 
 game. If the lore wasn't enough for you, there's always much MUCH more to learn about in this game.
 
  
  Another is the pay-to-play thing. Yes, I'll admit I was against this before I bought the game, 
 and I found it amusing that somebody would pay $15 U. S a month just to play a computer game. When 
 I bought the game, I finally figured out that it was a fantastic game which was worth every cent. 
 Sure, you might think it's stupid, but when you get to the high-end of the game, you'll thank God 
 for every minute there.
  
  One more thing is the addiction. To some, this game is as addictive as crack . Yes, the game has 
 such a pull on some people it has ended marriages, social lives, education, and even claimed lives 
 from hardcore gaming sessions where people have played nonstop for DAYS ON END.
  
  To me, at a personal approach, the game isn't that addictive. I can control myself to play for 
 no more than, say, two hours a night, with maybe a lot more on a Friday or Saturday night. There's 
 a feature on the WoW site to enable how long you can play for each night. Whether it be thirty 
 minutes or four hours, you can control your (or your child's) play time.
  
  Even on the little start-up hints and tips bit (which you see at the main loading screen) , you'll 
 sometimes see the reminders from Blizzard that WoW isn't more important than your actual life.
 
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft has arrived, and it'll be here for a long time (at least ten years) . 
 If you don't already own the game, but are keen in trying it, I'd strongly advise you to buy it 
 now. It's a fantastic online role-playing game, and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt-Rusznica
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I dont think this game is worth for what it is, 15$ a month is not worth any game ANY GAME, this 
 game may be fun so what, no game ever should make you pay 50$ then an additional 15$ per mon th 
 of using it! I think the sound and the game play is awesome but after some time it gets boring 
 and its time to move on with life, so for all those who can afford it please go ahead and buy it 
 but be warned youll have to pay just to level up. From this game I give a 9.6, whereas it should 
 really get a 2 for the pay of it. Seeming as it may this game may be a turn on for some people 
 who can afford it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tay_Esh
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  look at the graphics they are totaly inmature and the themes suck too, not thought over enough, 
 but with some good qualitys like you can play with a friend and make a guild, but if u want that 
 u can get it in any online game with more mature graphics and better themes and storyline! such 
 as guild wars ect. they could have made it better if it wasnt made for 3 year olds to 90 year olds!!! 
 like really!!!!! or if u had more character options like more races and classes and u got to choose 
 where you start and more skills, haveing to buy spells sucked to ( I personaly like to be spell 
 casters soo.......)
  
  over all the game sucked ballz!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  The graphic design of WoW is based off of Blizzard Entertainment's 'Warcraft III - Reign of Chaos' 
 RTS. It was also designed to run on a vast range of PC hardware, so more people CAN play this MMORPG... 
 you just need 10-20 GBs of free space on your PC.
  
  I appreciate the fact that WoW did not detail the World of Warcraft like EQ2, because then it would 
 have taken 30-50 GBs of space, and the hardware requirements would have alienated 1/2 of the player 
 base.
  
  This game was designed to entertain a lot of people because it offers elements that appeal to a 
 wide audience... colorful graphics, vivid sounds and music, smooth gameplay, varied terrain, large 
 volume of quests that are not just glorified 'mail runs'.
  
  Honestly, I'm a 'very' casual player... I've just taken my gnome warrior to level 60 ... three 
 years after I started him. I went the 'South Park' route, and killed the 'yard trash' in just about 
 every zone currently in the game until I reached 60. Now, I group with my wife's 60 priest and 
 her guild mates, and I'm finally getting to see these 'raid' zones I've heard so much about... 
 heh!
  
  Someday, I might actually do some of the quests... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kumatarou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  After playing this game since it's release one year ago, this is what I can say about the game:
 
  
  It has a gentle learning curve for even the newest player, with the in-game system and the quests 
 given for new characters. You will start off easy with little to worry about, then it'll grow more 
 complex as you gain level and knows more about the game mechanic that will keep you glued to your 
 computer.
  Of course, for the veteran MMORPG players, most people will find that many of the game features 
 are similar to others and will jump right into it easily.
  
  The graphic is certainly not the best around, but as usual Blizzard aims to optimize its graphic 
 so their games can be played by the not-so-high-end computers. The downside of this is that they 
 have to settle with lower polygon count, but personally I think Blizzard team has done very well 
 with the cartoony look. It gives the game a distinct style, although it's probably not for everybody. 
 Some people prefer the shiny hi-poly armor, with all the specular highlights, bump maps, etc. Sound 
 and music are great. The scores are memorable and the voice acting is just superb. I probably should 
 say more about this section, but to make it simple, just watch the opening cinematic and you'll 
 know what I mean.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, even so if you behave maturely and get yourself equally mature friends 
 to play with. Since it's an MMORPG, big part of the game's fun comes from the people your'e playing 
 with, meaning, other players. Choose your friends well.
  
  Last words of caution: it's highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opensideflanker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  I got WoW about 1.5 years ago now and hav recently stopped playing it. Dont get me wrong it is a 
 awesome game, and probally the best game i hav ever played but there are many complications in this 
 game and the main one is that ITS TOO ADDICTIVE. You will start of by saying ,oh ill -play 2 hours 
 a day and all i want is lvl 60, when u reach 60 u will then say all ill want is blue armour and 
 then u will say i want epics and so on. The thing is even when u get epics in this game it was obvious 
 that after a month or 2 they will be out of date by even better epics like tier 3 etc. And as u 
 probally now this game is very time consuming, i suggest if u want this game u make sure u hardly 
 go out and dont hav a girlfriend as it will ruin all that as the amount of time you hav to spend 
 on the game is utterly ridiculous. High level dugeons like BWL etc u will see yourself doing 5 hours 
 a night maybe more. However i never went pve i choose pvp and that maybe is more time consuming 
 than pve mainly cus u hav to complete with other players for the right standing to move up ure 
 rank. On my mage i eventually got Marshal and then stopped playing mainly due that at the time i 
 had RSI as i was playing the game for like 13 hours a day everyday for about 3 months. I mainly 
 played this much as it was required to reach the rank Marshal, and after i quit i realised how much 
 time i wasted speding 13 hours a day trying to get good gear on a game?! am i that sad!? and yes 
 i was ,but mainly because of how addictive the game is and how it can ruin lives.
  
  I had 3 lvl 60's a hunter, mage and shaman. Dont get me wrong WoW is a awesome game in nearly every 
 aspect from graphics to gameplay, but in the long term it becomes too addictive and is only really 
 for the hardcore gamer (which i am now but wasnt when i started) as this game isnt really based on 
 skill but gear and is someone has ten times better gear than u its obvious that they would win. It 
 also can end realtionships and ruin lives, mess ure exam grades up etc. So plz think about these 
 thiungs before buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinistre27
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  game breath taking iv been playing for 1/2 a year now and still love it like new try it. its a 
 game for life and you will miss out if you don't! play it youll love it at first type =P Look for 
 medium realms best for dungouns and not over crowded with lag (in-game slowing down for short period) 
 choose the horde i recomend this game 100000...........% FOR THE HORDE check out the web-site for 
 lots of info on the game and the new expantion the burning crsade bet onlie RPG in the universe 
 fight against your enimies in battle gronds or raid there main citys wth your friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilshorn
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is super fun with alot of stuff you can do until you reach your peak where you start 
 to think there's nothing to do now as you wait for a new patch to come with new dungeons. It's 
 also $15.00 a month? And the CDs are expensive to start with so you your not rich, don't even think 
 about this game because you will stop paying after about half a year. Review of Review:
  1. Get it if your rich
  2. Must have atleast 2 or more hours left to play in 1~2 days
  3. READ 
 the guides first to start without much problems
  4. Have good internet connections DO NOT PLAY THIS UNLESS YOU INTEND ON REACHING LV 60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyFrost
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely brilliant until the only thing left to do was raid for epics. People who 
 have been through AQ and Nax will understand, that raiding with way too many people everyday is 
 about irritating as a two full time jobs.
  
  This game needed 3-5 man end game instances for a more personal and engaging experience. A more 
 personalized crafting system would have been great too. A system that allowed for unique or atleast 
 a range of quality from items vreated. That way your brand could be known.
  
  Knowing that 95% of your /played was in MC/AQ/BWL/NAX wiping and dealing with 39 people you really 
 dont care for... painful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Pros: way to many to count!!
  Cons: way to long of a game. To easy to geek out and put life on the back burner. I also found 
 that it took to long to level. I'm the kind of player that needs to every time I play accomplish 
 something and there have been many hours where I felt I was wasting my time.
  
  I played this game for 4 months and had a good time playing it but life needs to go on so I no 
 longer play anymore. If your looking for a game you can call life this is deffently on the top 
 of the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolaipetrovic
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I deleted all of my toons today: 3 60's in epics and a multitude of lower level toons. My addiction 
 became bad, I mean baaaaaad. It was either RL or WoW. I chose RL. This game is the best AND the 
 worst game I have ever played, all at the same time. Escapism of this title is, literally, unmatched! 
 The artwork can only be described as 80071|=00|_ (how's that for 1337?) . Grinding is the best of 
 any MMO EVER! PvP is outrageously sweet, or bitter as the case might be ;)
  
  Anyway, DO NOT play this game or any other MMO. Don't risk it. You think you can control your addiction 
 but the next thing you know, you are just like Kartman from South Park. Maybe not just like him 
 but pretty darn close. Imagine a bottle full of urine on your desk... Just sitting there... What 
 the fudge!? Why!? Because you are mainhealing a raid and you've GOT to pee. That's right, leaving 
 your computer is not an option for an uber leet dood like yourself, or myself, hehe.
  
  Sick! Just don't go there. I LOVE YOU WORLD OF WARCRAFT, BUT THIS RELATIONSHIP COULD NOT LAST, 
 SO F U!
  
  For the mother&amp;%$#@* Horde!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  The original turn-off was when I was informed AFTER the game was purchased and opened that it was 
 going to cost $15.00 a month to play it. I consider myself a hardcore gamer but I would sooner throw 
 my PC into the swimming pool than pay some company a dime to play a game after I have already purchased 
 it. If something was gained by a monthly fee then it would be different but it's just the same old 
 corporate greed rasing it's ugly little head. The games is not that pretty to look at and the game 
 play is excruciatingly slow. You're intially taken back by the sheer size of the world but that 
 is only to keep you paying and playing as long as possible. The same repetitive gameplay as Elder 
 Scrolls Oblivion. Wander, kill, loot and sell, YAWN. I couldn't even finish the trial period before 
 it became samey. It offers nothing new to the genre and it breaks no new ground period. If it wasn't 
 for the huge Korean community, Blizzard would have to remove the 6 million players bullet point 
 from the package and then it would be just another MMO. Nothing special except for the monthly fee, which 
 by the way should be clearly printed on the box with the other selling points and mentioned in 
 any so-called review of the game. I have a bleeding edge PC and the game looked old and dated regardless 
 of the settings which does nothing to draw you into the game. I suppose if you were a leper marooned 
 on some desert isle with internet access then you might pass the time playing it but it would have 
 to be some similar dire circumstance to get me into it. The bottom line here is that the game is 
 simply not worth the monthly fee and it's only a matter of time until they are blown out of the 
 water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lurker_Jr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game at heart is a very great game, but after awhile this game can be so addicting that it 
 can take away the time to do something else than playing World of Warcraft for six hours a day.
 
  
  Back in November of 2004 when I first saw the review at Gamespot, I was amazed how this game looked, 
 sounded, and played. Then so I bought it for Christmas and started my adventures in World of Warcraft.
 
  
  For two years since I got World of Warcraft, Ive stopped playing it because it was so addicting 
 and I could of spend my time doing something else then playing World of Warcraft. If I could go 
 back in time and stopped myself from seeing the review, I probably wouldnt buy it, but maybe down 
 the road I would have picked up. Anyway this game is probably one of the best games Ive ever played 
 but its also not good to play it at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impostorzim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Ok I will get to the facts, because most people will judge this with their rebellious opinions. 
 This game is a geneious work of art. It is a masterpiece. There is no game out there that has such 
 a unique do anything feel. Most people will tell you that after playing and getting to 60, the 
 game is over and you wasted a month, well you know what, I don't know if those people realized 
 this but, thats basically what an MMORPG is. Just like Final Fantasy games (only online instead) 
 or basically anything you level up. There will be a point where you reach and you are this powerful 
 being. but if you're not ready to deal with that, I don't think you're ready to face a REAL game.
 
  
  By The Way: Your learning curve all matters on how you play and your experience might change completely 
 at moments, so don't take 4 or more hours as a threat, you will just be learning alot as you continue 
 to play.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is of course extremely addictive even after 60. The game actually goes in 
 a totally new direction for you at that point. The quests are fun, and if you're the type of person 
 like me who enjoys completing things, there are many quests just for you. You'll enjoy playing 
 one-on-one with people, PvP (Player versus Player) , PvE (Player versus Environment) , and even Dueling 
 with your own faction (Horde-Alliance) . Over a million things to do, and if you say you're bored 
 of the game, you're playing it wrong or something.
  
  Graphics: At top-notch, this game looks outstanding. Even at the lowest low its good, but when 
 the graphics are set to its finest, you're looking at the moon reflecting off the ground, giving 
 this amazing shine, these cartoony effects that make you go wow this game looks pretty .
  
  Sound: The music if you're like most people, will turn it off, but if you don't you'll enjoy music 
 that sounds right. The sound effects sound great too. Basically its not something to worry about 
 sounding lame and totally turning off the mood.
  
  Value: After $70 dollars, you should feel pretty satisfied. The game is worth the money, and the 
 payments in the long run. Don't play it if you really don't like it though. You could be using 
 your money for something else.
  
  Tilt: The perfect balance for a game when you get outta school, outta work, or just outta bed. 
 Just do something else in between. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nictavann
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a Very Fun Entertaining game with Thousands of Quests to do, Guilds to join, 
 Friends to make, People to hate, Love. When you first buy the Game it will seem like the Funnest 
 Thing Ever but soon you will Realise that you are doing the Same quest over and over again just 
 with a different Title and Story, Kill, Collect, Bring back that is all you do, Plus The Community 
 is the most Inmature group ever I quit because of them, With all the Chuck Norris Jokes, Your Momma 
 and other things it takes you out of the Warcraft experence. Player Versus Player is solid the 
 Battlegrounds is really where this Shines with modes like Capture the Flag but soon like the rest 
 of World of warcraft it becomes Repetitve after the first few weeks.
  
  Yet World of Warcraft still drawls you back after awhile and you'll want to play for another few 
 weeks, This is Truely a Great Game to pick up if your a Fan of Turn based Rpg games or MMORPGS. 
 I love the Graphics of the Warcraft Universe and nearly any Computer can run them, The Sound is 
 fun but it gets dull and annoying after the first few hours of listening to the Same Warcraft track 
 every 20 Minutes.
  
  Pick it up, Play it, put it down, Repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadorome
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  for people above the age of 12, any kid under 12 will, most definatly, struggle to play this game. 
 Unless, of course, they are some sort of genius. It will take you about 1 and a half hours to get 
 used to the concept/controls of the game, but once you have mastered them, your laughing all the 
 way. If you have already played a game similar, such as Guild Wars or Final Fantasy XI, it will 
 only take you a matter of seconds to master the controls for World of Warcraft. The graphics to 
 this game are superb, but not as realistic as i thought they would be. Still, this game kicks Guild 
 Wars butt anyday. The games sound is great. The whole quest/levelling system is the best i have 
 seen for an MMO, the quests ranging from easy to hard depending on your level. Fighting monsters 
 outside of PVP is good, but inside PVP, e. g Warsong Gultch and Alterac Valley (i think) , is where 
 the fun REALLY begins. Horde Warriors backed by Shamans charging headfirst into a bunch of Alliance 
 Warrios backed by Paladins is the best this game gets. The raids, such as Onyxia's Lair, and Deathwing 
 are also fun, if you can work as a team. One thing to look out for, though, is 8 year old gamers, 
 spamming guilds and arrogant level 60's. All in all, i would say this game is definitley worth 
 it's money. Rent or Buy? To get the best out of WoW, definatly buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_R_A_K_A
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  This is the most fun and addicting online game there is. I mean you can do anything. In world of 
 warcraft there are 2 sides alliance and horde (i prefer horde) and 7 caharecters on both sides for 
 you to custamize, Pick hair style  alot more. Billions of people play 
 this game and battle each other. You can do raids, it is were you get a big group and raid an Aliance/horde. There 
 are instances, were it is like a level and you and your group have to kill all the monsters in the 
 instance. You can go to games like warsong gultch were alliance and horde fight and try to bring 
 each others flag to there base. And over all this game is really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasbrumby5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  this is by far the most entertaining game that i have ever played, it has such a wide variety of 
 things to do. Other games may claim to have a lot of interesting things to do but WoW just blows 
 all of those game out of the water. The 8 different races and 9 different classes create a huge 
 variety of character to chose from based upon what you like to do. The first 60 levels of this 
 game are what get you hooked and give you a taste of what the games is like where you will experience 
 leveling, low level instances, leveling your profession and making lots of great friends. As any 
 level 60 will tell you, the game hasn't begun until your reach level 60, as soon as level 60 is 
 reached the game takes an extraordinary leap where o whole new game comes into play. Once level 
 60 you can join a 40 man raid group to get the best loot in the game and that is where it is at. 
 Word for the wise, this game is extremely addictive, don't start unless you have LOTS and i mean 
 LOTS of time on your hands or else you will find yourself with no time on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raisinbren
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I've never been attracted to MMORPG's until i found out Bizzard was doing one. I truly enjoyed 
 the Diablo and DiabloII gameplay, so i thought that it might be worthwile looking into it...
  
  Lets put it this way, this game has been taking over my spare time since November 2004... The 
 story is great and you get to explore new worlds or just have fun in the Battlegrounds. The game 
 never seems to end! The social aspect of the game is such an asset - -what adds an even greater 
 level of fun is when you play with a good guild. Definitely looking forward to the expansion pack. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, by now, you've heard of World of Warcraft. If not, lets assume you've heard of Warcraft. This 
 MMORPG takes place in the Warcraft universe. You can choose between 4 races in each fraction, Hoard 
 or Alliance. So, altogether, you have 8 races to choose from, each with their own unique abilities, 
 strengths, and weaknesses. After that, you can choose between Paladin, Warrior, Mage, Theif, Shaman, 
 Priest, Warlock, Druid, and Hunter. Once again, they all have their own strengths and weaknesses... some 
 having more strengths then others *cough* paladin *cough* The gameplay is quite simple. You kil 
 monsters for xp, you do quests for xp, and you level up. The fun part, however, is what you find 
 when you kill monsters. If your one of those players that loves a ton of weapons to play with, 
 this is your game. The 'auction house' is always full of new weapons so even if you don't find 
 any, you can take that money and buy yourself some. Admitidly, the gameplay can become very tedious 
 and the combat can be very boring. Fortunatly, they spice some of that up with high level instances 
 (special 40 man quests) and battlegrounds, a giant PvP map for you to fight other players in. The 
 graphics suit the game well. They are somewhat cartoony and comical but it fits the atmosphere 
 just right. It reminds you that your there mainly to have fun, not to stress it out. I'm one of 
 the people that prefers the more realistic and gruesom kind of graphics but even i enjoy WoW's 
 graphics. Quite simply, they get the job done. The price for the game isn't to bad, being $15 dollars 
 a month. Normally i protest that much money but i will hand it to Blizzard, they are extremly dedicated 
 to this game. Some contest is always going on, some kind of festival is raging, and they are always 
 adding new, free, content.
  If your looking for a good MMO, especialy if you are new to the genre, then WoW comes highly recommended. 
 With 7 million strong, it's not going anywhere anytime soon. As a side note, one of the more enjoyable 
 parts of the game is the little secrets Blizzard throws in. There is a Fight Club in the Undercity, 
 there are auction house clerks named Oriely and Yariely , and there are two brothers named Lario 
 and Muigi . Always a good laugh when you find a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaeryn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people find World Of Warcraft overrated, but it really isn't. A very large amount of people 
 play this game and say it's awesome, because it just is. Now let me explain why that is..
  
  Okay, let's get started on the gameplay. The gameplay consists of all the basics any mmorpg 
 would have, and then some. Some of these new features are instances, which are dungeons which have 
 stronger monsters that drop really good loot and allow you to go in with a maximum of 40 players 
 in some instances. There are also auction houses, where you can get mostly enchanted items, armor, 
 or weapons, or materials, or absolutely anything. You can bid on an item, hoping that you don't 
 get outbid, but if if you don't want to wait, or risk it, you can choose to buyout the item, which 
 instantly purchases the item, but costs a lot more money. There MANY, many other new features that 
 other mmorpg's don't have that World Of Warcraft does, but I'll just leave it at that. Refer to 
 gamespot's review to see more of the new features.
  
  Now, as for graphics.. they are definately great. Character models could use a bit of work, but 
 the environments and almost everything else is superb. Check out some screenshots to see what I 
 mean.
  
  Sound is probably the weakest part of the game, but that doesn't make the sound bad at all. It's 
 still way above average. Too hard to explain sound.. so I'll move on.
  
  One of the best things about World Of Warcraft is the ability to download content from websites 
 that allow you to do certain things to customize your World Of Warcraft experience. Some of these 
 things are changing the look of your health or skill bars, changing your skill bars, making it 
 possible to add notes onto your map and make the map smaller or bigger, have the damage you take 
 flash across the screen, have more info on players corpses, add numbers to your quest log which 
 represent the recommended level for the quest, and a whole bunch more. And the best part is - it's 
 totally legal.
  
  Now let's finish this review off with the fun factor and length. For the amount of fan the game 
 has, there's a lot. Grinding on enemies over and over for experience isn't exactly exciting, but 
 questing, exploring, doing instances, and doing things like pvp is very enjoyable. The overall 
 fun this game has is pretty damn high. As for the length of this game, expect a about 2-3 months 
 of about 3-5 hours a day playing to max out one of your characters. You can't really beat the game. 
 It's extremely time consuming.. in a good way.
  
  Anyways, there's too much to say. So I'll just end it now. Get World Of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonuchi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  When WoW first came out, I didn't think was going to get this game. But after a year plus of its 
 release, I've finally given in to the bandwagon WoW fanatics. And quite honestly, this game is 
 SWEET!!!! I played FFXI before which helped out a lot in this game and now I'm flying by in levels 
 [sort of] !!! It's a great game to have friends in and it's one thing to just see it, but it's another 
 thing to live it. It does take a while to get the hang of all the slang in the game, but once you've 
 heard it, it won't be leaving your mind for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromeman23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  WOW, Is all I can say. I thought i would not like this game because I am not a fan of RPG's they 
 bore me. Then I started to play this and it rocks, there are so many things to do here and so many 
 custimizations you can make. And all the other people playing this game makes it really fun. I 
 could tell when they created this game they though alot, it has so many things that i like about 
 this game. It is very fun and has low requirements for your computer, I would definately recommend 
 this to anyone even if you don't like RPG's This is nothing like your typical game. It is like 
 a Halo type PC game without the intense shooting and In a RPG format. BUY THIS GAME YOU WON'T REGRET 
 IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_vs_B_ownz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the latest (even though its from '04) in Blizzard's long line of games. The 
 developer is known for the Buldor's Gate series, and Diablo. When it comes to the graphics, they 
 are nothing flashy, but are better then I've seen in most MMO's.*cough*Runescaoe*cough* Although, 
 the shere mass of land occupied at one time in a server is more than enough to make up for this.
 
  
  The gameplay, is a lot of fun. Being able to go around in raids and such is well worth the money. 
 Although the PvP could be better, and because of this is nothing like Guild Wars PvP.
  
  The sound is also superb. Its easy to tell when you are going to strike a critical hit after a 
 while. Because of this, it gives your enemy (if you are in PvP) one last moment before they get hit 
 really hard.
  
  It does cost $40 to buy this game, which isn't bad considering the content. Add on top of that 
 the MMO fee for the massive powerful servers, and you tacked on $15 a month. This may seem like 
 a lot, but this game can keep you busy for many months on end.
  
  Overall World of Warcraft is a great game, and you make a fine addition to any gamers' collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toek
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Just because something is addictive does not mean that it is a good or a great thing. The graphics 
 are nice, sound is OK. One of my biggest gripes is that when you first install the game, Blizzard 
 recommends a server for you to play on and they do not inform you as to what time zone the server 
 is on. No biggie some may say, but let me explain my opinion on this. If you aren't familiar with 
 the game at all, as was I, you will happily accept the recommended server as your home. If the 
 server is not on your time zone, you will find out later that most of the players and guilds plan 
 their raids and such at inconvenient times. (ie,.. The recommended server for me was 4 hours behind 
 my local time) So what I found out was that most of the players and guilds started their raids 
 at 8 or 9 PM server time. Well 8PM server time for me was 12AM my time. Raid and instance runs 
 usually take at the least, 2 hours to complete. Some of the higher end instances take 4- 5 hours 
 to complete. This would be no problem except that I work days and to stay up playing until 2,3 
 or 4 AM in the morning would be career suicide due to lack of sleep. Suggestion to Blizzard; Post 
 sever times on the server lists. Anyway on with the review... Gameplay is painfully repetitious. 
 Most of the quests are for killing and looting certain types of characters, be they animals, monsters 
 or humanoids. A lot of the quests will have you kill, for example, 10 young monsters, you go back 
 to the quest giver and turn it in only to be sent back to the same area and kill 10 older monsters. 
 Jees, if I had known that, I could have killed 10 young and 10 old monsters while I was there! 
 A time sink, that's what this game is. Levelling your character isn't too bad from lvl 1 - 20, 
 it goes by pretty quick. From lvl 20 to 40 is a long boring grind. And to save up 90 gold for your 
 mount by level 40 is torture.
  
  After hitting level 40 the game goes a little quicker, but, not by much. It's still the grind, 
 grind, grind. You do make gold faster though, and you should, because you will need 900 gold to 
 buy your epic mount. at level 60 (It's just a little faster than your lvl 40 mount you paid 90 
 gold for.)
  
  So, you have your mount (lvl 40+) , what's next? Well, by this time, if you hadn't already, you 
 will be looking for a good guild to join. One that has people in it that will be playing at the 
 same server times that you play for the most part. This is important if you want to equip your 
 character with the uber epic gear. If you aren't in a decent guild, you most probably will not 
 get epic gear. Which at this time I'd like to warn anyone that likes to play solo, about the only 
 option you have is to farm materials to sell for profits. Kiss the epic gear goodbye, because you 
 will not get it unless you are in a well structured guild. Just about all of the endgame content 
 is directed at group type of play.
  
  Now a word about faction. It has been my experience that the more mature players play the Horde. 
 The horde players seem to be more helpful and not as inclined to ninja loot and call people names 
 for asking innocent questions.
  
  Also, let me give my opinion on servers. Knowing what I know now, I would have started my first 
 character on a RPPVP server. Why? Because what I have experienced is that they are less crowded 
 and have a better, more mature clientele playing on them. Which, in my case, provided a much more 
 enjoyable atmosphere to play in without all of the childish crap being spammed on the General Chat 
 channel.
  
  In summery I will say that WoW is a decent game, but nowhere near being great, or being the be-all 
 end-all of MMORPG's. I still play the game, if for no other reason than to escape RL every now 
 and then. For a great many people this game will consume your free time to the point of neglecting 
 the things you care for. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forsaken-Spirit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is for all those that live with The World of Warcraft.
  I really admit that WoW is a perfect game and playing it is all fun but somehow its dangerous too!
 
  Some people say that we should not care about the real life and forget the reality but i don't 
 agree. I know that there are so many bitter experience in life but that's how life is. We should 
 try to reach our purpose, there is no reward without no try, we all know that.
  So all I'm talking about is to say that we must not let WoW capture our lives we should not quit 
 like so many players that i used to know cause its really fun but we must not forget our duties 
 too.
  I wish wonderful moments for you in the new world of outland ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  It's really World of Warcraft During my 2 years of playing WoW, i was really living in the World 
 of warcraft, I was never a RPG or Online Fan before this game. This game changed my gaming taste 
 forever. This game is for you if you are a gamer .. no matter what type .. weather RPG or not .. 
 you'll still like World of Warcraft .. Pros: - Detailed World that you really live in. - Good graphics 
 and variety of Lands. - Easy Interface to learn and manage. - Good speed for servers althoguh I 
 login to USA servers from Middle East.
  - Fantastic Sounds. - Easy Learning Curve. Cons: - Too Addictive. This helps if you have exams 
 or school .. best way to escape :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSXSayian
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome. no matter who u are if you just wanna play a game. This is for u. Here are 
 some advantages and disadvantages
  
  Advantages: This game has a huge play value. You could play this game for 2 months and not be done 
 it. this game beats guild wars in mostly every aspect. there are a lot of classes and races to 
 choose from and even if u have 5 minutes to spare u can go do a quest or join a party and grind (wow 
 term for killing everything in sight) . lots of world and even if u dont meet some minimum requirements (which 
 i dont) it still works just as wel other than the graphics my be a little ragged. Disadvantages: 
 the songs are a little low and it keeps repeating over again. it costs 20$ bucks a month and sometimes 
 it can get a little frustrating if ur trying to do a quest but the monsters are too hard. also 
 blizzard shuts down some servers from time to time so it can be a little annoying if ur main guy 
 is on the server selected
  
  Otherwise every one who gave this game a bad rating is either has a crap comp or just can enjoy 
 a game if u cant do something in 5 seconds or less.
  
  This game is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is such a great game. It sums it up right there. Ask yourself do you have a life, 
 friends, girlfriend/boyfriend? Think about it would you really want to loose all that? Thats what 
 this game does to you. Once you get into it, you can never stop thinking about it. I got to get 
 that new sword. I need more money. Maybe ill buy 100 gold for a hundred dolllars on that website. 
 This game tears you apart. I admit its not to bad to play it and still get on with your life, but 
 its very hard to that. When I first got this game i thought it was great. I started playing about 
 2-3 hours a day. Then 3-6 and so on. Im telling you if you do start to play this game limit yourself 
 before you turn it on, or else your just going to keep playing. I hope this review can let a few 
 people out there know how dangerous this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plob218
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Unless you've been living under a rock for the past two years, you're already aware of World of 
 Warcraft's impact on the gaming world. Whether you play it or not, you've probably heard about 
 it, seen the Leroy Jenkins video, or maybe even lost a friend to this so-called life consuming 
 game. I'll talk more about that later in the review, but first let's talk about how it can reach 
 that point.
  
  I'm going to skip the foreplay and put my opinion of the game right up front. I love it. I have 
 a level 60 character and a couple more on the way (as I write this they're 42 and 44) . I think 
 it's as close to perfection as a game like this can get, with a few exceptions, which I'll talk 
 about below. All of the classes are fun to play in their own way -- paladin is the only one I can't 
 get into, but I know some players who like it so I guess it's just not the class for me. The abundance 
 of quests and areas to explore make it fun even the third or fourth time through. Yeah, I'd say 
 it's a perfect game from level 1-60. It's when you hit the endgame content that things get tricky.
 
  
  When you reach the level 60 mark, the only way to improve your character is by collecting better 
 equipment. You can't train any more spells (at least not the way you've been doing it for the past 
 60 levels) , and you don't get any more talent points. You basically have 2 options, although there 
 is a third half-option which I'll explain first.
  
  The most straightforward way to get better equipment is to continue doing quests and 5-man instances 
 like you're used to. That's pretty much all you can do before hitting 60, but odds are there are 
 still some nice drops you've missed out on in the handful of high-level dungeons. The reason I 
 only count this as a half-option is because you will tire of it very quickly. There are only five 
 or so dungeons to choose from (depending on how you count them... it's more than likely that your 
 group will only want to do one section of a branching instance, so it's up to you whether to count 
 them as separate dungeons altogether) , and their difficulty leaves a lot to be desired once you've 
 acquired some of the nicer boss loot. Running these relatively easy instances over and over again 
 will get old after a few weeks, trust me.
  
  Another option for the endgame player is to raid. Raiding involves groups of 20-40 players exploring 
 even bigger dungeons and killing even bigger enemies. This is where you get to kill dragons and 
 other huge monsters for epic loot. It's a lot of fun, and the rewards are generally worth it, but 
 there is a hefty price to pay. Taking part in these 40-man events pretty much requires joining 
 a raiding guild, which may involve making a serious time commitment. Many of these guilds will 
 want you to attend two or more raids a week, which means you can't make plans with friends or significant 
 others during a six-hour (or so) block of time on raid nights. This can be a heavy load, and after 
 a while the game starts to feel like a job. Many of my in-game friends have felt the need to give 
 up playing altogether because they couldn't balance their real lives with the raid schedule. Luckily, 
 my guild doesn't have a minimum attendance policy, so I am able to go when I have nothing else 
 on those nights.
  
  The final option is to engage in player-vs-player, or PVP, combat. The game rewards players for 
 PVPing by way of the unwieldly Honor System, which credits players with honor for various tasks 
 such as killing other players their level or winning the objective-based Battlegrounds competitions. 
 What makes the Honor System such a letdown is that it is fiercly competetive. Isn't PVP supposed 
 to be competitive? you ask? Of course, you should have to compete with enemy players to win the 
 battlegrounds, and every mini-battle within each battleground. The problem here is that the system 
 pits every player _of the same faction_ against each other to accumulate the most honor _every 
 week_. If you can't play for a day, odds are the people you're competing against can. As a result, 
 you may actually go down in rank. This system awards neither skill nor perseverance; a good player 
 who doesn't play all day, or a player who has played an hour every day for a year will both be 
 outranked by a mediocre player who just happens to spend all day in front of his computer.
  
  Because raiding and PVP are the only real ways to improve your character at level 60, and they 
 both require such massive time commitments, WoW has been branded a destroyer of lives by some. 
 We've probably all heard horror stories of relationships ending over it, people dropping out of 
 school because of it, and so on. However, blaming these incidents on the game is merely an easy-out 
 for people who can't control themselves enough to know when to turn it off. That being said, the 
 game does seem to reward constant gameplay. To address this, Blizzard has announced that it intends 
 to change its Honor System in the upcoming expansion, so that it will allow players to accumulate 
 honor at their own pace and then use their accumulated points to unlock rewards. Also, they have 
 revealed that the maximum raid size will be reduced to 25 players. Both of these changes will make 
 endgame content more accessible to casual players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has ok sound and ok graphics but what makes this game good is the gameplay, though expensive 
 if you don't have a job it is a game you can enjoy for quite some time. You can learn to play this 
 game in no time at all and the community is ok. The reason I like this game is because you dont 
 have to grind your @$$ all day if you choose not to unlike most mmorpg's. The instances in this 
 game are great fun (instances are little slices of the world given to you and your friends to venture 
 in and fight monsters for loot and experience. From caves under the desert to fiery molten cores 
 the instances make this game what it is.
  
  The leveling system is great, it is really easy to achieve max level. There is even a rest sytem 
 so you gain double experience for a short while.
  
  Overall this game is extremely fun and addicting and if you are going to buy one game a year, this 
 game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Shadow12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game has alot to do like mine in under ground mines and fish to get some silver.... but my 
 favourite part about this game is chatting to your guild or friends, also pick out of 8 types of 
 species... human, night elf, dwarf, gnome, orc, undead, tauren and trolls. (who ever needs help 
 add Dragonzx to your freinds list.. thats me.. im in the REALM AMAN THUL..) lots of classes to pick 
 eg: hunter, paladin or warrior.
  Visit huge cities and delve through dozens of vast dungeons.
  enjoy hundreds of hours of gameplay 
 with over 2500 quests to choose from, items and adventures every month. Adventure together with 
 thousands of other players around the world.
  But the worst thing is.... you have to pay.... = ( But its worth it once you get to level 20 =) .. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaraza27
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Answers on two of this questions is, no you will never be and third you will never have enougth 
 epix you will allways try to get new ones.
  
  Anyway for people who haven't started yet JUSt don't even bother to buy this game because you will 
 be dissapointed then people will call you noob etc just because you don't have epix ( purple gear) 
 and have blues and greenies on your character instead. To get good gear you need to get a guild 
 which does 40 man instances, the guild need to have DKP ( the points you spend to buy epix) and 
 ventrilo/TS (voice conversation programs) . 40 people is to many I agree it is why conspirations 
 going on etc people quit, people can't attend to raid they get kicked and other players call it 
 for guild drama etc. Anyway if you don't want to spend your evenings with playing WoW 5 days at 
 week then just don't even start playing it! Because you will not have a chanse to be somebody or 
 even get a good guild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarFace7331
Rating: 1.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The best thing in WoW, just cause u dont have to controlle it with a mouse. Graphics- 
 OMG, how can they be so bad? They are just cartoonish, too much colorfull ( I preffer ROSE online 
 graphics to these ones ) Sound- Compare this games sound to FF XI sound and musics and u will see 
 this game's sound sucks sooooo bad. It dosent feel u are hitting the damn monster and the musics? 
 U cant even hear them. Value- If u like a game with bad graphics, horrible music and sounds, a 
 **** comunity...... Yep u can play this, but if u dont ,dont play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrtoad320
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Opinions about the quality of this game are everywhere. I don't want to add yet another self important 
 rant on the quality of this or that or how much the technical problems that occur can infuriate 
 me. Instead I'd like to relate the story of how I came to purchase this thing that has taken over 
 my life, caused me to stop buying new games and gotten me to be the catalyst that has allowed it 
 to infiltrate my workplace. I was browsing through the game section of a large electronics store, 
 I was a week out of the army and I was still in that pissed off looking like a bulldog mode that 
 Is the bread and butter of soldiers. The store wasn't in the best of neighborhoods but people still 
 kept a very wide distance from me. I was sporting my platoon hoodie and I was unconsciously clenching 
 my fists over and over again. There was an instore display for WoW that I walked near and glanced 
 at. While gangsters and construction workers walked way out of their way to avoid me I was approached 
 by a smaller balding fat man with his mousy wife close behind him.
  
  Have you played it? He asked.
  No. I responded.
  Well, if you do you can kiss your life good-bye. 
 
  It's that good? His wife rolled her eyes and walked away.
  The little fat man just nodded his head. Nine months later and I'm looking eerily similar to that 
 guy, despite my newly rediscovered gamers belly, if I saw that man on the street I would hug him. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the next step in the highly acclaimed Warcraft saga, and what most at first 
 glance would consider a 'spin-off' of the original RTSes. With over (At time of writing) 6 million 
 individual subscribers, a huge fanbase, helpful GMs, an incredibly massive and seamless world, 
 revolutionary gameplay, colourful graphics and overall a very satisfying, amazing experience is 
 to be had in this game.
  
  Where could I begin to describe it?? You start off in the world, a low level 1 noob, and work your 
 way up to greatness. Firstly though, you need to learn the ropes. World of Warcraft's interface 
 is so inuitive and customizable is that there isn't that much to learn in terms of getting the 
 feel of the game. However, the huge amount of additional, vital information is all needed to seperate 
 you from the newbies. You start off in a small area, for Orcs and Trolls it would be Valley of 
 Trials, Night Elf is Shadowglen and so on. You are immediately told to start questing, and you're 
 on your way. After completing this small area, which shouldn't take more than an hour or so, you 
 move onto a larger area (Sen'Jin Village, Dolanaar) and you proceed onto learning more complex 
 things, such as grouping, chain quests and so forth.
  
  A few more hours should be spent here to complete all of the quests, since you probaly won't be 
 heading back to this area ever again, and the more experience the better. You now move onto the 
 capital city of your race (Orgrimmar, Darnassus) . By now you should be around the 8-12 mark, and 
 a decent understanding of the game. However, upon reaching the capital, you start to encounter 
 things, such as Auction Houses, Battlemasters, and in some cases - instances. Instances are copies 
 of dungeons that you and your group are able to enter. If one more group were to enter the dungeon, 
 then they would have their own copy of the dungeon. The instance is full of Elite monsters, meaning 
 they are much more difficult to kill as opposed to a mob of the same level. Battlegrounds is PvP. 
 Battlegrounds basically pits you against the opposing faction (Alliance/Horde) in an attempt to 
 gain as much honor as you can, as well as winning the battle. Killing foes and completing the goal 
 earns you honor, which earns you ranks. Ranks are things like Scout/Private, Corporal/Grunt, Sergeant 
 and so forth. Ranks earn you special items with certain factions and accessories from the quartermaster, 
 such as special trinkets, cloaks and tabards. You also earn 'Marks of Honor' which you cash in. 
 When cashing these in you obtain 'Reputation' with the faction you just fought for, (Frostwolf, 
 Warsong, Defilers to name a few Horde PvP factions) . These factions can give you special items 
 also. There are also Double-Honor weeks, which happens once a month or so, and double honor is 
 earned from killing enemies and winning matches. At level 10 you are able to enter Warsong Gulch, 
 level 20 gives you the opportunity to head to Arathi Basin, and upon reaching the prestigious level 
 51 you can head down to Alterac Valley. You fight in brackets (10-19, 20-29, 30-39) to keep the 
 scoreboards reasonably fair. Obviously having more allies with a '9' level, you have more chance 
 of winning.
  
  Reputation is what you earn for completing quests, fighting in battlegrounds, fighting certain 
 mobs, handing in certain useful items to the War Effort, and handing in Commendation Signets. There 
 are levels of reputation, ranging from 'Hated' to 'Exalted,' with Friendly being the standard reputation 
 rank for people of your faction (Apart from Forsaken, who start on Neutral with everybody, and 
 consequentally, everybody starts with them on Neutral) . Upping your rep with certain factions reaps 
 you rewards, such as discounted vendor items, repairs, skills and so forth. You can earn another 
 race's mount upon reaching exalted. An example would a Troll becoming Exalted with Orcs to be able 
 to ride Wolves, the Orcish racial mount, as opposed to Trolls racial mount - Raptors.
  
  The auction house - as far as my knowledge goes - is a very unique aspect of the game. It enables 
 you to auction off items you have found, and alternatively you buy off other players for a player-set 
 price. Fancy a new headpiece? Just search, compare prices, and choose the right one for you. White-quality 
 items, such as Leathers, Ores and Herbs are commonplace on the AH, as well as items and recipes.
 
  
  The in-game mail system is another great aspect of WoW. It enables you to send mail to friends, 
 with attached items, send them money, or sell things to them if you aren't anywhere near each other 
 by using the Cash on Deliver option. You can send things to your alts, too. However, you can't 
 send things to people of the opposing faction (Horde/Alliance) or people on other realms to you.
 
  
  You also have the option of setting up your own guild, or joining somebody elses. Guilds are basically 
 groups of fellow players who run instances, raids and level up together. They help each other out 
 by running a micro-economy within itself, or helping a guildy in need. WoW also has professions 
 which your character can learn. You can choose the following..
  Skinning, Leatherworking, Alchemy, Herbology, Mining, Blacksmithing, Engineering, Enchanting and 
 Tailoring. You can choose two of these, typically one would choose a 'Gatherer' Profession (Herbology, 
 Skinning, Mining) and couple it with the respective 'Industry' profession (Alchemy, Leatherworking, 
 Engineering/Blacksmithing) . There are also two other professions - Enchanting and Tailoring, which 
 are essentially Industry professions which don't require a Gatherer profession. These two are typically 
 coupled together by caster classes, such as mages, warlocks or priests.
  
  There are many ways you could play World of Warcraft. There are 8 races in total...
  Alliance 
 Horde
  Human Orc
  Dwarf Troll
  Night Elf Undead/Forsaken
  Gnome Tauren
  
  ... And a total of 9 playable classes.
  Warrior, Hunter, Mage, Priest, Warlock, Druid, Rogue, 
 Shamans and Paladins. Shamans are only available to the Horde, whereas Paladins are an Alliance-only 
 class. They each have their own playing ways, I personally find Shamans a very enjoyable class.
 
  
  You can also choose classes that are suited to that race. Trolls are suitable hunters because of 
 their +Bow Skill, and +Damage to Beasts. Taurens make excellent Warriors because of their superior 
 +Strength, and so forth. Certain races also have superior professions, such as Gnomes having +Engineering, 
 and Taurens +Herbology.
  
  There is so much more stuff to cover in World of Warcraft, but as I am yet to reach end-game, I 
 can't report on certain things, like Alterac Valley, Ahn'Qiraj, or things like that.
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft is an excellent game that will leave you hooked. I recommend WoW to 
 every gamer, even non-RPG lovers. It delivers an incredibly satisfying, remarkable experience, 
 that could only be delivered in the form of World of Warcraft.
  
  --Ryle_Boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that can only be rated when its form comes to some sort of finality. It truly hasn't 
 happened yet, but with the release of Burning Crusade on the horizon this time seems as good as 
 any.
  
  I've played WoW since its beta in 2004, and then officially in November 2004 when it came out in 
 stores. I've seen every patch, change, item addition, armor set, and economy inflation it has been 
 through. I think I know what I'm talking about.
  
  If you were to make a side-by-side compassion of what the game once was and what it is now... you 
 would be shocked. Back when it first came out, it was very personal. You make your character, you 
 play through a continuous storyline, and you grow, becoming more powerful. You can do it alone, 
 or with friends. The classes 1v1 are pretty well balanced and original in their own respect, and 
 the environment is vast and beautiful.
  
  Now, people don't play for the reasons above. Why? Because that chapter of the WoW universe has 
 been completed. Hardcore gamers took this casual gamer experience on, CRUSHED IT, and had level 
 60 characters in a month of its release. They had been through the high level, five man dungeons 
 and they got bored. After the novelty of gold farming wore off they got frustrated and started 
 complaining.
  
  Blizzard probably had a brief spat of panic. A game that took them five or six years to produce 
 was already cut and dry finished by the hardcore nerds of America. And, while the rest of us worked 
 during the day and put two hours at night, they spent hours on the message boards trolling, eating 
 candy, and complaining. Blizzard began to listen. The patches came. Adding this or that, new this 
 or that, growing and getting away from the personal WoW to the guild WoW that we all now know. 
 The new problem was that the patches were finished through by these same hardcore players a week 
 after tier release. Blizzard simply couldnt keep up. Then came 40 man raids, epic weapons, battlegrounds, 
 larger dungeons, larger raids, more raids, and less and less the small groups of adventurers were 
 seen.
  
  Instead of the 1v1 balance, there is now a group-v-group balance, or a raid-v-raid balance. Classes 
 are now all dependant on one another more than they have ever been. The goal of WoW now isnt the 
 story and quests, but the armor, weapons, and gold. It's a different game.
  
  Soon its going to become very generic as well. Cross faction classes. Horde Paladins, Alliance 
 Shaman. This happened because of the g-v-g and r-v-r philosophy, no other reason. For MONTHS maybe 
 even for a YEAR all Blizzard talked about was the future release of hero classes, new classes that 
 added some spice to the soup of WoW. It never happened when the r-v-r and g-v-g switch sprouted. 
 I would have preferred new classes, new races, roe dungeons, more zones, new items rather than 
 a destroyed lore and cross faction classes. The overall balance isn't focused correctly.
  
  Blizzard threw out their lore after that. When the expansion arrives the Horde will inherit the 
 Blood Elves by tiny loopholes in their history, and the Derenai will appear unlike theyve ever 
 been seen, or were even conceived to be, tacked on to the expansion in a fashion that befits a 
 lack of other possibilities. Theyll take Illidan from his role as a faction leader and make him 
 a dungeon boss, and sooner or later theyll allow anyone who is able to take a shot at Arcas. Dumb 
 move if you ask me. With the introduction of Illidan into WoW they could have introduced a THIRD 
 FACTION with new classes all around. THAT would have been a GOOD IDEA. I worry for the game.
  
  And there's way too much complaining.
  
  But the game is irresistible. I'm addicted. I 
 love it. By far one of the bet MMORPGS I have ever played in my life. Does it have its failings? 
 Yeah. Is it possibly circling the toilet of generic-hood? Possibly. The fact remains, its a playing 
 experience, and if you have the means to play, do so, and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cullenweber
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The above statement doesn't even cover how good this game is. The depth and imagination that went 
 into the design of this game are unmatched by anything that I have ever seen. World of Warcraft 
 is to video games what Lord of the Rings and Star Wars are to books and movies. It is the standard 
 by which all other games for 30 years into the future should be measured. I have never before played 
 anything that truly shocked me everytime I logged on by how good it actually is. There are so many 
 elements and angles to this game that mastery is nearly impossible. As far as I'm concerned this 
 is the last video game that I will ever play. You should join the masses and lose yourself in this 
 one. And if you do, I'll see you there.
  
  -Ishkur, Night Elf Druid, Alliance, Aerie Peak Realm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuzzyisbob
Rating: 3.9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the revolutionary MMORPG that even God plays in his spare time. If you are 
 wondering why people get this game and spend every living moment playing it, heres some details: 
 The first big excitement? You get to pick a class and race, choosing how you look from a very limited 
 variation of hair and skin colours and what have you. Then the real fun begins. You get to go around 
 the starting zone doing those oh so amazing quests that youve all heard about. First, you get 
 to kill 10 Pigs and 10 Tigers. But wait a minute, the fun is only beginning! This is World of Warcraft! 
 You then get to go back and kill 10 Adult Pigs and 10 Adult Tigers. After an adventurous series 
 of quests along these lines you are ready to go out into the big, bad world of Azeroth.
  
  What awaits you in this world? More quests! The fun continues as you trek around the lands, killing 
 10 Owls, collecting interesting things from dead animals and at times you even get to go tell someone 
 a message (usually this person happens to be in the same room. THIS IS WORLD OF WARCRAFT. ITS 
 EXTREME!) . Not convincing enough? Fool! This is World of Warcraft! The fun hasnt even begun yet!
 
  
  Now youre ready to grind. This involves sitting at your computer for most of the day whilst pressing 
 a few numbers depending on your hotkeys. You kill the same thing over and over for a very long 
 time. If you are lucky, you might find a Tree Frog carrying an Epic Sword of Epic Awesomeness. 
 Grinding also means you get gold which you tend to save up for the mount you get at Level 40.
 
  
  Oh! The mount! This is highly exciting indeed. This is one of the cases where World of Warcraft 
 is apparently revolutionary. Its the first MMORPG to have mounts! Ive been told this by many 
 WoW fans. This isnt true however, Final Fantasy 11 had mounts, and also an Auction House  but 
 lets not tell anyone. This is World of Warcraft! Anyway, to get a mount you must grind for hours 
 on end. Mounts are very useful. They give you that little bit of extra hope of avoid being ganked 
 in contested zones.
  
  Now you should stop reading this review for a moment, because Im sure all of the excitement of 
 World of Warcraft is astounding you. Go have a drink and come back because you may faint when I 
 tell you how good the end game experience is.
  
  Alright? Well, after you have your mount you can then go around different places faster. This proved 
 useful for me because it meant that extra time was not wasted while moving from grinding zones 
 after the Horde had shown up. So now you get to do quests, instances and-
  
  Instances, never mentioned those wonderful things, did I? When you begin doing higher level instances 
 you will notice how friendly and loving the World of Warcraft community is. Doing an instance usually 
 means spending hours of grinding time in one place whilst people who cant speak English moan at 
 you. This usually is because you want what is at the end of the instance, the boss may just happen 
 to be carrying his Super Duper Armour of Immense Explosive Fairy Dust on that day and you wish 
 to take it from him. This usually substitutes for grinding but it does make you want to kill everyone 
 who plays the game after a while.
  
  So soon youll be reaching Level 60 and those days of killing 10 Pigs will slowly become replaced 
 by the days of killing 10 Dragon-Pigs, until one day BOOM! Youre Level 60 and soon you will notice 
 that all those months were definitely worth it in the end because this is World of Warcraft!
  
  Level 60 offers a number of very exciting possibilities for players. These include:
  
  
  Grinding for a faster mount!
   Getting shouted at over Teamspeak by a fat little man with no life
   Leeching in the BG so 
 that you can have Sergeant Major Awesome in front of your name.
   Doing all of the above before starting a new character.
  
  Note: If you happen to walk into 
 the room and find your son/friend/husband/close relation dead from a heart attack at the computer 
 screen due to all the wonderful excitement World of Warcraft offers, please sue Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliebaby462
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  MMORPG was a frightening term to me. I always feared being pitted against those who spend half 
 of their lives on these games waiting to kick my inexperienced butt but such is not the case with 
 w. o. w. An amazing storyline, great graphics, and surreal environments all make up this intstant 
 classic. I've seen other MMORPG's but have not played them nor will I after playing w. o. w. for 
 there is no need to. As the review says 'this is the MMORPG to play whether you like them or not'.
 
  Struggling through my first level was made easy by some helpful high level characters who took 
 me under their wings and brought me to places of interest and actually helped me finish quests. 
 That alone makes the game worth it to me. Interacting with people, helping others and being part 
 of some interesting parties and guilds also help move the game along smoothly when you may be a 
 little overwhelmed about what to do next. Things just seem to fall in place in this game and after 
 speaking with other players, it's different for everyone everytime. I already look forward to my 
 next adventure with another class.
  A multitude of classes, spells, equipment and abilities keep you very busy throughout the experience. 
 And what you do with those is up to you. I found myself helping random people in the first few 
 levels to try to gain friends and it paid off. I helped a level 15 hunter get out of a bind and 
 next thing I knew he took me to vast lands showing me many places I might not have dared tread 
 until much later in my experience. And as I got higher in level he took me to group raids and even 
 got me into a guild. I can't say enough good things about this game so I'll say this: it's the 
 best darn game I've ever played and I've never been a fan of MMORPG's if that says  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Lets just say blizzard has never let me down when making a game.. lets hit the review spot.
  
  Story: 8/10
  So here we are in the land of Azeroth once again. This time around blizzard 
 went to make a MMORPG instead of a RTS game. Wow basically is a game that continues warcraft 3s 
 plot and talks about how the alliance and orcs have once again come to war. While you are playing 
 the game you are given quests which talk about some of the plot but not alot. You kinda dont really 
 get any story in this game which is kinda saddening, but what makes up for the story gets better.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Gameplay controls are used as the mouse and keyboard for actions. You use W A S D to move your 
 character around and using the numpads on your keyboard you can configure your controls to designated 
 spells. With the single tap of the right click button on ur mouse will send u attacking your oppenent. 
 But here comes the tricky part.. you either gotta be close to fight if your a melee type character 
 or you have to be in range if your a mage. You have the option of changing your keyboard buttons 
 around which is very good because then you are able to assign your spells to the way you like it. 
 There are mods out there that can fix up the interface and other things to make you play alot easier. 
 All in all the game play is wicked sick.. because blizz has also put in the PVP System which not 
 alot of other mmorpgs have installed in. The pvp system is where alliance fight against the horde 
 in the lands of azeroth, soon blizz will install some new patches where the pvp system will have 
 a honor system with a battleground zone for massive pvp players. Also each server is made for its 
 city, province, or country. There are different types of servers which include, PVP, RP, and player 
 versus AI.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  As you know blizz never use full resource on their graphics because more gameplay and story is 
 built into their games. Visually looking the water is very surpising because of the spakles that 
 happen. Most of the entire game, you will see great huge environments to big azz buildings. Blizzard 
 have enhance the graphic issues when they have patch uploads or upgrades to the game. The graphics 
 arn't superb and realistc like most mmorpgs, but there is alot of character animations in the game 
 which make it unbelivable fun. Sound: 10/10
  Almost all the sound tracks and sound in the game are superb. The music can be very dramatic in 
 different ways depending what you are doing and which are you are in. The sound effects are really 
 great.. espically the emotions that each class and race can do when you give commands to them. 
 The music is short but well worht listening too
  
  Overall this game deserves a gold medal, Blizz has never let anyone down in games and surley this 
 one didnt. Brand new gameplay, graphics, and story. I recommend this game to anyone who loves MMORPGS, 
 or a blizz fan, and love fantasy war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micoor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  This is the game you want to play if you have lots of time to spend. It is very time consuming 
 and it rewards you after how much you play basically. The game is made to be easy to pick up and 
 start playing. After spending about an hour with it you will know the basics of it and after that 
 you will steady learn more things as they become available. PvE is the main factor of this game 
 as a lot of its content is based on it. You will get the best items and so on playing the PvE content. 
 The PvP content as it is now is sort of a sidetrack and not as evolved as the PvE gameplay. What 
 have kept me playing this for almost 2 years now (including betas) are both the gameplay and the 
 friendship you will gain with others playing the game. It has some flaws but overall it is a very 
 well done and if this genre is something for you will probably have loads of fun hours playing 
 World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troness
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game delivers on every level. The story is well thought out and deeply complex. It controls 
 very smoothly and is very playable. It is HIGHLY addicting. (expect 8-10 hour sittings) This is 
 the MMORPG that i've been waiting to play. It is highly rewarding to level up your character and 
 continue to work at him/her because there are great pay offs from the great armor and cool weapons 
 you get. The only issue I would say with this game is the graphics could be a little bit better. 
 Nevertheless, for how many people play this game and how huge its scope is, there is little room 
 to improve. With that being said, I would recommend this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  I have played many mmorpg's and while I still hold some closer to my heart then others (looking 
 at you SWG, UO, and EQOA) There doesn't seem to be many games out there that you can hold a game 
 life in and feel like its really a life. One of the best games I played of this type was SWG which 
 was like a second life to me and was just a game where you made friends, hung out and had fun. 
 However it seems those type of mmo's are becoming rare and there is a new brand moving in that 
 are not to bad.
  
  One of these is WoW. Now while I won't say its the best to say Pre-cu SwG but it is one of the 
 on the market now. It has a nice depth of classes, races, and so on. It has hours and hours of 
 leveling, grinding, fun and just exporing the land we loved so much in the RTS game.
  
  Also they have up and comming things that will add more things to the game we already know. The 
 game can last a few months even a year, if you don't fall in love with it and spend the next 23 
 years on it. How ever you can also double that time by playing between alliance and horde. You 
 can also make a new toon if you get bored of the old one.
  
  When you get to 60 the game seems to slow but it still holds end game raids, PVE events, and the 
 life blood of the game PvP. If you want some thing to spend time with get WoW. It is one of the 
 few that you will like out there on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  During my 2 years of playing WoW, i was really living in the "World" of warcraft, I was never a 
 RPG or Online Fan before this game. This game changed my gaming taste forever. This game is for 
 you if you are a gamer .. no matter what type .. weather RPG or not .. you'll still like World 
 of Warcraft .. Pros: - Detailed "World" that you really live in. - Good graphics and variety of 
 Lands. - Easy Interface to learn and manage. - Good speed for servers althoguh I login to USA servers 
 from Middle East.
  - Fantastic Sounds. - Easy Learning Curve. Cons: - Too Addictive. This helps if you have exams 
 or school .. best way to escape :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyronjo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I consider this game as part of my life.. really. And this game is so Amazing. graphics, sounds 
 are good, how the toon makes very very nice to see, how to interact with other people are greatfull. 
 and i love the rule of looting the items dropping by the mobs here, all cool and to nice.... I encourage 
 everyone to play this game up to level 40. and get some saving time for it, and i ussure you guys 
 you will be love it :) . I love this game very well, but little sacrifice of time and effort, But 
 really really love it :) ... Try it guys... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When you first start a character on World of Warcraft, argueably one of the best MMO's of all time, 
 you'll see just how large this game is. You may get bored at the "training" area that characters 
 start out at, but once you have made it to a higher level, the game gets more challenging and more 
 interesting. The lower levels were designed to get you used to the WoW gameplay and get you used 
 to your character and his/her abilities. Therefor, you start out with a minimal amount of skills 
 and have difficulty dying because the enemies are too easy. Once you progress in the game, you 
 meet new friends, add more skills to your spellbook, and find items that can be used or traded 
 for money or equipment. In addition to the standard quests that the game offers, there are also 
 various dungeons for groups to participate in, and raids, which allow up to 40 people to group 
 together for a much more difficult challenge. However, since none of these are available to low 
 level characters, I suggest creating only one character and only playing that character until he 
 is level 20 or higher. Trying to level up multiple characters takes twice as long, and seems quite 
 tedious because you complete nearly the same tasks over and over again. The only real problem with 
 the game is the server issues and glitches from time to time, and one could say the graphics aren't 
 all that great, but hey, it's really the gameplay that counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhuSama
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  When I first put World of Warcraft into my CD drive, and begun downloading it, I was immediatly 
 entralled by it. From the art and interface on the downloader alone, I could tell that I would 
 be playing this game more than anything else I own, and I was right on the mark. This game is absolutely 
 perfect in a technical sense, as well as all the senses we're capable of. The visuals are beautiful 
 considering how much goes on around you, let alone the variety of different textures and skins. 
 The music and sound effects are stunning, each area's music track fits it so perfectly, one would 
 think that they are literally in the game, in that very spot. The world itself is the largest I 
 have ever encountered, and not one area is identical to another. The gameplay is flawless, and 
 the sheer variety of what you can do in the game is immeasurable. I would go so far as to say that 
 this is the best game to ever be conceived, but every game has flaws, no matter how perfect they 
 are.
  
  As WoW is an online game, lag is definatly a factor, internet and computer power-wise. People with 
 a bad connection or a bad computer find themselvs struggling to do what they want, or simply can't. 
 Also, there are countless other people in the game, just like real life, you may find others distasteful, 
 or downright annoying. I know for a fact that people have annoyed me enough to simply log off right 
 then and there, and I know others have the same problem. Other than this, there's glitches in many 
 places, now they normall don't impare your gameplay, some can simply get irritating.
  
  Difficulty-wise, it's like any other RPG. If you're not well geared enough, or not a high enough 
 level, you may simply die easily and not help alot. Raid bosses, and the instances in general can 
 be very hard without good teamwork with other players, and can anything else in the game that you 
 can't do alone.
  
  Bottom line is, this is the best RPG for the computer, and possibly anything else. I must buy for 
 anyone that is interested in RPG's, or simply being online in an entirely immersive environment 
 for countless weeks of their lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizchar
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is generally the classic MMO, races/classes/professions. Quests are "fetch this", "kill 
 this many of that thing"... Obviously this game requires a massive amount of free time in order 
 to attain the items, gold, and levels needed to experience all the actual fun.
  
  At the beginning of this game, you play it like there's no tomorrow. Undeniably absorbing at the 
 begining, with it's massive world, and it's beauty. But as you play, the game becomes increasingly 
 repetitive, until about halfway through the game. Which is when you begin to question if the $15 
 dollars a month is worth it.
  
  But as you keep playing, levels 40-60 are much faster and funner than 20-40 with mounts to increase 
 the speed of the game. And battlegrounds, and instances to juice up the gameplay. And eventually, 
 the massive amounts of weapons, items, and skills you can obtain and use.
  
  Overall this game is excellent compared to other MMO's, it's larger, and there is an obvious amount 
 of brainwork put into the creation of this game. But I believe the developers have missed one part 
 of keeping average gamers faith, most of us don't have that much time to play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knisathianterly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  When Blizzard started off with this game they aimed for a whide spread market of players, ranging 
 from the new players to MMORPG's to the verterains of the game style.
  
  World of Warcraft carries on with the Warcraft storylies really good and opens it up with lore 
 and a historical timeline on the site to back the game up. Basically the story in short, after 
 Warcraft 3 and the expansion packs as well the time line has shifted about 50-100 years forward, 
 when heros are needed to defend the lands that they call home. All types of creatures rule the 
 land and you need to pick a side. Since this is a online game Blizzard have been able to impliment 
 quite a few changes with the updateing process and i have been able to see first hand whole city's 
 being invaded by elementals where the whole city, NPC's and players fight together to protect the 
 innocents.
  
  However the only gripe that i have had over the course of playing this game has been the PVP (player 
 versus player) system, some servers are PVP active all the time and these are the ones that i have 
 a problem with, I have been questing in an area for some time and then a player from the other 
 side kill's me and waits by my body until i come back. This is a bad thing as if you rez at a graveyard 
 you have a 10 minute penitaly of a reduction of everything by 75% so getting back to your body 
 is the best thing, however that player waits until you get back up then kills you again, even if 
 there is no provocation for it. This only annoys me as when you have been trying to compleat one 
 quest for an hour and this happens.
  
  Even though it is part of the game, they made too much emphasis upon this with the honour system 
 that they implimented, this is not too apparent until you get to level 60, when battlegrounds is 
 all the upper levels do is battleground, so finding a group for the last set of quests becomes 
 hard as they are just want to do this.
  
  Anyhow the other types of servers are normal, which means that it's non PVP, however each player 
 can change there icon to PVP enabled if they want to and run about like that, but this leaves each 
 player to do there own thing. But yet again there is too much ephasis about battlegrounds.
  
  However there are good points, the player interface is easy to use and the learning curve for 
 each character is good and each player will be able to learn the diffrent types of attacks no problem, 
 thus means that there will no problem for any type of player to pick this up and play the game.
 
  
  With the new addition of the expansion pack for this, should provide alot more things for the higher 
 level player and still more things for the low level player to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corgorav
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft really is a great game. It is known as mmo that can be enjoyed by people who 
 never plays mmorpg's, thanks to its simple but great game mechanics and interfaces. There's so 
 much good quality content, such as pvp with honor system, pve with large world and lots of instances, 
 good community and all. This is a game you can easily enjoy and spend months to years, with your 
 friends or/and thousands of people on servers 24/7. Blizzard entertainment, developer and owner, 
 takes good care of servers fixing them when broken, updating and other things. They provide best 
 possible gaming experience, even when theres millions of players around world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  Oh man.... this game has to be one of the best games I am ever PLAYING...... it's so unique, it's 
 like a mix with Diablo 2 and Ragnarok Online.... just plain awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Amazingly fun, super fun that you can't stop playing the game. Lots of quests around 
 areas in the Warcraft world. TONS and TONS of quests to be more accurate. The enemies get are hard 
 in some areas of the Warcraft world and some are easy. The characters of the game are stupendously 
 great, like the Dwarves, the Night Elfs, the Taurens, the Undead, the Gnomes (lol....) , the Humans, 
 the Trolls, and the Orcs! And after choosing what race you want to be, you then have to choose 
 a class for it, like a Rogue, a Hunter, a Priest, a Warrior, a Warlock, a Druid, and etc. Lots 
 of combos......
  
  SOUND: Great original Warcraft music, good to hear when you're play the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: 
 Amazing...... simply original.. I like it :D
  
  VALUE: VERY VERY VERY VERY HIGH!!!!!!
  
  -Plus, you are able to play this game with your friends and family, and other people from around 
 the world.
  -Quest...... So VERY FUN!!! The quests are very challenging and very FUN. especially when you are 
 rewarded with exp, gold, and items for each quest you accomplish. :) the quests are simply never 
 ending..... there's gotta be billions of 'em. The Warcraft trilogy are 3 of my most favorite games 
 of all times and this just makes it more BETTER!! This game rocks!! I'll be playing it some more 
 when I get my prepaid cards. :P That's the sucky part..... paying. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshmellowmix
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  For starters this is the best online game ever. I like how u can almost do whatever you want. You 
 can quest, travel, fight, or just make stuff. Though I can say that the alliance is kinda stupid 
 the horde is awesome. The classes are really cool . I prefer the hunter because you can take control 
 of a beast for a pet. There is also the battlegrounds that you can fight against the opposite faction 
 which is awesome. I think that warsong gulch is the best because it is based on capture the flag. 
 Well thats my review on WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_702
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best MMO ever created. The world of Azeroth in which WoW takes place 
 is one of the biggest places to explore in any video game. The only one that I think can even come 
 close to it is the Elder Scrolls series and even that doesn't match up to the amount of land that 
 the player is able to wonder upon. There are so many quests to do, places to go, items to loot, 
 dungeons to raid, battle grounds to attend, proffesions to excel in, and so much more that it is 
 near impossible to get bored of. There is always something new to do in the game, for not one person 
 has done EVERYTHING that there is to do. For someone to say that they have done every single quest, 
 for both factions (horde and alliance) and all class and race specific quests as well is just absurd. 
 I'm sure there are some that have done that, but only a small majority of players. There are two 
 factions within the game, Horde and Alliance. Both factions have a total of 4 races of which you 
 can use to create your character. The Alliance have the humans, night elves, dwarves, and gnomes. 
 The horde have the orcs, trolls, undead, and tauren. Alond with the total 8 races there are 9 classes 
 from which you choose one to finish creating your character. There is the warrior, rogue, hunter, 
 mage, warlock, priest, druid, paladin (alliance only) , and the shaman (horde only) . The paladin 
 and shaman will be playable by both factions in the expansion pack The Burning Crusade. World of 
 Warcraft's character customization options are very limited so the odds of you seing someone look 
 exactly like you are pretty high, but that is just one minor problem with the game in which i'm 
 hoping will be fixed in the upcoming expansion. The major customization options are the hair and 
 face. Then there are some other ones like facial hair, and race specific options. There are countless 
 amounts of items that the gamer can find throughout his/her journey throughout Azeroth. There are 
 secret quests that gamers can get though parchements found throughout the land as well as epic 
 pieces of armor although the drop rate for the better items is very low, many gamers have found 
 and used them to there benifit. A lot of the items use the same modeling and look almost completely 
 identical, just with different stats and a change in color. I think that is a poor item creation 
 technique on the developer's part but complaining doesn't change a thing. Also, a lot of the houses 
 within the game are completely identical with the exception of some pieces of furniture being switched 
 around. Nonetheless, it is still exciting to go off adventuring and seeing new places that once 
 maybe wasn't accessible because the gamer's character was too low of a level. The amount of stuff 
 that there is to do in this game is just phenomenal. The journey to level 60 is a long one that 
 takes the casual gamer many months to complete. Once at 60, there are some new dungeons that you 
 are able to explore where you can recieve the best armor and weapons in the game (I should say 
 second best to that of the armor and weapons that one can get through the honor system although 
 dungeon armor sets are far easier to get) . Some people like to go to Battle Grounds and try to 
 achieve the title of Grand Marshal which is the 14th rank in the honor system and is the highest 
 rank that one can achieve. Upon achieving such a rank, you then have access to what I presume as 
 the best weapons and armor in the game. You can in fact access some of the best armor at earlier 
 ranks but the 14th rank is where you get the weapon. Everyone in the game has access to all the 
 different professions. There are the primary 8 professions which consist of alchemy, herbalism, 
 leather working, skinning, mining, tailoring, engineering and black smithing of which you can excel 
 in only two. You are able to repick professions at any time of the game. Then there are the 3 secondary 
 proffessions: first aid, cooking, and fishing. The gamer is able to excel within all 3 of these 
 secondary professions along with 2 primary professions thus giving you a total of 5 total professions 
 that the gamer has access to within the game. There are countless recipes that the gamer can buy 
 and find that will teach them how to make better items within the profession of which the recipe 
 is for. I'm not going to go into the professions and what they do for that would take hours to 
 explain everything. At level 40, your character is able to recieve a mount which increases your 
 movement speed by 60% for the cost of 10 gold for the ability to ride it and 90 gold for the actual 
 mount itself. Then at level 60, your character can buy there epic mount with 100% increased movement 
 speed for 1000 gold. Each race has its own specific mount and cannot ride another races mount until 
 they have reached the rank of exalted with that specific faction. The humans can ride a horse, 
 the night elves a night saber, dwarves a ram, gnomes a mechano strider, orcs a wolf, tauren a kodo 
 beast, trolls a raptor, and undead a skeletal horse. Along with being able to ride these race specific 
 mounts, the paladin and warlock get there own class specific mounts at levels 40 free of charge 
 and 60 being about 700 gold cheaper . The paladin gets a charger which is simply an armored white 
 horse while the warlock gets a black steed with its hoves, eyes, and snout on fire. The warlock 
 level 60 mount is probably the coolest mount in the game. Along with these race specific mounts, 
 the gamer can get access to different mounts by attaining an exalted reputation with Alterac Valley (Battle 
 Ground) and many other factions throughout Azeroth. I myself have over 14 days playing time which 
 is well over 336 hours put into the game on just one character. Oh, which reminds me that you can 
 make up to 8 characters each of over 50 different servers. I put the learning curve as 4 or more 
 hours just because if you are new to the MMO genre then it takes time to learn all of the lingo 
 and learn how to play using all of the features that this game has to offer. It is fairly easy 
 to learn the controls and how to fight and pick up quests right off the bat with the help system 
 that blizzard has implemented into the game but it is so much more than just kiling monsters and 
 doing quests. Just buy the game and see for yourself. Also, it would help to have a very good computer 
 because then the game isn't laggy and the graphics are PHENOMINAL. The graphics are so good that 
 I can't even think of a word to describe how good they are. There is so much more to discuss that 
 I would have to right a book just to cover all of the content, but i've been rambling on for a 
 while and it is time to come to a conclusion. This game has its pros and cons with the all the 
 good most definitely outweighing the flaws. Character customization is very limited but the amount 
 of items that the gamer can use and wear will definetly set them apart from all the rest. Azeroth 
 is so huge that it would take days, maybe even weeks to explore all of the countless places in 
 the game. There is so much to do that if you are easily bored then there is something wrong with 
 you and not the game. Everyone should give this game a try but be warned. This is a heavily addictied 
 game and believe me when I say that it is the BEST MMO ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballzz
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  When is started over a year ago this game was the best thing i'd played for a long time. Having 
 only played one MMORG before (Project Entropia) , i bought a few online games to see which one i 
 liked best and this came up trumps, mainly because of its vastness and endless possibilitys of 
 what you want to do. But, and heres the big butt, since xmas the game has gone in to a rapid decline, 
 although the games content has expanded loads with some great add ons, the games maintenance and 
 the way Blizzard treat there customers is now past a joke. The server I currently have all my characters 
 on is one of the older ones so we have it far more worse than the newer ones, but that really shouldnt 
 be the point that we are forgotton. High latency issues for all await on playing this game now 
 with MS reading of up to 7k, so that like being behind 7 seconds. Multiple Disconects haunt all 
 players and days when the servers are reset muliple times due to faults. GM's offer little or no 
 assistance to these current problems and online tech forums ignore and delete posts, while following 
 strict forum guidelines of "NO CAPS" and of course angry customers use caps alot. From months of 
 poor gaming me, my family and many of my friends are sick of being ignored from the whole of Blizzard 
 EU. To cut this short, the game is nearly unplayable these days with the whole mess with latency 
 and with a handful of players getting green bars only a few people are getting the right service, 
 and with the upcoming expansion of the Burning Crusade and Blizzards poor server maintenance that 
 can bearly cope with current patches (which incidently are poorly tested and released on the paying 
 public to solve like guinea pigs) i can only see doom and gloom for the coming months of play. 
 There are few games that can match the content of WOW but if you want to enjoy the game and get 
 satifaction and feel like your heard and wanted by the games manufacturer you best look elsewhere. 
 I've currently went back to playing City of Heroes which is totally awsome and if your into super 
 heroes (as all of us are, lol) , then check out this where the online experiance is as it should 
 be and you feel your getting your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PistolGripPimp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you right off the bat that this game truly is revolutionary. This game sets the bars 
 impressively high for future MMORPGs. Gameplay 10/10- The gameplay is really what an MMORPG is 
 all about. And World of Warcraft has got plenty of interesting gameplay tweeks that make this game 
 truly unique. They eliminated the constant farming by including many, many, MANY quests. Of course, 
 most people still think it is easier to level by farming, but the quests easily improve the gameplay 
 so that the player is not constantly farming. The classes for the most part are well-balanced, 
 and every class is equally fun. The PvP is one of the best parts of this game, however, PvE is 
 still amazing and the variety of monsters is pretty nice. The only complain I have about the gameplay 
 is that it seems like the only time you need to group is at lvl 60 for raids. Lvls 1-59 can easily 
 be soloed.
  
  Graphics 7/10- Before this game came out, I thought that the graphics to Everquest 2 were vastly 
 superior. I was not really into the cartoon-ish graphics of World of Warcraft. After hours of playing 
 the game, I started to enjoy the cartoon-ish graphics even more. The bright colors really blend 
 together nicely to create brilliant landscapes. The graphics are unique and interesting, yet I 
 still find it somewhat lacking.
  
  Sound 7/10- There is not much to say about the sound besides that it could be improved a bit more. 
 However, there are some interesting sound effects to find in World of Warcraft.
  
  Value 10/10- The value of this game could be the best part. And it should, because it is an MMORPG 
 after all. The monthly fee seems a bit high at first, but believe me, spending 15$ a month on one 
 game that will last you practically forever is more nice than spending hundreds on different games 
 that are only fun for a week or so.
  
  Tilt 10/10- Overall, World of Warcraft is a great MMORPG that is not only fun and exciting for 
 frequent MMORPG players, but also for some gamers new to MMORPGs or even RPGs. There is a lot to 
 look forward to in this game, and the constant patches only improve this game even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning I only heard form my friends about wow and heared them talking that it was just 
 an awesome game. I never had played a massive online game. If was since my first days as a pc gamer 
 a Blizzard fan. I own all games they had released from Warcaft II until Warcraft III TFT . I also 
 thought that it was ridiculous to spend 15 buck I think per month to play it 15 $ x 3 000 000 players 
 45 000 000 $ income for blizzard per month !!!
  
  With that amount every blizzard employe could buy 1 Ferrari per month !!
  
  But hearing that 
 there were also private servers I gave Wow a try.
  Its a great game its made in Blizzard so there arent many other word to describe it. If u are a 
 blizzard fan try it but don be so st**d to pay the 15 $ go look in google for a good private server. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palex14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Well, this game isn't really in my favorite one, but it's nicely done! This serie is a really good 
 one, I mean Warcraft... it's a very old one and it stills good in 2006 (probably in 2007 too) . All 
 I can say is good. Good graphics (better than the other Warcraft games, sounds are good too, gameplay 
 is definitely better than the other Wacraft games, I like the way they've change it ... much more 
 better than before. All what I'm saying here is really positive, but the reason why I don't like 
 this ''new'' game from Blizzard it's because you need to pay the game when you buy it and every 
 months if you wanna play it. It's it's kind of weird, but WoW (World of Warcraft) isn't the only 
 game that you need to pay to play. Plus... who can't play it offline ... that's not cool because 
 if you wanna play LAN against your friends you can't. Anyway, this game have a lot of good things, 
 a couple of bad too. (My point of view) Thanks to BLizzard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinegrinder
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is just plain fun you can pick it up at anytime and have fun with its ever evolving 
 worlds, races, and jobs. The character creation for this game hits the ground running with all 
 its customization to your character. With barly no loading time and slick graphic engine and a 
 soundtrack that tottlay compliment the game's feel and its first expansion pack including 2 new 
 races like the the blood elves just around the corner this game looks like the game that everyone 
 not just Warcraft fan with buy to enjoy a great MMo expeirence i have to give this game a recomandation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogdenous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is by Far the best Online Mass Multiplayer Game there is. I have not had this 
 much fun since Asherons Call 1.0. Similar to Asherons Call is the feel of open when playing, not 
 much loading. When you go in a building, or to another land or region, it doe snot stop and load. 
 Being the 1st time I played an MMO with PvP (Player vs Player) , this is the life. Let me tell you, 
 there is no going back to safe mode non PvP. The feel of mass raids to your safe castles and towns 
 is incredible and keeps you on your feet. There is always someone to play with I have found. I 
 just love how you can get on a boat and just walk around and chat with people while it is sailing 
 or ride the gnome train and watch it actually take you from point A ot B with loading viewing scenery 
 on the way. You'll meet some great friends in this game. By the way, you don't have to play WoW 
 in PvP...
  
  If you love exploration, then this game is for you. You can just go walking to towns, so long as 
 the route is safe and you make it. Meet people on the way or in outer roads and areas. But and 
 Sell items on the way, and just enjoy the beautiful scenery. I love how I can see Stormwind Castle 
 and go to it, inside being able to walk many flights and areas including homes and shops inside 
 the castle. It is one huge castle!
  
  Trust me, to date this is the only MMO you will want to keep playing for the long term. For now 
 I am off and going to play, checkout my other MMO reviews when you get a chance and message me 
 for comments or feedback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinkada
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't think of anything to sum up this game more adequately than 'Counterstrike'. I'll be going 
 over why over the course of the review, since it really is, in nearly all ways, the MMO equivalent 
 of the smash-hit, nefarious FPS. So let's start at point A.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10.
  
  I gave this game an 8/10 because quite simply, the combat is fun. My own MMO of choice is Everquest2, 
 and even I can admit that I definately do not play it for the fighting. The fighting of EQ2 (and 
 many other MMOs, for that matter) is very airy, insubstantial, light. Blizzard, if nothing else, 
 did a very good job of really connecting with attacks in WoW. At least, for the melee classes, 
 they did. The spell casters leave something to be desired, more on that later. When I hit something 
 with a sword, it really feels like it, so they get that much.
  
  Unfortunately, combat, compared to other genres, doesn't make up all that much in MMOs. The other 
 side of gameplay is the immersion side, which is where WoW fails miserably. Even the more down-to-Earth 
 players will admit that WoW plain and simple has zero immersion. It's backed by great lore of WC3, 
 but it just fails to deliver. It doesn't have a storyline like City of Heroes/Villains managed 
 to pull off in the after-story-arc notes that you got after a large chain of missions, and were 
 free to read through whenever you wanted. It doesn't have the startling detail of Everquest2. You 
 don't want to just walk through the city at midnight while it's thunderstorming (partially because 
 the weather effects were originally nonexistant, and are now just pathetic) . You don't want to 
 mess around with the various objects of the game. You just feel compelled to get to the next level, 
 the next dungeon. I've heard it described fairly often as feeling like an actual job, rather than 
 a game. Of course, to Blizzard's credit, they have managed to pull off a system where the workers 
 pay the employer, so that is pretty genius, if not genius for the benefit of players. And there's 
 no way it could have the exploration factor of something like, say, Oblivion, primarily for the 
 reason that most ingame travel is done with Zeppelin's and NPC flight, where you pretty much either 
 click where you want to go, or get on the Zeppelin for a shot of a red trail on the World Map.
 
  
  It's not hard to see that Blizzard are not focusing on putting you inside the game. The real attraction 
 to this game is the Raiding. Currently there are literally thousands of Guilds, all attempting 
 to be the best and the first to take down the latest Dungeon at the time of writing, named Naxxramas. 
 Never ever hope to run across a deserted area, never before traversed, full of strange treasures 
 and obscure Quests. No, pretty much all the gear you get will be from dungeons, with very, very 
 few exceptions, and most of those exceptions aren't even worth it in the first place.
  
  And of course, the PvP. World of Warcraft boasts not only Battlegrounds, a place where you can 
 go to undertake mission-based War maps, but also World PvP (if you're on the right server or in 
 the right area) where you can pretty much kill anyone of the opposing alliance that you want. Unfortunately, 
 both of these modes suffer.
  
  Battlegrounds not only has a measely three maps, but these three maps are quite frankly horrible. 
 The first map you'll have access to at Level20 is a Capture the Flag run. Obviously, the game wasn't 
 made for Capture the Flag, and shows quite badly in some classes obvious unbalance. The second 
 is a Capture the Resource style thing, where you need to hold as many Control Points for as long 
 as possible while your foes do not (ALA Battlefield) . Likewise, this also suffers from the problems 
 of the game not actually being built or balanced for it.
  
  Finally is Alterac Valley, which you don't actually gain access to until about Level 50. It's the 
 only decent Battleground, but unfortunately, you still won't see much action like you might expect 
 from Guild Wars. Most people in the area are only there to grind towards the Rewards, and the experience 
 really isn't all too fun after the first couple of runs. Granted at first it's a blast, but it's 
 purely novelty and wears off quickly, especially on the occasion that you encounter a full Guild, 
 decked out in the best gear in the game, which absolutely cream you. Granted, if you likewise get 
 a Guild together, chances are you'll just effortlessly cream the opposition. Not much fun, after 
 a while, and since there's no way to match up Guild VS Guild stuff, it's not the best.
  
  And the World PvP. What initially seems like a great idea quickly degenerates into absolute horror. 
 There's no level boundaries, so expect to be ganked quite frequently by people up to 40 levels 
 higher than you. The Honour System doesn't follow its name by a long shot, and you will be Spawn 
 Camped, attacked while you're fighting one, or even two, other NPC mobs already, and ganked. And 
 if you're really unlucky, you'll be ganked by someone much higher level than you, then be left 
 on nearly no HP so that the NPC finishes you off. This way, instead of receiving no penalty like 
 in PvP, you'll cop 10% Damage to your equipment, and when you're sporting full gear for your level, 
 this can be damaging to your wallet. Basically, players will make use of your misery to fuel their 
 egos and pathetic self esteem.
  
  Graphics: 3/10.
  
  I think I was being generous here, if anything. The graphics of this game, quite frankly, are pathetic. 
 They rank only just above things like the original EQ, and when you compare it to Guildwars, EQ2, 
 or even City of Villains, it just doesn't have a chance. There are plenty of 2D objects littered 
 everywhere, all the armour, even the Endgame stuff, is just the same model with a 2D skin on it 
 (with the exceptions of helms and pauldrons) , there are limitless graphical glitches, and all the 
 effects are recycled. Expect to see the same animations in at least half of your abilities. The 
 animation in combat is also horrible, despite the credit I give the combat itself. I don't know 
 how I manage to get hit by an enemy and half-limbo, while at the same time swing my axe. The combat 
 animations are all done seperately and on the spot, so you'll often see your character doing the 
 damaged and swing animations at the same time, resulting in freaky, unnatural shapes like the one 
 mentioned above. You won't see EQ2 or Neverwinter Nights/KotOR quality combat here.
  
  The graphics especially screw up the Caster classes of the game, since a caster class is almost 
 all about pretty animations. No one wants a boring caster class that doesn't have over the top 
 spells, yet here in WoW we have one. The Mage class receives the same Fireball spell from Level 
 1 to Level 60 without the animation changing, unless they opt at around Level 30 to get the slower, 
 stronger Pyroblast spell, which is essentially just a large fireball. And when I say large, I don't 
 mean meteor, I mean it's still small but it's just not -as- small. They get a Flamestrike spell 
 consisting of a 2D Firepillar and molten effect on the ground, and a Blizzard spell that just rains 
 ice shards. Their Arcane Explosion spell is false advertising, as it merely consists of a very 
 camp pink, sparkly barrier. Arcane Missiles is probably the prettiest spell in the game, but even 
 that is only a replica of Dungeons and Dragons' classic Mana Missile spell, sending multiple (1 
 at first, then later up to about 6) missiles in multiple volleys at the enemy. Simply put, you 
 won't be seeing anything even remotely close to a giant explosion ala Ragnarok's Lord of Vermillion, 
 or the classic Meteor spell. Sound: 1/10.
  
  There's not much I can say about the sound because frankly it's barely there. Blizzard spent very 
 little time on the music, and it's all completely forgettable, because they knew that their fans 
 would quickly be switching off the forest-like ambience for their favourite Linkin Park and Slipknot 
 songs. The sound effects are good, sure, but who would even hear them above whatever song Windows 
 Media Player is going through?
  
  Value: 4/10.
  
  The game will definately last you a while, if you do somehow manage to get into it. I myself have 
 played it for over 300 hours over the last 6 months simply because of the combat system and the 
 fact that the Warrior class is well designed. But if you're looking for anything other than that, 
 if you analyze what you're doing, you'll quickly snap out of it. It's very easy to fall into the 
 lull of farming the endgame dungeons and not realize that you actually stopped having fun around 
 100 hours ago.
  
  Playerbase: 1/10.
  
  I decided that this is a section that all MOG's need, as certain games show. Let's face it, if 
 Counterstrike didn't have the most Hackers and immature, hopeless 12-year-olds out of any game 
 in existance, it could have been a half-decent game. While WoW skips out on the hackers (despite 
 the predictions of Diablo2) , it does retain the 12-year-olds, as shown in the World PvP section 
 of the game.
  
  At any point of the game, you will be inflicted by any number of these things:
  -Killstealers
 
  -Gankers
  -Healers who try to cast Offensively and get themselves killed
  -Tanks who try to play offensively and get themselves killed
  -MPKers (A term borrowerd from 
 FFXI, wherein the perpetrator uses another monster to kill a player by use of skill abuse, or helps 
 a monster kill a player, in WoW's case)
  -Level 50+ characters who still don't have updated armour (a few classes get to use the next level 
 of armour at Level 40)
  -People with names like 'darktalonravenwing'
  
  And so on and so forth. The point is, the community really is as bad as Counterstrike. On many 
 occasions, I've been holding off two, often even three Elite (dungeon) mobs at once, and then when 
 a Rogue or Mage has attacked the one I couldn't handle (rather than a subtank like a Shaman or 
 a Hunter) and it killed them, the endless 'NOOB OMG' posts would never cease.
  
  Class Design: 5/10
  
  I've seen worse, but I've certainly seen better. Warriors, I can attest, 
 are very well done. Other classes, however, fall horribly short.
  
  Rogues really should be renamed, since Stealth makes up only a tiny percentage of their ability. 
 A Rogue will enter stealth only once in a battle (twice if he doesn't like you and wastes reagents 
 using Vanish) and from then on it's just head-to-head combat and kiting. Some don't even bother 
 with stealth and just charge straight in, ALA a Warrior wearing Leather.
  
  Hunters usually tend, in PvP, to rely on using their pet to attack you in the back, causing your 
 Movement Speed to drop, while they themselves run away. Most classes have an option to get around 
 this, but if you're unlucky, and, say, your Hamstring (a Warrior ability that slows the enemy greatly) 
 misses, by the time the cooldown is over and you can use it again, the Hunter will be long gone, 
 their Pet will be clawing at your rear, and soon you'll have several arrows stuck in your head.
 
  
  Mages rely on hit-and-run tactics by use of Freezing the enemy, and teleporting short distances, 
 rather than the huge-cast-time with insalely-devastating-spell that we may be used to, and often 
 feel like you're just constantly running from the enemy, similar to a Hunter.
  
  I could go on. The classes are poorly designed generally, and are full of exploitable things that, 
 while there are ways around, more often than not you'll miss with your counters to these exploits 
 and will end up, rather than having fun, just quitting the game in frustration. To make matters 
 worse, Blizzard often shows blatant favouritism to certain classes. While everyone theorized that 
 Shamans, renouned throughout the whole game as being overpowered, would receive at least a slight 
 'nerf' in the Expansion, the new Expansion Talents have just been released, and it looks like if 
 anything, Shamans are actually getting significantly MORE powerful. While nerfing them may not 
 be a good idea for those who adamantly believe they're not overpowered (mostly Shamans, but regardless) , 
 actually increasing their strength is a far stupider route.
  
  Also, Blizzard states that the game is open as far as class goes, but as soon as you play the game 
 you'll realize it's simply not the case. While a Warrior may have the ability to take Arms, Fury, 
 or Defense, Arms is vastly superior to the others until the absolute end of the game where Fury 
 finally makes a comeback. I often found myself wanting to use one weapon (I'm a huge fan of dualwielding) 
 but being forced to use a Twohanded weapon because it is simply, hands down, better.
  
  To make things worse, you will lose many friends if you take a route other than the norm. Being 
 a Fury Warrior, Agility was quite an important stat to me, since it dictated my Crit Rate. However, 
 on many occasions I would 'roll' for an AGI item, only to be kicked out of the group when they 
 accused me of being a Ninjalooter. You see, the game works on a Need/Greed Basis. When a rare item 
 drops, you mark whether you Need it to use yourself, or just want it to sell it off. If no one 
 marks Need, the Greed roll comes up, and an RNG (random number generator) determines who gets the 
 drop.
  
  Since Rogues and Hunters actually get their pure, base damage from Agility, most would argue that 
 a Warrior should never take an AGI item, even if he is a Fury Warrior. However, that's rubbish, 
 because what you need, you need. Or at least, that's my opinion, and hence, was kicked out of a 
 number of groups. This is of course purely an example, but the same can be applied to almost all 
 other classes. (An item with +Spirit and +Int would be considered best for a Priest, but if a Mage 
 wants it because it has more Int than his current item, he'll be yelled at because Mages don't 
 necessarily need Spirit, Rogues who want Stamina, Shamans who want anything, etc) . All in all, 
 while it would theoretically be possible to be a Battlemage or a pure-defense Warrior, you will 
 more often than not be vastly underpowered, and heavily disliked, so you're pretty much forced 
 into the linear role.
  
  OVERALL: 4/10.
  
  While the game has its ups and downs, I would expect it to be a subpar game. However, much like 
 Counterstrike, it rose the ranks of popularity to become one of the most widely played games of 
 all time... For seemingly no reason. The combat may be decent at times, but hardly makes up for 
 the nonexistant immersion, horrible graphics, migraine-inducing playerbase, among other things. 
 Customer service happens to also be shocking, and considering the amount of bugs in the game, that's 
 a very bad thing.
  
  One quick, final story about customer service, in case you're still not sure how bad this game 
 is: I was working towards my next weapon, a VERY pretty sword from the next dungeon. For some reason 
 I was able to accept this Quest MUCH lower than the Dungeon's level, so naturally I wanted to get 
 this uber sword so I'd be stronger than others my level. I myself died halfway through the final 
 boss fight of the dungeon, and even when she was killed, I didn't receive the credit for my group 
 finishing her.
  
  What ensued was a week-long bout with customer service, being relayed back and forth between various 
 levels of the hierarchy, until finally, I was outright refused, even though you're still meant 
 to get credit as long as you hit the boss. All up, this whole ordeal took around 10 hours, from 
 finding TWO groups willing to take someone about 10 levels lower through the area, to arguing with 
 the staff members, who as you can tell in the end refused to do anything, and I was forced through 
 again. After seeing the GM UI, it ends up that marking me as having beaten the boss would literally 
 be a single, one-line command, and a single mouse click. Yet, Blizzard would rather aggrovate an 
 honest player than give them the quest, let alone be bothered to go through the battle logs and 
 see that I actually fought the boss, and my group downed her. It shows that they're stubborn, illogical, 
 and would rather be right than actually keep a player. They have 6 million users, why should they 
 care about the playerbase? Quite simply, they don't. On this same note, Updates are often rushed 
 and small, from small things like not much content, to blaring things like a dungeon being incomplete 
 or bugged so much that not a single group can get through.
  
  I still don't understand how this game could be popular, and I still don't understand how Counterstrike 
 could be popular. I don't think I ever will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB_E102
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Well, it started back in November. Blizzard pulled the game from shelves due to some substantial 
 server issues (aka. being ping'd to no end) . So, I thought, wow, thats great, this developer is 
 really dedicated to their game. And, not having any financial access to the game in my area, I 
 decided to start myself off on some Free MMORPG's (Maple Story, Knight Online, and Runescape to 
 name a few) just to get the basics down.
  
  When it came time for my first crack at WoW... I was reluctant!? I couldn't do. I could not get 
 into this game for the life of me. There was just something about it, that just could not allow 
 it to appeal to me. And so I swore off WoW, downplaying other people's opinions of it internally, 
 preaching the song of Guild Wars with my non-existant Flute.
  
  And, I decided to go on a binge, 2 years later. I decided, that I'm going to spend $100.00 of my 
 hard earned Canadian dollars on World of Warcraft. And if I didn't get into, that was my last straw, 
 no more, ever again, never. But... this wierd thing happened to me. I decided to choose a Night 
 Elf, a Hunter. And I was enthralled by the vast Forests, purple hazed colors, soothing Elf tones, 
 and high spirited nature of this race. And there I beheld my fate. I was hooked on Warcrack. My 
 laptop can't handle the game much. The graphics are dated, and glitches are here and their. I could 
 go on and on with the list of problems, but there is something about this game, this seemlessly 
 blended, almost invisible layer of something otherworldy that makes this game so damn amazing.
 
  
  It isn't easy to approach, but it isn't difficult either. Most people are generally helpful, with 
 a few @$$'s inbetween. But exploration, comradery, character developement, collecting, the economy. 
 You could have NES graphics, and play with piles of poo, but if you get those down right, you've 
 got me. If you get them down perfectly, well you have me, and the other near 7 Million people who 
 play this game. Nothing more to be said. It has its flaws, but what, and who doesn't? You need 
 not overlook them, you're rarely notice them, whilst your lost in the beautiful landscapes of the 
 elves, the empty vast lands of the barrens, and those struck heavily by the dread of The Burning 
 Legion... having left theif trace in Azeroth and Kalimdor, 3 years after the events of Warcraft 
 III.
  
  Beautiful Game. Just sheer beauty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebekahcider
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I love everything about this game. There is alwass something new to discover, and the graphics 
 are breathtaking. Just look at the view from any of the peaks in the thousand needles area and 
 you'll know what I mean.
  
  The only problem witht his game is common with all mmog's and that's other players behavior. Thank 
 goodness blizzard has set many ways to avoid having this become an issue. Sadly when you ignore 
 somebody who is harassing they can just cange to a new character and continue. I don't like to 
 report or ignore but it would be nice that once ignoring one charecter any from their account are 
 also blocked.
  
  Very happy with the way Blizzard tries to resolve any technical issues fast, including those which 
 come witht he new patches.
  
  I go through game withdrawl when I'm not playing! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I was sceptic at World of Warcraft for a long time, as it was my first MMORPG, but I know it got 
 great reviews. World of Warcraft is a MMORPG that last forever and never gets boring. If you expect 
 me to say everything you can do in this game you're crazy. There are mainly 3 types of Realms, 
 PVP (Player vs. Player) , RPG, and Normal. Inside the Realms you can do hundreds and hundreds of 
 quests, that are updating every day, battle races of the opposing faction, explore dungeons, chill 
 with your guild and much, much more. Their are mainly 8 playable races, Night Elves, Dwarves, Gnomes, 
 Humans, Undead, Orcs, Trolls, and Tauren. The first 4 being of the Alliance Faction, and the last 
 4 of being in the Horde faction.
  
  Pros: Unlimited hours of gameplay, unbelivable amount of things to do.
  
  Cons: Sometimes long 
 updates, and Realms sometimes go down for matinince.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 This game is all about gameplay, and it nails it perfectly.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
 The graphics are ok, not that great, but the environment is amazing.
  
  Sound: 10/10 The sound is perfect, some stuff maybe re-used effects, but perfect otherwise.
  
 
  Value: Hah! Value, this game has over 500 hours of playing time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has taken 1 year of my life so far and I'm still in love with it. Although I may not 
 level fast or be the best at knowing what to do, it still draws me in, making me feel like I'm 
 living in the World of Warcraft. This game gets you addicted almost instantly. With it's vast world 
 and many subscribers and great PvP, this game makes Guild Wars look like nothing. Well... Guild 
 Wars is nothing.
  
  The only thing that I don't like about this game is the little bugs, and cartoonish graphics. I 
 mean the leaves on the trees near Goldshire are 2D.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Those 2 things are money and time and you will need much of both. So after you spend 30-40 bucks 
 to buy the game and another 20 on the strat guide you think you are all set... wrong. Plan on forking 
 out 15 bucks a month just to take part in this one of a kind mmorpg. I bought this game not knowing 
 what to expect and I was greatly satisfied at first. All I could think about during the day was 
 getting home and playing WoW. I was so wrapped in in meeting people, getting new gear, making gold, 
 and becoming higher in ranks that I forgot about life. I found myself for 9 months playing this 
 game nearly 6-7 hours a day. My friends became non important and all I thought about was getting 
 to the next level and how long it would take me to get there. So as I approached lvl 60, I found 
 myself buying gold online to better my gear so people would want to take me on raids, so I could 
 get even better gear. I loved this game but would never go back.
  
  The gameplay, storyline, music, graphics..... etc. are all amazing and will please any gamer. The 
 online experience is out of this world but will suck you in so fast you wont know how to get out. 
 If you have self control by all means play it and have fun. But most people find themselves wanting 
 to get better and better that they lose months if not years of their lives to this game. The only 
 upside is that I sold my characters on ebay and made nearly 600 dollars to someone who didnt want 
 to put in all the time I did to get 2 characters to 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocheambeau
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I hear you now, faithful readers: "A review almost 2 years after the game releases? What's the 
 point?" Like a porcupine, or possibly a sea urchin, I assure you that a re-review of WoW at this 
 juncture is absolutely prickly with points.
  
  Since it's release back in the dawn of time (aka 2004 aka The Day My Life Ended) , WoW has been 
 constantly massaged, tweaked and modified by Blizzard. Despite it's polish and overall quality, 
 that boxed version of WoW you bought way back when was but a wee fetus compared to the pubescent 
 teenager the game has become. Soon it will undergo that magical change that truly lets an MMO know 
 it has become a MAN: It's very first Expansion Pack. But let's not focus too much on that. I've 
 already stretched a metaphor to it's limits, and combined with the name of the expansion pack (the 
 Burning Crusade) , I'm actively regretting using that particular metaphor.
  
  So, all topics of anything Burning aside, let's take a hard look at the gangly teenager. The WoW 
 of today bears little resemblance to it's initial incarnation. Classes that were laughably weak 
 have become more powerful than they could ever have imagined (Warlocks) , classes that were nigh 
 on unkillable have become little more than an irritation (Paladins) and I think they've almost 
 managed to get Arcane missiles working (a Mage ability. Yeah, I'm referencing inside information 
 in a review the uninitiated might read. I'm a baaaaad reviewer.) 
  New dungeons have been added, World Events have been had, Battlegrounds have been conquered, talent 
 trees have been tweaked, re-vamped and tweaked again. All of this is perfectly normal in the lifecycle 
 of any MMO and Blizzard has done an amazing job balancing everything and getting enough new content 
 in there to keep the game interesting (despite what the trolls on their forums might say) . Is there 
 a blunder or two? Yes, of course. When you've got 6 million plus subscribers testing and looking 
 for exploits the second you put an update live, they're GOING to find (and probably break) things 
 the dev team and testers couldn't have ever found.
  All of that is a bit inside baseball (as Scott Johnson would say) though, isn't it? Here's the 
 quick and dirty overview for everyone who has never played an MMO. You click on things, then push 
 buttons to cast spells and use various abilities to kill those things (I'll be calling them Mobs 
 from now on, 'cause that's MMO speak for stuff you kill) . Not unlike a digital pinata, once the 
 mob is dead, you click on it AGAIN to see what items/money/etc. you get (aka Phat Lewts) . You then 
 have many options. You can sell these items to various NPCs for money, you can wear some of them 
 to improve your stats, or you can use other in different "Proffessions" to create NEW items that 
 can then either be sold, worn or used to make OTHER items.
  
  As with all MMOs, WoW uses the Holy Trinity class concept. You have a Tank (called a Warrior in 
 WoW) , a Buffer (the Priest) , and a DPS (the Mage) . Tanks have a large amount of life (HP) and armor, 
 but do little damage. Buffers have primarily healing abilities, and abilities that improve (or 
 Buff) the stats of those around them. They have a very low armor rating and few HP. The DPS (Damage 
 Per Second) class is basically a glass cannon. They can pump out a lot of damage in a very short 
 time, but if you hit them once, they're dead. WoW takes this basic formula and improves on it by 
 adding hybrid abilites to the basic classes, creating entirely new classes by mixing and matching 
 abilities, and having 3 "Talent" trees per class that you can assign points into (you get 1 point 
 per level, starting at level 10) to modify existing abilities and gain new ones.. 
  The Priest class is an excellent example of all 3. They can, of course, buff and heal like any 
 normal buffer. However, they also have several fairly powerful damage spells they can cast., and 
 you can use the talent tree to improve those damage spells to the point where the priest does almost 
 as much DPS as a Mage. This improved DPS comes with a price though. By putting so many talent points 
 into DPS, the Priest becomes a much less effective healer and misses many of the abilites on the 
 other 2 trees. To avoid getting even more bogged down in details, here's a quick run down of the 
 available classes, and a short description of how they fit into the holy trinity:
  
  1) Warrior - Tank (can be made more DPS using talents)
  2) Priest - Buff/Healer (can be more 
 DPS with talents)
  3) Mage - DPS/Some Buffs
  4) Rogue - DPS (and that's about it)
  5) Hunter - DPS (but you can have a pet that acts a mini-Tank)
  6) Warlock - DPS (another pet 
 class, but with more varied pet abilities)
  7) Druid - Heal/Buff/DPS/Tank (can shapeshift to perform various jobs)
  8) Paladin - Tank/Healer/Buff 
 (Alliance only class)
  9) Shaman - DPS/Healer/Buff (Horde only class)
  
  Before I get angry hate-mail telling me I'm over-simplifying, I'll admit that's exactly what I'm 
 doing. For brevity's sake, I've left out all the crowd-control (CC) abilites of the various classes 
 and tried to just focus on their primary and secondary jobs. Yes, a Mage can turn an enemy into 
 a sheep to keep it from attacking, but at the end of the fight, he's still got to kill it. Have 
 a huge issue with my descriptions? Write me a nice long email, print it out, tuck it away in a 
 drawer somewhere and read it in 20 years. I gaurantee whatever is on it won't matter, and probably 
 won't even make sense anymore.
  
  So you've installed the game, chosen a class, and entered the world of Azeroth for the first time. 
 Now what? Well, thanks to the hybrid nature of the classes you CAN play by yourself all the way 
 to 60, but this is an MMO, right? Massively Multiplayer means you're never alone. Ever. Even if 
 you want to be. The social aspect of the game is as or more important than anything else. Grouping 
 into a party will not only make you level faster and provide entertainment through some of the 
 long, boring runs from one place to another, but much of the really good content in WoW can't be 
 done without a group of 5 of more. The best items for your level are usually found in large instanced 
 dungeons (shortened to just "instances" most of the time) . You'll need to put together a good, 
 balanced group and use at least some small amount of teamwork and strategy to complete them. 
 
  
  Once you've reached the level cap at 60, this becomes even more important. These larger, harder 
 instances (Molten Core, Blackwing Lair, Zul"Gurub, etc) require large groups of 20-40 players to 
 complete, and require much more organized teamwork and co-ordination. You really need to be a member 
 of an organized and fairly large Guild at this point, or you'll probably never go. This is probably 
 the biggest single major flaw with the game, and more than a few players (myself included, until 
 i came back) have quit playing out of frustration. Blizzard has said they'll address this problem 
 in the Burning Crusade, but for the moment that's just the way things are. 
  There are other things to do at 60 though. You can grind reputation with various factions for better 
 items and money, or you can go into Battlegrounds and try to get up in the PvP (Player vs. Player) 
 rankings. The more kills you get, the more "Honor" you recieve, and at the end of the week, the 
 player with the MOST honor on each server becomes either the "Grand Marshal" (alliance) or "High 
 Warlord" (horde) and is able to purchase items that are unavailable to any other players. Writing 
 that sure makes it sound easy, doesn't it? It's not. There are 15 ranks in total. The first 10 
 are manageable by someone playing 4-5 hours a night. The last 5 require you to quit your job, sell 
 your girlfriend/wife/children into slavery for extra cash and play non-stop 24-7. But I'm getting 
 ahead of myself. For the player who's thinking about playing WoW, or the player who's just begun, 
 here's a couple of tips:
  
  1) DON'T ROLL A ROGUE. I have nothing against Rogues as a class, but they are severely overpopulated. 
 There's just too dang many of 'em. What does that mean to you as a player? It means that it's going 
 to be very hard to find a group, especially once you get to the end-game content. Rogues are not 
 nearly as useful in a group as many of the other classes, and there's a very good chance you'll 
 end up like the poor kid in gym class who was always picked last at everything and then spent the 
 whole time warming the bench. Rogues are a very fun class to play, especially in PvP, but as your 
 primary character they can be very frustrating.
  
  2) Know someone who is already playing WoW? Make sure you get on the same server. Even if they're 
 level 60 and you're only level 1, knowing somebody can make all the difference in the world. They 
 can help you out with information, maybe toss a decent item or two your way and it just generally 
 makes life in-game much more pleasant. It can be very lonely those first few months if you're all 
 alone surrounded by jaded, angry 60s.
  3) If you ARE all alone on your server, roll one of the Holy 3 classes, especially a priest. Priests 
 are vital to team play, and on most servers they're very under-populated. This means that they're 
 in high demand for groups, and people tend to be very kind to the guy who keeps 'em from dying. 
 If the priest doesn't strike your fancy, try a Mage or a Warrior. Both of these classes are in 
 fairly high demand as well, and have very different play-styles. 
  
  4) Don't over-research. There is a LOT of information out there on the web about WoW. Everything 
 from how you should play your class, what talents you should get, strategies for boss battles, 
 you name it. Avoid it if you can. A lot of the fun in WoW is in discovering new things, playing 
 with your talents to find a combination YOU like (even though it may not be "perfect" by others' 
 standards) and just exploring the world. If you get stuck on something, THEN go look it up. That 
 said, I do recommend playing with the talent trees on www. worldofwarcraft. com. Once you've placed 
 a point in a particular talent, you have to pay money (in-game, not in real life) to move it if 
 you don't like it. That can get very expensive very quickly.
  
  5) Remember it's just a game. This is key. World of Warcraft will suck up every minute of your 
 life if you let it, and this makes it seem more important than it is. There are countless videos 
 of people losing their minds over an item getting stolen from them or a boss fight going wrong. 
 Don't be one of those. At the end of the day, none of it is real, you don't get to walk away with 
 anything once you quit playing, and life goes on unchanged by the events in Azeroth.
  
  6) Don't buy gold. I can't emphasize this enough. There are various companies out there that are 
 profiteering off of WoW and other MMOs. "Farmers" and bots run by these companies, while fun to 
 mess with in game, can eventually ruin the experience for everyone. The extra gold influx ruins 
 the in-game economy, the bots can make quest running frustrating and overly time consuming by killing 
 necessary mobs over and over again, and on top of it all, if you get caught, you get banned. It's 
 just not worth it.
  
  And that's about it. Oh, wait, the generic stuff. The graphics, audio and pretty much everything 
 else in WoW are absolutely top notch. This is THE defining MMO of our era. Nothing else even comes 
 close. To all the other reviewers who gave this game less than a 10, I say shame on you. What are 
 you saving that point or less for? There has never been an MMO that even approaches the balance, 
 detail or gameplay of WoW. I'll be the first to say it has flaws, but reviews have to be relative 
 to the marketplace, and there's NOTHING out there like WoW.
  
  Happy grinding people, and maybe I'll see you out on the barren sands of Sithilius.
  
  r
 
  
  P. S. What about crafting you say? Well? What about it? Yeah, I glossed over it completely. That's 
 because 99.9% of the stuff you can make is either pointless or worthless or both. Yes, it's entertaining 
 and it's something to do while you wait for your instance crew to get together, but that's one 
 of the areas that needs some serious work. When I can make epic weapons with my blacksmith, FR 
 pots that last more than one hit from Rag with my Alchemist, Robes that are better than tier 1 
 with my tailor, etc... THEN I'll say that it's worth the hours and weeks it takes to level up those 
 skills. Until then? Be an Engineer. At least you can make some nifty toys.
  
  P. P. S. Why is the learning curve 4+ hours you ask? Because you (meaning me as well, back in the 
 day) don't have a clue what you're doing until around level 20, and even then I wonder about some 
 people. If they had an option for 4+ weeks, I'd use that insted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_fayth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  i played and wasted alot of money on mmo's more then think i should have, well not any more cause 
 World Of Warcraft is here.
  
  Wow is the most funiest fast past mmorpg i' ve played, it takes all the good aspects from games 
 like everquest, Dark Age Of Camelot and some others and mixes them in well with the world of the 
 warcraft series, were other mmo's tatical stratgeries are decided in 10 mins, wow's is only a few 
 seconds, if u dont get that spell in at the right time it could mean the death of you and your 
 team mates.
  
  a great addition to this game is when u die u have the ability to return to your body as a ghost 
 with out any rez sickness, which i think is great.
  
  well they had to be mentioned so here it is some letdowns to the game is on some server's the lag 
 can be awful almost unbearable, also when ppl get bored of questing they go around ganking newbs (the 
 upside of this is it's fun if your a high lvl char) , also this game is prone to loot ninja's and 
 can get really get u annoyed if it's an extremely rare item u wanted.
  
  my final words on this game is it's absoutely great and i would would recomend it highly over some 
 of the other mmorpg's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chhris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who likes MMORPGs and hasn't played this game yet must be crazy, this is the sort of game 
 MMOG players have been waiting for and even if you didn't really like MMORPGs before this is the 
 game that could get you into them, but I doubt you'll find a better MMO than WoW. I think just 
 that 6 million people that play this game must mean it is a truly great game. You could easily 
 spend 100s of hours playing this, me myself must have played at lest 500 hours and sadly didn't 
 get to reach level 60. Although WoWs graphics arent the best and look cartoonish they are suppost 
 to look like that, to give the game that fun kinda feel and it does and WoW is just this big world 
 where there a lot of this you can laugh at like a dancing orc or one thats telling a joke or doing 
 something silly, cuz thats how blizzard wanted it not to be so serious and be a bit fun. WoW also 
 lets a lot of people join in since their game does not require a new pc or graphics card to run 
 the game so a lot more people can join in on the fun. So stop all thoses posts by eq2 and Guildwars 
 fans saying awww but WoW graphics look cartoonish!
  
  I think one of things that makes this game so popular would have to be that you can play as either 
 the horde or the alliance. Horde being like orcs, tauren, undead and trolls and alliance being 
 night elves, humans, gnomes and dwarfs, which means sort of makes it feel like alliance is the 
 good and horde is the bad, although if read some of the quests and stuff about each side, they 
 both do bad things to each other. Just having that feel that you have like one big enemy that is 
 controlled by an actually person and not just an npc, really gives the game some excitement and 
 that really is just that big thing in this game that does it for me and just like all those people 
 in forums fighting about which is better and just seeing someone in the general chat saying something 
 like I saw some horde scum hanging around near stormwind lets go teach them a lesson! or something 
 in the chat like HELP! We need some level 60s to come and get rid of these hordes in whatever that 
 keeps ganking us. There are 8 races all up that you can play (4 for each fraction as I said before 
 like humans for alliance and orcs for horde and so on) , which each has like a different dances, 
 jokes, abilities and other stuff like that and there are 9 classes that you can choose for your 
 race to have, although not all races can play all classes and some classes only alliance players 
 can play and same for horde. The classes that you can play are Warrior, Mage, Druid, Hunter, Rogue, 
 Paladin, Warlock, shaman and last but not lest Priest. Although pvp can be very fun for all classes, 
 some classes are sort of overpowered when it comes pvp, but that doesn't mean that you can't play 
 pvp, like I don't really see warrior being a very good pvp class and since a warrior was my main 
 I played a fair bit of pvp with it and still had a hell of a time. But then again unbalanced classes 
 happen in nearly every MMO and are very hard to make all classes balanced. Although if you play 
 a class like a warrior or priest, they may not be very good at pvp but they are really needed in 
 groups, priests for healing and warriors for taunting the enemies, which gives you sort of a bonus 
 of being picked first to get in a group. Now if you do, do a lot of pvp then you can earn like 
 army ranks for the alliance and hordes have their sort of own original ranks, the rank appears 
 above your head like Private Chriz if your a private and the same for the other ranks as well, 
 which is pretty cool so straight away you know what rank they are. Also getting higher ranks will 
 let you be able to buy special stuff like trinkets that you couldn't buy if you had no rank or 
 were a lower rank. Most pvp is done on things called battlefields, which is like an instance were 
 its horde vs alliance and you have to capture the flag or take over all the resources, most games 
 are pretty fair since it makes it so you can only fight with out against the people within your 
 level range, like say if your level 30 you'll only be playing with people level 31-40, which makes 
 it fair so you don't got like a level 60 team of hordes or something like that against an alliance 
 team of level 20s, cuz as we all know the level 20s would get smashed. When starting out in this 
 game it is really easy to find out what you have to do (which I think is really good cuz I wouldn't 
 wanna start playing and have no idea what to do) and if you read the game manual you should have 
 no problem with the interface an controls at all, but then again the manual is a little long being 
 about 200 pages long (I read all of it lol) . When you make a new character that is an orc it will 
 start in a different place than the other races, what I am saying is each race has its own special 
 starting place and usually all the npcs around you are the same race as you. Usually you will start 
 off in a little town or near a building or something where there might be a few shops and a few 
 people to give you some quests and tell you sort of where to go next and then the next place you 
 go to will have some quests for you to do, town might be a bit bigger and have more shops and once 
 you finish the quests there usually it will lead to the main big city for your race, where you 
 can take a griffin or whatever to the next place that your quests tell you to go, until eventually 
 you get to know the place a bit and go and find the quests for yourself. Although if you wanna 
 just go off and explore nothing is stopping you from doing and there is a lot to see and explore. 
 The world of World of Warcraft is huge.
  
  There a lot of ways to travel in WoW and they just make it so cool! Like taking the a flight path 
 for the first time is a great thing actually being able to see all the mountains, lakes, forest 
 or whatever below as you fly in one of the 4 different types of flying mounts, 2 types for the 
 alliance 2 types for the horde, can be a very exciting moment, but you will be using these quite 
 a lot in your travels and eventually they will get quite boring, since some flight paths can be 
 quite long, but I would still rather see my guy fly to the place than instead of instance travel 
 and just have him there in a like a few seconds instead of minutes. Another way and most popular 
 way to get from the horde main like island place or to the alliance main island is by boat, boats 
 will also take you to a few other places as well. The boat comes and sails away even few minutes 
 so you cant just get on one whenever you want you have to wait till the next one comes. I have 
 a lot of remunerable moments when I would be stand on the boat wait for it to sail away and some 
 guy would be running up the jetty yelling nnnnnnnnnnnnnoooooooooo wait!!!!!!!!!! And just as he 
 would get to the boat it would sail off out off his reach or if someone would be jumping or doing 
 something silly on the boat and just fell off and couldnt get back on in time before it left. 
 Lol and I also remember a lot of times when I was that silly guy that missed or fell off the boat 
 lol. Another exciting thing when you get to level 40 would have to be that you can get your very 
 first mount, that you can ride on and take it where ever you want, but theses usually come at a 
 very high price (unless you are a paladin or shaman where you can just can do a quest and get one 
 for free! Unfair!) and took me forever to save up for one, also remember running with level 40s 
 to some instances while they are riding their mounts and I am left behind cuz I didnt have one 
 and they would all have to wait like 10 minutes more till I got there XD. Each race gets different 
 mounts and there are different types of mounts which can run faster but cost a lot. If you just 
 wanna get from stormwind to ironforge quickly you can always take the train which runs under the 
 water, I think since when your on the train and you look out the glass of the tunnel it looks like 
 your traveling under water or for the horde if you wanna get from orgrimmar to the undead city 
 or what you can take a zeppelin which you can fall off as well (I know cuz I tried it XD) and also 
 in wow the cheapest way to get around in WoW would be walking!, which I think youll be doing a 
 lot of. Thats about all the ways you can travel in WoW, most of them are pretty cool! Since its 
 just like in real life where you have to wait with other people for the boat or train or whatever 
 to come and then get on it and you can see all the places you go by while you are traveling.
  
  There are hundreds if not thousands of quests in WoW and the most exciting (theres that word 
 again) ones of them all are the ones that lead you to instances. Incase your wandering what an 
 instance is, it is like a big dungeon with lots of monsters and bosses and usually at the end there 
 is one big boss you have to kill, the instance is like a little place only for your party so only 
 you and your party can go in that instance so that other partys dont interfere, basicly whenever 
 you make a new party and go into an instance it makes a copy of that place just for your party. 
 There are usually quests, good items, a lot of monsters and bosses to be found in the instances. 
 Most of the instances are quite interesting and not just killing a bunch of monster till you have 
 just clear the place out. Take Uldaman for example you have to find parts of this rod where you 
 stick the rod into this place where a laser comes out of the rock and opens the big door in front 
 of you where a GIANT stone boss comes out which you have to kill and when I mean giant I mean giant, 
 like when I go up close and was hitting it no matter how much I moved the camera I could not see 
 this things head. Instancing is where youll probably spend a lot of your time in WoW and thats 
 not that bad since its quite fun.
  
  Another really good thing about WoW is there is just hundreds of peices of armour for you to wear 
 and lots of different things like legs, head, right arm, left arm, shoulders, wrists, hands, neck 
 and feet and it is very unlikely you'll find someone that looks like you with the same armour and 
 every, unlike in guildwars where just about everyone looks the same.
  
  WoW I will always remember as one of im not the best games I've ever played. With a lot of memorable 
 moments to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomonrz88
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Im telling you this for your own good, this game will not only take away 15$ a month, but it will 
 also literally take away your interest to do anything else but play this game, it makes all of 
 normal life seem so trivial, you get hooked on this game easier then ciggaretes and alcahol, and 
 in my opinion its just as hazardeous to your health and just as hard of a habbit to break, I started 
 playing this game 3 years ago, before that I lived a good active life and I was healthy and fit, 
 after I started playing this game I got so addicted to it I wouldn't leave the house, I lost contact 
 with my friends and i'd play for 15 hours non stop at least everyday, all i'd do was sleep eat 
 and play world of warcraft, after about 2 years I was 60 pounds heavier and I had no life except 
 this game, and no money cause I would use all my allowance on this game, I literally had no life 
 outside of WoW, i'd have all my social contact and sight seeing and shopping and activities in 
 this game, i'd even dream about this game every night, and when I wasn't dreaming I was staying 
 up thinking about what sword or what armour I need to save up for, luckily shortly after that my 
 brother saw how bad this game was for me and cancelled my subscription and un installed it and 
 wouldn't let me back on, I hated him so much and I went into a depression for about 3 months cause 
 life seemed so plain and meaningless without WoW, after that depression I realised how stupid it 
 was that my whole life was run by a video game, who cares if you reach level sixty or you get that 
 big rare sword youv'e always wanted, it has no affect on real life and it will only make your life 
 worse, after that I got in touch with some old friends, I started playing hockey and jogging and 
 skateboarding again, now I lost 50 of that 60 pounds and I live a good life hanging out with friends 
 skateboarding and doing other sports, and im really thankful to my brother for getting me to quit 
 because im sure if he didn't make me quit i'd be 200 pounds right now, just another kid addicted 
 to WoW who also suffers from child obesity, this game may seem like the best and most fascinating 
 thing you could get but trust me, it will take away your friends and your family your hobbies your 
 daily balance your social life and literally your whole life for that matter, PLEASE stay away 
 from this game, cause I would hate for the same to happen to you, take of this review what you 
 want but its all true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoBane
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I have been playing WoW since beta, and just recently quit the game for good. I have multiple level 
 60s, both Horde and Alliance, on PvP and PvE servers. The game is a blast from level 1 all the 
 way through 60. It is the easiest MMORPG to date to reach the maximum level in. The "rested experience" 
 received from logging off in an Inn is great for casual players. Depending on how long they were 
 offline, they will receive twice the amount of experience per kill for a while.
  
  Each zone is unique, and all of them are fun to explore and quest in. The graphics in WoW may not 
 be high tech, but they are unparalleled. The game just looks good. If you turn off your interface 
 in the game and take screenshots, they look amazing. The five man instances that you encounter 
 while leveling are all challenging and interesting. They can be a fun distraction from the level 
 grind, and provide very nice gear for their level.
  
  Combat is fun, every animation and sound effect is perfect. Every class is unique and fun to play. 
 The Diablo II style talent trees are implemented very well, its just to bad that they lead to 
 only three or four viable talent builds per class. Trade skills in WoW are a breeze, straightforward 
 and fun, at least until you need to grind for reputation. The auction house makes buying and selling 
 easy as well, every MMORPG from this point on needs to rip off the WoW auction house.
  
  If it seems too good to be true, thats because it is. It will take most people three or four months 
 to reach level 60, and after that it is an entirely different game.
  
  Post 60 WoW is horrible. Progression consists of Diablo II style farming on a large scale with 
 40 people. You kill the same monsters, to have a chance at the same gear, over and over again. 
 What is the motivation to get said gear? To be able to kill new monsters over and over to get new 
 gear, it is redundant.
  
  These farming runs are called "raids" in the game and can take anywhere from 3 to 6 hours to complete. 
 In a standard raid around 20 new items are distributed between 40 people (if you are in a good 
 guild) . There will be many times that you receive nothing for your time, and will have to continue 
 coming on these raids to obtain items. The concept behind these raids is absurd, yet Blizzard keeps 
 embellishing it. For some reason people find it addicting, so it keeps the 15$ a month rolling 
 in.
  
  The dungeons themselves take little skill as far as gaming is concerned. The real trick is getting 
 20 or 40 people to cooperate. Its no fun. Yet 38 people want to make the game a job for the leaders, 
 and profit by just showing up and following instructions. Yet show up they do, and spend countless 
 hours to obtain their coveted items. Thus they style themselves hardcore gamers and look down 
 on all the little people. This ties in to the horrible PvP ranking system.
  
  Blizzard made PvP as much a grind as raiding ever was! With the current state of the game, PvP 
 rank is no indication whatsoever of skill. All it takes is an inordinate amount of time. There 
 are three battlegrounds in the game, and they are fun for a time. But what FPS or RTS game expects 
 it players to play three maps for over a year? The way the ranking system is set up in WoW, if 
 you are not grinding away in one of these battlegrounds, you have no chance to advance in rank. 
 These battlegrounds have degenerated into dungeons, with every game following a predictable path.
 
  
  Blizzard has proved they do not understand the PvPer. We dont want rewards or rank, they are cool 
 yes, but not what makes PvP fun. There needs to be territory that can change hands, players in 
 certain zones need to be lootable on death. Rewards are for PvE, consequences are what PvP must 
 have.
  
  I hang my head in shame when I hear the high ranking PvPers, and geared out PvErs tout themselves 
 as gamers. If that is what the term has been reduced to, I dont want to be labeled one. Yet 
 Blizzard is only going to add more of the same, it is making them rich after all.
  
  In its current state it is my opinion that WoW is bad for MMORPGs and video games in general. Such 
 a monopoly on the MMORPG community makes it hard for anyone to experiment with new ideas. It is 
 far to tempting to follow the template to monetary success that Blizzard has laid out.
  
  While the game is the best of its kind while leveling up, taken as a whole it is a time sink, and 
 designed to be one. I cannot see how anything good for the players, or video games, can come out 
 of content that is added for the sole reason of keeping people playing, and thus paying.
  
  After my most recent level 60 I finally saw the light and realized that Blizzard was never going 
 to add substantial content for me, and have kicked the habit. The world of video games is wonderful; 
 dont lose sight of it in this massive grind fest. Play to 60 once or twice, and move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniBeas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I was addicted to this game for many months. It ran my life. I got a character all the way to 60 
 and enjoyed it. Now I eventually realized that there was no point to the game but to get better 
 equipment. That works for a while but it lost it's purpose along the way. In order to get the epic 
 equipment you need to be on guild runs and completely devote yourslef to certain instances that 
 become very repetative after a while and it you fight the same things in the same with the occasional 
 monster in the different area but it is pretty much the same. I think that Blizzard could have 
 done better with the instances by makin them randomly generated each time you went in like they 
 did in Diablo. Don't get me wrong, at lower levels it is great because you get to explore this 
 highly expansive world and develop your character with the different proffessions and such. It 
 will last you for a long time but I warn you it is highly addictive. If you are a hardcore gamer 
 you may be able to get through this game in about 6 months meaning you will have a level 60 character 
 at that time. You will find something that you will enjoy and last for many months. I spent 40 
 days of my life into this game I enjoyed doing so. So if you are able to put in the time and effort 
 you will be rewarded with a great game esperience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a highly addictive MMO made by Blizzard. If you were to ask most people, they 
 would proboby shower you with nothing but "It's the greatest game out there". However, I believe 
 most people who play WoW are in complete denial about the game. They overlook the bad completely 
 to only enjoy the good. Yet for me it wasn't easy, in fact.. it was impossible. Now I know im probobly 
 about to get shot from some fan boys but when I look at the game all I see is wasted effort. I 
 even got the feeling at one point that the game was really based on making money and not appeasing 
 true MMORPGers. The same quests, over and over again. Interesting, but bland combat. If you enjoy 
 completely Linear gameplay void of all Roleplay, this is the game for you. But if you are a person 
 who enjoys rich Roleplay, Combat, and a world to Immerse yourself into.. then this is -not- the 
 game for you. Not to mention.. it holds the same flaw Fable had. When you play the game you want 
 to feel as if what you do has an impact on the world around you. However, I know this is impossible 
 at lower levels. Im not too sure if it is possible for people with a level fifty five or sixty, 
 but all I know is that most people don't have that much time to spend, becoming a zombie for a 
 game that is just a tad satisfying. I believe if more effort, time, and money was put into the 
 game, and it wasn't so Linear, I might've stayed. But nowadays I look at the game and all I see 
 is a money trap for people who are easily entertained.
  
  I urgently caution people to seriously reconsider before jumping into WoW. If you aren't careful, 
 you'll spend at least over a hundred dollars into something that will become depressing, unsatisfying, 
 and in the end a waste of money.
  
  Look at the future instead and take a glance at Vanguard and Neverwinter Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kane4335
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best mmo rpg games that can be found in the market, because of it's gameplay 
 that makes you play it for hours and hours and........ (not finished) ....... and hours. i advice 
 to anyone who is new to this game to get away from it because it can ruin you live. because there 
 is so many things you can do and when you reach 60 , it isn't finish because there is battlegrounds 
 and instances like molten core and others.
  
  i will give it 7 because it's perfect and destructive to your lives.
  
  Keep away from this 
 game if you like your life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hama666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  As you know world of warcraft has quickly become the most succesful and biggest MMORPG with a player 
 community of around 6 million players worldwide, so this game obviously couldnt have gone wrong.
 
  
  The Best thing about World of Warcraft is that it appeals to every kind of player out there, you 
 don't even have to be fan or be familiar with the Warcraft franchise to get enjoyment out of this 
 title. Mentioning that, it also provides not only for the hardcore, but for also the casual gamer 
 which has been a very rare attribute in the MMO market therefore this is a huge bonus.
  
  The presentation of the game is just fantastic, those who are familiar with the warcraft franchise 
 and the previous warcraft games will immediately recognise some famous locations throughout the 
 vastly colourful and quite beautiful world, where the lore of the franchise is clearly presented. 
 However not all is good and well in WoW. This game I beleive despite being a fantastic revolutionary 
 MMORPG, is also the most overrated in the history of it's genre, I clearly beleive that gamespot's 
 9.5 rating was overwhelmingly overrated indeed. This game faces numerous problems. For a start 
 the customer service is terrible im afraid, they are very slow to address issues, they constantly 
 have to bring down servers to fix problems and at times they dont seem like they care much about 
 any problems that arise, the only kudos I can offer them is that they do add extra gametime to 
 your suscription when time is wasted, however thats now always the case.
  
  Another issue is balance, I clearly do not beleive that all the 9 classes are balanced in this 
 game, as a result of this the two most arguably powerful classes in the game: Hunter and rogue 
 are among a huge majority of the players, and sometimes wherever you look its only those classes 
 you see, and really the other underpowered classes are barely chosen nowadays. Everquest 2 has 
 succeeded in making all their classes being able to solo equally well, yes you can solo indeed 
 in WoW but i find it upsetting that only some classes can effectively solo whereas others would 
 have a difficult time.
  
  Besides that I do beleive that WoW is the best MMORPG out there, but for the wrong reasons. Star 
 Wars galaxies was in my opinion the very best until they terribly screwed it over. So if you are 
 looking for an MMORPG than this is the one to try out (6m people liked it, chances are you will 
 too) , however there are very impressive MMORPGs being released in the near future which could possibly 
 add competition and possible destruction of WoW.
  
  Well worth a try... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it came out and it was by far the most fun I've ever had with a game. Since 
 then, the quality of this game has gone entirely downhill. It got to the point where, everytime 
 I wanted to play, the servers were down for emergency or routine maintenance, and when the servers 
 did work, they were constantly messed up, with frequent issues & disconnects. I quit because it 
 became a waste of money. I could not even cancel my account because the website was constantly 
 down, so I eventually had to call. After 6 months tried again to see if things were better, and 
 for the last 3 days I haven't been able to connect to the website to activate my account, not to 
 mention that the server my characters are stored on has been down. These people are making $15.00 
 per month from over 5 million players, which is over $75 million dollars PER MONTH! (not counting 
 profits from the actual game sales) . People are still throwing money at this company, and waiting 
 in line to activate their account. There is absolutely no reason why they can't fund this operation, 
 or the maintenance of it. It's just a bunch of greedy people lining their pockets with enormous 
 amounts of profit. The game was a great Idea, and a huge success, however, the company failed to 
 execute it properly, and should sell it to Sony Online Entertainment, who knows how to manage these 
 games, because Blizzard obviously can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  2004. I remember the weekend. Thanksgiving weekend. Quite possibly the best weekend of the year 
 for any gamer. I had 168 hours to fill, and besides the 15 minutes to consume the 7 course meal 
 put before me, the remaining 167 and 3/4 hours was mine. And I chose to dive into and explore a 
 new world, that of Azeroth.
  
  I dove, and dove deep not surfacing until 18 months later. I came off that game (yes addiction 
 is the appropriate verb) with 3 epic level 60's and a handful of mid-level alts to my name. There 
 was a huge community I played an active role in; raiding, assisting newbs, managing people. I understood 
 the market of the Auction House and profited handsomely. And I'm nothing out of the ordinary. My 
 tale is average.
  
  And that's my point. If you can invest that much time into a game and simply be average one of 
 two things is true. First ... there's a hell of a lot of people playing the game, or second ... 
 the game is deep enough for you to exist in to such a degree you're practically living a parallel 
 digital existence. Either one is a pretty good indicator on how good a game it is.
  
  So how does one encapsulate that into a few paragraphs of descriptive text with a tiny little number 
 to accurately and objectively detail the quality of the game?
  
  You can't. I only gave it a number because I didn't have a choice. :)
  
  Do yourself a favor 
 buy this game. It doesn't matter if you're an FPS, RTS, console gamer, or whatever other acronym 
 used to describe you. The experience that World of Warcraft provides is so unique, engaging and 
 fun, genre no longer has meaning.
  
  It helps to have a decent system to enjoy all that is WoW. Although the engine runs great on older 
 hardware, as you progress through the game and start making instance or raid runs, or just hang 
 out in Ironforge there's so much going on the screen at any one time - it can bring a decent system 
 to its knees. Memory is key here.
  
  The control mechanism is easy to get into and it's customizable. Stick with the default UI interface. 
 I don't recommend UI mods unless you have a special need in-game. Blizzard designed and optimized 
 the game to be played without the need of modifications. Besides, keeping up with the versions 
 and compatibility is a torture game in itself.
  
  Play with friends if you can. If you're like me, and have no gamer friends, be social and open 
 to random encounters in-game. That's what makes this game so fun. That's why I stuck with it for 
 so long. It's a big world and you can interact with literally thousands of players at any one time. 
 Especially if you befriend a few of them ... that can lead to a lifetime of fun in the game.
  
  The only reason I'm not giving WoW a higher score has a lot to do with the end-game material. 
 It's geared towards hard-core players who enjoy repeated instance and raid runs requiring a lot 
 of organization and patience. Patience to do the same content over and over again for very little 
 return. Trust me, you'll enjoy the game until 60 - at which you'll need to dedicate even more time 
 to see better returns. It really saps the excitement and enjoyment you initially get out of the 
 game.
  
  In the end, There's really not much for the solo player. All the epic gear (which defines your 
 character) require high level instance runs which can be detrimental to your constitution if the 
 pick-up group you're taking into the dungeon doesn't know their asses from their hands. A little 
 frustrating when you spend 30 minutes assembling a group only to see it wipe multiple times and 
 the repair bill on your equipment saps your bank stash with nothing to show for it.
  
  That said ...
  
  A classic game, totally accessible, constantly evolving, beautiful to look 
 and and hear and a treat to the senses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Actually writing a review for this game is a waste of time, hundreds of people have done this already 
 so why should I bother?
  Well, in case you're that one guy/girl who hasn't played WoW yet, which I very doubt, you should, 
 after reading this, consider playing it sometimes at a friends house for trials or maybe go crazy 
 and just buy the game.
  
  Why you ask? From time to time you do dream don't you? Yes, day dreaming included. In those dreams 
 you're probably the main person, someone important, a president or emperor, someone who wants to 
 save the world, a hero like superman, or maybe you're the greatest singer or actor, you're just 
 king of the world!
  
  But in real life you're plain common like everyone else (a loser you could say) .
  So imagine 
 a world with over 6 million inhabitants (losers) pretending to be a hero and actually getting away 
 with it! Finally a place no one will laugh at you because of your funny outfit, your weird walk 
 or those pointy purple ears. You're accepted, no, even needed! People are asking you to help them 
 out on dangerous quest slaying orcs, dragons, ghosts and finding valuable items.
  
  Yep, you just found yourself 6 million friends! Come and explore, quest, fight, travel, dance, 
 joke, eat, fish, mine, skin and ride with us!
  
  Be all that you wanna be in Azeroth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddDogg05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a very fun game to play. There's alot to do i that game. If you're thinking 
 about buying this game you should because once you get into it you'll have alot of fun. I remember 
 when i first got it, it bored the heck out of me, then a few weeks later when I saw all the fun 
 thing you could do. That's what made me wanna play it more and more. So if you like RPG games I 
 recommend you buy this game especially as one of you most played games. Also if you buy this game 
 let me know what server you on and give me your character name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcraft
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has been noted as many things through its duration on the market. We've seen 
 the King of MMORPGs, the best out there , and World of Warcrack . Does the title live up to these 
 promises? Well, yes and no. For me, Warcraft was just that - a decent pick-me-up with a wide array 
 of features, but so little soul that I couldn't remain addicted for a little more than a month. 
 Your faith here will be determined on your style, and whether or not you want to raid, raid, raid 
 at higher levels at a constant level, all though the night. In the game, there are many races. 
 Out of these, only eight are available (Ten, if you count the expansion's extending this) . Such 
 other races - the trolls, orcs, Forsaken and tauren, respectively - build up the base of the Horde. 
 The political and physical enemy of the Horde, the remainders of the Alliance, are aligned with 
 dwarves, humans, gnomes and night elves. Customization in this game was another disappointing standout 
 for me. You can address, mostly, your character's skin tone, hair style, facial hair, and if you're 
 a special race like the tauren and undead, horn size and other features, like a slanted jaw or 
 no jaw at all. Overall, when you're new and aren't overlapped with but the lowliest equipment, 
 similar races can have the tendency to feel the same. This is mainly attended to at higher levels, 
 when you accomplish more intense armour and weapon lines. Still, I felt like this area of the game 
 was missing the potential it could have had. Perhaps, if it lined Everquest's great character system 
 and leaned toward height, body fat, ears, chin, eye color, eyebrow position, pupil position, highlights 
 and a multitude of other small details, it would be more enveloping. You can rotate your choice 
 of character 360-degrees to view it for your own pleasure and amusement, giving you the power to 
 view over side angles, back angles, and front angles. This can be an asset if you want to see the 
 full effect of who you're picking as a citizen of the ripe world of Azeroth. For all the races, 
 however, they share a common starting point. You begin your humble journeys in a small portion 
 of land and village space that ants the capital city of your heritage, where the fun really heats 
 up. To find your foothold in this award-winning universe, you'll have to help the village with 
 standard kill this type of beast and bring me some of their loot to help empty the land . In the 
 human's case, you're introduced to the kobold and Defias, while tauren begin with plainstrider 
 meat and feathers to collect. It's a rather simple process, and brings light to your path to your 
 city. By then, you should have reached level 8 or 10, and are now equipped and prepared to fight 
 back even harder species of foe. There are also classes, too. Note that races can be limited to 
 classes, but all can be warriors. For instance, tauren cannot be rogues as dwarves cannot tap into 
 the demonic career of a warlock. Faction-specific classes, the paladins and shamans, are exclusive 
 to the humans and dwarves and the trolls, orcs and tauren. Each class ensures a unique experience, 
 a contrast to the rest. Paladins and warlocks are granted free mounts, the Charger and the Felsteed, 
 via a quest when they come of level. Hunters can only truly master pets and befriend them, while 
 warlocks can only summon players from every chasm of the world. Mages can only teleport themselves 
 and their friends to distant lands, and so on. In Warcraft, you will also find instances. Some 
 examples of these are the Deadmines, the Stockades, Scarlet Monestary, Gnomeragen, Razorfen Kraul, 
 Blackfathom Deeps, and more. In an instance, a version of whatever instance you are choosing is 
 generated for you and your party. There is a wide span of looting options to tailor to the leader's 
 needs, and also a special channel for members of said group. Most quests bring you to these instances 
 to kill important figures and harvest their head, though you can also come for fun purposes. Instances 
 are also TeamSpeak accessible. As you come into the higher levels, you'll also have dungeon raids, 
 like the Brood mother Onyxia and more. These are more challenging, and more rewarding. More high-level 
 and climatic quests direct you to these, like the special Onyxia line at sixty. Let's also not 
 forget the quests. Spanning in high numbers in Warcraft, these quests consist primarily of kill 
 a certain number of monster , inspect goings-on , escort someone important to a specific land point 
 , and so on. Quests you can obtain at your level are noted as a yellow exclamation mark, and quests 
 you can not do at your level are noted as a white exclamation mark. Upon accepting the quest, the 
 exclamation point turns into a white question mark, and yellow when you have completed your mission's 
 objective and can come back to claim your reward. Graphics - The graphics in this game are witty 
 and cartoony. They are low-pixel counted, and can sometimes be blotched and a little unattractive. 
 At other points in history, however, they can be fun and fit the pace just right - it all really 
 depends, as I said before. Making up for its low-poly, you will find a living, breathing world, 
 decently rich and attentive in detail and imagination, all at a moderate degree. Landscapes are 
 different each time, like Elwynn entering into the Burning Steppes, and you can really feel when 
 the scenery darkens and peels into a new land. What's the same about all this defined beauty, however, 
 is the same models in most inns and buildings, just with different decoration. Sound - In World 
 or Warcraft, you will find a score worth cranking the volume to. Everything just does a good job 
 attending to the mood and birthing a sound that lives with whatever landscape you're adventuring 
 into. What lowered its score, though, is how similar it can be sometimes. Value - The value all 
 depends on what you make of the game. There's an overwhelming world to explore, but for me, the 
 freshness of it all got too old, too fast. If you enjoy raiding and want to participate in guild-life, 
 killing monsters all the while, then this is the game for you. If you want an intense, attractive 
 MMORPG a little more centered on PvP, then you'd be better off with something more attentive to 
 that style, like Guild Wars. Tilt - The tilt of this game is easy and functionable. The interface 
 is friendly enough to help develop your understanding, and movement is controlled by the arrow 
 keys. Everything seems to be laid out in front of you, neat and organized, like an office desk. 
 It doesn't take long to get into, either. --- See www. worldofwarcraft. com for more details. Extra 
 Information: Transportation: Alliance: Griffins, Deeprun Tram, Neutral Boat, Regular Dock Boats, 
 Hippogryph Horde: Wyvern, Vampire Bats, Neutral Boat, Zeppelins Swimming - Swimming across the 
 water takes no energy. Swimming underwater is limited, and you will drown if you stay under with 
 out going up for some times. Giving a solution to this are specially-crafted potions, and even 
 weapons. Mounts - If you're not a paladin or warlock, then you must buy your mount with your own 
 earnings. A regular mount can be obtained at 40, and an epic mount can be obtained at 60. Battlegrounds 
 - Warsong Gulch, Arathi Basin, and more are battlegrounds. Before entering a battleground, you 
 must wait in a queue line with other players. While in the BG, there is a certain task at hand: 
 capture the flag is popular in the gulch, and destroying the castle is what the basin does best. 
 You get awarded for your actions with rank gain (Through honorable kills) , and points to spend 
 toward money and experience. Talents and Abilities: Abilities are what come with levels. For just 
 an additional fee of copper, silver or gold, you can purchase these from your class trainer to 
 help better your stand in the world. At 10, you begin your trek into talent trees that are made 
 of different paths. To erase your choices, there is another fee. As it's better to get it right 
 the first time around, you should definitely consider your talent considerations beforehand. Note: 
 If you feel anything has been left out of this review, please, send a tell via my inbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have been wanting to come out for years and now World Of Warcraft 
 is that game. If you play it for 15 minutes you will get hooked to how fun and immersive the game 
 can get and it gets more funner if you go to higher levels and do missions in big groups and get 
 raptors, horses, and sabers to ride. It can get very hard fighting some one though and the dueling 
 is sort of challenging but is still fun.
  
  The combat the computer does can be smart some times and sometimes when you keep on hitting an 
 enemy it keeps on saying evade and the thing you are trying to kill wont die if you keep on hitting 
 it even and it wont hit you back. You will quit attacking it after that happens. It is cool to 
 get new weapons and use them to kill, but the duribility will go down to zero and you wil have 
 to use your hands to kill the beast you are trying to kill. You will like this game no matter what 
 happens in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the Best MMORPG I have ever played it has a lot of good things in the game 
 like the races, classes, professions, weapons, armor, monsters, quests, instances, good places 
 to train, and good PvP. 
  
  Most people say it's a waste of time and money well I have a few words to tell you WHY DON'T YOU 
 GO SOME PLACE ELSE AND RUIN SOMEONE ELSES FUN! WHY SAY IT'S A WASTE OF OUR LIVES, WHO CARES IT'S 
 OUR CHOICE IF WE WANNA SIT ON OUR BUTTS PLAYING THIS GAME LEVELING OUR CHARACTERS TO 60!
  
  Anyways, This game is easy to learn once you get to know the places, weapons, armor, and spells. 
 The attacks are also easy to learn just find right combos to put your moves with so you can take 
 down your enemy really fast.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LandSharkX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  WoW was an odd choice for me. I started playing it a few months after it released. Id never played 
 any previous Warcraft games either. I was still playing FFXI at the time. A friend and I had been 
 dabbling in other MMOs over the past few months (lineage II, EQ II, ROSEonline) and this was the 
 next target of my boredom and curiosity. 
  
  I was at first a little turned off by the cartoony look, but it quickly grew on me. The models 
 moved well in game-spell effects, environments, lighting was all pretty nice. The designers did 
 a good job filling out there themes. 
  
  The Music too was pretty good. Ambience, theme songs, sound effects, voice overs-all passed the 
 test if not more. 
  
  The game play on the other hand was what grabbed me. While still heavily playing FFXI (a very group 
 oriented that was in complete turmoil economically with the limited itemization and ridiculous 
 farming) , WoW provided escapes from many of the things Id grown to hate about FFXI. 
  -Solo-ability. I could (and did) play many characters completely (2 characters hit 60 in 4 or 5 
 weeks) . 
  -PVP, something FFXI was very reluctant to venture into while I played. The pvp servers and later 
 battlegrounds were soo much more fun then the horridly organized conflict battles in ffxi. Fast 
 paced, somewhat meaningful, and much more rewarding and fulfilling then ffxis was. 
  -Play styles. WoWs classes although still falling mostly into tank damage or healbot categories-provided 
 more unique play styles from class to class. My favorite ended up being the hunter with their player 
 controlled pets and long range preference. My second favorites-each having a very tactical fight 
 system-were stance switching warriors and shape shifting druids. All the others (which I did play 
 at least one of) also had their own styles. 
  -Instanced dungeons. This blew me away (maybe I just hadnt played enough mmos?) but the ability 
 to have an entire dungeon completely to yourself and/or your party was soo nice compared to what 
 I was used to in my previous games. No more spawn camping, claiming, bot wars. They also allowed 
 for more immersive game play with triggered and unique events within the dungeons. 
  -Soulbinded equipment. Much like instanced dungeons-this aspect seemed to counter economic problems 
 from overpopulated servers. Items in game had different categories from non-binding, bind on equip, 
 or bind on pickup. Once an item was bound to you, you could not trade it among the community-it 
 was yours or vender trash. This helped keep farmers from monopolizing everything then selling it 
 to any idiot who could buy it. Made things feel a lot more special once you had them. 
  
  After a year of playing though I was tired of playing new characters and servers every month. The 
 Community was a big letdown despite trying multiple pvp, pve, and rp servers. I was only actively 
 in one raid guild (for about 5 months) . I enjoyed the endgame content and a lot of the people in 
 it-but it could have been a lot better. It allowed me to experience all the endgame at the time-clearing 
 MC, ZG, BWL, and opening AQ before I called it quits. Aside from that every server I played on 
 and any guild I joined was filled with egomaniacs, complete morons, and the rest of the usual online 
 stereotypes. The few good and friendly players I enjoyed playing with often would end up leaving, 
 taking breaks, or getting involved in their own guilds that I couldnt or didnt want to be part 
 of. 
  
  Thats probably what Id call WoWs major defect. Its community
  
  Everything else was good if not great. Had a lot of fun, a lot of content, and a lot of possibilities 
 in store.
  
  Anyone who MMOs could find enjoyment in this game. Its also a good place to start if youve never 
 MMOd before. 
  
  The sales charts dont lie-its a good game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireblazerx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is not just an ordinary game, but it's absoloutely the best massively multiplayer 
 online role playing game in existence. Well, how? How can be answered by just getting that easy 
 feel of playing. It is quite indeed that one game that stands at a completely different level of 
 any other game in existence.
  
  Upon installation and account creation, you will have to make a choice between two factions for 
 character creation. These factions are the Horde and the Alliance. The Horde are made up of the 
 Orc, Trolls, Undead, and Tauren. The Alliance consist of the Humans, Night Elves, Dwarves, and 
 Gnomes. Your choice upon which faction that you choose will alter gameplay in a psychological sense, 
 that you will favor that faction over the other. Although this is true to many people, you are 
 allowed to "re-roll" another character on that same server if it is a normal or RP (Role-playing) 
 server. In the case that the server is a PVP (Player VS Player) server, you will have to delete 
 your character to make one of the other faction.
  
  When you start playing, you will notice that it is very, very easy to get into. The interface and 
 action bars that Blizzard gives to you is such a easy to understand thing that you don't even need 
 to read the manual. Unlike many other role-playing games, combat in the game is as simple as clicking 
 or pressing on a button and you're in it. Combat is at a steady pace and new players will find 
 it very engaging.
  
  Doing the quests can range from delivering a package to a dwarf to slaying dreaded raid bosses. 
 Once you reach level 10, you can do a type of PVP called Battlegrounds. Just by itself, engaging 
 in battlegrounds is very fun and addicting. In the battlegrounds, you fight the opposing faction 
 that you are, Alliance VS. Horde. The current battlegrounds are Warsong Gulch (Levels 10-60 with 
 level brackets) , Arathi Basin (Levels 10-60 with level brackets) , and Alterac Valley (Levels 51-60) . 
 
  
  The graphics that you will find in WoW are pretty nice. It's not the best graphics out there but 
 the graphics fit in just perfectly with the combat in game. Putting the settings at the highest 
 level gives you a fantastic feel of just the scenery and war in WoW. A high-end PC is prefferred 
 if you want to experience this, but a PC with alright specs is just fine for lower graphic settings. 
 
  
  The sound and music you will hear is sweet. The music sound track goes along with the sort of medieval 
 styles of WoW. Each sound track fits the mood of the place that you are in. If you are like me, 
 I prefer listening to other music while playing, because that's just me. The sounds of swords clashing 
 against shields and the war-cries of men are great. The sound effect that you will hear from casting 
 a spell and the voices you will hear from your character are very crisp.
  
  How addicting can this game exactly be? This game can be so addicting that you will call in sick. 
 As you progress through the game, it just gets more addicting with trying to collect better armor, 
 player versus player combat, and hanging with friends. 
  
  Eventually hitting 60, the game offers raid content. This content can be at an epic scale and can 
 give you a feel that you just killed a humongous dragon or a 2-headed monster dog. One of the main 
 goals of raiding high-end instances is for the loot, which gives you a prestige of honor and jealousy 
 from others. Especially, getting end-game armor and doing PVP with that armor will make you feel 
 like a god.
  
  World of Warcraft is the best massively multiplayer online role playing game that there can possibly 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YazanAK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is The Game. While basicly there millions of things to do, just logging in to play for 
 5 minutes is one hell of an adventure. If you ever played Warcraft 3, then you will love this game, 
 because you will be in the World of Warcraft. The cinematics are superb and realistic, and their 
 physics is unquestionably fantastic. The in-game graphics are a bit nice. The learning curve of 
 the game will take a while, since there are a lot of things to learn from this magical world. The 
 music of the game is a perfect tune. A Grammy Winner, I'd say. To sum it all up, this is the game 
 that you show your true self, and literally kill your social life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WCLord
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Warcraft ever since WCII came out and I'm a huge fan of both the game and storyline. 
 I've even read all the books. When this game was announced I couldn't wait to play it. But then 
 I found out there was a monthly fee and being a kid, I couldn't even pay $15 a month. Now, 2 years 
 later, I finally saved the money to play this game and I have to admit I'm a little dissapointed. 
 
  
  I'd like to start by saying that the game is a lot of fun. I especially love the graphics. Also 
 this game is way more fun if you have friends that also play. In short, if you have a lot of money, 
 friends, and time to play the game, you'll absolutely love this game. But if you're like me, its 
 different...
  
  You don't want to get this game if you don't have a lot of time to play it. You won't want to stop 
 playing and you won't get your money's worth. I know this cause my parents are really strict about 
 the time I spend on the computer and even 4 hours a day is not long enough for this game. Also, 
 I'm just barely raking in $15 a month and I need money for other games too. My final complaint 
 is the storyline of the game. As I've said, I am a longtime Warcraft fan and I was glad to see 
 a lot of old characters and elements of the old games integrated into World of Warcraft. However, 
 I found that the game lacked a plot. It doesn't feel like your part of any big plan or anything 
 really eventful is going on. You just do quests, kill monsters, save money for items, and repeat 
 it all over again. There is no real point to the game...
  
  A few other comments. The music in the game is very sparse, the game tends to be very hard if you're 
 playing solo, and you need a high end computer to really appreciate the graphics.
  
  In conclusion, I have very mixed feelings on this game. If you have the time and money and like 
 mmorpgs, buy it now, this game is a perfect 10! If you don't have much money and limited time to 
 play the game, don't waste your money, this game gets a 3 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  At the time of this writing, World of Warcraft is nearing it's two year anniversary. 
  I have been playing since retail launch and things haven't even begun to slow down one bit. 
 
  
  The graphics are mostly unchanged. Sill very cartoony but it fits this game and the warcraft universe 
 perfectly. Sound and music are both excellent, and the gameplay is top notch and addicting. WoW 
 was a winner back in 2004, and it is still an amazing game today in 2006.
  
  Blizzard has done a wonderful job of keeping the game fresh with new content. Recent additions 
 to the universe such as Zul'Gurub, AQ, and Naxx (among many other things) have added much to the 
 lore and content of the game. There are also a ton of holidays to celebrate and world events to 
 participate in.
  
  All in all, WoW is a great game that has definitely shown it's staying power. A great game to pick 
 up. One that will entertain for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonx500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game. unlike some MMO's, you can actually hit the level cap in world 
 of warcraft and still have a life.
  
  graphics: not the best, but still great
  
  sound: surprisly good for an MMO
  
  gameplay: very good
  
  its definetly worth the money. 
 if your new to MMORPGS then this game will be good to start with, as you probably wont even need 
 to read the manuel because its so easy to learn how to play!
  
  PVP: you can choose to be on a PVP or PVE server.
  
  on a pve server you will almost never 
 fight players
  
  on a pvp server you will be able to fight other players nearly everywhere in the game.
  
  theres 
 8 races, and 9 diffrent classes to choose from
  
  the classes are:
  
  warrior: melee fighter. best armour and weapons, and highest health
  mage: highest range damage 
 in the game and can even teleport
  priest: the main healing class, but if you level it right, it can become seriously overpowered
 
  rogue: its damage is equal to a mages, but it specializes in melee combat. they also have stealth 
 to make sneaking easier
  druid: this class can transform into a bear to do a warriors job, a lion to do a rogues job, a cheetah 
 to move faster, and a seal to swim faster. they also are good spellcasters and healers in their 
 normal form
  paladin: kind of like a half priest half warrior, but less damage then warriors and not as good 
 healing. you must be on the alliance side to be a paladin
  shaman: horde only. can tank about as good as a rogue, can heal, and can use support and damage 
 totems. also can move faster while in ghost wolf form
  hunter: you get to tame a pet and have it tank a monster while you shoot at it with a gun or bow
 
  warlock: you can summon demons to help in combat and can also summon players.
  
  why wouldnt you get this game? just look at all the unique player classes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownOath
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  So here I am looking for a good online game after being subjected to the torture which Sony Entertainment 
 Online put all us Loyal SWG players through. Upon finding several screenshots of the game, videos 
 of them dashing through caverns raiding I had to give this game a shot.
  
  Straight from jumping into the game you have no tutorial but rather a set of Guide tips telling 
 you what you're doing. Even so the game is pretty straight-forward and if you have any online gaming 
 background its pretty easy to get into.
  
  The graphics are superb, there are very minimal aspects in the game of which need improvement. 
 Just riding on the back of a gryphon whilst staring at the land around you is entertaining during 
 the entire journey.
  
  The sound was great, every piece of music fitted well into every section of the game, when you 
 were approaching the end of a dungeon you would start to hear a fast paced dangerous theme which 
 went very well to the atmosphere. If you pay 'deep' attention to the music then it may get repetitive 
 after awhile.
  
  The gameplay is perfect, the entire system is set well. There is always something to do in this 
 game and if you dedicate yourself to it, then you can actually achieve great levels in short time. 
 Every dungeon is fun to do a second time, the drop rate of loot in this game is perfectly set so 
 that you will not leave a trip out training without at least one higher quality item.
  
  The value of this game is what i enjoy the most. The entire time you play it is fun, it never get's 
 boring whilst you raid dungeons, even if you're training there may be a chance that you'll get 
 an extremely rare item or a special Mob may spawn.
  
  This game is a must for anyone looking for an online game. Even so it is very addicting so think 
 wisely before purchasing this game whether you want it or not because you won't be dissapointed 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great multiplayer game even thought its very expensive. I must admit I 
 played the game on a private server which does not require to pay the monthly fee .In World of 
 Warcraft you only command one unit which you can create .There are 8 different types of races (4 
 in the alliance and 4 in the horde) and there are character profiles each giving you bonuses (example: 
 warrior gives you attack and defensive bonus) .In the game you will only have to complete different 
 quests some are easy and others are almost impossible. Alliance players such as humans and dwarfs 
 play the pladain class which is a hybrid of a healer and a tank and the horde can play shamans 
 a healer - warrior - mage hybrid class, and as such shamans are one of the most versatile classes 
 in the game
  The game is very large having a lot of items and many cities. In the game you may meet enemy players 
 on a pvp battlegrounds which will attack you (I often got killed by higher level players) . If 
 u like warriors, wizards and women or just like the warcraft series then this is the game for u. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinite04
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  I give this a 10 out of 10 only because this game just blows me away with how huge it its and the 
 fact that Blizz is making another game just shows how much of an crowd is backing this game up. 
 I'm level 6 right now and I can't wait until I reach level 60 and I know the game will be even 
 more exciting then. Most importantly, the gameplay is solid. You have better luck chatting with 
 gamers in WOW than in AOL rooms because they don't and aren't allowed to say naughty things, WOW 
 does filter most offensive words and so I have to give them props from the dog pound!!
  
  I think in conclusion this game is way better than the original 90's Warcraft by far. Just remember 
 this the game has evolved leaps and bounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevarine220
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  the game is VERY good, one of the best mmo's ever, but i dont get how people say its addicting, 
 i didnt get addicted to it, i played once in a while, but i never got addicted to it, i have been 
 playing since it came out, and i only have 2 lvl 20's, a lot of lvl 6-7-8-4-5-'s, and one main 
 lvl 30 char, wow kicks @$$, i have yet to be in a war, or in any big pvp battle, but i hear its 
 really a cool event, the guilda are really uniqe aswell, its pretty hard to creat one though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSkppy77
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  great mix of PvP and PvE. but ever since the battlegrounds came out the whole world PvP concept 
 went to shame. But still and great game regaurdless and im sure it will be around for years to 
 come. and even since it came out there is always new content coming out so it is impossible to 
 acheive everything there is in the game. If u liked Morrowind or Oblivion then you will love this. 
 Large world to explore and people to meet. And there is always something interesting to do. But 
 watch out, this game is more addicting that crack and twice as hard to quit. so be prepared to 
 devote a lot of gameplay hours to it and kiss ur social life good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timberjoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft is just an awesome open world strategy game it rocks blizzard recently anounced 
 that gold farming is eligle though...... Too bad for u noob farmers! Oh and a good starting guy would 
 be a mage or warrior they lvl up very fast and have great powers onece u lvl them up some!!! So 
 yea...... um well that about raps it up about warcraft oh and get burning crusades it looks great 
 and the new flying mounts daidric and blood elf are awesome daidric (Alliance) can now be shaman 
 and blood elfs (horde) can now be paladins! Woohoo for warcraft! uh guys dont bother asking me 
 if i have the game cuz its very obvious i do and blizzard. com and worldofwarcraft. com are two wicked 
 mega awesome sites to go to for info 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great multiplayer game even thought its very expensive .I must admit I 
 played the game on a private server which does not require to pay the monthly fee .In WOW you only 
 command one unit which you can create .There are 8 kind of factions or whatever there named (4 
 in the alliance and 4 in the horde) and there are character profiles each giving you bonuses (example: 
 warrior gives you attack and defensive bonus) .In the game you will only have to complete different 
 quests some are easy and others are hard . The game is very large having a lot of items and many 
 cities .In the game you may meet enemy players which will attack you (I often got killed by bigger 
 level players) .I played this game for about a months before I got bored of it but its a really 
 great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a huge game. It's gameworld is soooo big and beautiful, combat is easy to 
 master, quests are fun, etc. Any fan of the Warcraft series or RPG's or anything alone should buy 
 this game, its really fun.
  
  The gameplay is awsome. The combat system isn't hard (unlike the weird LOTR: The Third Age or FFXI) 
 and is easy to learn. You have special moves and great power even at your first level. The game 
 runs pretty smoothely except for occasional lag, but otherwise, the gameplay is good.
  
  The Graphics are totally STUNNING. Even if cartoony, they have prooved to be some of the best around. 
 Environments look great and characters look great as well. The only thing is, they aren't perfect, 
 but they're still pretty awsome.
  
  The music in the game is very beatiful. The music is just as good as Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 and hit all the best notes. The music simply is only fit for this game and this game alone. Sound 
 effects are great too.
  
  If you've ever played the Warcraft games, you'll find the areas you've traveled in the past games. 
 But even so, you should still buy this game. If you like Online RPG's or regular RPG's you will 
 love this game too.
  
  With all in mind, World of Warcraft gets a 9.6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I put in a great deal of time playing wow for quite a long time, maxing out a lock and rogue and 
 for a time was great fun, in fact the best part of the game was levelling and completing missions 
 and occasional pvp however it should be noted that in recent patches Blizzard's stance is far more 
 focused on killing the casual gameplay from the game, most infamously with patch 1.10 which lowered 
 the group sizes for the very popular pre end-game instances like stratholme and still now I see 
 rants and flames in the now famous raider vs casual battle, in fact as I see it patch 1.10 all 
 but killed casual gameplay post-level 60 unless your in a very large active guild, kiss this game 
 goodbye.
  
  Unfortuntely, the game is taking a step backwards in gameplay by heavily focusing on hardcore raids, 
 the sort of raid that requires expert planning and 20-40 friends on at the sametime. In fact, i've 
 seen some down right dirty and malicious things people have done in order to join these raids for 
 a chance at some rare epic set piece. I've seen female players seduce senior male guild members 
 for shots at the AQ temple and/or BWL, this unfortuntely is the future of wow, more raids and less 
 casual content.... this will ultimately lead to wows downfall. And guess what? The expansion is 
 bringing more raids and flying mounts, yet how hard will flying mounts be to aquire? Most likely 
 a very difficult quest, huge amount of gold or a drop from a raid boss which means, most likely 
 very few players will ever get one.
  
  PVP is still currently very unbalanced with certain battlegrounds like Warsong Gulch vastly favoring 
 the horde, it is so incredibly difficult for the alliance to win there, at least will the addition 
 of being able to join multiple queues now at least the wait type to join battles is shorter, but 
 still, something needs to be done, and lets not even talk about heavily twinked pvp griefers.
 
  
  One thing that needs to be fixed and as soon as possible before it spirals way out of control are 
 bot farmers, everyone knows that those started to kill off Everquest and now, the botters are starting 
 to become a problem for wow, but since the game allows for player modifications, you know it would 
 only be a matter of time.
  
  I could spent hours talking about the games many points, some good and some bad. I'll just give 
 you a straight down summary, if your a hardcore player who has hours and hours to spend then WoW 
 is the game for you, if your a casual player or want to solo a lot then just walk away, wait until 
 another mmo comes out and check that out instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coopfrog
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  everything is perfect about this game, you can play it for hours a day or just minutes, and still 
 it will be worth every penney of your money, leveling is perfect, instances are perfect, pvp may 
 be a little flawed but it is better than nothing. just the idea that there are two player controlled 
 armies that can attack eachother at will is amazing. so please buy and join the millions of others, 
 but be carefull you dont have to get addicted to play this game, but many do. the only let down 
 is when you dont have a computer able to handle some of the more interesting aspects of the game, 
 such as raids and just traveling around the main city, so check the requirements before purchase, 
 you really do need to meet those requirements in order to apreciate the game in full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHEN6000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  hi every one i sure lot of you know on the game world of warcraft this game style is rpg world 
 of warcraft is one of the good games are make its the. lest game blizzard make and he cost 20$ 
 per month. in the game there is 8 kinds of characters 4 characters are horde (monster like orc 
 and undead) and 4 characters are alliance (humans like gnome and night elf) the horde and the aliance 
 are enemy's and they have lots of wars. there is some kinds of classes and every class have other 
 spells.
  the highest level in the game is 60. you up levels from killing monsters.
  there is 4 kinds of armor cloth, leather, mail, and plate.
  there is lot of weapons two swords 
 maces and more.
  there is 6 kinds of colors to equip and weapons black its not good white its normal green its pretty 
 good blue its good purple very good and orange its the best thing but its very rare items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Might sound like I'm going with the mass. However, WoW in my opinion is one of the best MMORPG 
 to date.
  
  Goods
  +Graphics is beautiful
  +No loading screens. Except logging in/out, sailing between continents, and entering a dungeon.
 
  +Solo-player friendly. You can pretty much level 1-60 all on your own.
  +Lots of available quests to aid you on your leveling spree.
  +Crazy variety of equipments. However, 
 raid equipments are the most craved.
  +Immersive during 20-40 man raids. Requires cooperations, coordinations, and good communication 
 between players.
  +You can create as many characters as you please on any server for no extra charge.
  +Updates 
 - brings along new dungeons to explore and conquer, new equipments, etc. etc.
  +Mounts - Level40 mounts (move 60% faster) Level60 epic mounts (move 100% faster) awesome transportations.
 
  +Character varieties. 8 races, 2 factions, faction PvP (battlegrounds) . Characters can jump, swim, 
 dance, laugh, cry, pretty much anything.
  
  Bads
  -The community can be **** sometimes. However, friendly caring people do exist.
  -Dungeons can 
 take as along as 1hour and up to 5 to 6 hours. Depending on the group's dedication and efficiency.
 
  -Staying guildless is fine. However to tackle the difficult 20-40 man dungeons, your only choices 
 are 1) Good connections with people 2) Join a raiding guild.
  -During peak hours highly populated servers can experience major lags and queue time for log-ins.
 
  -$15 a month is a bit steep for low-budget gamers
  -IT WILL CONSUME YOUR LIFE!!
  
  WoW did not gain the title #1 MMORPG for nothing. It provides a wide variety options for the most 
 hardcore of players to the casual 1-2hour a day gamers. Updates allow for new dungeons to explore 
 and equipments and not require one to buy expansion packs for such things (nevertheless Burning 
 Crusade is coming out) . WoW is truly one of the finest MMORPG to date for those who are willing 
 to cough up $15 a month to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Yeah i really enjoy the game sure it does get a little repetitive after about 2 hours of grinding, 
 but hey i don't think you can beat the community of world of warcraft. I've met so many nice people 
 that aren't the most hardcore gamers and they just enjoy playing the game and making progress! 
 I really wish there was a little bit more depth once your character hits 60 but hey there is an 
 expansion coming out and hopefully that will fulfill my needs! I will hopefully be getting it when 
 it comes out! I guess i need to get 100 words so here is some filler, my main is a lvl 60 dwarf 
 warrior on Suramar. I'm on a break from the game right now but will slowly start playing once college 
 starts again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saleskawa13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I have always liked MMORPGs because of the expansion to the world and what one can do. I had my 
 doubts when I heard about WoW, the cartoonish graphics being one of many flaws I though the game 
 had. But I was proven wrong when I summed up enough courage to purchase the game. The cartoonish 
 graphics are one minor flaw, but eventually I learned to get past the graphics and look at the 
 game itself. There is always something to do, whether its to go PvPing, train, craft, and many 
 more things. The gameplay rarely gets old, and the classes are well balanced. Dont listen to the 
 people who say they lost their life to this game; that is their fault. I only play an hour a day 
 and I still get the most fun out the game than any other. As long as you play this game in moderation, 
 you'll have fun and still retain your social status with friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that havn't gotten the game yet, what are you waiting for!?, This game is superb 
 in quality and in my opinion, and many others are one of the est, if not the BEST so far when it 
 comes to MMORPGS, This game is superbly fun, and when I didn't have a high-end system it still 
 ran great. It has alot of playability value, as well as replayability values also. It is a very 
 exciting and thrilling expirience to have a great game, and a fun and friendly community. Now for 
 those that are sadly reading my review, that think they can't get the game because they don't have 
 a credit card, especially to our younger members. You can get a game card easily specifically I 
 recommend Best Buy, as a good source for game cards, they usually always have them. To check for 
 game cards just go to their site. All in all the quality and fun in this game, is jampacked, Have 
 fun In the World of Azeroth! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Only thing I don't like about the game is the PvP decision they made, after you get to a pretty 
 good rank in pvp you have to play so many hours a day to even keep it at the rank you have. I gave 
 up PvP after rank 8, it just got so tiring, and long. I thought it was just a waste of my daily 
 life. If you play in moderation don't expect to keep gaining ranks in pvp. But PvE is great. I 
 think they did a great job on PvE, Also on the quests, accept when some quests you have to report 
 to people and there 10 feet away... its just really, really, lame. But that's the decision Blizzard 
 made but oh well what the hell. Only problem in the game is all the people buying gold... like 
 come on... Also people aren't as rude as other games such as Diablo 2 or the Expansion LOD like 
 they won't go tell you to go... well you know. I'm going to say 85% are nice in the game, then 
 you get the people who are like oh god you only have green and blue items on what are you a newb? 
 its like sorry buddy i don't waste my life playing WoW all day. But overall the game is great if 
 you don't get idiots, but if you do theres a ignore list for a reason =)
  P. S. for my rating its sometimes Just Right and sometimes Hard if you play you will understand. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sozar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  like i said its a great game but Blizzard made the game that u cant play it for 1-3 hours u must 
 play 6-20 hour if u want 2 get rank 14 u must play 10 hours each day if u dont u wont rank up and 
 u will will lose u rank and making instance MC BWL takes like 6 hours if u want 2 play this game 
 u must forget the world that u are living in now and start moving 2 world of warcraft and the game 
 is so good that u cant quit playing. i have 60 rogue got him some epix and still not full epic 
 for that rogue i losr my friends quit studing and my father didnt call me yet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iice-reaper
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is way to good, first of all, I love the map, it is HUGE compaired to Guild Wars'. Another 
 thing it aint always the same road everytime you start a new character, you have 8 races and 9 
 classes, each race (except a few) are located at diferent points on the map, and each classes have 
 a few different quests, so you dont get that bumed out feeling when you want to try out a new character.
 
  
  The sounds in this game are great, the music is somewhat relaxing (where i've been mostly) . Not 
 the best music though but still good. The sound effects though are great, really good.
  
  The graphics are very good, even on my crappy computer the graphics still look good so I can only 
 imagine...
  
  Theres a downside though to the game, I don't know if it is just me, but when you are in melee 
 combat, your caracter just hits the air and it gives damage to the enemy... Like for exemple the 
 enemy is 5 feet away from you and you swing and you have a little dagger you will still hit the 
 enemy... Also the dwarf hunter has a little defect that kinda bugs me, when you start shooting at 
 an unmoving enemy it is ok... but when the enemy moves lets say to your right your hunter still 
 shoots in the direction he started shooting and it still hits the enemy, thank god though, would 
 be very very very bad if you had to reposition yourself each time.. but it would be even better 
 if the hunter would actually turn around to shoot the target... Anyway those 2 things are very much 
 nothing compared to how good this game is.
  
  Well ok the biggest downside of this game is you have to pay every month or buy gamecards,,, but 
 heck for awesome games i guess theres a price...
  
  Anyways there is a lot to say about this game... but I am not in the mood to write 500 word essay...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikeyisard
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  This game is not to be taken lightly.
  
  When you first start the game you will imediately take focus, and attempt to achieve your objective. 
 For the first time of levelling, 1-60 will be appealing, questing will be interesting, and generally 
 you can play in your own spare time, gear isn't a great issue because you can level comfortably 
 with gear you pickup along the way.
  
  Unfortunately this doesn't last. Once you hit the Peak you will find yourself logging on more and 
 more daily. I've spent over 100 hours play time on this game since it's release and I've wasted 
 so much of my life doing it.... until now. End game content is all about your fancy gear that you 
 can show off. It improves your ability in both PVP and PVE, particularly for most classes. The 
 problem is, it does take forever to get your EPIC sets.
  
  You start of in a place Called Molten Core, to obtain your T1 gear, if you start the game now, 
 go to an empty server, one where by new players are also starting out. Most guild now that T3 has 
 come out are bypassing Molten Core, and instead Focus on Tier 2 in Black Wing Lair or alternatively 
 Tier 2.5 in AQ. All 3 are Epic dungeons, but like levelling each has boundaries to a point where 
 you need certain gear to achieve the next. Gain Tier 1 Gear, go to Tier 2 Instance, Tier 2, then 
 go to T2.5 instance.... which as you can imagine takes forever. The drops are relatively random, 
 and you will run the instances months on months, once a week dependant on guild experience (7 day 
 cooldown on 40 man instances) to gain little but the next instance. In most cases you will find 
 it quite repetative and boring after a long while, you'll neglect a large part of your social life 
 for a game, and trust me, if you find the right area it will happen to you.
  
  So if you find yourself with little play time at the moment, stay well clear. If however you intend 
 to spend 40 hours a week infront of your PC playing 1 game, go ahead. I will not completely turn 
 people away from this game, it is good, so much to do and to learn but I warn you, it can wreck 
 your life.... if you don't have the self controll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedizdead
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Love in this context is just sugar-coating for dependency, so if youre addicted to World of 
 Warcraft, maybe you should rethink your priorities? Real life should always come first especially 
 if youre young.
  
  What I get out of World of Warcraft is an opportunity to be online with my friends my real friends 
 and experience a visually convincing and uncomplicated fantasy with them. The game is simply wonderful, 
 seamless and while some have complained about its simplicity, I applaud it. The fact that I can 
 isolate myself, play solo and still achieve something is great, because in truth I want nothing 
 to do with most of the people in Azeroth, with a few choice exceptions.
  
  I think the art is fabulous, the concept is great. The music is perfect for the role-player, though 
 I find myself going to iTunes Radio when Im in the grinding mood. The sound effects are convincing. 
 This world is huge and is going to become huger come Q4 2006, whenever that is.
  
  The only thing that brings this game down for me beyond some occasional lag, are the people. If 
 the World of Warcraft were a real planet, and the people populating this planet conducted themselves 
 the way they do, Id pray every night for the Death Star to come blow it up. But if you have the 
 right mindset from the beginning nothing they say or do can ruin the experience.
  
  Im thirty-two years old, a business owner and a writer. When I was the age of most of the younguns 
 who make up the majority of the population of World of Warcraft, when I wasnt doing homework or 
 watching Robotech and G. I, Joe, I was outside playing sports, going to movies, malls and other 
 real-life venues with friends who are more than pixels and keystrokes. 
  
  It saddens me to know that so many people are letting their childhoods slip away while they piss 
 in each others ears about their drops and items etc. But go outside and youll see teens away 
 from their mommys basement, hanging out and doing what young adults should be doing. Its not 
 hard to identify future winners in life. We all know that MMORPGs are a fun distraction, but they 
 are also where the losers gather to puff themselves up. They are the possessors of elite gear 
 in a fictional dream world as if it were a Ferrari in real-life. And since it is the only place 
 where they can be admired, that is the lifestyle they choose. 
  
  The fact that I have a life away from the computer has gotten me kicked out of several guilds. 
 I joined five guilds during my characters career, and each of them boiled down to whos a ninja-looter, 
 who picked up whos item when he, she, heshe or shehe shouldnt have, like six-year-olds fighting 
 over a Tonka toy. Its just too stupid for any well-adjusted adult to tolerate which is why I say 
 fuggetaboutit to guilds.
  
  Oh, and the company behind this game cant do maintenance, restart a server and try to make the 
 playing experience better for all of us without a hundred little turds yelling Blizzard sucks! 
 And they cant yell Blizzard sucks without another hundred yelling at them to shut up. And then 
 out come the insults and well-meaning people will try to lighten the mood with awkward jokes that 
 only stoned geeks must comprehend all they end up talking about is Chuck Norris before the server 
 shuts down and we mature few are put out of our misery. Chuck Norris should be paying Blizzard 
 for the inexplicable publicity he gets in World of Warcraft.
  
  For my friends and I, the World of Warcraft was primarily about the leveling. Not necessarily the 
 pursuit of items and wealth, and certainly not about pushing real people and real life experiences 
 away like the majority of little cowards online. Its where we socialize (way cheaper than using 
 up minutes on a cel phone) and anyone who is able to play this game with their real-life friends 
 can be in for a fun treat. I would not recommend World of Warcraft for people looking to make friends. 
 You can find someone really nice, and polite until you accidentally roll for their item, then 
 you become the thieving bane of their existence. 
  
  I play with thee other real-life friends. Van (30 years old) is an overall good guy who plays fair. 
 But when someone gets on his nerves hell do exactly what they dont want him to. Hell leave them 
 in the middle of a dungeon, or roll for that item they want. He couldnt care less what they say 
 because he knows in real life that they have no balls whatsoever. Its great. 
  
  Kathleen (33 years old) Kat is in unrequited love with Van, and shell do whatever he says, so 
 when he commands her to log on she obeys. On off-nights when Van isnt around well log on and 
 do the quests that SHE wants to do. Shes a warlock too, which is even more pathetic, but she gets 
 along with everybody, including the immature ones. Shes very attractive, and one day shell find 
 the right guy. When that happens Warcraft will be no more unless the dude plays too. 
  
  My wife Teresa (31 Years old) also plays. She solos mostly and we have to take turns. We cant 
 play together because that would be an extra $15 a month, and well both be damned before we get 
 suckered into that! For her, World of Warcraft has replaced Solitaire as a time-killing way to 
 unwind after a long day at work (that and this Cake Mania game she cant get enough of) . She 
 grinds, and grinds and grinds. She does all the quests until they begin to require grouping. She 
 speaks to no one, and is constantly on /dnd (do not disturb) . Like me, she doesnt care about 
 items, or wealth. Shes just a silent killing machine. Shes a rogue, and Van (also a rogue) considers 
 her to be the most incompetent rogue in Azeroth as she never stealths, pickpockets, or unlocks 
 anything. She just moves in and kills. But shes not there to impress anybody. Shes just doing 
 her thing.
  
  So the game can be played many different ways depending on your disposition. We each have a different 
 philosophy, and we each take away something different from the experience. You do not need the 
 little kiddies help to have a good time, their lives may be meaningless and trite, but it cant 
 affect your experience if you simply ignore them.
  
  My advice for anyone playing this game, or considering it is that, yes, this is an excellent way 
 to pass time, but remember that it can draw you in like a rip tide and drown your social life if 
 youre weak enough to allow it. Remember that the real world is far more fascinating and will always 
 have a lot more to offer than some fake reality. There are droves and droves of immature and bitter 
 losers who do little more than take up space and run their digital mouths off at each other. Spend 
 more time in real life than online. Play with real friends and this game is the very best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hafaholo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about a mmo based on the popular rts game "Warcraft" i almost passed out. I 
 could not belive that blizzard came up with this great idea to add to all the great mmo's out there. 
 The game is great, addictive, and fun. World of warcraft puts players in this massive world of 
 fantasy and combat. As a player you are able to choose from 2 alliances. Each contains four races 
 of your choice. On the allicance side consists of, Human, night elf, dwarf ,gnomes. On the Horde 
 side consist of , undead, tauren , troll ,orcs. All races come with diffrent ablities and disabblites. 
 Also, there is diffrent classes to choose from. If you want a great mmo and diffrent ways and paths 
 to choose from, World of Warcraft is the way to go. No matter what race you are or age you are, 
 world of warcraft would satisfy just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallaBoy21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  yeah man i bought this game when i was trying some free mmorpgs and this one just blow them all 
 away. even though you have to pay. it is totally worth it. 15 dollars a month... not really that 
 bad at all like 50 cents a day. i like the graphics cause they are a little cartoony but the game 
 still is not loon. its about quests, weapons and armor, and lvl. and really what is wrong with 
 that. the best thing that i like about this game though is the fact that you can play it for 30-???? 
 minutes. we all know that wow addicts exist and we know that wow is really really fun game to [play, 
 but there is nothing forcing you to play for hours and hours.
  
  
  great game just try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunters_wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I love this game its perfect, The Horde always win the Battle grounds, but the alliance HAVE GNOMES!
 
  This game is so good each time I play I get happy in my pants.
  The shamans are the coolest people out there, they are some times the strongest even though they 
 can only wear leather untill lvl 40.
  The Dwarf Palys are the coolest allaince you can get besides Gnome mages .
  Please put up your 
 comments here.
  Thanks for your input, and those who arn't play GET THE GAME ITS WORTH IT!!!!
  
  ok
  &
 
   
  
  Love yah I'm off to play Ishandi now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artakanda
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Unless you have lived in a cave for years, you should know World of Warcraft, world's biggest MMORPG 
 at this time. The game is awesome, I can't remember playing any game which was better then this 
 one. Everything you can do in the game, the PVE, PVP, talking/playing with other players, everything 
 is great fun. The small amount of players who haven't bought this game yet, hurry up and run to 
 the store! It's worth both the retail fee as the monthly fee .And with all the updates Blizzard 
 creates for there fans, there is always something new to do in the World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaRbArIaNbUzZy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is the best game ever made. theres nothing bad about it the graphics are perfect 
 the sound is perfect the game-play is perfect. you just cant hate this game. it kinda hard cause 
 its complicated but when you know what to do its the best game ever. the guys are awesome but some 
 are harder to do then then others cause not everyone is the same. the price is 30.00 and thats 
 the best price for a game like that. it takes a long time to level a guy witch is awesome cause 
 i hate games that take a couple of days to beat. this game you can play forever and ever and ever. 
 the attacks are so cool they look amazing when you do them umm................ you can get awesome 
 armor and weapons its hard to get them too witch is good cause you don't want to get good stuff 
 fast cause it ruins the game. i like the way they made this game hard and you have to play for 
 a long time. i cool that you can have sidekicks next to you all the time. dueling people is sweet! 
 i cant think of anything thats bad about this game. the map is huge it map i think it likes hour 
 and 30 minutes to get a crossed the map its something like that. everyone should buy this game 
 everyone can afford it its only 30.00 ASAP GO BUY IT!!!!! your getting your moneys worth no doubt 
 about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drake6669
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, the best mmorpg ever made. If you have never heard of this game you need to 
 check it out. World of warcraft is an Massivly Multiplayer online rpg that has re defined and reshaped 
 the gaming culture. Once I started the game, I noticed the insane graphics and the beautifual scenerie. 
 Though the first 1-10 levels are a bit dull. It can often get overwhelming for a newbie. But still 
 entertaining, once I got to around level 15 I got addicted to it. And so will you. Thing I like 
 about WoW is that you don't need an uber pc like an alienware to play it. There is also great customization, 
 facial hair, hair, face. And over 7 of each there is a fair ammount of customazations. Also theres 
 is a good solid 8 races and 8 classes which provide a firm gameplay, each of which start in a different 
 "state".
  
  
  
  Bottom Line. GET THIS FLIPPING GAME. YOU WONT BE DISAPPOINTED  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoGen85
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  You have Final Fantasy XI, Everquest II, and a whole bunch of other great MMORPGs on the market. 
 These games tend to be in a niche based genre. You either hate MMORPGs or you like them; simple 
 as that. There are so many good things you can say about these games and of course you could say 
 the complete opposite. But the social aspect and replayablity of MMORPGs makes the genre really 
 addictive. Still, you are going to be plagued with the similar type of gameplay in each MMORPG 
 that gamers could do with out.
  
  World of Wacraft heavily refines the overall aspect of what a MMORPG should and can be. Blizzard 
 managed to get rid of the annoyances that come along with most games in the genre and improve on 
 the already good. Not to mention if you're already familiar with Warcraft and the world of Azeroth 
 then you're in for a real treat.
  
  The game takes place 4 years after the united races of Azeroth defeated the Burning Legion in the 
 Warcraft timeline. Yet, the Horde and the Alliance are still bickering over right and wrong. The 
 player is allowed to choose the Humans, Gnomes, Night Elves, and Dwarves for playable Alliance 
 races. Also you're able to choose between Orcs, Taurens, the Undead (Forsaken) , and Trolls for the 
 Horde. Once you're in the game world, you get a quick introduction of your chosen race and a race 
 specific location to start out in. These starting locations are excellent to home your new found 
 skills to get use to the gameplay, which is quite easy to grasp compared to other MMORPGs. Everyone 
 is able to level to 60 at the max as of now.
  
  The action of World of Warcraft is the usual click-turn based type gameplay. Yet it's so fast; 
 much like the speedy gameplay of Bioware's Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic series. Not to 
 mention, the character animation makes it fun to look at. The enemies you encounter are simple 
 thieves such as the Defias and VanCleef, to the plagued Scourge! There are also epic battles and 
 dungeons to experience. The dungeons use the instance-model where your party enters a exclusive 
 area just for you. This eliminates the strenuous player camping for specific loot. 
  
  The death penalty is heavily reduce compared to any other MMORPG. When you die, you spawn at the 
 nearest graveyard. You enter the realm of spirits, and because you're still dead; you can trek 
 back to your corpse without encountering in conflict. When you revive you don't loose any stats, 
 or items! Your other alternative is to be instantly revived at the graveyard but you loose a certain 
 amount of durability to your armor and weapons as well as stats for a certain amount of time.
 
  
  If you're not playing on a Player vs Player server, you're able to go PvP anytime you want. You 
 can either enter a command which flags you for player killing combat against the opposite factions 
 who are flagged in the world (this can be toggled off with the same command) . Or you can enter the 
 Battlegrounds which pit the Alliance and Horde against each other. In the Battlegrounds you have 
 to complete certain objectives to win. Once you successfully complete a Battleground against your 
 opponents (and the combination of your kills) you get Honor Points. Honor Points go to your military 
 rank with your faction. The higher your military rank is you can purchase armor, accessories, items, 
 and weapons that non-PvPers can not. Some of the items are on the same level (if not better) then 
 some of the high level 60 equipment you can gain. 
  
  But the world of Azeroth is extremely large and immersive. You have the Eastern Kingdoms to explore 
 and the lands of old Kalimdor; two large continents. For Warcraft fans you'll be quite excited 
 to visit famous locales. When you enter Stormwind City, that alone is something to behold! Or perhaps 
 when you visit the diseased lands of Lordaeron, you'll get a sense of what happened in previous 
 Warcraft titles.
  
  Not to mention the sound and music makes the immersion even more long lasting. The themes that 
 played throughout each area in the World of Warcraft fits the atmosphere. When you enter the Barrens 
 you feel and hear a sense of freedom. But when you enter the forest of Duskwood you can definitely 
 sense danger and darkness just through the music.
  
  The graphics aren't technical, yet the game has a artistic style too it. Everything is done in 
 Blizzard's own unique flare. The colors presented in Azeroth are remarkable! Regardless of the 
 quality compared to games like Everquest II, WoW is still one of the best looking MMORPGs.
  
  There are a few technical issues. Even though it is simple to register and gain access to the 
 game; the population of WoW is extremely large. Depending on your server and the time of the day 
 you might enter a queue to access the realm you play on. Congestion on a server can create lag 
 and a lot of downtime. Also you have certain glitches in the instances that can prevent you from 
 completing your tasks (but this rarely happens) . But the system requirements will not cause any 
 strain on your PC which is good to hear.
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft is one of the best MMORPGs on the market next to Everquest II, Final 
 Fantasy XI, and even Guild Wars. Regardless if your interested in MMORPGs or not, this is a game 
 worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campo0000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  well, I read the reviews. I watched the videos. I saw the pics. But playing was still an incredibly 
 eye opening experience. 
  
  In the end, after all my anticipation, this game was EVERYTHING ppl said about it and more. I really 
 hope everyone who is slightly interested in MMORPG's or Warcarft get this game and enjoy the incredible 
 experience. The graphics are incredible, the game play is sensational, and apart from the $14 a 
 month this game is flawless. The quests keep you into the game when you don't have friends or guildmembers 
 on and the player interactivity can keep you playing the game even when you're bored of quests. 
 The servers are set up perfectly so that the worlds are neither too crowded nor too heavily populated 
 and the NPC characters are almost interactive enough to make up for when you are playing late at 
 night and not too many ppl are on. 
  All in all, this game has incredible game play that is backed up by the graphics and professionalism 
 of Blizzards server conrtol. I recommend this game to almost anyone who owns a computer. GG Blizzard, 
 GG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pariah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Addictive isn't strong enough a word-but there are many worse ways to fill the day! Grab a friend 
 or two or get in there and make a few and then try to turn it off. Just try... then tell me how to 
 pull it off lol. I've got 8 characters going on the Spinebreaker server and can't wait to make it 
 9 when the expansion hits. Don't forget though that playing as Horde will make your grandma cry! Otherwise 
 the game's great-and if you look me up in there I'll invite you in to play along with me and the 
 rest of The Main Offenders. (Guild I started this morning) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waximizer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Prepare yourself for a very addictive, life draining multiplayer video game experience. Addictive, 
 fun, immersive, crazy, everything you ever wanted from a video game, WoW has it.
  
  Good parts: Very strong artistically (music, graphics, etc.) , great feeling of immersion, very, 
 very long lasting.
  
  Cons: May put your social life and interactions in danger.
  
  
  No matter what kind of gaming style you prefer, that is one title you have to give a shot for. 
 Although WoW requires a monthly payment that isn't necesseraly attractive, you're going to get 
 some quality for your money, and quality, in this case, is a very small word for what it's meant. 
 Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scudking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  From day one, from the first level gained, World of Warcraft has expressed an ever-expanding and 
 ever-populating fantasy world. From a first time MMORPG opinion, this game has opened my eyes about 
 what gaming on a pc is really about. This is one of those games that is simply put - amazing. No 
 other game can really be compared and if you're a long-time warcraft fan, Welcome home brother/sister. 
 You won't be dissappointed with the results of this game. Paying a measely 15 dollars a month is 
 nothing when compared to house much times you go out and purchase a coffee, or go to a movie, or 
 buy a random chocolate bar. If you are really worried about the monthly fees, trying cutting back 
 on other daily things, and put the money and time towards this game. It's worth a shot, getting 
 the first month free gives you enough time to experience a low-level stage of the game.
  
  From a 1 year veteran of World of Warcraft - Highly addictive and a very long lasting appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinixx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI 
 LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAMEI LOVE THIS GAME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viciouslilmonst
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, My friend got me into the game by sending me a 10 day free trial, The free trial basicly 
 gives the almost the entire game except some things, I'll give you a list a few of them.
  
  -Maximum gold you can have is 4 gold. ( Gold is alot of money )
  -Can't trade
  -Can't talk 
 in many chat channels such as Looking For Group
  -Few others but I forget :P
  
  Anyway, I played the free trial and I was entertained enough with it so I bought the game and it 
 came with a free month. So I played, tried all races and classes and combinations. I played Horde 
 and Alliance, loved them both. Right now I still play, Have a few characters on Horde and a few 
 on Alliance, Different Realms each.
  
  Anyway, All in all, this game has a good map, not too much lag, not too many players per realm 
 ( Usually :P ) , good gameplay, and its all just great.
  Except the graphics, it's a little cartoony but I don't find that's too bad. 
  
  I give it 
 a 10 on 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flakor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is obviously, a MMORPG. It takes place around 7 years after the events of Warcraft 
 III. The Horde and the Alliance are at an un-easy truce and this is where you start off. 
  
  Players may decide to do the Horde (Tauren, Orcs, Trolls, Undead) or the Alliance (Humans, 
 Night Elves, Dwarves, Gnomes) and select a good deal of classes (Warrior, Warlock, Mage, Hunter, 
 Priest, Druid, and Rogues) and two faction only classes, Paladin for the Alliance and Shaman for 
 the Horde. The game is fun right off the bat basically as soon as you start your addicted. Like 
 every other MMO you can level by killing mobs or doing quests. The thing about each is that if 
 you grind mobs theres a chance you may get a good item drop from them, as from quests where you 
 can get a good deal of Experiance.
  
  There are also Professions you make take. You can have two professions at one time but you may 
 take all the Secondary Ones (First Aid. Fishing. Cooking) becoming experts at these professions 
 can really rake in good money. 
  
  The world is fully explorable, each zone is ranked by the mob levels there. Example, all the starting 
 areas are levels 1-10, meaning in those ranges youll gain good XP from killing mobs in that area. 
 You can still gain Xp from Mobs in that area until you are about level 17 where in which you wont 
 gain any experiance at all.
  
  PvP is a expecially fun bit on gameplay allowing the player to enter a Battleground, though the 
 system is not very relaiable at times. The PvP system works on Honor, the more Honor you have, 
 the higher you rank. 
  
  In the end, WoW is a great experiance to all MMO players and those who are willing to give up cash 
 for this game. Will find it worth paying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is easily the best RPG available, if you are willing to pay $15 a month. The 
 game is a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game, which basically everyone knows as the 
 RPG that you play with thousands of real players.
  
  WoW is really doesn't do a whole lot different from other RPGs. You make a character from 8 different 
 races, pick one of 7 classes, and progress through the game by leveling your character and learning 
 a multitude of skills.
  
  But what makes this game so good is that it easy to get into, but is deep enough to keep players 
 around forever. The main area of customization in the game is the talent system. Each class has 
 three "talent trees" in which players put points into. The different options available do things 
 like reduce casting time of certain spells, increase attack power or defense, give you new powerful 
 abilities, and much more. These talents allow players to customize their characters for different 
 situations, like being a mage that specializes in fire spells, or a warlock that specializes in 
 boosting the effectiveness of their demon minion.
  
  The game does suffer from a few problems that are either minor or major depending on who you are. 
 One thing is that your character's effectiveness is too often dependent on your gear. Although 
 skill plays the biggest role, better gear helps a lot. Also, you will have to grind a lot, meaning 
 doing repetitive fighting to gain experience. Some players find this boring, others don't mind 
 it. And also to stay competitive, players will also have to farm a lot, meaning killing things 
 for items that can be auctioned for money.
  
  Blizzard has done a good job balancing the game, though issues still remain with character balance. 
 A nice thing though, Blizzard releases major patches once every month or two, which add new content 
 and balance fixes.
  
  But, despite these small issues, the game is still great, and the 6.5 million other subscribes 
 will tell you the same thing. If you can shell out $15 a month, get this game. You won't be dissappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chef08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying World of Warcraft is worth the expensive monthy fee. This game has 
 just about EVERYTHING you'd want in a video game. Orcs, goblins, swords, wizards, rogues, demons, 
 machine guns, elves, dinosaurs, zombies, you name it, the list goes on and on. This game mainly 
 focuses on the ongoing war between the Alliance (Humans, Dwarves, Gnomes, Night elves) and the Horde (Orcs, 
 Tauren, Trolls, Undead) . You play as a soldier on either side. Of course there's thousands of other 
 little story lines within the game. There's two continents in WoW. The Alliance mainly occupy one 
 continent (the Eastern Kingdoms) and the Horde mainly occupy another (Kalimdor) . Of course this won't 
 stop you from hanging out on the opposite continent from where your faction is. This is thanks 
 to the hundred other factions that accept both Horde and Alliance. It is your decision whether 
 to be at war with them or to be friendly with them.
  
  What's great about WoW is that you have complete freedom to do whatever you want. You can craft 
 your own personality and identity. Are you the grunt that is willing to go into battle at any time 
 to save the Alliance/Horde. Or maybe you'd rather not PvP and become the adventurer who has overcome 
 any challenge (like Indiana Jones) . Or maybe you'd rather that thief who's robbed and looted every 
 town he's seen. Or amybe you're that rich merchant who sells armor and stuff like that. You can 
 see where I'm pointing at. There's only a couple problems with WoW. Lag and server problems are 
 abundant. You also really need a super PC to see the full potential of this game (which not many 
 people have) . There also is some unbalance in the classes*cough*Paladins*cough*.
  
  Overall World of Warcraft is a wonderful game that just about everything you could ever want in 
 a game. I highy recommend this game. 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  I am very big fan of MMORPGs, ive played CoH CoV RS and many more but none surpass WOW..... nearly.... 
 This game would be a perfect game if The graphics were better, and there werent so many teenagers 
 and 12 year olds who only choos NEs because "They have the biggest Boobs" The gameplay is awesome 
 and there are so many ways to play so many classes, and Very unique races to choose from, Players 
 of all ages can enjoy this game, (ps) lvl 24 Tauren warrior. Name= Jakke.... Realm=bloodhoof, Good 
 luck with leveling and if you wanna kick ass... be a warrior!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Servers lock up on a regular basis, limited customization, grind fest, although it took me 8 months 
 of hardcore playing to figure out that towards the endgame content the grinding out-does the fun. 
 Still an awesome game just fails to reward the player with enough, for what their putting into 
 it.
  Its like you play and play and play till you can start doing the upper level stuff in which you 
 are bound to joining a group of some sort just to survive (fair enough) but afterwards your forced 
 to do certain dungeons like 50-60 times in order to gear up and do it all over again in the next 
 area. It's a bloody racket! The amount of money your paying blizzard for subscription fees is criminal. 
 Well I for one would like to get my gear (within a reasonable time span) in order to do end game 
 stuff and still have the option of a social life outside of the game. 
  
  My hope is that anyone who reads this will come to the conclusion that WoW is simply not worth 
 it. Aside from it engulfing precious time, it's simply a game that offers no real satisfaction. 
 Think about it you grind for an item all day, just so you can get back on-line and do it all over 
 again. Truly a vicious cycle. If your playing now I advise you to give into your conscious and 
 stop, walk away, and never look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mansii_ssj2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an MMORPG game, with a lot of fun and interesting things built in. For example, 
 you can choose how you want to play like if you want to do quests, travel around Azeroth, make 
 items such as potions, armor, weapons and so on, or just, basically, hunt down and kill monsters. 
 The game is a highly addictive game, with a lot of both common and extra rare items, armor and so 
 on, lots of guilds (groups of people) to join, high amount of quests and so on. I've been playing 
 WoW for quite a while now, and i can barely quit, this game is worth paying a monthly fee for! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_kraminator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of World of Warcraft, I thought it looked great but the $15 a month kept me 
 back from getting it. Well I finally decided to get it despite the fact, and I'm glad I made that 
 decision. When you first start the game you seem a little lost, with what server to choose, what 
 race and class, among other choices. Once you settle on what you want to be, it takes a little 
 while to get used to it, but once you do you don't want to stop playing. It's a little slow at 
 first, but quickly picks up. 
  
  The first thing you do when you get into the game is choose which realm you want to play on, which 
 is fairly simple. Next, you choose what race/class you want to be. There's such a variety that 
 there's something for everyone, whether you want to shoot fireballs at enemies, sneak up behind 
 foes, or shoot arrows while your pet attacks the enemy, or many other things. Once you get into 
 the world you'll start picking up some quests that are fairly simple, and you should level up by 
 the time you do them. When you first level up it seems so cool, that you get new skills and can 
 get different gear. It's a long road to level 60, it can take a couple months, or more, to get 
 there but it's good all the way there. It does get a little boring grinding, but interesting enough 
 to keep you going.
  
  The PvP in World of Warcraft is really fun, there's a variety of things to do and the rewards are 
 very good. Whether you want to get to the next PvP rank, or get more reputation with a certain 
 Battleground faction, the PvP always has something to do.
  
  The end game content is either a hit or miss with most people. If you want to get good gear and 
 get into a raiding guild, expect to spend 3-5 hours a night to raid to get certain gear. There 
 are smaller instances to get gear, but the gear is only so good and you won't get everything or 
 the best there is. 
  
  When it all comes down to it, you have to make a decision: do you want to casually play the game 
 and not get everything it has to offer? or do you want to get the best gear you can and spend multiple 
 hours a night doing so? Either way, you're bound to have fun in the World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prodigytone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard doesnt try to reinvent the wheel with World of Warcraft, they just perfected a genre that 
 in the past attempted to tackle to much in one title. WoW is to date the best and most widely played 
 game on the PC, with millions of subscribers world-wide. It is one of the most addicting and entertaining 
 games I've ever played, and unfortunately it's the most time consuming too. If you have a girlfriend, 
 or friends and family who dont play WoW on a regular basis STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME. It's a life 
 consumer. That aside its an amazing title with an infinite amount of content to keep gamers busy, 
 while at the same time have them begging for more. So check it out, just make sure you have some 
 free time coming up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan891
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  there is a ton of stuff to do in this game you can never have anything not to do u can meet a friend 
 join a guild make some clothes kill some monsters or just walk around the enviroment is huge the 
 the game is addictive and its the best mmo ever and surprisingly easily is to learn how to play 
 which nis good it may look hard but its easy to learn good for a hardcore gamer or a casual gamer. 
 And if u are a casual gamer u earn more experience then other people. This game has hours upon 
 hours of fun and u never have to play seriously so u can level up, And chatting in this game is 
 fun when u can do chicken dance of roar while talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has got a stranglehold on me, as much as I'd like to say, "That's it, I'm done, 
 no more", its really hard to do.
  
  The gameplay of world of warcraft is highly addictive, and its fun for the most part, until the 
 later levels where it can become tedious.
  
  The community of WoW is pretty cool, as long as you find the right crowd to run with, there's alot 
 of immature kids running around, and there seems to be more of them in WoW than other MMO's, but 
 they can be ignored (You'll learn the "/leave 1" command really quickly) and while they are a nuisance 
 on occasion, they don't seem present at the higher levels.
  
  In my opinion WoW is probably the single best MMO from level 1 to the max level in the game (level 
 60) . This game defintely has been the most fun MMO to level up in, that I have ever tried. 
  
  The end game, however, (stuff you do once you're at max level) isnt all its cracked up to be, 
 you'll find yourself running many of the same dungeons over and over again, with a minor hope you'll 
 be able to collect a new armor piece for your class armor set. I can handle running an instance 
 once, twice, maybe even 5 times... but when you're required to run it in upwards of 20-30 times 
 just to get a chance of getting the item you're looking for, I have to say, no thx, not for me.
 
  
  Now that all the negativity is gone, let me say one thing, if you've never played an MMO, try this 
 one, it is fun, leveling is fun, and discovering the world is fun. Getting to max level is going 
 to take u atleast a couple months the first time through, and I'm sure you'll enjoy the ride. 
 
  
  The expansion pack is coming soon, which promises to add to the end game, and maybe help this game 
 with its only minor flaw in my opinion, the end game content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the game everyone wants. World of Warcraft is also the game everybody doesnt 
 want to pay $15 a month for.
  
  World of Warcraft started its devilish life robbing style back in 2004. I have been in this life 
 robbing deal for a while, still currently am. I was a fairly light gamer, then I saw WoW, got heavily 
 addicted and still am.
  
  The graphics are wonderful. A huge massive world with alliance and horde. They are like 2 seperate 
 games. The graphics are cartoony, nice highly detailed.
  
  Your beter off not to buy this, because at level 60, all the stuff Blizzard has set out for you 
 to do requires so much time, you'd be lucky to get 2 peices of armor in a month.
  
  People, however in comparison to other games I've played (Guild Wars, Everquest 2, RF Online) people 
 on WoW are extremely nice. If you do make nice friends, never do dungeons with them. You will soon 
 find the people you thought were nice and happy, turn out to be money thirsty evil people!! They 
 will do anything for the armor that you also want.
  
  Save your time, money, personailty (you too will become greedy) , and your life. Blizzard doesnt 
 need any more money. Dont contribute to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  World
  Of
  Warcraft
  
  This game is simply amazing, I'll start off with the Graphics:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are 
 cartoon-esque, and it has the same grade for them as the Warcraft 3 and Expansion set graphics. 
 7 out of 10.
  
  On to the Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is such as every other MMORPG, but better, the classes just seem to play better, then 
 most other MMORPGS (EQ, FF, and possibly, SoH.) after every 10 or so levels, you get a class power, 
 (Priests: Ressurecting. Pallies: Rezzing, Rogues: Dual Wielding) and so on and so forth. 10 out 
 of 10
  
  On to the sound:
  
  Some of the sounds in this game will simply make you say "Wow, that noise is SWEET!!" and it's 
 just too cool, to listen to a warlock summon his steed, it just simply blows you away, but gets 
 repetitive quickly, 8 out of 10.
  
  On to the Value.
  
  Value: I don't really know what this is, but i would give it a 10 out of 10, simply cause this 
 game is EXTREMELY worth it. 10 out of 10
  
  Thank you for reading this review.
  thechedude 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW for much of a year and during that time I didn't do much else. After I emerged from 
 the bottomless void, I realized that the engrossing nature of the game is both its greatest strength 
 and its greatest weakness. 
  
  The game is designed to keep you busy, to keep you working around the clock to achieve goals made 
 so difficult and time consuming that it reaches the point of ridiculousness. Want to craft a legendary 
 weapon or obtain your level one and two epic set? Better quit your job and save Domino's online 
 delivery website to your favorites folder. 
  
  Once you reach level 60, the game becomes a huge life suck. At this point, you can't level up anymore 
 so the game revolves around completing complicated multiplayer objectives involving a 40-man raid 
 group and usually taking 3-5 hours. Typically you work together to down bosses and obtain rare 
 weapons and armor that aren't guaranteed to drop. 
  
  Coincidentally, other people in your raid want to obtain the same items. Without a good system 
 to disseminate items, the game quickly devolves into a greed fest. 
  
  And EVERYONE becomes greedy after playing this game for a prolonged period of time at level 60. 
 The game is like the "one-ring" that based on its very design corrupts even the most noble soul. 
 
  
  Pretty soon, all your raid mates -- who were supposed to be your friends --are like "gimme the 
 PRECIOUSSSSS. The Purple PRECIOUSSSS!!!!! 
  I deserves it, I needs it!!!" 
  
  It's like Lord of the Flies, but in the form of a video game.
  
  Yes, the game gets that fricken 
 ridiculous. The reason behind this greed is that Blizzard has purposefully limited the number of 
 times a week you are allowed to raid in these end game instances to obtain the rare items you need 
 to progress.
  
  Blizzard's reasons for doing this are obvious. If you obtained everything you wanted quickly and 
 fairly then you would not need to play the game anymore, and Blizzard would lose out on your $15 
 a month.
  
  Do yourself a favor and get a gym membership instead of this game. Your girlfriend, waist line 
 and sex life will thank you. Trust me on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piecesof8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Because he says WoW doesn't reward "excessive" players enough.
  
  Thank goodness it doesn't! I wouldn't be playing it if I couldn't get far without sacrificing all 
 my free time. 
  
  It is a very deep, rewarding game, no matter which style you choose. It's all the better for its 
 relatively low level cap, because that lets you get to the good end game stuff sooner, and cuts 
 down on grinding.
  
  This is the game the fine tuned the problems that kept me away from other MMOs. I got it 18 months 
 ago and am still having a blast with it, and the constant updates keeps it fresh. 
  
  Don't want a guild? Go solo. PvP? It's fun, and there are plenty of great rewards. The endgame 
 instances are also plenty of fun.
  
  I get new games all the time, but over the last year I've always ended up playing WoW more than 
 any other. It's more than worth the subscription fee.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythunbjib
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft for the PC is a step away from the ordinary Warcraft or Blizzard games for that 
 matter. World of Warcraft is an MMORPG unlike the or games being an RTS. WOW is a great game and 
 addicting. I don't mean regular addicting than you get from Halo or Half-Life 2. I mean this game 
 is crack for your computer.
  
  The graphics in WOW arent that bad for an MMORPG, but they look a little more blocky than round. 
 The graphics are subject to slowdown and makes it so it glitches. The landscapes are beautiful 
 though as are the character designs.
  
  The music in WOW is excellent and is a combinatins of wind instrument and mainly precussions. The 
 music differs from area to area giving them a more life-like appearence. The little voice acting 
 sounds very realistic for each character. The enemy crys are good to like the barking of hounds 
 or the demented squealing of the Vile Familiars.
  
  The controls in WOW are excellent in which you use the arrow keys to move and the mouse to steer 
 your charcters. Magic is easy to use for it is transferred to hot keys usually in the numbers category.
 
  
  The quests in WOW are fun and are what keep you going the whole game. You can make friends to help 
 you with these tasks and it makes them go much faster.
  
  Overall, WOW is a must-have for the PC. You will be playing it all the time. And speaking of that. 
 I think I'm gonna play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake696
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  i have only played like the first part of the game and i can say that it is absolutely amazing 
 at what blizzard has accomplished. The world that you play in is huge and it will take you quite 
 a while for you to complete the game since played like only five hours and barely touched what 
 could be unlocked. The me has surprising solid graphics but not the best and the game takes some 
 time to get used if your just came maybe playing oblivion but you will probably get the hang of 
 it afetr a while. Still it is the best to come out for the pc in the past decade and should be 
 experienced by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JzDog
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I played WOW for awhile, and the success of WOW still sticks in my crawl a bit. Well, good for 
 them, actually... mainstreaming the MMO, I thought, would be a good thing. Taking a genre a love 
 and have played since they were called MUD's and bringing it to the masses can only be good for 
 the genre. Was I wrong.
  
  WoW's success, in a way, has diluted the things that were good about the MMO. WoW did a lot of 
 things right on the surface; a detailed world, a rich environment culled from a long running franchise. 
 The problem with Wow is that is took the mature, complex, imaginative adventure aspects that I 
 love about MMO's and simplified them down to the realm of the 12 year old L33Ts. 
  
  Gameplay gets stale after hitting the level cap; waiting hours to PvP, running the same dungeons 
 over and over, a simple crafting system... and there is little to define your character other than 
 by your weapon and armor. You're character become a paper doll onto which to apply the latest and 
 greatest, with no real difference to other players. Characters are not unique, I never really grew 
 attached to my characters. 
  
  There are other MMO's in development now that are promising to put the "challenge" back in the 
 MMO... lets hope they are not just bluster. As for WoW, in the long run, I think may have hurt the 
 genre I love. With 6 million subscribers you pull in and attract the dregs of internet gaming; 
 the hackers, griefers, farmers, the immature by the boat load. Ican only pray the "WoW effect" 
 does not creep into other areas of the genre and taint it completely. Success has a habit of doing 
 just that, even at the expense of what it's selling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincePlum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I played ALOT of MMORPG trials, and then I played this one. And this truely blew me away.
  
  There are two teams of thousands of players, comprised of 4 different races each (my favorite 
 are the gnomes) . The teams goal is to kick each other's asses, to earn street cred (or honor, as 
 the game likes to call it.) 
  
  But you have to level to get to the PvP stuff. Which is fun, I found a great community and a brilliantly 
 made crafting system. Also the classes are well balanced. And, YOu cana make loads of characters 
 since there are 6 different starting places! This game is amazing and addictive Buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battletrax
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Although I no longer have the money to pay for the monthly subscription to World of Warcraft I 
 have yet to see a F2P or a P2P game that can equal this.
  
  The original Warcraft games for the PC where always held in high stead compared to some of the 
 games rivals but when it comes to Massively Multi Online Role Playing Games this is the best.
 
  
  The reason being is because of two things. One of those things is the graphics of the game, and 
 the second being the vast expanse that is the Warcraft Map. Starting the game as a Orc Warlock 
 I was quickly running past other members of the Horde trying to avoid creatures to high for myself. 
 I could see plenty of buildings in front of me where I needed to go and later when I found myself 
 in Orgrimmar I couldnt believe how massive the place was.
  
  The Quest system is also one that doesnt bore you. The game takes you to different places on the 
 map and gives you a direct indication of where about you should be levelling. There are also several 
 creatures that you can choose to be from the beginning as well as different classes. The fundamental 
 part of starting the game is picking what side you wish to be on, Horde or Alliance. Later you 
 can try and invade a Horde/Alliance stronghold depending on what side you choose and many mini 
 wars break out in certain towns to keep you occupied when your struggling on a quest or bored of 
 levelling.
  
  The only drawback to this game is the maximum level imposed on characters. Once a character is 
 level 60 that seems to be it, and with a lot of characters finally reaching that level the game 
 starts to get boring and its harder for new characters to develop in groups or guilds as they are 
 too weak to go along with level 60's.
  
  That, however is the only problem in a game that is so big and addictive that its hard to put down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluenose94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Very, Very Good. It Has The Best Gameplay I Ever Played Before. Never, Ever Boring. 
 The Difficulty Sometimes Is Hard And Sometimes Easy And On Some Situations In Between The Gameplay 
 Is Just Right. I Had Spent So Much Time The Whole Game To Go Through For Me I Had Spent 40 To 100 
 Hours Playing... IT'S SEVERLY ADDICTIVE!!!!
  It Took Me About An Half-Hour Or A Hour To Learn But That's Alright.
  This Game You Should Buy 
 Because.. Well, It's Addictive And Fun This Game Would Suit You Well. It's A MASTERPIECE!!! Pretty 
 Much My Whole Friends And Family Have This Game And They Never Sold It. They Probably Played This 
 Game More Then Me... LOL If You Liked The World Of Warcraft Espcially Then Good Luck Trying To 
 Get Off!!! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karstux
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is fun up to a point. It contains enjoyable quests smooth controls and a massive 
 world that loads in seconds. If you are looking for problems with the game then they are not hard 
 to find. So here is my non-by-ist review that looks at the good points and the bad.
  
  When World Of Warcraft is compared to games like Guild Wars (Which I own and have played for a 
 year and a half) it might seem to be a rip off. 9 quid a month you might be thinking. But do not 
 fear World Of Warcraft is still a cracking game. I have played loads of Fantasy games and World 
 Of Warcraft comes into my top 5. Now at this point you might be fingering your car keys (if you 
 have a car) and think about driving down to Game or PC World. Well wait you haven't even finished 
 reading my review. If you have the money and are a fantasy fan then think hard and ask yourself 
 Do I want a fantasy game that steals ideas out of fantasy such as Lord Of the Rings and Norse mythology 
 and throws them together into one game and hopes nobody will be clever enogh to notice no matter 
 how hard they look? If not then buy another game like Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion or even Guild Wars. 
 Of coarse no games are perfect and you haven't even heard what I think of the graphics sound or 
 even gameplay. So enough ranting here is what I think....
  
  Gameplay: This feels suspiciously like a rich man's version of Runescape. Although it offers lots 
 to do you cannot help thinking why the hell am I even bothering to do this as it feels like the 
 past 20 quests!. Even though there is a feeling of accomplishment when you have completed a quest. 
 Overall the controls are smooth and get a level 60 character and you will feel like the King of 
 the world. One of the most annoying things I encountered was waiting 15 minutes in a queue for 
 PvP and being told I had to go and find Warsung Gulch myself instead of being teleported there.
 
  
  Graphics: If you have the right graphics card then it should look reasonably good but even though 
 the landscapes are beautiful they do not beat games like Everquest which comes close to realism. 
 Think of the graphics more like a cartoon in 3D. This section scores more for landscapes.
  
  Sound: Depends really sometimes it's great other times it's just not there.
  ambience is 
 ok though and some of the tunes you can hum along to (if you aren't plugged into a mp3 player) .
 
  
  Value (for money and quality) : Well &pound;8.99 it is up to you also it depends on how powerful 
 your P. C is and if you are bothered by frequent patches and realm maintenance. If you are a true 
 fantasy fan then maybe Guild Wars will be a bit more original with a deeper storyline. But for 
 all those other fantasy/MMORG gamers get in there!
  
  -Karstux-
  
  
  Damn it is addictive you have been warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xykuu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  I never thougth that i would buy WoW, but now that i have it I don't stop playing it.
  WoW his a massive multiplayer role playing game, where you can interact with NPC (non playable 
 characters) and with players from all over the world.
  You chose a alliance for your character, then a race and a classe, you costumize your character's 
 face, hair, skin color, etc...
  Then you're ready to enter a really big world (must almost 300x GTA San Andreas Map) doing quests, 
 interact with other players, exploring dungeons, leveling up you character, among other things.
 
  Really buy it, you wont regret, it's simply the best RPG and MMRPG game i ever played and one 
 of the best ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Warcraft for years, but held off from World of Warcraft for a while (cost!) . 
 I finally decided to give it a try, I'm pretty pleased with my experience so far - though in the 
 back of my mind while playing is the subscription fee. 
  
  I've played a few different subscription based online games (on a trial basis) and not been very 
 taken by any until World of Warcraft. I can put this down to the fact that I was a big fan of the 
 previous games (especially 3) and liked the universe. Graphically it's reasonable and the sound 
 is fine but neither struck me as cutting edge in any way. Gameplay wise it is excellent, I can't 
 fault it really.
  
  I found myself comparing it to Guild Wars and in some ways it's similar - Warcraft has more to 
 do - but then guild wars is newer and works differently - you buy "episodes" as they are released 
 (if you want to - you don't have to buy them to play the previous ones you already own) and there 
 is *no subscription fee*. Graphically guild wars is better, though in guild wars the level cap 
 of 20 feels too low - one of the attractions (and criticisms) of these types of game is levelling 
 up your character - it's good to see them "grow". 
  
  The quests are of variable difficulty - and some certainly are difficult enough to encourage you 
 to team up with other players. This can be both good and bad, depending on who you team up with 
 - but the vast majority of plays I have come across have been fine. 
  
  There is certainly more than enough to keep you interested and playing (and hence PAYING!) so I 
 think I'll be sticking with it for a few months and then reevaluate the situation.
  
  All round a good game, aside from guild wars not other similar type of game comes close.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaistlinMajere8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  the first second i stepped foot into the game world after creating my character i was amazed. the 
 graphics are simply amazing. gameplay is amazing. it is just an amazing game. at first it was very 
 overwhelming cause i had no f***ing clue what was goin on. but after about an hour invested into 
 the game it all came so effortlessly. very good must play if you like rpg's and the whole online 
 thing makes it so much better. i think the whole gamecard is totally a scam and really makes me 
 angry cause it is a rip off but oh well its an awesome game that has sucked me in even if i had 
 to pay seventy bucks to get it going 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game ever created by man, almost everything about it is perfect and almost 
 anyone can play it.
  Gameplay - The gameplay is really great. The way the interface is set up makes it super easy for 
 anyone to be good at this game. The PVP gameplay is just amazing, from capture the flag to assault 
 in alterac valley and conquer and control in Arathi basin, its all perfectly designed. As for PVE, 
 it couldn't get any better. From fighting Kobold Rats to fighting giant dragons, bugs and anything 
 you can imagine its all thought out and well designed.
  Graphics: The graphics are truly amazing for a MMORPG but a little blurry at times.
  The Sounds 
 in world of warcraft are great, you can hear singing birds to gunfire, to breathing dragons its 
 all there and its all really great sounding.
  As for value, its over well worth it, anyone would enjoy this game greatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This is my revised review of World of Warcraft. I am sure it is not going to go over too well with 
 the WoW community as I will be insulting you frequently in this review. Because you people are 
 what screw up World of Warcraft.
  
  BUT PLEASE HEAR ME OUT and read my whole review before you check the thumbs-down. I know it may 
 be hard to accept the truth. And this review is the absolute truth.
  
  The game really does a good job at catering towards the non-MMORPGamers. What I mean by that is 
 there is no penalty if you screw up, and rewards come quick and often. But that is the downside 
 of the gameplay. Rewards come very often, about as often as an insanely irritating "Chuck Norris" 
 joke, so you don't really feel like you've accomplished anything by getting to level 60, because 
 it was so simple and you didn't work for it. Although the game is only half over when you do reach 
 level 60. Like new dungeons. However, half of your runs through these dungeons will be horrible 
 and end in countless deaths because of the crappy community of immature players who don't like 
 to stick to their job.
  
  Graphics, they can't really be discussed much because it's something you have to see yourself. 
 You can only escape the irritating community of cluelessness in the vast seemingly endless world 
 that will make you go WoW.
  
  The dumb community calls this game overpriced because of the $15 monthly fee. But they only complain 
 because half of them are kids that don't have any knowledge of economics and how expensive it is 
 to run a 24/7 staff that is constantly working on new content for the game, but they mostly complain 
 because they only get $3 a week allowance.
  
  I first wrote a World of Warcraft review at level 20, I gave it a 6.4. This was because I was biased 
 and hated WoW because it succeded while Everquest 2 bombed. Now, I have leveled my Priest to level 
 60 and have been playing at level 60 since June 06'. World of Warcraft did a great job at sucking 
 me in so that I can not let go. However, now that I have experience with the game, I decided to 
 do another review. I found inbetween levels 20 and 60 that the community of WoW is dumb, immature, 
 and embarassing. So I wrote a new review. And since the community of an online game is a huge part, 
 and probably the biggest, I made that the reviewers tilt. And unsurprisingly my reviews only have 
 .3 points in difference. I hate WoW, and wish that I had never started. I am addicted to the gameplay 
 while repulsed by the community... I am still waiting for a new MMORPG for the real MMORPGamers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j0nny_d4ng3r
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  I bought WoW having no previous experience of MMORPG's and made the purchase based purely on the 
 amount of media attention the game was recieving. The first time I loaded up the game I was astonished; 
 just watching the intro video had me thinking 'this is going to be an awesome game' and as soon 
 as I was thrown into the world of Azeroth I truly believed that.
  
  The first few months of play was intense; we're talking getting home from work and playing 6 hours 
 straight. Needless to say the social life took a back seat and you soon find yourself losing touch 
 with friends (and even girlfriends) as your WoW addiction slowly takes hold. The 'grind' from 1 
 to 60 is what keeps you going, constantly striving to get to the next level. Yes, essentially all 
 quests are the same at a basic level (take this here, kill 20 of these) but interspersed with instances 
 and crafting, this initial grind doesn't become too unbearable. 
  
  The decline in my interest of this game started as soon as I hit 60. I never actually got round 
 to starting a 'high-level' instance because I took a look at the people undertaking them and though 
 'sheesh.. this is just a game and they're taking it so SERIOUSLY!' just look up the 'Onxyia Wipe' 
 on Google to get an example (albeit extreme) of this. I realised I didn't want to spend 5+ hours 
 in an instance to get some new colourful pixels for my character.
  
  Another factor was the politics that go with a game like this; the constant bickering about class 
 changes, talents, weapons, instances, and of course the eternal debate of monthly fees (i'm sorry, 
 but do people seriously think a game of this scope is ever going to be free??!!) . It's quite disturbing 
 to see people getting so worked up (and abusive) about something that - in the grand scheme of 
 things - is massively inconsequential.
  
  In conclusion, WoW is an intense experience if you get hooked and be prepared to spend many weeks, 
 months (and in some cases, years) out of daylight. I think we're beginning to see many people coming 
 out of their WoW addictions two years down the line (as can be seen by the recent reviews) but 
 I have a suspicion once TBC is released, the second wave of players will be hooked.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord_rulz
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Seriously i thought the graphics could be improved heaps!
  Its still stuck in Retro years with N64, because all the game is like the same graphics as Warcraft 
 3 which was CRAP GRAPHICS! 
  There needs to be alot more variety in the game. All you do up untill 70 is either grind foes, 
 which is extremely repetitive and gets very depressing seems most good loot has under 5% drop rate 
 and is entirely not worth spending the time attempting, for 2 reasons. 1. By the time you go through 
 the trouble of getting the loot drops you could of got a fair more items/gold from quests. 2. There 
 is no point going out of your own way to get gear which you will just outgrow in a few levels anyways. 
 Or the other exciting feature which this game excels at is questing.. and then quest and quest.. 
 and maybe quest some more.. You can fit in some rare PvP "action" once you hit the higher levels 
 of your group ( ie 17-19, 27-29, 37-39 etc right up untill till 70) , But if you were gonna do pvp 
 you might aswell play guild wars hands down. That game which i own is the best pvp oriented game 
 to date, without a doubt.
  Another fake promtion they add to your excitement is that you think your going to enter a world 
 with more then 10million players!!, thats true but your restricted to playing your character on 
 one server unless its too full or else you have to pay to transfer it to another server ( which 
 is like $30AU) . So in other words you are only really playing with a few thousand plays instead 
 of this so called millions!!! Why couldnt they just make it so you could switch servers so you 
 can join up and "quest" / "raid" with friends like runescape, just pick your server when you go 
 to login then off you go, much better server setup.. And dont get me started with the endless server 
 offline crap that they go through EVERY TUESDAY!!!!! OMG it is sooooooo annoying, why should we 
 pay $15AU a month for a game that cant even deliever with stable server times.. In my experience 
 with guild wars i rarely saw a server down, and you dont even have to paytoplay that game, plus 
 they also have millions of players so that is no excuse.. and when you had to update the game it 
 would just to it in the background not boot you off the server for endless hours.
  
  Overall i think this game is a cop out for people with crappy pc's that only need low requirements!! 
 If you want PvP play Guildwars, if you want raids play WoW if you want awesome graphics and awesome 
 environments play Everquest2
  
  Get with the agers ppl this game is still in the 90's if ya ask me!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Might be my all time favorite game just for the fact no other game engrossed me like this one did. 
 You don't just play this game, you live it. It's on your mind the whole day. You think about how 
 your gonna spec yourself, should you buy that sword you saw at the auction house for 50g constantly. 
 It's so addicting it takes priority over more pressing matters like that history paper that's due 
 in the morning, eating, and sleeping.
  The game is very simple to get into and it becomes very intutive, very fast. Other games like this 
 are large grind fests, but there is so much to do in this game it's mind boggling. The instance 
 and raid areas are so fun to conquer, especially if you have a solid 40-man raid. Everything about 
 this game is top-notch. It's a definite must play, but if you haven't played this game, be warned. 
 It's not a game you sit and play for an hour then are done. A hour quickly becomes a day before 
 you know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gremlin_
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The good thing about World of Warcraft is that is not the massive time sink that most other MMO's 
 are. However, it's fairly simplistic. Throughout the entire game you will spend most of your time 
 killing. There is some crafting on the side, but this to is simplistic and unentertaining. It consists 
 of gathering matierals (some of which drop off monsters) , and press "create", and unless you're 
 on a brand new server, no one will be particularly interested in what you have to make (with the 
 exception of enchanters and alchmesists, niether of which are entertaining) . 
  
  The spells and abilities are generic, though the players will find different ways of combining 
 them to be more effective in PVP, there not really more fun compared to other MMO's abilities. 
 You'll get a few a cool abilities now and then (Feign Death, Portals, Morphing into an animal) 
 but nothing that will keep you playing for a long time.
  
  You will spend the majority of your levels questing or grinding, at first following the quests 
 storylines can be fun, but as it is with other MMO's, they get repetitive and have you spending 
 more and more time travelling as you get higher level. 
  
  PVP is the same as it is in any other game, perhaps lesser, and to be good at it you'll probably 
 have to spend your time in dungeons hoping for armor sets.
  
  The battlegrounds are O. K, and consist of Capture the flag, Taking over bases, and.. well, killing. 
 But paying monthly for Battlegrounds isn't really worth it.
  
  After games like Star Wars Galaxies, with proffessions like entertainer and any of the crafting 
 classes, and PVP like Dark Age of Camelots, World of Warcraft seems lacking in features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbswordfish8
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  
  This game IS perfect. Never have I played a game with more features, fun, longevity, addictiveness, 
 or value.
  
  But how is this game the best value, you ask, if it is $11 a month? Read on.
  
  This game has 
 a super short learning curve. It took me about two minutes to get used to the interface (no small 
 feat in a MMOG) . Everything is where you would expect it, and you get to fight beasts within that 
 time frame. I hate games that are slow to start out with, but this game, while paced slower at 
 first compared to later on in the game, shows that you can kill things in less than two minutes 
 from the time you start!
  
  This game is so long, that I have easily invested more than 100 hours playing, and STILL haven't 
 seen it all!
  
  Not only that, but you can find me playing on the Erdar realm as TwinkleToes a cute little gnome 
 rogue on a daily basis. I typically play for 2 hours, take a food/potty break, and play some more. 
 Who said it was hard to get your $11 dollars worth of fun a month?
  
  Star Wars Galaxies!!! ( Cause their game SUCKS!!!!!!!)
  
  As for features, well, even after 
 you are maxed out and done almost everything, there is always more stuff added periodically, so 
 you will never stop playing!
  
  And what if you get tired of playing as your lvl 60 Tauren Shaman? Just create a new character 
 and enjoy! It is always fun, and there is never a dull moment.
  
  World of Warcraft IS, in my opinion, THE BEST GAME EVER MADE! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrone
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  Played this game for about a year! but trust me one day you will wake up and find yourself pissed 
 off at the world but mostly at yourself
  
  This game is and was made to waste your time in every way Possible, the makers of this game will 
 keep making just enough new crap to keep you playing! in other words its like a drug, the weak will 
 totally get owned by this game and as a result have no life no real friends or ambitions,
  
  that being said the strong will get tuned off by this game after a while 
  and wont see the 
 point in going on playing this game.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trogdorehren
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is well... fun, enough said. It captivated me for about 3 months until I reached 
 level 40. It all went downhill from there. Part of it may have been the fact that I was playing 
 a paladin (boringest class in the game) . I think the biggest thing that let me down was that once 
 I got my mount there was nothing left to look forward too. Sure there is raiding (woopdie-woo) 
 and there was advancing in the community. I was in one of the largest guilds (Divineheroes) on 
 my server (Uther) so it is a bit hard to advance when your competing with 200 other people. The 
 community can be a problem too. If you have a game with 6 million people your bound to attract 
 your share of 1337 DUdz and the all out *shiver* the infamous Ub3R nErd. 
  
  Don't get me wrong it is a great game. Its balanced system and easy to use interface is fun and 
 addicting. It just wasnt my kind of game. In conclusion, if you like strong MMOs with fascinating 
 gameplay, interesting economics, and some good pvp, this isn't the game for you. But if you want 
 to waste your weekend it's perfect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargetony1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I have the entire Warcraft series and I really enjoy this. I am a new 
 entry into MMORPG games but the learning curve is very easy and there is always the 11 year old 
 around to show you the ropes. I know a lot of people have dubbed this game "WarCrack" since it 
 is so addicting but I think it is a well written game that plays well on any system. This is an 
 excellent game, although I do find some shortcomings with it, they are all inconsequential to the 
 overall playability of the game itself. Blizzard does an exellent job of updating and patching 
 the game. I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be honest in this review, even if it's brutal and painful. You've been warned. Please 
 send death threats to my inbox, I'll be sure to answer the most amusing ones.
  
  PROS -- Large world, tons of things to do, adamant devourer of spare time.
  
  CONS -- Repetitive, 
 player base could do much better, repetitive, TOO MUCH stuff to do, repetitive, uninspired classes, 
 you are only rewarded if you play (not if you are skilled) for long periods of time.
  
  After playing this game for some time, and after seeing how long it's been since it's initial release, 
 perhaps a re-review should be in order. The reason I say this is simply because, as in the EULA, 
 "gameplay may change during online play."
  
  First off, graphics. The graphics are an interesting mix of cartoons and maturity. Shading reminiscent 
 of animated Disney features coating the walls, soft shading on stylized characters, and interesting 
 effects abound. Imagine this shading is done inside of a city of undead monsters known as "The 
 Forsaken." As such, it is dank, gothic, and if one concentrates, has that spicy smell of old metal. 
 At least, if you've got a good imagination. It isn't just the sharpness of textures, either; animations 
 for your characters are varied and plentiful. Both genders of every race have different animations 
 for everything. These are generally interesting and have small, barely-there differences that become 
 apparent after hours in the game. Orcish female's arms are are a little longer, giving them a more 
 primal or animalistic look (as if the teeth and face weren't enough) , while humans look more along 
 the lines of midieval politicians occasionally in glowing holy garb or dank warlock robes.
  
  Sound and music. They're typical Blizzard fare; of course, there is no techno to be found in 
 this fantasy RPG. You may notice, however, that some of the music from older Warcraft games is 
 being re-used --- if you are the hardcore gamer. This is barely noticable, and it's still warcraft, 
 so it fits quite well (much like half life 2 re-using numerous tracks from half life 1.) . Much 
 of the music would be forgettable unless you're constantly listening to it, and the default value 
 for music is to turn off after a single play-through (this can be changed in the options menu) . 
 Why this is, I don't quite know; awkward silence is wierd in the middle of a game with so much 
 life seems to be an attempt for focusing on other things. Sound isn't lacking either, from the 
 impact of a humble fireball to the wet crunch of a claymore hitting for critical damage, there 
 is a great diversity.
  
  Content. I say this, because it's an MMO -- any MMO that's worth it's salt sticks content between 
 it's legs and hip-thrusts it to the masses. Don't laugh, you know it's true of marketing. This 
 is where World of Warcraft is absolutely, obscenely, obssesively designed. There is so much stuff 
 within the game, you'll likely not experience all of it. There are faction and class-specific quests 
 to complete, that are typically there to have you learn a major class specific profession. Rogue's 
 for example learn poisons, the ability to coat their weapons with various forms of temporary poisons 
 that can cripple, damage, or even inhibit magical abilities for a short period of time. To earn 
 poisons, one must finish a level 20 quest that varies based on the faction (Alliance, or Horde) . 
 However, much of Warcrafts content is repetitive. This is understandable from an enemy standpoint; 
 recoloring and resizing an enemy into a large purple hyena instead of a brown small hyena is perfectly 
 understandable, instead of making an entirely new set of monster found only in a specific zone. 
 You will find that many mages will all be wearing the same exact gear, or looking to purchase one 
 specific set of gear. If you enter an instance with a group, you will find that the one other spellcaster 
 will want the exact same item you do. The rogues will be fighting or complaining over the fact 
 they didn't get the specific knife they wanted from a specific enemy, which only appears while 
 doing a specific quest -- which the entirety of your group will be doing. 
  
  On top of that, the 'awsome crafting system' is essentially making the same items from a recipe 
 over and over again until you level enough to learn new recipes. Lather, rinse, repeat. You are 
 typically aiming to get one specific recipe that will overpower your character or sell very well 
 on an auction house, to make it over and over again to use, sell, or in the case of a friendly 
 guild, give it to a guild member. There isn't really any way to customize your stuff beyond very 
 specific things (though this will change in the upcoming expansion supposedly. I doubt this, however, 
 as specific people will have specific and repetitive "gem builds' with the new interface. do a 
 little research on this, and you'll see what I mean.) . These can be iron weapon chains which will 
 make certain your melee weapon cannot be disarmed through a rogue or warrior skill, for example, 
 and a shield spike that does damage on a block. Weapon enchantment is as close as one gets to actual 
 gear customization, however you will typically find that people will be calling out for the same 
 enchantment on the trade channel. On top of that, enchantment is typically very, VERY expensive, 
 due to the rarity of the materials (it won't stop people from getting the exact same enchantments, 
 though.) .
  
  Gameplay. Here is where things get the most repetitive. Up to about level 11 or 12, things are 
 decently varied. At this point, however, one will realize it's starting to take a lot more enemies 
 to gain a level, and the quests are running together. Since you aren't high enough level to go 
 to a higher zone, you will be stuck in a certain zone (or even just a certain area of a certain 
 zone) killing the same monsters over and over. As far as questing goes, one quote pops into the 
 mind. "Errands of Azeroth." They can be summed up into a few different types. Fetch (go and find 
 an item in area) , kill (kill a certain amount of enemies, or a specific boss enemy) , Find and examine 
 (find specific things and look at them) , kill and collect (kill a specific type of enemy and collect 
 a quest-specific 'badge' they drop) , or simple collection (gathering resources) . There are a few 
 gems placed in there (For example, a paladin quest for a shield, where you must protect a farming 
 woman from being killed in a bandit raid as a favor to her husband.) , but they are few and far 
 between or are class specific. 
  
  There are dungeons known as instances in the game, where you have your own personal copy of the 
 dungeon. What is unspoken, however, is that later level dungeons are actually restricted and require 
 many, many people (raid groups, around 40 people.) . You 'sign up' for the dungeon, wait in line 
 (for LONG periods of time) and if you die, you must 'sign up' and start over again. It goes to 
 note that players have gone so far as to use 'add-ons' to simplify their playing experience in 
 this regard; you will find priests will instantly cure you of poison or disease, and cast the perfect 
 amount of healing for exactly the right target with uncanny speed and accuracy, all in the midst 
 of 40 people and a ton of monsters. This is because they have a player made 'add-on,' (a nice word 
 for 'bot' or hack') and sometimes, guilds will not let you play in later level dungeons if you 
 do not have these installed because 'you are a liability."
  
  This brings up community, another thing relative to an MMO game. The community of the game, is, 
 of course, varied as in any MMO. Some are helpful, some are mean, some are completely illegible, 
 and some are naked midgets named "LOOKATMELOL" dancing on top of a mailbox. From what I remember 
 in a quick census, however, at least 1/4th of the entire population - over five million strong 
 - is a specific race and class, the Night Elf Rogue. That is, a purple elf that can turn invisible 
 and backstab for massive damage (PvP anyone?) . The community as a whole, however, can be either 
 offensive or actually TOO helpful. You will have a guy insulting you entirely in l33t speak while 
 referring to Chuck Norris for asking him where a merchant was, or you will have a level 60 doing 
 a level 12 quest for you. Seeing a max-level character running his guildmates through an entire 
 dungeon (dungeons are much harder than average and are always in groups) is commonplace, since 
 he's waiting in line for a different dungeon anyway.
  
  PvP wise, there are options. To a degree. It starts on server choice. You can be in a 'normal' 
 server, in which you will only be attacked if you are 'flagged' or instigate a PvP scenario by 
 attacking a flagged player. If you don't wanna die to another player, then you don't fly your flag. 
 On a raw PvP server, you are only safe in your factions controlled zones. In the alliance's Stormwind 
 city, you are safe against attack if you don't attack of flag. Then, there are 'contested zones.' 
 If you travel into these, it's open season for the opposite faction, weather you are level 15 or 
 level 60. RP servers are "Role Playing servers;" they act like normal servers, but players occasionally 
 act as their characters would. DnD style. Choose wisely, as if you chose a PvP server you will 
 likely be getting thrust into a PvP environment by level 20 and have no choice on if you're attacked 
 by max level groups. Level 60's are certainly not above backstabbing you for a one-hit kill, then 
 waiting for you to get back into your body so they can repeat it. 
  
  This is where battlegrounds come in. Battlegrounds are specific PvP areas, with different rules -- 
 two teams enter, it's not an open environement. Essentially, a PvP dungeon pitting the two against 
 one another. I never got to experience these, for one reason -- they are so unbelievably clogged, 
 it's typical to have long periods of waiting before you. Getting frustrated with long waits was 
 never so much fun, as you can do stuff during the waiting periods and not be booted from the queue; 
 you'll get put in the battlefield as soon as it's your 'turn.' I cannot comment further on this, 
 since I didn't experience them, and it had no impact on my initial review (no points given, or 
 subtracted) .
  
  All in all, Warcraft is not for a casual player. It requires a great deal of time to 'keep up,' 
 and the speed at which things go is dictated by other, more hardcore than thou players (as well 
 as the economy of the game) . If you have the time to waste, then it is a good game for you; it's 
 entertaining for all it's merits. Anybody that wants to play a game for an hour and go do something 
 else, this is NOT for you. It's definitely not a bad game, but please, play responsibly. Don't 
 make it a lifestyle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazgu1_slayr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, i'll start by saying this. I respect players of all MMO's. I am not an MMO-ist. I dont 
 descriminate. Review time.
  
  Are you looking for an MMO? look no further. Before commiting to one game i played all other MMO 
 games. I have had experience with EQ1&2, RF online, City of Heroes, Anarchy Online (freeness ftw) , 
 and for some months now WoW. Let me say, i have very few complaints with this game. I'm going to 
 start with the annoyances/bad things in this game first because i'm sure you've all read about 
 the awesome stuff.
  
  Well, PUGs (pick up group; random assortment of strangers running an instance) in general suck. 
 I highly reccomend to find a good guild if you ever want to be serious about this game. Also, even 
 you get to do high level raid instances (such as MC and ZG) guilds use some stupid DKP system which 
 pretty much means, even if an item you really want drops, and you're new to being a lvl 60, you 
 dont get it. Also there is no telling when your going to get that shiny weapon or piece of armor 
 you're eyeing down. I dont really agree with this system too much so meh.
  
  Also, if you choose a PvP server, heed my warning. PvP is an inacurate name. When you join a PvP 
 sever you are pretty much saying "I completely agree that the other faction can embarass me/ majorly 
 inconvenience me and disrupt gameplay pretty much anywhere after the lvl 20ish point. Sure it's 
 cool when you're finally 60 and can get your revenge, but its pretty rough when your in Stranglethorn 
 Vale minding your own business or whatever at lvl 40, and a lvl 57 warrior walks by and chops your 
 head clean off and fires off whatever macros he surely has such as doing the chickendance repeatedly, 
 laughing and spitting, or anything else of the sort.
  
  Well, my fingers are getting tired now. If you want to hear the good stuff go look at pretty much 
 any review here or the GS review. I've played the game out by now, and i dont think i'll be paying 
 for it anymore. Still, it was a good year and 1/2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavanesh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of if not the best game i've ever played. Combat is fun and exciting as 
 you get to use a variety of skills customized to your liking. Throughout the game your constantly 
 getting new skill and ability's to spice up the game play. There is also 8 different races to chose 
 from and 9 different classes each making for a totally new experience. Once you get bored of the 
 combat there is also a few fun things called professions which as like leather workers, engineers, 
 miners, etc. The good thing about these is that you make stuff that you can immediately use and 
 is useful to you unlike most games. There is a whole world to explore to and you can do it in anyway 
 you want. There are forests, and farms, jungles, and city's, I give this a full two thumbs up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I am a Warcraft fan, way before the mmorpg came out, I was playing the Real Time Strategy games 
 and loved them. I was very happy to see that the realms and feel of Warcraft made it into the mmorpg 
 with as much flavor as they had in the previous RTS games.
  
  The gameplay of World of Warcraft is first and foremost the most simple, yet most fun I've experienced 
 so far in a mmorpg. That's not to say that WoW is my favorite, it is far from it, but for just 
 about anyone with an interest in Warcraft, or just an interest in mmo games, this is the game to 
 get into.
  
  Graphics are nice. I am not particularly a big fan of the art style, but I applaud the way Blizzard 
 went about creating the game with the same art style and feel of the RTS games. For a mmorpg, I 
 prefer a more photo-realistic type of environment, but for WoW, the art and graphics work well.
 
  
  Sounds and music are excellent. I love the score and music that plays throughout the game. The 
 environmental and additional sounds are many and add a lot to the fun of the game.
  
  I play mmorpgs for roleplaying, primarily. At first, I didn't find much of it in most servers. 
 Eventually I found groups of roleplayers and had some fun with it in WoW, but the community as 
 a whole on the several servers I played on was not what I was looking for in a mmorpg. I don't 
 know if it's because of the sheer numbers of players on the servers, or the simplistic gameplay 
 that makes it a game for kids to enjoy as well as adults, but the immaturity levels were far below 
 what I am used to in a mmorpg community. This was a big factor in my cancellation of my subscription.
 
  
  The instanced dungeons of World of Warcraft were fun, but weighed to heavily on character advancement. 
 It was necessary for players to go through these instances and obtain armor and other weapons and 
 items to be competitive in PvP arenas. Of course, nobody was forced to go, I didn't go on raids, 
 but then again, I didn't have the "phat lewt".
  
  PvP arenas were a part of the game I rarely got to experience. I am not one to wait in line to 
 play. Otherwise, arenas worked out OK, but I would have liked to see a much more widespeard PvP 
 battlefield, topside, where anyone could get involved. I think Blizzard is trying to work this 
 into the game now.
  
  Overall, I think World of Warcraft is a top-notch mmorpg, from a superior company that has made 
 some classic games. It isn't really for me, but I can see how it has become the most played mmorpg 
 with the most subscriptions, far beyond the competitors. If you are a hardcore type of mmo player, 
 you may still like WoW, but it's simplicity and below average community are it's downfalls in my 
 opinion. Just about everything else about the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game was a great online MMORPG, one that was worth paying for, Flawless graphics witha great 
 engine, and alot of items weapons and armour, compared to the free games, this is a database with 
 some great looking gear, and whipes the floor with all the FREE MMORPG's.
  
  Unfortunatly tho this is... what can i say, an "MMO to die for" literally, this game isnt as great 
 as its made out to be, but it is verry addictive... just because its a good game. Around 10 people 
 have died due to the game, from overplaying and ignoring life. Countless millions (Millions!!!!!!) 
 of people are playing World of Warcraft, instead of doing anything else. This Game has changed 
 lives, it changed mine, i played it for over 1 year, about 9 hours aday, the first day i got it 
 i played it for 14 hours (With Breaks of course)
  
  But thats no excuse for a game. 
  
  The Game isnt polished off too well either, the content updates (Patches) that are released, have 
 mainly been based on problems with charicters, also alot of bugs in this game have been fixed, 
 when you play it you often wonder if it was ever actually *Tested* or even played by a blizzard 
 creator infact.
  
  The Games Masters (GM's) can tend to be on the ignorant side, although most of them are nice people, 
 the rest seem like they are just people who played the game 24/7 and applied to be a GM just to 
 do what they want and play the game.
  
  The Current income of Blizzard's company from WoW is about half of what it used to be, around 10 
 million per month i guess. So while they are still making money like that, and with the Expansion 
 Pack coming out soon, Profits will raise, so if anyone is waiting for this game to be free, dont 
 count on it. (Private Servers are available for free, but its slightly illegal, unless you buy 
 the game then its just against Terms and Conditions)
  
  Blizzard should seriously think about making this Game Free-to-play, it will encourage more players, 
 but they will feel like they dont have to be playing it constantly to get there moneys worth as 
 they arnt paying for it.
  
  Although this game is potentially a 9, im giving it 6.5 because of its lack of Friendlyness towards 
 gamers lives, and the fact it was verry un-finished when it was released, even todate it still 
 has Patches to fix many bugs, and Content that they are constantly changing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowfanatic32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you haven't played an MMO and you are willing to try one, pick this one up.
  
  It is one of the most user friendly games. This game is based on reward. Death is not even 
 a big thing All you have to do is run back to your body. Although this game is great, it seems 
 to take a step back in the player vs. player. The honor system is okay. You might feel like you 
 fall a bit short of lack of world pvp. also the class seem like rock paper sisers like for an exsample 
 a mage has a hard time beating a warlock but a mage has a lesser chance of death fighting a warrior 
 this can be very frustianing at times the most fun i had with this game was the leveling up the 
 game was so friendly ones until you get to lvl 60 then it feels like doing the same thing over 
 and over again crafting the same weapons doing the same dungeons over and over again if you are 
 more into player vs. player pick up guild wars but if you like pve pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  When i first started i didn't sleep for two days, and the other nights i slept like in 5 in the 
 morning. I completly lost track of time (and reality) .
  To play the game u'll need a LOT of patience till u reach a sertain level, and to be honest when 
 u play on a PVP server the only things that makes this more than most MMORG is the world of Warcraft 
 and the....... ummmm..... well that's that. Myself, i prefer the RP servers, where the REAL game 
 starts!!!
  It doesn't really matter if u r lvl 10 or 20 or 7, cause u're Role Playing. It's the most realistic 
 thing ever. If u're tired of just hack 'n slash action, try this out, u WONT regret it.
  All i've regret so far is my addiction to the game, cause this game is like a drug, u just can't 
 have enough of it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniciosm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  well, the only problems i've found in the game is if you have o slow internet connection your dead, 
 you need to read a little about the characters so you can choose the right one for you, even though 
 the map is extremelly large you get used to it after you play a little. the main thing is the fight 
 between alliance and the hordewhich you get used to it also. the rest of the game is just plain 
 fun from the start to the end, if you can find an end to it. so play, play and play. youll like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wafflehead
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay let me start off by saying, before purchasing World of Warcraft from my local best buy 2 months 
 after it came out, I was an avid EverQuest player and I absolutely loved the game. Everywhere from 
 the magical world to explore, the groundbreaking graphics (at least for that time) , the amount 
 of online players you'd see in one server ... it was just an experience like non other but I felt 
 it was time to move on at one point when the EverQuest community was quickly switching over to 
 the NextGen MMORPGs of EverQuest 2 and World of Warcraft. I was really looking forward to this 
 game looking up all the screenshots, videos, news, etc. that I can find on the net and when I finally 
 got the game, I honestly was hooked. I mean normally I don't really spend the entire day playing 
 video games but I just could not get off it. I mean it was fun for about the first 2 weeks and 
 after I was around level 40, it was really getting old and tiring. I would have liked to quit at 
 that very moment but I still had about another 2 weeks of subscription time left so I figured, 
 I might as well at least keep playing till my free month was up. At this point it was feeling more 
 like work then for relaxation and enjoyment like video games are supposed to me. Believe me here 
 folks, the more you play this game, the deeper you'll be pulled into this game and the harder it 
 will be to quit because maybe you might think, "I'll quit for sure when I hit level 60". It just 
 isn't that easy because the next thing you know, you got some of the weakest gear for a level 60 
 so you go off and do instances and raids which take many hours to accomplish with no guarentee 
 you'll even come out with that gear you wanted. 
  
  I'm not going to lie, this is an extremely well made game and Blizzard truly knows how the gaming 
 market thinks. The graphics are absolutely top-notch. People have criticized the game for "cartoonish 
 graphics" compared to its preddecesor, EverQuest 2. I have no complaints, it's very easy on the 
 eyes, the world is beautiful down to every little detail and is just very enjoyable all around. 
 The music in this game is like non other I've experienced in an MMORPG, or in any game really. 
 I love the different types of musics played in major cities anywhere from the patriotic music of 
 the noble Human's Stormwind City to the drum beating and roaring of the deadly Orcs of Ogrimmar. 
 While the leveling process of constant grinding and questing is very time consuming with the average 
 number of days to get to 60 being anywhere from 15 to 30 days (in full days so, 24 hours in a day 
 x 15 = 510 hours played) , I've seen people who have been raiding instances who've played well over 
 2,000 hours and have some of the best gear in the game. Basically, it just isn't worth it. The 
 social activies you'll be missing with your friends, the amount of time you'll be spending on your 
 computer chair, the little work or productivity that will be involved in your life isn't worth 
 leveling up in this game and getting virtual gear. Of course this doesn't apply to everyone. Many 
 people learn to control there WoW cravings but you'll quickly see it's difficult when your not 
 playing at least 6 hours a day because you'll quickly fall behind and many players in the game 
 tend to watch to juice out as much of the $15/month subscription as possible. If you have the time 
 to play this game and/or you have no social obligations in life then play this game because it's 
 probably best for you. If you know you have a good thing going on in your life right now, DON'T 
 touch this game. Not even the free 10 day trials that your friends might offer you or that are 
 on the net. As I've said earlier, the more you play the game, the deeper the whole it will put 
 you in and trust me, it's not easy to quit.
  
  After a good 1 1/2 years of playing this game and leveling up 3 characters to level 60 getting 
 some of the best gear in the game at the expense of about 1,500 hours of my life, I knew it was 
 time to move on because I saw my life quickly was falling part because of this game and the fact 
 that I couldn't really control my addiction to the game usually playing for about 6-8 hours a day. 
 I had to stay away from this game as far as possible, I sold my Collectors Edition World of Warcraft 
 box set which I paid a fortune for at the beginning and deleted the entire game from my computer, 
 deleted all the World of Warcraft fan sites and whatnot from my favorties list on my Internet browser. 
 I'm not really sure how to rate this game because I'm not going to lie, it's a very very well made 
 game but it simply isn't good for people who don't want to waste there lives playing this game 
 on the computer chair. For those who didn't want to bother reading this huge boring review, I'll 
 break down the pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Huge and gorgious world
  -Great variety of music
  -Sound effects are top notch
  -Hundreds of thousands of quest so you 
 always have something to do
  -Tons of people who play on the same server
  
  Cons:
  -Servers that crash often with no explanation from Blizzard
  -Too addictive unfortunetely
  
 -Lots of annoying douche bags in the game who love to talk about Chuck Norris
  
  All in all, if you know you can control how much you can play the game or you have no life already 
 and don't care already, then go ahead and play the game. Other then that, stay far, far away from 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about WOW, its extremely addictive and there is way too much to do to write 
 it all down. You have different professions and thousands upon thousands of quests. Its an awesome 
 game, the only thing si that its a MMORPG (Massively multiplayer online role-playing game) and 
 so you have to pay like 40 every 2 months. But take it from a guy thats been playing a for 2 weeks, 
 4-5 hours in the morning and 3-4 hours at night. This game is worth the pay. You will not get bored 
 for a very, very, very, very long time its way to addictive. They're is to much to do, and blizzard 
 updates the servers now and then and by doing that you get more quests, it is impossible to finish 
 all the quests. Max out your character and get all the ultimate weapons and items. Best selling 
 game of 2005. GET IT GET IT NOW AND PLAY IT ITS AWSOME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassim_1979
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  turn off everything , go buy World of Warcraft ! and start playing !! and dont even compair World 
 of Warcraft to Final Fantasy ...... cauz its not fair to Final Fantasy ...... It Sucks compaired 
 to WOW.
  
  forget XBOX360
  
  forget PS3
  
  forget ur girl friend
  
  forget ur family
  
  forget ur wife
  
  forget food & drink
  
  forget air !
  
  lol 
 START PLAYING !! this game is simply the best MMO game ever it really gets u addictive and compatitive 
 !! the game is FULL of stuff and you cant understand it or know everything about it in 1 or 2 days 
 ! plus the most important thing is that Blizzard ALLWAYS brings out updates so the game keeps updated 
 and allways under construction so u cant even get board cauz the game is simply changing every 
 month, the instince are insane , so trust me if ur a person who loves spending alot of time infront 
 of ur PC then WOW is better than the Internet !! u will gate Fun, Parties, Fighting, chating, Huge 
 Groups.... and lots and lots of fun ......... it is simply Un-Describable ... the best thing ever 
 created by programers !!
  
  if u dont like the game , log in to wow in the Bronzbeard server and type in the Horde chat
  
 
  /4 EVILBUNNY YOU SUCK AND THIS GAME SUCKS TOO !!!!! lol :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastrCake
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game IS perfect. Never have I played a game with more features, fun, longevity, addictiveness, 
 or value.
  
  But how is this game the best value, you ask, if it is $15 a month? Read on.
  
  This game has 
 a super short learning curve. It took me about two minutes to get used to the interface (no small 
 feat in a MMOG) . Everything is where you would expect it, and you get to fight beasts within that 
 time frame. I hate games that are slow to start out with, but this game, while paced slower at 
 first compared to later on in the game, shows that you can kill things in less than two minutes 
 from the time you start!
  
  This game is so long, that I have easily invested more than 100 hours playing, and STILL haven't 
 seen it all!
  
  Not only that, but you can find me playing on the Arthas realm as Malinton on a daily basis. I 
 typically play for 2 hours, take a food/potty break, and play some more. Who said it was hard to 
 get your $15 dollars worth of fun a month?
  
  Well, says SWG (Star Wars Galaxies)
  
  As for features, well, even after you are maxed out and done almost everything, there is always 
 more stuff added periodically, so you will never stop playing!
  
  And what if you get tired of playing as your lvl 60 Tauren Shaman? Just create a new character 
 and enjoy! It is always fun, and there is never a dull moment.
  
  World of Warcraft IS, in my opinion, THE BEST GAME EVER MADE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gpickle12
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a fun MMO at first but once you hit 60 all you do is either instances or player 
 versus player and constantly doing that can get really boring. Also the graphics could be better 
 like Everquest 2 or another MMO. Most of the ideas from WoW was from Everquest 2 anyways. Finding 
 a player to group with is tough and when you ask for help no one really responds and people who 
 are 60 think they are the big cheese and they rarely talk to the lower levels. If you want an MMO 
 try Everquest 2, it won't dissapoint you like WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  The most important part of a video game is that its fun for players to play, and this one simply 
 isn't. Its an MMORPG, but its almost impossible to tell. Contact with other players is extremely 
 rare. Being an MMORPG, it doesn't have an extreme amount of story. This, though it doesn't matter 
 in most of its genre, is the biggest disadvantage of WoW. Since the game seems more like a one 
 player game, not having a substantial story really stops you from getting into it. And, to top 
 it all off, it costs a RIDICULOUS 15 dollars a month! Guild Wars is at least as good as this game, 
 and is free! There is simply no part of this game that would make you want to pay to play it. Don't 
 waste your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG ever! Its so kool! How u can choose different races then u chosse 
 classes from like hunter warrior warlock ..... One thing i like about this game is tht wen u die 
 u dont lose everything u just turn into a spirt and find ur corpse. Another thing i liked about 
 this game is u can trade with people and have clans and guilds. I dont even own the game and i 
 played it for 2 days at a friends house and i was ADDICTED. It has AWESOME freaken grafics and 
 the gameplay is well put together. I just want to let u kno tht this game is VERY HIGHLY ADDICTIVE 
 AND WILL TAKE OVER UR LIFE!!!!!!!!
  
  This happened to my friend he bought this game and played it way to much. 1 day him and i were 
 going accross the street to the pool. he was telling me about how some guy kicked him off for no 
 reason at the time i was kinda of getting sick about tht so i ignored him unforchnaly for him there 
 was a speeding car coming and he was to busy talking to me about about WoW and he was hit badly 
 by the car he lost his left leg in result of talking to much about  
 Oh well... 
  
  : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipknot411
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Hey wassup gamespot fans!
  this game is by far the best online RPG Game ever you can play as much as 8 hours a day maybe more 
 you might even get adiccted to this game!
  The whole point of this game is that it NEVER ends so like you play till your bored of it! which 
 would be never cause thats the way i C it!!!!!: D
  one of the problems facing WOW players is the disconnection of WOW i mean it hurts to Level and 
 get item and get disconnected but hopefully that problem will be fixed shortly! 
  if you like warcraft and blizzard games you will love WOW!
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordATK103
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  What makes a good mmo? Is it good graphics? Gameplay? A lot of players? And low lag? If these are 
 the things you look for in an mmo look no further. First of all the games cartoony look goes great 
 with the warcraft universe. Its not cartoony like windwaker but when you see it you will know what 
 i mean. The environments are huge and detailed. There is over 2 contitents of land and basically 
 you dont need to load to travel in the game. Like all mmos you start out figthing mobs (mmo lingo 
 for monsters) one by one all by your self. As you level up you can do numreous things like instances, 
 PvP, battlegrounds, world dragons and even raid enemy territory. When you first make your character 
 you can choose from 8 different races and in the fall with the release of the burning crusade there 
 will be 2 more races and around 10 different classes to choose from. What is good about this game 
 two people who are the same alligence, race and class are not exactly the same. This done by letting 
 you choose what spells you want when you are able to use them and a well- designed talent system. 
 If you are a warcraft lover get this game. If you like mmos get this game. If you like Rpgs get 
 this game. The only reason not to buy this game is money and thats about it. So if this review 
 convinced you to buy this game and register an acount message me and il help you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  What can i say. im addicted to world of warcraft. this game is so fun. even though i just started 
 playing and im a level 6 mage (mages are the best.) this game is so fun. you start out and you can 
 do quests for people by doing quests you get experince and money its good to have money. when you 
 travel to differnet places you get experice to. the quests are fun. the combat system is really 
 good. if you die you become a ghost and you have to go find your body and then you can resuret 
 yourself. the grapics in this game are insane. i just love to just look at it sometimes and take 
 screenshots. the controls are really good and solid. the magic spells look really good. pvp is 
 really fun even when your not a pvp server you can challange people to duels and just play aroud. 
 you can make groups and work together on quests and finish quests so much faster. if you like mmo's 
 then you should buy this one forget the others this is the best pc game of all time you will have 
 many fun hours with this game. there is the small price of 15 dollars a month but if you can pay 
 it then its worth it . or if you want to just try it get one of the ten day free trial things like 
 i did. trust me you will love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjiao
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't be surprised to see this game being listed as the best game of the year In 2005. It's 
 the best online MMORPG I have ever seen and this will remain the case for a long time to come.
 
  
  Gameplay
  ----------------------------------
  
  Where shall I start? The game experience vastly differs among players of different levels. Entry 
 level players tend to focus more on exploring the game environment and experience every aspect 
 of the game without getting deeply Involved. Players who have spent some time exploring and have 
 mastered certain aspects of the game tend to start joining guilds and playing In groups rather 
 soloing as grouping Is by far the better methodd to level and also to feel the Interactions with 
 other human players.
  
  There are thousands of rare/unique weapons/armor for players to collect. In most cases, getting 
 a unique (called epics In WoW) Involves joining groups (parties) In the game and exploring party 
 or raid Instances.
  
  Graphics 
  -----------------------------------
  
  The graphics engine of the game Is In 3D. The character models are all well rendered and for an 
 online game, this game looks absolutely breathtaking. It suffices to say that the game designers 
 have gone a long way to ensure the quality of the graphics Is not hampered by player's connection 
 speed. It does cause the game to slow down and become jumpy In crowded areas like the Auction house, 
 but most players dont quite see this as an obstable that could prevent them from playing this 
 great game.
  
  Sound
  ----------------------------------
  
  All the sounds are programmed properly to represent their sources. Ogres sound like ogres and lizards 
 sounds like lizards. The music changes depending on the setting. I especially love the player taunts 
 such as the chicken.
  
  Overall
  ----------------------------------
  
  this game has great value and If you have time to spare, I strongly recommend you to go to your 
 nearest gamestore to purchase It. But remember this game Is open ended and there Is never an 'end' 
 as such to It, so If you don't feel like you are the type of people who prioritize things very 
 well, then I suggest holding off on buying this game, as It will keep you stuck on your computer 
 screen for months or  even years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xandeer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is intense!!! It is the bee's nee's of MMORPG's. Compared to other MMO's this is expensive 
 but really good in all aspects (expect monthly fees) .
  This game has great graphics and the World is absolutely enormous and there is so much to do, buy 
 and kill. It isn't too hard and there are many many quests. There are many skills and professions 
 to do and many time fun activities to do. You can be many different races in to sides: The Horde 
 and The Alliance. Alover a great game, with little bugs and many features thow you must pay a monthly 
 fee to be online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIG-BOY
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft can really be just a matter of personal opinion. I am more of a slow, kind of 
 casual mmo player who really doesn't take things seriously in these types of games. Once you enter 
 the World of warcraft you are either sucked in from the beginning, you like the game and decide 
 to give it a try, or you just find it unappealing and eventually quit. The quests are very easy 
 as is pretty much the entire game. Levels 1-58 or so are spent going from zone to zone in the lands 
 of Azeroth going from quest giver to quest giver and fighting mobs, collecting quest items, exploring, 
 or doing lower level instances (dungeons) . This may sound tedious, and for me it was later on in 
 the game more often than not. But many people enjoy the gameplay and find it quite fun and enjoyable 
 from 1-60. Like I said above most of it is just a matter of one's own personal opinion. The game 
 can be either fun or tedious until you hit 60. Now I am not going to say it sucks at 60 or anything, 
 what I am going to say is it all depends on what you are looking for. This is where players who 
 are sick of grinding or doing quest are able to run the big raid instances. I myself am very fond 
 of solo-able content. If you want to go rogue (no pun intended) and solo stuff on your own, you 
 won't get anywhere in end game. Unless you want to grind mobs for faction all the time or do battlegrounds 
 and what not. If you want gear your only option is to join 5 man groups (for your dungeon armor 
 set, which is basically your superior level 60 armor) and do dungeon instances. After that, if 
 you want to go for the epic good looking armor you have to join huge groups with 20+ people and 
 enter a raid instance for 3+ hours. I am not implying that this is bad however. If raiding is your 
 sort of thing, you may find this bit of the game quite enjoyable. But for a player like myself 
 who likes to solo something if possible rather than group you wont find much of anything in end 
 game. Battlegrounds are fun, however to join a bg instance you must wait on a queue before you 
 can join. These can last anywhere from 10 minutes to 3+ hours depending on the battleground and 
 the number of people playing. I found these to be actually very exciting but the biggest drawback 
 are the wait times and the occasional lag. The depth of the game's tradeskills is a huge issue 
 with me. The entire game is just fighting all the time, going from place to place and level to 
 level. Most tradeskills (or professions) dont offer any incentive to making certain items other 
 than getting you another point closer to the 300 mark. Some tradeskills make useful items, like 
 someone with first aid makes bandages, someone with engineering can make bombs and such. But none 
 of professions offer any customization features or diversity, such as crafting an item with great 
 stats one second, and crafting the same item the next with poor stats. All the items you craft 
 will be the same as well as the quality of your components. I found the tradeskills/professions 
 to be extremely poor and relatively unrewarding to lower level players and even high level ones 
 who have not looted that one epic sword recipe. As for the depth of the game itself, the world 
 is very small, with quite a bit to see. However if you are like me who just came from Star Wars 
 Galaxies and liked to explore massive zones, you wont find much here. Most of the zones are very 
 small with little to see or encounter after you have been there once.
  
  The UI is extremely simple and easy to use. Even if you get bored with the same old look, you can 
 choose from several user-created interface mods online which can do anything from rearranging your 
 UI completely, or being able to change the games soundtrack to your own, personal playlist. Graphics 
 are quite cartoony yet that is a given granted the entire warcraft rts series had cartoon-like 
 graphics. If you want more realistic graphics like you may find in everquest or DaoC. Steer clear. 
 Personally I didn't mind the graphics themselves. But they are very clear and it is easy to see 
 what exaclty you are getting into. World of Warcraft can be either a very fun, or a very tedious, 
 boring game. Even both. I found this game to be fun for a couple weeks, then completely boring 
 the next few months. Like I said above you will either be addicted to it and level up to 60 in 
 no time, you will dislike the game and not play it at all, or you will be like me and like it from 
 the start, but keep finding it boring off and on as you play until you hit end game. At which it 
 all matters on what you like to do, where the game doesn't offer you much of a choice. It is all 
 a matter of what you like and what you are looking for. This may be the most popular mmo out there 
 due to all of the promotion, but it is certainly nowhere near the best. I give this a 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've just come back to WoW after a 7month break and started a new character. I had 2 lvl60's characters 
 before I cancelled my subs.
  Basically, it's the same great content filled, highly polished game as it was (lvl45 at the mo) 
 and I'm loving it.
  I know it's going to be heavilty instance based when I get to 50+ but I'm looking forward to that 
 on this character. The pvp is still disapointing with it all being in Battlegrounds but with the 
 1.12 patch & Burning Crusade expansion, Blizzard is bringing back open world PvP which will hopefully 
 put more content into the end-game than repetitve instance raids
  Blizzard have addressed every gripe I had with other MMO's (been playing them since 1999) but ran 
 out of ideas for lvl60+. They replace the 'improvement by leveling' theory with a horrible item 
 grind and the alternative is a grind of a different sort - PvP reputation in the Battlegrounds. 
 But another up coming change is a major over-haul to the honour system which should make high level 
 PvP rewards available to a wider audience. Whilst I'm enjoying the ride with this new character 
 I'm pinning alot of hope on the new open world PvP being good before I plumb for a long term subscription. 
 Then WoW may finally be what it was designed to be. While PvP has a lot of potential, playing CTF 
 in a Fantasy MMO was only ever gonna impress 12 year olds. Lets hope they can put the war back 
 in warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arimar666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game that will appeal to a wide base of people, however don't let it get a 
 deep hold over you because it is very addicting to most.
  
  The gameplay in this game is really great, because no matter if you play a rogue, a shaman, a mage, 
 etc. They all have a different feel to them, and everyone can solo unlike EverQuest where 80% of 
 the time, you are going to need a group. Also, the quest and tradeskill system is very good, it 
 is organized and overall very fun and rewarding.
  
  I didn't give a 10 on graphics to this game because it has ultra-high detail Oblivion graphics. 
 I gave this a 10 because they are truly something different, World of Warcraft graphics are very 
 distinguishable.
  
  Sound is eh, well it gets the job done that's all I really have to say, but it's not that bad, 
 there are definetly games with worse sound.
  
  Value is perhaps the lowest of the categories because it is a subscription game and you will be 
 paying per month ($15) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ueber-Mensch
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game requires no skill, just time on your hands. Sure, it's fun at first. But as soon at you 
 hit 60 IT's a freaking item hunt. just time, time and more time. Seriously, i have a life, WOW 
 is not my life. I think they will have a WAA, World of Warcraft Addicts Anonymous. I just find 
 it so repeatative and gosh darn boring to sit there and wait for a Raid to start or my Mana to 
 refill. People should be playing real games like BF2 and FEAR and Starcraft. I can't belive 7 million 
 actually pay for this stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great introduction to those who have little MMORPG experience. The game 
 experience is immersive and in-depth, with a colourful (not to mention playable in the previous 
 Warcraft games) history.
  
  The game can be quite overwhelming at times, especially with such a large community, all of whom 
 seem to know more than you when you start out playing. However it is easy to pick up the basics, 
 and the fast progression at the beginning of the game makes it exciting and addictive.
  
  The graphics in Azeroth (the world the game is set in) are good, although not mind blowing. Although 
 the actual graphics may not be cutting-edge, the scenery is, to say the least, amazing. With huge 
 landscapes and epic dungeons the first time you visit a new area can take your breath away.
  
  The thing that lets WoW down is, for me, the end-game. As you progress through the game the 
 pace drops slowly but obviously, ending in quite a repetetive grind. The big 60 is a great feeling 
 for the first time, however once there, there is limited gameplay choices for a casual gamer. For 
 something as diverse as it was in the beginning, the repetetive and slightly mundane nature of 
 the final level 60 lets it down.
  
  PVP (player versus player) in the game is fun and big change to fighting the AI the game produces. 
 It is unique and interesting, thanks to the innovation of the players. However the currently-implemented 
 honor system can, again, turn into a grind.
  
  Overall this is an epic game, with a huge world and a variety of things to do to entice casual 
 and hard-core gamers alike. However for casuals like me, lack of end-game progression makes it 
 hard, or at least boring, to continue after a certain point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fruzzems
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  There is absolutely nothing wrong with this game. The graphics couldn't be better. The storyline 
 is great. The online experience is more then revolutionary. The sounds deserve an A+. The classes 
 are so balanced it's unbelievable. The Gameplay is incredulously easy to understand and it is extremely 
 effective. The interaction with other players is almost too simple to understand. The only thing 
 i would suggest to blizzard is to allow the horde and alliance interact with eachother so they 
 can actually talk with one another since they could talk to eachother in all of the other warcraft 
 games. But other than that this game is so good if you don't own it well you have no idea what 
 your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mynjura
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game owns it's the most popular game. When you here things going aroung like World of Warcraft 
 sucks don't believe them they're jealous it's the best game i've ever played and i absolutely love 
 it i spend the hole day on it not because its adictive which it is it's because this game has more 
 than 3,000 quests and you have to spend alot of time to finish them all. My idea is first of all 
 get the 2 week trial for only 2 dollars and try it and you'll see that those people are just jealous. 
 This game opened up a whole new world to me a world that this world couldn't understand, but it 
 is the most Fun thrilling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antinate
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I can tell you one for sure thing: This game is popular. If you walk around any high school or 
 even walk past the bathroom you can hear someone talking about WoW, regardless of clique or status. 
 Let's talk about Blizzard: Blizzard's games (but not only games) like Starcraft, Warcraft, and 
 Diablo - they were all very popular. Warcraft was a good game because Azeroth wasn't just confined 
 to stereotypical medieval days Azeroth has guns, it has trams, gnome mechanisms, flying machines. 
 World of Warcraft isn't a medieval game, it's modern day Azeroth.
  
  I got World of Warcraft right after I finished playing Star Wars Galaxies, and the game seemed 
 great because it was a breath of fresh air from a bad developer and repetetive grinds. World of 
 Warcraft is probably popular because it can run on most computers and that it doesn't have long 
 load times... but it's also popular because a lot of people play it. I can easily see a scenario 
 that a person picks up WoW, plays it for a few days, then runs over to his friends and tells them 
 about what a great game it is. They pick it up and tell all their friends after a couple of days. 
 Eventually, we get a ridiculously large amount of people playing WoW because, judging by a few 
 days of playing, this game is great. Now, everyone plays for a number of months and then get bored 
 and start complaining about nothing to do, blah blah blah. They quit, but Blizzard doesn't lose 
 any more players because of the Friend Cycle. Every player that quits is replaced by 3 more new 
 players, who could be the friends of your friends' friends.
  
  But let's get back to the pros. Despite being comical in appearance, Azeroth looks pretty good 
 and resembles Warcraft 3 in many ways. The many quests in this game could keep you going for hours, 
 though the quests at time seem to be nothing more than grinds with promise of reward.
  
  That's it. Now for the cons.
  
  The towns are all incredibly small. The only places that breathe 
 any civilization are the main cities. Dark Age of Camelot had many towns to be, and they weren't 
 only made up of the developers slapping two buildings together and calling it a town.
  
  The game is good while you're playing your first character. After that, you find out that the easiest 
 way to level up your new character is quests, and regardless of your race a lot of the quests are 
 exactly the same, and you will soon find these repetetive. I doubt that World of Warcraft was made 
 with a replayability factor in mind.
  
  The community is one of the biggest turn-offs of this game. If you go on the forums, you will find 
 absolutely nothing but trolls and the tiniest number of players who actually can post and make 
 a single scrap of sense at the same time. The forum trolls are always under the impression that 
 they have lives, despite the fact that they have nothing to do than troll forums all day, and they 
 use this misguided belief whenever you ask something like, "Will there ever be a graphical upgrade?" 
 "Can we get something to change our characters' appearances?" and etc, they will run around screaming 
 about your apparent lack of life whether you have one or not, and the forum moderators do nothing 
 to make the community any percent better.
  
  If a server goes down, the forums get absolutely flooded with "WAH WAH WAH MY SERVER'S DOWN," and 
 absolutely nobody has the patience to even wait it out. They even point their fingers at Blizzard 
 and go, "I'm not paying $15 a month to WAIT for this BS." A lot of the time you will be wishing 
 to yourself that they'd stop paying $15 a month so you don't have to put up with their complaining.
 
  
  If you post anything constructive about anything related to the game or otherwise, you will get 
 a, "It's fine, learn2play," a, "Cry more noob," or some random pointless ASCII image which serves 
 no purpose other than to be annoying.
  
  If there is any class change, the community begins tearing its hair out and begins to weep obsessively. 
 Now, I can understand a lot of the time where people are coming from about these changes being 
 bad, but this sort of complaining always is bait for the terrible community to come by and say 
 "it's fine, learn2play," and say, "cry more noob" to only turn around and scream at everyone when 
 THEIR class gets "nerfed." Also, if someone makes a post saying that they should nerf every class 
 except theirs, they flame anyone who thinks otherwise.
  
  This game is overflowing with Counterstrike and Diablo kiddies. You will run around and suddenly 
 hear some random BS and leetspeak being /yelled. Also, if you go to Goldshire's Inn, it will highly 
 be likely you will see two GUYS (one pretending to be a girl) cybering and the girl suggesting 
 that the guy "does it harder." This is not a game for your children.
  
  If you ever ask for help over the General Chat channel, you will get flamed by higher levels for 
 "being a noob," and because you also don't know what to do about something game-related, you also 
 apparently "fail at life."
  
  These aren't situations that had me as the victim, but these sort of things occur so often that 
 it would be impossible to not see at least three instances of them in a month.
  
  One last thing is that Blizzard apparently doesn't care for the lore of its game. If you care enough 
 about that, you can just look anywhere on the lore section of the site or the forums and you will 
 see what I mean.
  
  All in all, if World of Warcraft didn't have the Warcraft games as its predecessor (and if Blizzard 
 didn't make Starcraft and Blizzard) then World of Warcraft would be just a generic fantasy game 
 (which it already seems to be, despite its backstory) and other MMORPGs could easily beat WoW at 
 every aspect except for popularity. I even admit that I've been thinking more than one to return 
 to SWG while playing WoW. Either way, I'm filing this away in my "Played Games" section, because 
 trying to play WoW after seeing all there is to see is like chewing gum that has lost its flavor.
 
  
  The only thing that keeps this game alive is the promise of Burning Crusade and the cycle of friends 
 telling friends about this game. Blizzard claims that WoW has over 6 million players, but does 
 that disclude the people that have already unsubscribed? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalKombat147
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft takes the chracters and story we all love from Warcraft 3 the RTS to the next 
 level in this RPG. The game is almost too addicting for the first couple of months you play. I 
 know I put somewhere between 40 days of gameplay into this game after playing it for a year and 
 a half since last March 2005. The game actually lasts you that long because a new patch is released 
 usually every month or month and a half. You could keep playing even longer then I did because 
 of the new and better gear being released so often. The only reason I decided not to keep playing 
 this game is because you have to keep updating your gear so often and after not playing it for 
 a week or two you get behind in rankings and miss out on gear. The graphics aren't great but they 
 are decent enough to play with when they were released in 2004. I gave the sound an 8 because you 
 actually don't hear to much dialogue in the story the chracters never actually talk thats one difference 
 from the diablo series. The gameplay is pretty typical for a RPG kill guys get loot just like in 
 the diablo series. If you can sacrifice the time and your friends for this game then go to the 
 store now and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  When you first sit down and play with a lv 1 character, its a little boring. But once you reach 
 lv 8 or something, your having a blast. Its really well made. The races, and the class's are really 
 well made, the action is awsome, nice graphics, you really can just jump right into it, and even 
 if you can't, you can just ask. One of the only problems is leaving your character in an inn really 
 dosent help that much. And dying really is'nt that big a deal. You just find your body, or talk 
 to the spirit healer (for a price actually, but its still fun) . And another cool thing about it 
 is its so simaliar to the other warcraft games. It feels like your actually on the warcraft battlefeild. 
 I love it, my friend loves, it, its awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solaris222002
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  Im not saying at all that WoW is a bad game because it's not obviously because it's gotten so many 
 fans but I just could'nt find myself drawn into the world. I got up to level 10 and joined a guild 
 but it still was'nt entertaining to me. To be good at this game you need to be patient and know 
 what your doing, I had no idea what I was doing because nobody in the game would help me if I asked 
 them a questions the would just call me a noob, so I suppose the community didnt help my decision 
 to keep playing. Im more of a fast pasted gamer like Halo and Call of Duty and it was just to slow 
 for my taste. If WoW looks interesting to your then play it you will probably like it but for those 
 that are like me and prefer more fast pasted games then you probably should'nt bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Fire_460
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  There is no way you can not like this game, this game is virtually endless. When you reach the 
 current level cap (Level 60) that is just the beginning, that does not mean that you can dominate 
 anyone in battle. This game is highly based on your gear (armor and weapons) and trust me, it is 
 not some game that you could play for a week and get bored of getting too strong, witch might happen 
 in a game like Diablo 2. Trust me you will never get bored of even YOUR FIRST CHARACTER. I have 
 to go now but if you like video games, even if you don't like MMORPG's you must check this game 
 out... im gonna go play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll straight up say it. This is the best mmorpg (massively-multi player online role playign game) ever. Their 
 are 8 species,9 classes, all kinds of  and a whole lot of fun. One 
 (of many) impresssive fact about it is that most online games don't have good replayability. On 
 this, once you max out your, say, undead warrior for example, just the thought of all the areas, monsters 
 and quests for the, say, human paladin, you just have to try him out. Another impressive thing about 
 this great game is the classes. Will you be a druid, with great spells and the ability to turn into 
 an animal or will you be a hunter, the best class in my opinion. (guess who i am?) When you think 
 of the game's envirements, you should think of snowy landscapes, crowded orc cities, a scary floating 
 ziggurat and great plains full of lumbering kodo beasts, but, if you do, then you should wonder about 
 transportation. Well, the good guys can cross the seas in a ship, teh bad guys a aircraft, you can 
 purchase a mount when your a high lvl and rich, you can cross the neutral goblin transport and many 
 more things. Overall, i recamend this to any1 looking for a good time...
  
  Skalokos
  _-_-_- _-_-_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsmuse
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  I just cannot believe this game has been so overated, Let me tell you its just an "easy" version 
 of those massive online games we love. Looking back to its main competitors, FF-xi and over all 
 Lineage2. When i looked the rate the webpage had given it i was quite annoyed wondering how a game 
 like WoW could get a "9" in the graphic test. Come on people!, Does Blizzard support this webpage???. 
 Afterwards i looked at Lineage2 (L2) rating: 6.5, with an "amazing" 8 at the graphic test. Everyone 
 who had played both games would agree L2 is far better in the graphic part thatn WoW. I would not 
 talk about the rest of parts of the tast cause they could lead to subjective opinions. In my town 
 im bored of seeing how useless vg players play only WoW and criticize L2 or FF-XI without even 
 know more of those games than what this "not accurate this time" web page says. I do think its 
 time to recheck L2 test marks, considering the incoming 5th expansion of the game i think its time 
 to update. I really look forward to any kind of response of somebody from the staff or maybe some 
 other users. I really love your web page, its just that i dont feel like shutting down this time. 
 I think your rate for L2 was made without knowing the game. Play more that 15min please. You must 
 understand that the most played vg in Korea (where freaks like us grow faster than wherever) cannot 
 have a 6.5 while WoW has a 9.5, omg, its just a version for noobs of morpgs.
  The Game is TOO easy, you dont suffer anything to get good stuff. Game for noobs in comparition 
 to l2, its like a private server of Lineage with x30 rates, it sucks.
  Looking Forward for your answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daigleberry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I am of the first persuasion... I'm addicted. I figure the easiest thing to do is write a list 
 of PROs & CONs:
  
  Pros:
  1) Decent mix of races & classes, to be improved upon in expansion.
  2) Large enough world to 
 get lost in
  3) Highly cusomizable interface & add-ons
  4) Nice looking graphics
  5) Nice travel system
  
  Cons:
  1) Quests can be very repetetive
  2) Level cap seems a 
 bit low (I've only been playing for a few days and I'm 1/3 of the way up already)
  3) Lack of official in-game mp3/music player (add-ons available but not sure if they work since 
 recent patch)
  
  All I can say is I recommend this game to EVERYONE, however if you are not a hardcore RPGer, I'd 
 stick with gamecards and not sign up for more than a couple months so that when you get bored you 
 can stop playing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toros73
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you can spare 60% of your life you should be able to play this game. But if you're like me, 
 a casual gamer, you won't want to be spending most of your time playing this game. Don't get me 
 wrong though, I did enjoy this game. This can be a very addictive and fun game, but very time consuming 
 of course, like most MMORPGs. But out of all the MMORPGs i've ever played, this has to be one of 
 the best, the graphics are nice, crisp and clean, the gameplay is very immersive and fun. This 
 is the kind of game every MMORPG fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miked1213
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft, What can I say about this game that already hasn't been said. Hmmmm Not much. 
 The game is one of the best MMORPG games that I have ever played. Yes the Graphics are cartoonie 
 and Every person of the same classes are identical. But What keeps me and millions of others on 
 the game and paying the fee, is the game play and the Rich storyline. I have always been a fan 
 of blizzard. I played all of the warcraft games and the diablo ones as well so for me When I stood 
 under the dark portal for the first time I was Shocked and gitty at the same time. It looked so 
 cool and was everything I was hoping it to be. Now with the expansion coming out I am looking forward 
 to some great content and more rich storylines to get into. Now if SOE will fix what they broke 
 with galaxies, Blizzard would have some real fighting to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now, and I must say... This game is a lot of fun in the beginning, 
 learning different skills and such, now that I'm 60 with the highest end epics you can get, "playing" 
 this game takes on a new meaning. If you're not farming or waiting to join battlegrounds, you're 
 raiding, and raiding is extremely boring, especially for a healer. This game feels more like a 
 job than my actual job. It's like doing a tedius low pay job (raiding) so you can earn loot (dkp) 
 to buy more drugs to get you high for a short time (epics) and then you're over it and you want 
 more drugs (epics) . New raid dungeons don't even interest me anymore, and neither does the new 
 challenges... it really just means you will wipe many more times before you get your next better 
 epic (like a new more expensive drug addiction) . Play this game for leisure, don't take it too 
 seriously or it will take over your life. If you are not someone who can do that, then just don't 
 buy the game. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codename33
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  When I thought that I was sick of MMORPG's forever, along came WoW and all of its addictiveness. 
 I ended up getting glued to it for hours on end, and ultimately ended up having to put it away 
 because it was taking up my life. To be put basically, WoW is the MMO for everyone. They have tons 
 of different classes and talents to suit everyone's play style, as well has having an easy learning 
 curve for people who are new to MMO's. The only part I have about gameplay is the grind. First, 
 you have to grind by killing monsters over and over again until level 60. Then there's the equipment 
 grind, where you run many instances (the dungeons of WoW) so that you can get better equipment. 
 It sometimes becomes very boring. However, talking to friends, people in your group and your guild 
 makes sure that you don't feel isolated while grinding. I give gameplay a 9.
  
  The graphics are very artistic, since Blizzard wanted to have the same look as Warcraft 3. Sorry, 
 but you won't be finding any amazing Everquest 2 graphics here. Luckily, you don't need a top-of-the-line 
 pc the play this game well, so that's the good exception to the lack of amazing graphics. I give 
 graphics a 9.
  
  The sound is very nice as well. I really like the music in this game, which is very well done. 
 However, it's sort of annoying to hear the same 10 or so songs over and over again while hearing 
 the same noises from your character and enemies. I give sound an 8.
  
  The value of this game is pretty good. You get a huge world to play in, as well as many pvp opportunities 
 and instances to explore. You also get content updated regularly! however, is the regular content 
 really worth paying $15 a month for? For a year of playing this game, you'll have spent around 
 $180 because of the monthly fee. Because of the huge monthly cost, I give value an 8.
  
  Overall, if you're new to MMORPGS or just want to get a new, fun experience, WoW is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvis12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The Up. WoW is a absolutely wonderful game for several reasons. It takes along time to get tired 
 of and you can still get sucked backed into it again. A great thing about this game is that you 
 are interacting with thousands of other players. This separates it from all other RPG's. This game 
 is also massive which would take the player hundreds of hours to truly explore. 
  
  The Down. THe monthly fee on WoW (which is required) seems a bit high. WoW servers are down quite 
 often for maintenance. 
  
  This game is still a wonderful buy and I would recommend and person buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korbatm
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. This review is coming from a level 60 tauren shaman, and I have been 60 
 for quite some time. The game is spectacular - The amount of spells, monsters, and just size of 
 the world is so immense that you can not believe it until you have explored it all. I love this 
 game for the PvP, though not completely finished (but they shall do some fixes in 1.12) and of 
 course, end game raiding. In the beginning, you have to slowly get used to it. I remember when 
 I started my first character, a night elf druid, I got bored fairly quickly. I ended him at level 
 12, and started another. At the start of this, I was more familiar, and got to level 28. Now, after 
 about 2 hours or more of gaming after you are familiar with the controls, you become an expert, 
 and start understanding just how good the game is. Your character customization is truly amazing. 
 With 8 races, 9 classes, and then the 3 trees of talents with 31 points each, it's quite difficult 
 to find someone with the same as you. You get 51 talent points by level 60 - You cannot specialize 
 in all three trees, making you good in one thing only. My favorite part of the game would have 
 to be running dungeons and doing raids. Being in a high end raid guild, we do this weekly. Running 
 5-man dungeons is such a thrill that no matter what your role, be it healer, tank, or damage, it 
 is amazing and you are completely required. Onyxia, and Ragnaros would have to be my two favorite 
 40-man raid bosses, because of the insane about of strategy need. For Onyxia, this dragon has 3 
 stages and certain points and stances you must all stand not to be hit with devastating abilities. 
 Ragnaros is almost impossible without the proper gear, and the gear in this game is... just wow.... 
 There are so many choices, so many awesome graphics, it makes the game a joy. Though the gameplay 
 may not be as fast as you hope at the start, it quickly speeds up to meet with your needs, be it 
 grouping, soloing, or PvPing. PvP is a very good part of the game. Though the system needs work, 
 the actual fighting and games in PvP are amazing. One of my favorite parts of this game would have 
 to be the music in some parts. Orgrimmar music is very good, and feels perfectly as if it is an 
 orc masterpiece. The Thunderbluff song is also great, gives a good spiritual feeling and makes 
 one feel as a tribal tauren. Out of all the music, my favorite only shows up in certain parts of 
 the game. This music is very fast paced and beautifully woven together. It is found in parts of 
 battlegrounds, and even in some dungeons. All in all this game is worth the money tenfold. I don't 
 know what I would have done without this. In the end, and in my own words, this game is truly... 
 WoW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petsasj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  WoW is far more than a Game. It seems to be a whole World, just as the name describes it. There 
 might be days that you might log on and do nothing but speak in guild chat or whispers with friends. 
 You relying on others for your life in instances is one of the aspects that strengthens the bonds 
 you have with the game. You are a team and work for the best. Words are few to describe all the 
 feelings you get in WoW. It just seems to be similar to some in the real life. For example when 
 buying a car and when buying an epic mount.
  
  The only downside is one to my eyes. The end-game content is not available to all. Getting in a 
 guild that is doing End-Game instances is quite hard, and requires you to sacrifice a lot of time 
 to prove yourself, if you are lucky enough to do so. However, most doors seem shut in some realms. 
 PvP realms progress more in PvE than PvE realms, if you know what i mean.
  
  Anyways, WoW All :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veryfunny98
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  By rating it superb of course it must mean the game is incredible. In all actuality the gameplay 
 is what keeps you going. I don't mean the constant grind and questing. I mean the layout of the 
 skills and the easy learning curve. The graphics are set to an eight because it seems to be of 
 cartoon origin. The trees, grass, basically the environment seems a wee bit childish. For instance 
 we will look at a Doomguard. Supposed to be some all powerful demon. It looks like a pissed off 
 faerie. ALL of the races look like figures kids get from cereal boxes. Human males look like they 
 took too much steroids and females look like they could not hold a stick without puffing. Gnomes, 
 ugh, Gnomes are midgets with too large of heads that distorts any armor they wear. A Gnome Warlock 
 makes the Nemesis set look like a bunny suit. Tauren are far too large for their own good. They 
 enlarge everything they carry or ride making them quite aggravating to be. The camera can sometimes 
 be problems in small halls because of their size. A troll, is well a troll. If they stood up straight 
 they would be taller then Tauren. That is what makes this race funny. The way they talk is odd 
 as well. Anyways you get the point, after a while seeing this fairy tale, fake looking world gets 
 boring. Also seeing the same creature just bigger and with a different name is annoying as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm1041
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  WoW is basicly two games pre-60 and post-60.
  
  Pre-60 is the wonderfull time spent leveling your toon from lvl 1 all the way to level 60. I found 
 this the most fun, beucase no matter when, I could log on and progress my character furthur, even 
 If I was only on for 20minutes or so. Many days spend doing quests, griding, playing battlegrounds, 
 all while in the company of my 3 RL/In-Game friends. Playing with them made this game way more 
 fun. The missions didnt get veary repetitive (although there was alot of "kill x number of beasts" 
 or "collect x number of drops") . It was fun, and I cant remeber anything upseting about that part 
 of the game (say for attempting to do quests a bit over my cababilities and being frustrated with 
 death) . The worst part was once you hit 55 running the constant dungeons to get your blue set peices... Its 
 a good way to mold you into you post-60 shoes.
  
  Post-60 is all 100% grinding and running the same thing over and over agian. Weather its MoltenCore, 
 BWL, AQ40, Battlegrounds... everyhting is a constant grind to get yet another peice of your set. 
 This gets dull and old really really fast. You can only progess gear wise if you are in a guild 
 that can sucsessfully run MC/BWL and then you can only run on the days they choose to run (no more 
 logging on for 20min and progressing) . It becomes a constant waiting game to run the same dungeon 
 for the 50th time to get a peice of armor that MAY drop, and even if it does drop you MAY not be 
 the one to get it. Its boring, and not much fun... most of the time. Someones runs can be enjoyable 
 once you get all the bosses down and its mainly joking around on guildchat/ventrillo.
  
  Final Pre-60   Post-60
  but Post-60   most mmorps
  
  If your a hardcore gamer and want an 
 MMORPG... get this
  If your a casual player ang want an MMORPG........ get this
  If you are kinda thinking of playing an MMORPG.... get this
  
  WoW is by far the top of the 
 line when it comes to MMORPG's, but even the best has its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely flawless. The graphics, although a bit outdated, are rich and incredible. 
 the music is outstanding, and could be used for some of today's movie epics. i dont have to say 
 anything about the gameplay, because that is perfect too. with many things to do, a massive world, 
 millions of players, the gameplay is abnormally impressive. 6 years went into the makign of this 
 game ,and every minute of it was worth it. $15 a month? pfft, i'd pay $100! (if i could offord 
 it :P)
  I love this game because it is so incredibly immersive. it was almost impossible for me to quit.. 
 .actually it was. i quit once, but couldn't take it. i had so many memories from it. i just had 
 to go back. if you can offord it, BUY IT. there is no excuse not to. 10/10. The best game now, 
 and in the future. Whenever any MMORPG comes out now, you can almost always find "it's great. but 
 not as good as World of Warcraft." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkIsreal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  A very fun game to play, IF you have the time. althought WOW is a very good game it can take months 
 upon months to get your character to be ne good in your realm. for someone like me who has a videogame 
 hating pair of parents, this game is just not worth it. So jsut be ready to spend hours every day 
 trying to just get better armor or recover financially from the multiple deaths from camping higher 
 levels or keep up with your guild, schedule a raid, level up your profession, help a friend and 
 MORE. all this for just one character. so dont not get unless you are ready to COMMIT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naroke24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  "World of Warcraft, a massively multiplayer, online, role-playing game is set in the world of Azeroth.
 
  
  Featuring bold 3D graphics and deep, immersive gameplay, World of Warcraft allows thousands of 
 players to adventure together in this epic world and will provide them with a new, in-depth perspective 
 on familiar lands, former battlefields, and heroes from the legendary universe. In addition, World 
 of Warcraft will introduce new, uncharted territories and foes never before seen by followers of 
 the series. 
  
  World of Warcraft takes place four years following the aftermath of Warcraft III: Reign of Chaosa, 
 where a great tension has settled over the ravaged world of Azeroth. As the various races begin 
 to rebuild their shattered kingdoms, new threats, both ancient and terrifying, have arisen to plague 
 the world once again. Players must explore the lands of Azeroth, forge fellowships with other players, 
 and build their strength in order to prevail. 
  
  "World of Warcraft is our largest undertaking to date," stated Mike Morhaime, Blizzard Entertainment 
 president and co-founder. "We are extremely focused on increasing the scope of the Warcraft universe, 
 giving gamers an incredibly dynamic online gaming experience complete with endless possibilities." 
 
  
  An action-packed combat system delivers fast, furious combat against multiple opponents, while 
 minimizing delays between battles to keep players on the move. A rich, evolving story and questing 
 system will keep players engrossed as the world is regularly updated with new content. 
  
  Fully customizable character classes, innovative races, and thousands of weapons allow for a truly 
 diverse gameplay experience that will appeal to both hard-core and novice gamers alike. A simple, 
 intuitive user interface will allow players of various skill levels to easily join the adventure. 
 World of Warcraft also features support for advanced graphics hardware, giving the player superlative 
 graphical enhancements, as well as a sophisticated, massively multiplayer network architecture 
 capable of supporting thousands of players in a world simultaneously." - GameRankings. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamerdragon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  It is the best PC game I have ever had in my life! I believe it is the best massively multiplayer 
 game and the best Pc game undependaple of genre!
  It is so addictive that I put my alarm to play at 8:30a. m and start playing it form 9:00 am - 3:00pm 
 and then I start playing it again from 9:00pm - 12:00am+!!!
  It is worth the money and the fee they put to play.
  If you start playing it you can't stop playing 
 it. Oyu can not get away from it1 You spend hours and hours playing until you really really get 
 tired. But the part that you get tired it doesn't last long.
  GO JUST BUY IT AND START YOUR HUGE ADVENTURE WITH FRIENDS AND ENEMIES TO CO-OPERATE AND BATTLE!
 
  
  
  A NEW WORLD AWAITS!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hal0Junke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt in my mind that this game is revolutionary. Whether you like The World of Warcraft 
 (WoW) or not it has brought MMORPG's from the basement of a computer programmer, to the desk of 
 the everyday person. Even though programmers still have an edge on the genre.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay that WoW offers. WoW's gameplay is in line with all of the traditional 
 MMORPGs out there; however Blizzard (the creators of WoW) has learned from the mistakes of the 
 past. They have stream lined the process of everyday combat to make the game easy and rewarding. 
 Levels will grow as you gain experience from WoW's combat, and your stats will increase slightly 
 has you level; however WoW has added other things such as talent points and armor that can only 
 be warn at a certain level to make leveling much more rewarding. 
  As for the actual combat that you do with the creatures of Azeroth (the name of WoWs fantasy world) 
 it is repetitive. You find your self making a certain pattern that you follow with every battle 
 using the best of your class abilities to their fullest. This can get very boring, very fast (even 
 though it is the most efficient way to progress through the game) . So they send you on quests to 
 kill certain monsters and explore the vast lands of WoW. 
  However the repetitive combat and short quests is merely the road to what WoW has to offer and 
 it is some of the best gaming out there. PvP, instances, Raids, and cashed in rewards are all of 
 what makes this game great and give your class a 'meaning' when working with other people in WoW. 
 The unfortunate part is that almost all of these things must be done at the final level with good 
 equipment to do them at their full potential; and whether you find this easy or hard, fun or not, 
 this is no fast road. This is WoWs problem, the amount of time you spend playing. In fact it is 
 every MMORPGs problem; which is why only people you have the will power to go through this slow 
 repetitive process have played MMORPG (i. e. programmers, college/ high school students, etc...) . 
 
  But WoW's great gameplay keeps people looking past the repetitiveness and the slow process, looking 
 at what rewards you will get to make your character more powerful and expand your gameplay. If 
 you can see through this too, if you can make WoW all the way to the end; then you will have a 
 great game on your hands.
  
  --Gameplay 9/10 (with the end game in mind)
  
  Let me start out by saying how impressed I am by WoWs graphics. They... well... wowed me. Honestly 
 I was expecting the graphics to be a lot less then they were. I had thought that because of the 
 massive amount of data be processed by the seamless lands of WoW and its many players, and the 
 fact that they had taken the time to make each area unique and not 'flat' like other MMORPG; that 
 the graphics would have been downsized. But trust me; they werent.
  Lets talk about what every WoW hater talks about when they discuss graphics; the player models. 
 The models of the various races and class avalible to you are not quite up to par, with lets say 
 Doom 3 or oblivion. But thats for a reason. Most latency and 'lag' (I use the term lightly) and 
 framrate problems stem from the other players in WoW; and there are a lot of them. By downsizing 
 the graphics, but still making them and best as possible, 'lag' and framrate issues were downsized. 
 But dont think they even slightly applied this rule to the environment. Its looks beautiful and 
 they spared no expense on making each and every place in to world unique and exciting, blending 
 the world around you to match its creature and its purpose the WoW story line. The graphics are 
 great for an MMORPG.
  
  --Graphics 10/10
  
  Sound gives a game its feel. WoW has some nice sounds with its music, sound effects, and ambiance. 
 The music is often quirky and is nice background music; every now and then you will here some truly 
 inspiring music. Also note that every musical number goes with the setting very well and gives 
 it the feel that that certain place ahs to offer. However, the music is not that uncommon amongst 
 MMORG and other games out there and does not stand out that much. The coolest part about WoWs sounds 
 are its sound effects. They work perfectly and every different ability has a perfectly matching 
 sound effect that you, and nearby players, can hear. This not only makes the feel of what you are 
 doing more exciting and interesting, but in PvP (player verses player) it can also help you win 
 by knowing what the enemy has just used by its sound. The ambience is working as intended! and 
 working well with the music and environment, nothing to new to post here.
  
  --Sound 9/10
  
  Like I said in the summery and at the beginning of this review, if you have 
 the energy and time make it all the way though minefield of hours of game play, repetitiveness, 
 and other obstacles WoW puts in your way then it is more than worth to cough up the rather high 
 amount of $15 per month for the account activation and the $40 for the game it self. But if you 
 cant commit, dont pay it.
  
  --Value 9/10 (only because you must have the time to get the value otherwise its a 10/10)
  
 
  As for my tilt? Im a huge fan of the Warcraft RTS series and this game was gold me. Plus I consider 
 another consol rather than a game simply because of the amount of time I have to put into it. 
 
  
  --Tilt 9/10
  
  If you got the time its the game for you now matter what type of game you like to play. If you 
 got no time on your hands, this game might seem frustrating and repetitive.
  
  Thanks for taking the time to read this review!
  
  ---------- *flush* haha there goes my GPA 
 ----------
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lachouinard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  I; ve been playing WoW for a year, and I'm very pleased with the game. Like all mmo's how much you 
 like it depends on if you can get drawn in. For most this game is really addicitng, but there is 
 a slight turn off. The game seems to have more childish players then anything. If you can get back 
 immature community at times, youll have a blast. The graphics arnt the best, but are still very 
 enjoyable. The sound is exellent. If you pick this game up, you wont be bored for a long time. 
 Its easy to find players and start questing, and pretty soon you'll find youself getting lost in 
 the game. This game takes up alot of your time, and you wont even notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OceMyLot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I first played World of Warcraft at my friend's house. I was brimming with excitement. While I 
 never really followed behind in on WoW's release or anything- when he got it, I was just... overloaded. 
 Now I'm a Level 16 Night-Elf Warrior, and I'm still finding loads of new stuff. From the home of 
 the Night Elves to Stormwind, WoW offers a lot of ground for an RPG, and I think that it's worth 
 every penny. Definetly worth playing. That's not to mention the variety that Races and Classes 
 offer- the multiple quests, and the Horde and the Alliance, both conflicting sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pb8185
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now, and I must say... This game is a lot of fun in the beginning, 
 learning different skills and such, now that I'm 60 with the highest end epics you can get, "playing" 
 this game takes on a new meaning. If you're not farming or waiting to join battlegrounds, you're 
 raiding, and raiding is extremely boring, especially for a healer. This game feels more like a 
 job than my actual job. It's like doing a tedius low pay job (raiding) so you can earn loot (dkp) 
 to buy more drugs to get you high for a short time (epics) and then you're over it and you want 
 more drugs (epics) . New raid dungeons don't even interest me anymore, and neither does the new 
 challenges... it really just means you will wipe many more times before you get your next better 
 epic (like a new more expensive drug addiction) . Play this game for leisure, don't take it too 
 seriously or it will take over your life. If you are not someone who can do that, then just don't 
 buy the game. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PepCola
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  WoW is a MMORPG like most people know , and i like it ALOT .
  But then again , it gets boring very fast i think .
  I can only play it two days a week or three 
 , and then i have to wait one day because its very repetive ... 
  I like the grapichs 'cause there a NO load times and its a HUGE world .
  The sounds is VERY good 
 and the gameplay is good .
  I didnt think so when i first saw it but its very combat focused and the combat is great .
  The 
 racees and classes are cool , overall its a great game thats a little too repetive ... :D . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshow0
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Despite some minor and major problems with the game I'd say this was a decent and addictive MMORPG, 
 but to get a 9.5? Naw. It's a shame how many hardcore geeks play this game. Don't get me wrong, 
 I like playing this game every now and then, but after it starts to get fillled up with a bunch 
 of losers who either don't know how to play or just try and cheat, than it becomes one of my worst 
 nightmares. I'd rather watch barney and friends than waste my time with a game like this if it's 
 going to be so overrated. If you want a game that will ruin your life forever, than go buy WOW. 
 But, if you feel that you need to try it out, even though you hate RPGS, well than DON'T. Don't 
 believe the hype my friends, if you hate RPGS, then you will most certaintly hate this game with 
 all your heart. And it doesn't matter what they say, believe yourself, not the critics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaarj91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the one I am playing most to date it is a great game, the quests are addictive 
 and so is your desire to beat the other faction's.... yeh. I do however have some faults with it 
 there's something I can't put my foot on but there feels like there's something missing. It's a 
 great game don't get me wrong but there's just something not there to make me go wow that is a 
 great game. Best game to date however in this genre, not as original or epic as everquest, but 
 i believe the best overall appearance and feel in a game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teoteodore
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  From a purely technological viewpoint, this game is near-perfect --- the graphics, animation, story 
 line, learning curve, virtually everything has been fine-tuned to be an enthusiasts dream. But 
 to achieve any serious success requires a commitment that most average people can not make to a 
 pasttime. Sure, you can advance from lvl1 thru to maybe lvl40, when you get your mount (horse, 
 sabre, etc.) , by spending a few hours now and again, playing in your spare time. However, to advance 
 to lvl60 (the current ultimate level) and to achieve the dozens of goals once at that level, will 
 require, at times, that you team up with as many as 39 other players and play a non-stop 'instance' 
 of the game for anywhere from 4 to 8 hours --- with barely time for food or bathroom breaks. If 
 you think that you can be the exception, and handle the game alone or with a few friends to achieve 
 a form of success far below the ultimate  level 
 --- Good Luck! You'll find that by the time you're lvl60 you have become so addicted to the game 
 that you MUST continue to invest more and more time --- even if the goals are almost perpetually 
 changing and increasingly unattainable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Skar
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I dont like this game, it's way to repetive, you get very addicted, and it is too easy to level 
 up. The skills are downright boring, you gain one skill point per herb you pick up, and one point 
 per item you enchant, in my opinion, to level in skills should be harder to make the game more 
 exciting.
  
  And as for combat, the fighting mode is almost turn based, you strike, enemy strike, and you do 
 the same move all time, there is no combo attacks, and blocking is completely random, I mean, you 
 still take damage whilst blocking with a shield, but not that much, why shouldn't you be allowed 
 to do so here? Graphics are fairly nice, but those ranking armours look ridiculous on gnomes and 
 dwarves, the armours are bigger than the characters.
  
  Thank you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clangeddinn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  World of War craft is a game you can enjoy and share at the same time. Make friends while grouping 
 with people or play with someone you know, the options in this game, huge environments and may 
 i add beautiful ones, slaying all sorts of beasts and the horde which are the other players on 
 the opposite side. Believe it or not there are over 6 million players playing world of warcraft 
 which means you could play with someone in germany, australia, iceland, england, chile, russia, 
 hawaii, or japan etc. I would suggest this MMORPG to anyone who has played a warcraft game or has 
 played an online game or if you like to goof off cause you can party a lot in this game, drink 
 alcohol, and dance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mini-Goatee
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10. Well, the gameplay is neither broken nor revolutionary. The game is pretty easy 
 to play and the in-game tutorial is quite helpful. There are some balancing issues with the classes 
 but they are usually fixed through the numerous patches that blizzard releases. Since the game 
 isnt a turn-based RPG, I expected some exciting and dynamic fighting, which wasnt the case (note 
 Wow was my first MMORPG) . It depends with the class really, but in simple words, I found the fighting 
 too static and boring. MMORPGs arent for me I guess 
  
  Graphics: 7/10. This is Blizzard, so after the opening cinematic, dont expect any breath-taking 
 in-game graphics. Sure, they arent ugly, but they probably could have been better. The reason 
 could be that Blizzard wanted the game to run as smoothly as possible and have no loading times 
 (which IS the case here) 
  
  Sound: 6/10. I found this was one of the biggest letdowns. No voice acting, typical LOTResque orchestral 
 music, quite pathetic sound effects (the mobs always made ONE noise) . I cant remember the countless 
 times I took out the sound and started to listen to my music. 
  
  Value: 10/10. This is the games strong point. It will last you a long time trust me. Huge world, 
 multiple character/classes/talent builds combinations, and frequent patches (which have so much 
 content most of the time that they can be considered expansions) . If you buy this game, you probably 
 wont play another game for quite awhile.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10. When I bought the game, I was expecting a massive ongoing war between the 
 horde and the alliance, so I thought there was going to be a lot of PVP. To put it frankly, the 
 PVP sucks, its all just honour farming in the battlegrounds. So then I got addicted (since all 
 MMORPGs are addictive) , levelled to level 60 and got more bored with the end-game. Add the expensive 
 monthly fee, which is really way too overpriced. 
  
  Total score: 7,7. Good game, but seriously, I really dont see this game of the year that everyone 
 is talking about. Hmm. maybe its just me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie3k
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Note: For this review I will be ignoring the expansions The Burning Crusade (not out anyway) and 
 Guild Wars Factions.
  
  Also Note: This review will focus mainly on WoW. For more positive details on GW please check the 
 review with the same title under Guild Wars.
  
  One need only type in World of Warcraft vs Guild Wars into a search engine to learn just how heated 
 this debate has become. The camp is completely split into what has been termed 'the fight of the 
 year'. But can these two games even be compared? On the surface the similarities are obvious. Both 
 are online rpgs. Obviously there are others but this review is about how these two games differ 
 and the most striking difference is instancing.
  
  Guild Wars utilises towns and outposts as central hubs in which you can meet other players and 
 forms groups. But whenever you exit the town you and your party enter your own version of the world 
 outside. No other players will be present. In WoW everyone enters the same outside world as you 
 do. Not only is this more realistic but it's more fun. Imagine if you will embarking on a quest 
 to kill dragon X. In GW if during your battle you suddenly realise that things aren't going so 
 well you are screwed. You can run but chances are you are already dead. However if you were fighting 
 in WoW more then likely someone else would be doing the same quest as you. That person would help 
 you. Yes thats right ArenaNet HELP. Not only would you finish your quest but you have made a new 
 friend and indeed socialising is surely one of the main points of a MMO game. 
  In WoW there are no henchmen to help you out. You don't need them. The game is designed to make 
 you get together with other gamers. Even the 'Looking for Group' chat channel has been made global. 
 Basically meaning that if you need to find a group you can not only ask everyone in the town or 
 zone you are in but everyone on the entire server. WoW is a game that is meant to be played by 
 many people.
  
  While I'm not on the subject let's talk about the story. Now there is a huge backstory to WoW. 
 Hell there must be a great story if they are making a movie about it. Right? But the truth is it's 
 not really that prevalent in the game. At least not early on. Whereas in GW you receive specific 
 story missions in WoW a lot of the story is told through quests and these quests are not essential. 
 In fact there are so many quests that unless you are a stickler for completing everything you are 
 liable to miss out on some of the interesting information about the world around you. To be quite 
 honest the story in GW is mediocore at best and players tend to skip cutscenes not because they 
 have seen them before but because they are just boring. The story in WoW may not be that obvious 
 but it is infinitely more interesting then GW.
  
  Something that strikes me as silly is the fact that in GW everyone starts of in the same city. 
 Everyone. It may as well be an offline rpg like Baldur's Gate. In WoW you are part of the world. 
 Your race is from a particular place. That particular place has a capital city. Already you belong 
 to a group of people instead of being lumped in together with everyone. All in all the world of 
 WoW is vast. It is huge. The world of GW is big. You won't ever do more then pass through some 
 of it but in WoW exploration pays off. This happens in two ways:
  
  1- experience
  2- professions
  
  Firstly you get experience for finding a new place. It doesn't have to be 
 a town, it can simply be an area in a zone. For example if you were a night elf druid running around 
 England you would get experience not for finding London but for finding each individual area of 
 London. Chelsea might give more experience then say SoHo but you get the point. In GW if you explore 
 then fine. You don't get anything.
  Secondly every character can have two professions. Usually players pick a crafting and a gathering 
 profession. Using the materials that you gather you can make stuff like new armour, weapons, potions 
 etc. If you explore you are highly likely to find for example a mine, or a rare plant that you 
 can make into a valuable potion with your herbalism skill. The point is that you will always be 
 rewarded for doing things. In GW you will not.
  
  To be honest this review could drag on a whole lot more about how WoW is superior to GW. I haven't 
 even spoken about the auction house and how much easier it is to trade rather then standing out 
 in a city yelling 'WTS firely dragonsword of icebreaking' like some newspaper seller. Nor have 
 i spoken about the mail system whereby you don't need to travel half the world to trade with a 
 player, you can simply post the item. Nor have I spoken about the mounts, boats, zeppelins, bats, 
 gryphons, hyppogryffs etc that get you around the vast world quickly. (no you don't have to walk 
 everywhere) . 
  
  OMG the only reason not to buy this game is if you absolutely hate people, or you really dont want 
 to spend that extra eight quid a month. Buy this if you don't have it. Seriously. The score I have 
 given doesn't do the game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasyRPGamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  I've tried most of the "major" MMORPGs. I found EQ to be too frustrating early on. I found City 
 of Heros to be too repetetive. I feel that WOW is an amazing game that was well thought out, and 
 has become well-executed. I enjoy that PVP play is entirely optional, and you can make it to the 
 highest levels without entering a group. True, if you want all the good gear, you have to participate 
 in 40 person raids, but if you don't want to play with other people, why are you playing a MMORPG? 
 I would not say that this game is perfect. It definitely has some flaws, but overall, I haven't 
 found a better MMO experience for my money. 6 million people must at least partly agree with me.
 
  
  One of the biggest compaints I've heard about the game are the graphics. I feel that the graphics 
 remain true to the rest of the Warcraft series. They were never super-realistic, and were a bit 
 cartoony. Why would they completely change the look of the game to make it "realistic"?
  
  The music in the game is outstanding. It emphasizes when you change areas, and then fades away 
 to be unobtrusive.
  
  Overall, I would recommend that everyone at least try this game. It's not for everyone. No game 
 ever is, or ever will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosierman5001
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  The title of this game is extremely misleading so before you buy, please read. When you see World 
 of WARcraft, you think of an epic struggle played out between the two playable factions, horde 
 and alliance. Ive played the game for over a year, and that war just isnt there. The real war 
 is between the different play styles, raiders and non-raiders.
  
  If you played Warcraft one through three you will really enjoy World of Warcraft while leveling 
 up to the max level of 60. Why? Because you get to continue the story line where things left off, 
 four years after Warcraft 3. However, at level 60, if you dont raid, youre done. If you play 
 one of the more popular classes like rogue or hunter, no guild will want you so youre done even 
 if you want to raid.
  
  Why are you done you ask? Because since March-April of 2005 the development team at blizzard treats 
 you like you do not exist. There has literally been no new endgame content for non-raiders since 
 March-April of 2005. Since then the developers have been extremely dedicated in kicking out new 
 40 man dungeon raids every other patch.
  
  What if you dont like Everquest style of gaming with raiding dungeons? Well youre not alone, 
 and even by the lead developers admission the percentage of subscribers that raid is somewhere 
 between 15-25%. The development of this game is completely asinine with upwards of 95% of all new 
 content being tailored to that 15-25%, meanwhile the other 75-85% sit around with nothing to do.
 
  
  The real war, as mentioned above, is between raiders and non-raiders. You have raiders receiving 
 all the attention with all the new content, and armor from that new content that makes competing 
 with them in battlegrounds impossible. And you have non-raiders, who didnt sign up for World of 
 WARcraft to play Everquest style gaming, and are down right sick of seeing their 15 bucks a month 
 subscription go exclusively towards making 40 man raid instances that theyll never see. Even more 
 angry are the original Warcraft 1,2,3 players that want to continue the story lines they started, 
 but cant because theyre only played out in 40 man raid dungeons by a bunch of Everquest geeks 
 that dont even know who theyre fighting or why, only that theres uber loot to be had.
  
  The developers have time and time again admitted that they royally screwed up with the gear disparity 
 and flow of content for all players. But theyre not going to tackle the problem now at all. YOU 
 have to go out and buy the expansion to fix THEIR mess. You have to wait 6-7 months then shell 
 out 50 bucks just to get some new end game content. Why didnt raiders have to shell out that money? 
 Why has my subscription revenue gone directly to content only for them? It gives a real sense of 
 being a second, if not third class customer. And all the Burning Crusade expansion will do is perpetuate 
 the problem where raiders get to fight Illidan while collecting super armor and non-raiders will 
 be shut out of the story once again 
  
  As far as a PvP system, if youre looking to this game for it, just dont even waste your time. 
 PvP is an afterthought to this games developers. PvP in WoW is more along the line of mini-game 
 status. Raiders get super loot from killing bosses, and their armor has ridiculous stats. The developers 
 gave ZERO consideration as to what those stats would do in PVP. As a result, you have mages hitting 
 people with a single frost bolt for over 4,000+ damage when the spell only delves at around 550 
 damage
  
  Coupled with the fact that the gear disparity between raiders and non-raiders is massive, is the 
 fact that 95% of it is waged in battlegrounds, and 2 of the 3 battlegrounds dont even make sense. 
 Back in Warcraft 3, the Horde arrived on the continent of Kalimdor and they needed wood to build 
 their capital city, Orgrimarr. They started cutting down the Ashenvale forest for wood. The resident 
 Night Elves were outraged at Grom Hellscreams clan and that kicked off a war between orcs and 
 night elves. So one would think that the horde would want to push the night elves back or at least 
 defend their lumber camps, and the night elves would want to burn their lumber camps down and push 
 the horde out of the forest. So how was this conflict implemented? Capture the fing flag. Thats 
 right, haha I ran flags back and forth faster than you did, you must be so embarrassed so you 
 have to leave the forest! Absolutely retarded implementation.
  
  Or what about Arathi Basin. There are 5 flags on the map, sorta like 5 king of the hills. If you 
 capture 1 flag, points start accumulating. If you capture 2 flags double the points start accumulating 
 and so forth. I guess at some point when one side gets 2000 points, the opposing faction realizes 
 that the enemy stood next to flags longer than they did so I guess they get all the resources?
 
  
  What you are seeing in this game emphasizes the importance of a diverse development team. When 
 you bring in a team that knows only one play style, raiding, you see the end result. In a game 
 of world struggle, flag play IS NOT PVP. And theres your choices, play the game like Everquest 
 or play retarded mini-battleground games. Even if you buy the preface of how the war is waged, 
 its just shot down further by the fact its done in an instance and the win means nothing. The 
 instance closes out in 2 minutes and the effect is erased like it never happened. Theres no meaningful 
 perpetual war. My advice is wait for Warhammer Online next year for a good pvp mmo and leave this 
 piece of trash game for the Everquest junkies with no lives and living in their moms basement. 
 Nothing in World of WARcraft is done right. Blizzard has sold out on a level not seen since Vanilla 
 Ice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazKurupt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  WoW has got great graphics. In alot of ways though. WoWs graphics arent as great as EQ2's. Wow 
 has less realism with its graphics engine and the engine i think is not as sophisticated. Wow's 
 Graphics are very nice though and graphics arent everything. WoWs loot tables are 1000 times beter 
 then eq2's. Wow is way more rewarding. I havnt even got into raiding yet, but just the loots from 
 dungeons ive snatched up have been sweeter then most anything I got in eq2 and i raided for days 
 in that game. Theres just a whole lot more items in Wow it seems.
  
  A lot more variety and there hasnt even been an expansion launched yet. 
  
  The controls in 
 Wow are pretty good , runs smoothly.
  Lots to do in this game , ive played quite a few days and still just scratching the surface.
 
  
  This games quests reward you nicely, where as everquest quests seemed to leave you with items that 
 were alota times not even meant for your character. With Wow quest sreward usually all classes. 
 The loot system works well as well. They incorporate Need B4 Greed well.
  
  Great Game , worth the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brubert
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  AFter you get used to paying the money every month to play a game, this game is so fun to play 
 mainly because of how Blizzard updates it weekly and manages hackers to prevent people from cheating, 
 and my most favorite part of the game is the customizable ui so that is my lil review. This game 
 has a lot to offer, sure it takes up a big chunk of your hard drive space but i think that it's 
 worth it. Overall i think that WOW ROX. The new patch though 1.11 makes the game so much funner 
 because of all of the upgrades to all of the guards and the scourge just starting to attack. Blizzard 
 had a good idea to make a game that they could upgrade as time went along that everyone can enjoy 
 and have all of the fun of day, night, seasons, and holidays.
  -brubert 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashkanhoss29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  If you're a person who plays mmo' s or is playing a different mmo and you haven't gotten this game 
 yet, you should quit what ever your playing and immediately go out and buy World of Warcraft. 
 
  
  Gameplay-
  This game never gets old. Each quest is different and has great rewards. Not only is each quest 
 different, but each one is just plain fun to do. The really cool thing though, is that, you never 
 have to do any quests at all (though it is the best way to level up, and in my mind, the most fun) . 
 You can do so much more like explore or work on a profession (for example collecting plants and 
 making potions or skinning animals to make cloths and armor) . You could even do all of these at 
 once, which I think is the best way to do so.
  
  Graphics-
  Maybe this game doesn't have the high polygons and the high-res textures, but what it does have 
 is the best art that I have ever seen in any game. The art definitely makes up for the lack of 
 high-tech uses like bumpmaping. The graphic style is just so amazing that it simply makes the world 
 come alive. Plus, every environment is different, and the amazing thing is that just when you've 
 been in one place too long and it gets old, you are able to move on (because of your character 
 leveling up) to a completely new area. But the most amazing thing about the graphics is that, it 
 is in a way that there are no loading times (except for when you first start the game and when 
 you are going to switch continents) . And even then, it takes only a couple of minutes if not seconds.
 
  
  Sound-
  The music in this game is brilliant. It fits the world so well, and it never gets old, because 
 its not the type of music thats in a way in which it is annoying, it is the sort of music thats 
 on the side. You're never really aware of it, but when you are, you will definitely appreciate 
 it. The only complaint you might have that actually never annoyed me and I don't really care about, 
 is that there aren't a lot of voice-overs for npc's.
  
  Value-
  With so many different things to do, and so many places to explore, you could be playing this game 
 for hundreds of hours. And with blizzard adding new content to the game every month, I don't think 
 anyone will ever run out of things to do in the World of Azeroth.
  
  Tilt-
  Everything just works and fits together so well, that you will feel like your actually in Azeroth 
 as an Elf, Dwarf, Orc or which ever of the eight races your playing as, doing quests or whatever 
 of the hundreds of things you could be doing. 
  
  If you don't like the idea of paying 15 dollars a month, wait till you play this game. I know that, 
 before playing this game, I hated the idea of paying each month, but when I started playing World 
 of Warcraft, that changed. And if your not sure if you'll like the game, just go ahead and try 
 the 10 day trail, I'm sure you'll fall in love with the world of warcraft, Azeroth.
  
  P. S. I highly recommend reading Greg's review, which is MUCH more detailed and better than mine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullslasher
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Awsome game. Keeps to their story from all the other WC series (Till BC) . Addicting and Fun (If you 
 get beyond lvl 15) The higher you get the more fun it becomes. 40 man raids can be really fun and 
 guild pvp (Or w/ friends) that work together can be awsome funny and all the good stuff. Dont recommend 
 Pvpin with strangers (They wont listen) Best parts of this game would be its easy interface, quick 
 to learn (Youll know all the basics in less than 10 mins unless your mentally challenged) . Great 
 itemization, nice dungeons details challenges etc. Very good game ide rate it a 10 but the graphics 
 aint the best   
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_silkstone
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) is one on the best MMORPG that i have played. This game explains the World 
 of Warcraft and what happend after Warcraft 3 The Frozen Throne. The 1.11 patch explains the way 
 the Undead (Lich King) started to wipe out the World. The necropoises are all over the place.
 
  The other thing i like about the MMO is that your can choose your side, race and class on one 
 page.
  
  Also, the citys do look like what i would exspect from the races. When i play my lvl 27 Warlock, 
 He gets a different adventure when i play on him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer_9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  All the hype generated by World of Warcraft inclined me to purchase this game just because everyone 
 seemed to be playing it. At first I was disappointed by the clunky graphics which are simply not 
 up to par. However the smooth gameplay revived this game for me, well at least until I found out 
 all my friends played on different servers. How can I have one main character when I have at least 
 seven friends that are playing on seven different servers. Not to mention my numerous acquaintances 
 and friends of friends who also play WoW regularly. I mean after playing for 2 months I have over 
 15 characters mostly one character per server. Its just ridiculous, I can't possibly progress anywhere 
 like this and still play with all my friends. And I haven't even mentioned the lousy support for 
 the game, and the frequent problems I've encountered with installation and patching. When I first 
 bought the game I had to install it about six times before it worked and the final time I had to 
 just drag the contents of the cd's onto my hard drive for it to install correctly. Also yesterday 
 morning I decided to put in a few hours before work into a new character on a server where three 
 of my friends decided to all play on. But I guess what with the new patch that was just released 
 WoW suddenly decided there was an error in the game which took it an hour to scan through and find 
 in its files. After this extremely long find the problem sequence it proceeded to re-download all 
 the patches ever again wich took well over an hour. After all this hassle I got in a measly 30 
 minutes of play time, just enough to get to level 5. I just wish someone would make an MMORPG that 
 worked, I mean we pay through he nose for these games so why can't they be simple like my cell 
 phone. Just turn it on and presto it works.
  
  Thats my thoughts on this game, Blizzards report card has a big needs improvement sticker.
  
 
  - Slayer Nine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcyt
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for people who can, and are willing, to become totally immersed in one game. 
 
  
  Being my first MMORPG I immediatly took to the whole universe and concept of the game - checking 
 forums, scoping out talents, researching what good drops to find in all the instances etc. (needless 
 to say I was not as productive at work!) . But there is only one problem with games like this, either 
 you let them consume your life or you don't; and if you don't, then it just isn't worth it.
  
  After four months of being frustrated with paying 20$ Canadian a month and only getting the 
 chance to play twice a week, I was left wanting more. After a week long vacation, I came back, 
 and was amazed at easily I was able to forget this game (but not the hundreds of dollars I put 
 into buying it and paying to play it) . 
  
  If you are a casual gamer, this game is not for you, even though it will try very hard to consume 
 you.
  
  However, if you are a hardcore gamer who can play more three times a week, I can see the appeal 
 - this game does a great job at making you feel more powerful with every level, the PvP is fun, 
 and the level of detail in every aspect of the game is amazing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakecito
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I have played all Warcraft games, but this one really excited me. All characters are well designed. 
 The gestures of each razes are amazing. The actions of characters makes me roll over the floor 
 for laugh.
  In the top of that, the sound could be better, but are very realistic. All NPC are very smart so 
 lets say that you can have a long chat with an NPC and hve fun.
  I think that this game has not been very well promoted, because there's a lot of Warcraft Series 
 players and all of they knows that WOW exist, but there are other MMORPG players tht don't know 
 that.
  At the beginning is hard to understand the game, and the GUI is not very easy to use, but with 
 the time, you will get familiarized with it.
  The one of the best things of this game is that each land or zone, are quite lot big, so you can 
 go to train your char alone without the disturb of PK.
  The only thing that I not agree with this games is the fact that Blizzard release updates very 
 quickly and this updates are quite big and took to much time in installation.
  Everything else is GREAT!!!
  9.2 for WOW, and let me think what should I write for WOW: Burning 
 Crusade.
  Cya
  Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxxchurchxxX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Even with the expensive monthly payments needed to play, WoW revolutionized the world of MMO's. 
 With two different sides to choose from and 8 unique playable characters World of Warcraft is probably 
 the biggest most stunning game Blizzard has put out. Instead of being a real-time strategy as the 
 previous warcraft games, You take the positon of one of 8 characters, all with different (yet somehow 
 similar) roles. The world and number of players is vast enough to keep you playing aslong as possible, 
 and different servers allow you to choose whether you can keep to yourself and ignore the horde/alliance 
 or kill them at first sight. This game holds many other twists but i wouldn't want to ruin all 
 the game for you now would I? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 0/10 (Garbage)
  The gameplay is just crap. Walk around and do nothing. Maybe pick up some "transform into unicorn" 
 powerups and fight "evil mushrooms" but that's all. No action, no real fights, no skill needed. 
 Also it costs $15 bucks a month. You think I'm that rich, Blizzard?
  
  Graphics - 0/10 (Garbage)
  What the hell are these graphics? Evil mushrooms? Bright magical powers? 
 That's for those Harry Potter nerds, not serious gamers like me.
  
  Sound - 0/10 (Garbage)
  What sound is this? Magical weapons? Magical wands? Energy attacks? This 
 is a complete rip-off from The Fairly Oddparents and Little Fighter 2.
  
  Value - 0/10 (Rip-Off)
  Fifteen bucks a month, plus a $40 starter fee? That's funked up. Why 
 the hell would I pay $15 for some magical powers and energy attacks? I could be watching Harry 
 Potter and playing some little side-scroller game online for free. I've seen many rip-offs in my 
 life, like Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing or things from the Dollar Store, but this is extreme.
 
  
  Reviwer's Tilt - 0/10 (Hell no)
  Do NOT buy this game. It's a total rip-off and it sucks.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  This is a total 
 rip-off. With those $15 a month, you could be saving up for a huge TV, play Half-Life 2 (2 months 
 of saving) , or something much better than this thing you call a MMORPG. World of Warcraft is for 
 ametures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmazza56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  This is a game that will get you addicted in 5 minutes. From the minute you log in you start smiling!
 
  I thought this game was a rip off, boring game but guess what, it is'nt!
  It features the races from Warcraft 3 and extras. Its addictive and very fun gaming, set in a well 
 graphiced, third person world. Hundreds of quests to do, hundreds of items, heaps of challenging 
 yet very realistic A. I, and plenty of skills to advance. You can choose 2 primary skills and as 
 many secondary skills as you want. There are plenty of servers on this M*M*O*R*P*G* and 9 million 
 users all together. If you're a huge warcraft fan like me, i recommend W. o. W. You will never get 
 bored of it, and you can create as many characters as you like! This game has very good graphics, 
 a well put together fantasy soundtrack and non-stop, heart pumping gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beanj007
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been gaming for 20 years and never has a game sucked me into it's world so far. No game 
 has been so all consuming that I walk in the door after work and can sit until 2am playing it without 
 getting bored. No ANYTHING, let alone a game, has been the subject of so many conversations with 
 good friends over lunch.
  
  This is THE MMORPG to play. Actually, this is THE *game* to play. Many other games have come along 
 since November of 2004, and they may suck me in for a few hours or even days, but in the end, I 
 always go back to WoW. I have tried Everquest, Final Fantasy XI, and City of Heroes... none were 
 able to pull me in like this game. 
  
  If you have the time, play WoW. In fact, even if you don't have the time, play WoW... you'll make 
 the time for it. Best... game... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keinuveye
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I finally feel that I have seen enough of the World to write a review. How do you write a review 
 on a place? Can you review a drug? I will try and present an informative review. Keep in mind this 
 game is more than a game. It is an experience.
  
  It's also a commitment. Pick up the game for $60 and be prepared for monthly fees. They'll also 
 slap us with a charge for the expansion soon, too. Not only is it a money commitment, it is a time 
 commitment. The less of a life you have, the more you will enjoy and advance in this game. Common 
 sense, but you really have to dedicate yourself to a character, especially when you reach a certain 
 point.
  
  Personally I've been playing for about a year. It is an addiction. At its best it is a place to 
 enjoy a party with friends, make new ones and help everyone progress. At its worst it is a fashion 
 show for 13 yr olds who have nothing better to do than ninja loot, make you feel bad and flame 
 on Barrens chat.
  
  I won't hash and re-hash everything thats out there. This game has been out for a year. Surely 
 you have seen screens or someone that has it. The graphics are still breathtaking, the sound is 
 among the best you've heard, the story is complex. It borrows from Warcraft III and would probably 
 take a newcomer a few hours to get up to date on all the lore in this series. With enough story 
 for a few books and a movie to come out, you know its rich.
  
  I think most people who haven't played this game is because they haven't had the finances or a 
 machine fast enough to run it. If you are at all a fan of MMORPGs, then you know you need this 
 game. You will spend endless hours cruising thottbot, farming for dragonscales and chatting with 
 guildmates. Somewhere along the line you will wonder where your life went. Some might be inclined 
 to harbor regret, I like saying I was part of an era, when Blizzard walked the earth as the leader 
 of the MMOG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakemanp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect in EVERY way. I have nothing bad to say about it. Even the $15 a month I am 
 paying for it is worth it. And it is always getting better.
  With every new patch, comes a new surprise, a new armor set or a new talent tree. This is always 
 getting better. Choose your faction, choose your race, choose your class, choose your gender, even 
 your hair color, face and much more. I'm going to say no more other than go out and get this game 
 right now if you don't own it. I don't care who you are, but you need this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prichard745
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those kinda games that you can waste a third of your cash that you have ever earned 
 and waste it on this game dont get me wrong if your a hard core gamer you might be so addicted 
 to this game you might even be playing this game till you are like 50 years old and then finally 
 start playing it only on the week ends and the the expansion is coming out soon you can die playing 
 on this game its so addictive but i think i can get over playin it when i noticed that i ran out 
 of time and i have to spend more money to play it but there are rich people out there and they 
 would waste all of there time playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buhlig
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I really love this game. I have been playing since opening day, found alot of great people and 
 some bone heads, but what can I say.. thats normal in any game.
  
  I have played UO, EQ, SWG and AO along with a few other i can't remember, but this one takes the 
 cake on visual and content based kudos. The only major issues I have found as with any game is 
 the lag issues in certain areas and for peat's sake fix that stupid torrent patch system. 
  
  Over all score 9.0
  content 8.0
  graphics 10.0
  patching 2.0
  
  thats my 2 cents 
 worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzors
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I picked up World of Warcraft 2 weeks after it was first released, and am happy to say I still 
 play today. I stopped playing for awhile due to some time management issues, but I recently started 
 back up again and am addicted more than ever! Blizzard has done a great job with this game, and 
 constantly keeps WoW players hooked with very satisfying new content. With over 5 million subscribers 
 already, this game will surely go down in history as one of the best MMORPGs (if not one of the 
 best games) to grace computer screens across the globe. Thanks Bliz! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason1414
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  The single reason this game has any success at all is because it was made by Blizzard. Blizzard 
 is the company behind the long time RTS favorite Warcraft and Starcraft. When all those real time 
 strategy game fans heard this MMO was coming out, they tried it simply because it was Warcraft. 
 Now, everyone knows that your first MMO is always the best game ever to the person playing it simply 
 because of the addicting factor. Now all those Blizzard fans are playing WoW as their first MMO 
 and they have become addicted. It's amazing to them, so they spread the word. Try WoW! It's awesome! 
 Now there are more and more people who have never played an MMO, who are starting to play WoW and 
 love it because they have played no other. If they were to but TRY ANY OTHER MMO they would see 
 how horrible WoW really is. It's repetetive, poor PvP system, disgusting graphics, simple characters, 
 poor plot, and NO end game content. The only redeeming quality this game has, is its good character 
 animations. Other than that, this game is a steaming pile of overhyped (insert explicit here) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matiasocner
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Some games are about action, adventure, strategy and other things but, World of Warcraft not only 
 puts all of these together but surpasses their own categories creating a new category named WoW. 
 This game proves that a perfect game which can appeal to anyone can exist. There are many people 
 who will tell you that this game is only for the RPG savvy but, anyone who wants to get into it 
 can by just reading the intro tooltips, everything else falls into place like a jigsaw puzzle. 
 
  
  I believe that everyone deserves a chance to experience this game, but I wont feed you BS. I will 
 be honest in telling you that there are some things Blizzard needs to work on. Things that can 
 range from server issues, economy problems, and overall negative players, but in the end this all 
 combines to give you the idea that these are real worlds with real people. 
  
  Now, World of Warcraft has way too many things to write about in this review, but I can guarantee 
 you will enjoy the game by just experimenting with the leveling and PVP (player versus player) 
 system. Also things like the immersive environments you are placed in is incredible, it takes you 
 1 hrs to get from the south side of Kalimdor (western continent) to the northern side, this is 
 if you dont get stopped by a monster or side tracked. Plus imagine theres another continent on 
 the eastern part of the world adding a another 1 hours of straight walking. Incredible enough 
 theres a new expansion in the works (Burning Crusades) which will be adding 25% more land. So 
 if your like me, who worries about the game feeling small, World of Warcraft wont be the case.
 
  
  Another great thing about World of Warcraft is that it runs in real time, and has no loading time 
 excluding the loading of the game, and getting from one continent to the other. These loads consist 
 of no more than 20-30 seconds waits. Now if by reading this gives you the idea that this game is 
 way too immersive for you and your not going to find the time to explore/level in time dont worry. 
 Blizzard has set up a forgiveness system so when your off line the game starts to give you double 
 experience so you can catch up to your friends or play at your own pace. 
  
  In overall this game is one for the records, I disagree with Gamespots 9.5, this game deserves 
 a 10. The overall feeling of achievement which you receive from this game is worth your time and 
 dedication, since you feel as if you were next to your character giving him step by step instructions. 
 To close things off, I wont be surprised if World of Warcraft is named along side Legend of Zelda 
 Ocarina of Time, Final Fantasy or Halo five years from now.
  
  Thanks for Reading!
  Written By Matias J. Ocner
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DNA_Remix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the grandmaster of MMORPGs. It has to be pretty good to have over six million people 
 paying 15$ a month to play it. Here is my thoughts about it.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutly Wonderful! They have a huge variety of quests, great instances, and entertaining 
 PVP system. Just FANTASTIC! You have so much fun beating the crap out of the enemy faction. GO 
 HORDE.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, but not the best I have seen. The graphics are sort of cartoony.
 
  
  Sound: World of Warcraft has a great soundtrack, but not as good as some of the japanese MMOs.
 
  
  Value: For me, this game is worth the monthly fee. It will probably one of the only games you will 
 play once you buy it.
  
  Tilt: I have played this game for about a year and a half, and its been worth it the whole time! 
 BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3h_ki113r
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game to say the least. the only drawback is that teh people may be retards or 
 jerks, but it isnt blizzards fault. the game has very good gameplay, great classes, a very good 
 musical score, and has some awesome spells (i. e., Chain Lighting, which lets you send out a blast 
 of lighting that destroys a group of enemies) . the 9 classes (Warrior, Rogue, Paladin, Hunter, 
 Druid, Shaman, Mage, Priest, and Warlock) each have their own pro's and con's. Overall, this is 
 an excellent game, the best MMO i have played (not saying much, considering the fact that ive played 
 3...) . Very good job, Blizzard!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Some guy said in his WoW review:
  "The major problems are: 1. security - the online hackers are as easy to find as trees in the word 
 of warcraft, the security settings are powerful but fairly easy to get around, I was hacked within 
 10 minutes of being onine. 2. lag - overloading your CPU may be a problem unless you just got a 
 PC, you will lag, other people will lag and you may even freeze, although not a problem that can 
 be easily fixed, its a huge problem when it coes to really enjoying the game to its full potential."
 
  
  You were "hacked within 10 minutes"? Your CPU may get overloaded "unless you just got a PC"? Honestly, 
 and forgive my candor... why bother posting a review if you have no idea what in god's name you're 
 talking about? Even if I translate what you've said into English, it's completely inaccurate. It's 
 false and misleading.
  
  Anyway... let's talk about photo-realism in games and when it's important. It belongs in racing 
 games, sports games, certain first person shooters -- absolutely. But honestly, what would be the 
 point of playing the art form of video games if there was strictly one goal: To achieve photo-realism? 
 That's right, it would be pointless. Better to obsess over live action films, perhaps. I digress; 
 Warcraft's art style has always been 'cartoonish' and in World of Warcraft it lends the game one 
 of the most cohesive presentations of any game in the genre.
  
  MMO players once complained about the experience grind. World of Warcraft gives you motivation 
 and rewards you at every step. The goals are clear and the quest interface is well conceived. The 
 quest writing is good, the lore is rich and completely in line with a post-Frozen Throne plot progression, 
 and the quests are fun. Ultimately, your experience gain has constant motivation and within that 
 system (for Warcraft fans especially) the narrative is enjoyable.
  
  This is a great, big seamless world. Crank up the anisotropic filtering in game, and dial your 
 video card's anti-aliasing up. I defy anyone to deny the wonderfully consistent art design on display 
 and the must-have-in-this-genre zoneless environment transitions. There's tons of content and gameplay 
 here for solo, group, and guilded players. They've implemented an excellent and intuitive UI for 
 any situation. 
  
  Most importantly: Charm. Once again, Blizzard doesn't rewrite the rules of a genre per se, but 
 they absolutely soak their version of the standard in personality, class, and ease-of-interaction.
 
  
  A definite MMORPG success. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft my be fooling you buy it's monthly fee charges but don't be fooled because they 
 charge it. No, this is just a must own game if you are into fantasy role-playing MMOs. The game 
 isn't very hard which can be dissapointing but it just a hell of a time and is just simply one 
 of the best games I have ever played. The game will raise you all the way up to level 60 with your 
 character not limiting you to level 20 like in the Guild Wars series. The game has great graphics, 
 sound, gameplay, and many other detailes left out. If you don't like paying monthly fees then your 
 missing a fantastic expeirence which brings you to a whole other levelin the gaming world. So, 
 if you don't like paying the fee, then taste a sample of the game with the downloadable 10 day 
 trial. If you like paying fees, then you will hold on to this game like your own child. This game 
 is just too hard to describe without using words not even from mine or your vocabulary. Get this 
 game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orem22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best MMORPG that I have ever played! The graphics are outstanding, the interface 
 user friendly, and the game easy to learn, but difficult if not impossible to master. There is 
 so much to this game that it could easily ruin your social life. You are truely the master of your 
 own destiny. Each race and each class is unique and the ways that one must play them and use them 
 are as unique as the players behind the toons. The best part about the game is that there is no 
 difinitive way to play and there is no right or wrong builds to each character. Granted there are 
 some that function better than others, but in general you can do anything that you want. Also the 
 quests get progressively more detailed and intense as you progress through the levels making this 
 a true must have for any gamer be it casual or hardcore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesomighty
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, I thought must be a good mmorpg because it got good reviews by everyone. What 
 I thought about it was repetitive quests... BORING!!!!! Level 60 cap... STUPID!!!!! Go into this 
 cave to get super equipment or something like that... RIDICULOUS!!!!! It does have amazing graphics 
 and sound, but the sound gets repetetive somewhat. I'm not saying the sound is bad, it is just 
 that it is repetetive when they die, such as all human men make same dying sound. I know some people 
 will not believe me, but people have different opinions. I might as well play runescape, better 
 quests than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanser5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever played besides CoH. This isn't just a game where you go and kll 
 stuff its a game with a great story, a great world, and great content. As i said ths game has a 
 great story and takes place right after Warcraft III, and still follows a great storyline into 
 the burning crusade. This game also has a huge gigantic world. A highly detailed uge immersive 
 world.
  This game also has great content, like tons and tons of quests for you to do as you make your way 
 through this great world. It also has a nice battle system quite different from your average rpg, 
 its much more quick qhich keeps thew game going very quick paced and fun. So if your at the store 
 looking for a great rpg, World of Warcraft is the game you should pick up! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnerstorm32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago and love it! I started with the demo and liked it so much that 
 I had to get the full game. I love the huge world it contains and that you can go anywhere and 
 do just about anything in that world. It's nice that you can come across other players with whom 
 you can work along side.... while on a quest. Working with those players to get the job done. Which 
 is different then some of the other MMORPG I've played. 
  
  My character is currently at lvl 12 and it's nice to hear that by the time he gets to lvl 60 there'll 
 be an entirely new expansion to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draghkar
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Grouping was fun tho if you dont play a tank or a healer you sit alot waiting for groups. i had 
 me (priest) , my brother (paladin) and a friend (warrior) and his brother (mage) and we did all but 
 the raided instances with not alot of probs . ( we played alot of games as a team ) 
  
  PVP was fun in the open zones me and my team made alot of wars start up .*heheh* We bugged out 
 when the zerging started as it got to laggy (older comps) . PVP was best with 3-4 groups on each 
 side after that it was a AOE FTW fest.
  
  Was fun till you start to try and get into a Battleground (where most the pvp is ) and the lack 
 of teamwork in battlegrounds . Wait most the week for a raid to not get anything that run or next 
 5-10. At 60 without epic stuff you get ganked bad in pvp.
  
  Overall i had fun with my friends till after hitting level 60 i only lasted a month then got bored 
 waiting in lines . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut172
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The good; The graphics and sounds are nice.
  
  The BAD!!; At the first look i ve love this game, i just said to my friends that s this is the 
 best ever made in the history of games..... Now after level 35..... this is the worst. So repetitive, 
 So boring, so much time to waste to wait, run, quest, run, run, and quest and then run again, and 
 trying to find a new quest where you dont die every time you make an encounter, trying to find 
 peoples at your level to complete the never ending so hard mega dungeon that make you feel like 
 a stupid hero....! It s like getting a new job at 0,50 $ per hours, u just feel like you working 
 hard for nothing.
  
  And.... i just forgot to write about the money and economy system in WOW.... you just feel like u 
 spend so much for ugrading your caracter and your equipement for a litle improvement, look like 
 that if you want lot of money u have to spend real money on e-bay..... its just out of my mind!!!
 
  
  Finally, all of this for this price just not worth it!
  
  DON T TRY AND BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU DONT HAVE A LIFE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  yesterday i started playing Wow. i played as a night-elf warrior. the world is awesome i must say! 
 the battle system is turned-based. there was this purple panther mobs that are lv 1's young nightsaber. 
 i grew and grew more lvls and attack many stirigid owl and gnarpine ambusher (lv 6) . then i kept 
 on going to kill bloodfeather rogue. dont get me wrong the game is not entirely fighting. i choose 
 herblore and alchemy as a skill. u need to go herblore trainers to teach you the skill by buying 
 it from them. well thats pretty much what i did for 3hrs. it is a worth playing and im going keep 
 playing it. =] hope you share the same feel to Wow as i am right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Finally, an MMO that is actually worth playing. Large variety of quests to do, weapons, armor, 
 rings, trinkets to get. Un-ending end-game content. Excellent graphics, although I wish there was 
 a little more to the character creation. Awesome PvP system, although Pallys are a bit overpowered. 
 Complete character skill customization, you can tailor your character to your play style. Well 
 worth the $15 a month to play and with the new expansion and patch 1.11 that adds even more end 
 game content just makes the game even that much better. Way to go Blizzard, maybe some other companies 
 should take notes on how to do it right...**cough** Cryptic Studios**cough** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loghawk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever played besides CoH. This isn't just a game where you go and kll 
 stuff its a game with a great story, a great world, and great content. As i said ths game has a 
 great story and takes place right after Warcraft III, and still follows a great storyline into 
 the burning crusade. This game also has a huge gigantic world. A highly detailed uge immersive 
 world.
  This game also has great content, like tons and tons of quests for you to do as you make your way 
 through this great world. It also has a nice battle system quite different from your average rpg, 
 its much more quick qhich keeps thew game going very quick paced and fun. So if your at the store 
 looking for a great rpg, World of Warcraft is the game you should pick up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimChick10
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. Good choices of races and classes. The lands are very well done. PvE is 
 great. Soloing is very easy. It is not group dependent. It is very gear dependent though. Instances 
 are fun but when you have to grind them and the items you need don't drop it gets rough. PvP is 
 bad but it is said to get better in the burning crusade. There are kids and it gets annoying but 
 I really never had a problem with them. Overall its a great game and worth a shot. If you haven't 
 tried you should its definitly worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer40
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  First off this is probably one of my favorite games to date with great gameplay, stunning visuals, 
 and one of the biggest worlds ive ever seen in any game...
  
  Gameplay: For anyone whos played an mmorpg your pretty much going to love this with basically same 
 strategies as other mmo's. Do a quest, level up by killing monsters, talk and trade with friends, 
 heck run around naked and dance if you wish you can pretty much do anything you want. So heres 
 how it works you choose a character from one of 8 different races. Theres the alliance human, night 
 elf, dwarf, and gnome. And theres the horde orc, troll ,tauren, and undead. Then you start out 
 in a small village and do quests as you progress you can kill bigger monsters, wear better equipment, 
 and travel to larger towns. 
  
  Graphics: Ok so the graphics aren't amazing but the detail they put in the world is what really 
 fascinates me theres so many places to see and explore you probably wont be able to do it all in 
 your lifetime :P
  
  Pros: Very fun game with lots to do and one of the biggest worlds ever in a game
  
  Cons: may 
 get boring after a long time of playing, the harsh 14.99 a month fee
  
  Overall: If you love warcraft or your an mmo fan then this game is definitely for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is amazing!
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is so perfect and fun! Making clans, getting partys togather and overall just battling 
 is great! Everthing is pretty simple going in the game.... im not saying that the game is easy im 
 just saying you can firgure out how to play fast! The world to explore is huge! There is so much 
 to explore in differnt lands other than the one you start in! There are many professions to choose 
 from and you can change your profession whenever you want! This is a MMORPG and has to be the best 
 one ever made to this date!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are very good! Nothing looks bad it just looks like a very well put togather 
 game! hmm Now only if we could have graphics like the ones they put in the cutscene at the beginning!
 
  
  Difficulty:
  The difficulty is very varied depending on where you r in the game! But overall its just right!
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very good! you can hear players talking and the sourounding sound is also very good!
 
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is a must buy! For only 14.99 month or less depending on what plan you choose you have 
 to get this game!
  
  My name in the game Damarksman so add me to your friends list if you want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  when i first played this i was totally in awe, i couldent believe how cool this game was. adventuring 
 fighting or just chatting with your mates online.
  
  so i will go through the main aspects of the wonderful game.
  
  FIGHTING: This is a great part 
 in the game, a bit dull at times but in groups of people in can get really entertaining. lots of 
 spells and skills to master and levels to gain really adds the great gameplay and will actually 
 keep you going for a very long time with limitless replayability
  
  QUESTING: very much mixes in with fighting. there is a load i mean a LOAD of quests to complete 
 throughout the game. Some only become available at a certain level. the quests are brilliantly designed 
 if some are easy but some are just challenging to pitt against the most strengtened players. a 
 very crucial part in WoW
  
  CHATTING: well maybe not chatting but talking maybe. the talkimg is fairly ok if a bit lagging 
 at times and the different types of talking is a excellent feature. Very serious, funny, sad emotes 
 are all available and are very good and add a little flavour to it.
  
  OTHER THINGS: items are found throughout the game and there is a whole range of them whether its 
 questing, shopping or just looting, there is a ton of items to be found.
  the world is massive, spanning to continents and a couple of island here and there it would take 
 a long while to explore it all
  monsters are ok, they are well designed and have good ai. fun to kill them in partys 
  
  So 
 there you have it, my review on WoW its a brilliant game with lots to do and loads of replayabilty. 
 its a worldwide game, so everyone should at least play it and try it out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberomega
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I've played about 12 different MMOs that are out there, most RPGs, such as Everquest 1 and 
 2, Star Wars Galaxies, City of Heroes and Villains, Planetside, Horizons, etc etc. None however 
 measure up to the quality of World of Warcraft. Personally, I've been playing the game since a 
 little before release, during open beta, and from levels 1 to 60 were chock full of quests, items, 
 solo content, group content, instances which throw you into challenging and fun situations, all 
 for the casual and hardcore player.
  
  The game is one of the easiest games to learn. When I first started playing over a year ago, it 
 took me a whole 10 minutes to learn how to play the game, and play it well. Knowing basic controls 
 helps, but Im sure that new players to any game might find the controls easy to manage within 
 an hour or so. Its not hard for someone to take their mouse and keyboard, and get right into the 
 game, and advancing through the game is quick, but challenging. This keeps your interest up, as 
 well as providing fun, and giving self accomplishment without feeling cheated out on power leveling. 
 Also note that power leveling is non existent in this game. While there are leveling techniques, 
 it still takes some time for any character to max out their character.
  
  Once you go through the hundreds upon hundreds of quests, multitude of instances, and random PvP 
 encounters and make your way to max level, the game has just begun. Being thrown into instances 
 such as Scholomance, Stratholme, Dire Maul, Upper Black Rock Spire and more give the party of 5 
 to 10 a challenge and excellent items to add to their inventory.
  
  For hardcore players, gathering up 40 people (mostly done by a guild or group of guilds) for the 
 most intense instances in the game can be quite exciting. Molten Core, Black Wing Lair, and the 
 soon to come, Naxxramas, give most of the best loot in the game, but they are also the most difficult 
 of instances, and require much cooperation and coordination.
  
  As for graphics, many reviews Ive read in the past complain about how cartoony World of Warcraft 
 looks, but in my personal eye, the art is magnificent. It has a warm appeal to it, and you feel 
 comfortable playing, and all the zones are easy on the eyes. Blizzard makes sure to put some individuality 
 in the items they make as well, many of the armor looks epic in a way, and many times, people just 
 sit in town flashing off their rewards for the work that they put into it.
  
  PvP has been lacked a little, but I wouldnt be surprised if they have a patch completely devoted 
 to PvP soon to come. Once a person gets to High Warlord or Grand Marshal, their PvP lives are over 
 and only need to continue if they are bored.
  
  I understand some points from people where raiding is the only thing WoW is good for, I can see 
 their points, and I also understand that there are a lot of people out there who say that the game 
 is pointless and addictive and that they need revelations to get off the game. Simply put, I 
 played the game for over a year and a half, and I stopped playing two months ago, and Im still 
 excited about what is coming out. With the expansion soon to come out, Im sure I will start up 
 again, but being the most successful MMORPG is going to obviously spark people who will try to 
 attack the game as much as possible just because they disliked what happened to them.
  
  Either way, the game deserves much praise, and I must say, Blizzard, keep up with the good work.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I too was one of the people addicted to World of Warcraft. After playing the game for almost eight 
 months, I decided that it was time to hang up the cloak and wizard hat for more time to have a 
 life outside of my computer.
  
  MMORPG's in general are well known for their addictive gameplay, but World of Warcraft steps this 
 up to the next level. Even once you have hit level 60, the end game content, PVP action and just 
 wanting to better your character keep you coming for more. This kind of action makes the game almost 
 impossible to put down once you have started and make for hours of entertainment.
  
  The replayability of this game is solid. Whether you want to log in for a few minutes to check 
 out what is going on at the auction house or go for a 40 man raid, the possibilities are endless. 
 The questing system makes the game better, especially for those who are interested more in the 
 RPG aspects of these kind of games.
  
  The graphics in the game are great. Many of the Alliance starting areas are very well put together 
 and make the world extremely realistic. Many of the end game bosses look amazing, such as Onyxia, 
 Ragnaros, and Vael. These sort of graphics make the game feel real.
  
  The question about World of Warcraft that many people ask is whether or not it is worth the monthly 
 fee? For people who plan on playing every moment they have available, then yes you will get your 
 moneys worth. For players who only log in for a few hours a week, then it might not feel as worthwhile. 
 MMORPG's in general are updated regularly and Blizzard has done a fantastic job with always adding 
 new content to the game. This coupled with the amount of time spent enjoying the game make it very 
 worthwhile.
  
  World of Warcraft is one of the best MMORPG's ever made. You'll enjoy most every moment of this 
 game and are sure to make new friends. This game is a solid work and every MMORPG fan, whether 
 or not you've heard of Warcraft, should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs_killer_man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is easily the best MMORPG to have hit the shelves and will be for a while, a great way 
 to spend time, and have fun, Everquest will never compare to this or any other MMO in WoW's path. 
 The battle system is great and as you progress you will be required to increase your skills depending 
 on all classes. This game depends on either being horde (orcs, taurens, undead, and trolls) or you 
 could side with the alliance (human, dwarf, night elf, and gnomes) This game is great, pick up a 
 copy NOW!!! Buy the expansion too! World of Warcraft isn't just a game, its a lifestyle, just like 
 the poll from Gamespot said, so thats how important this game is... so buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  For once, a game that has replay value more than a couple months. A game is purchased, played, 
 and beaten within a couple days only to go on a shelf and maybe be picked up again to be played 
 in the future. Online games: they are the future of gaming where replay value is high with lots 
 of multiplayer options and all sorts of extra downloads. In the PC industry, one game towers abover 
 all others in terms of replay value and fun. 
  
  World of Warcraft is the MMO that should be the model for the rest of the years coming. With a 
 50 dollar price tag, and a 15 dollar a month play fee, WoW offers many options to keep you coming 
 back for more. There are 60 levels to tackle, and it takes a good amount of time. Even when you 
 reach level 60, there are many sets of armor avalible to find in dugens and quests. At a low level 
 even, the game is enticing as you level faster and look forward to coming to even numbers of levels 
 to attain new abilities, attacks, and armor. The fun factor is high during the PVP (player vs. 
 player) mode where Horde and Alliance go head to head. However, the downside of PVP is that Blizzard 
 stil has not fixed the que line problem, thus making the wait to get into a PVP zone long at times 
 (hours) . 
  
  Overall, WoW gives every gamer a chance to have fun and choose what they want to do. There are 
 many races and classes available and so many different combinations of clothing items to wear that 
 makes this game so unique. Games like Guild Wars, and City of Heroes fail when it comes to the 
 sheer size of the game and the re-playability. WoW holds the standard of what an MMORPG should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jolmer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: I was expecting alot when I came into play this game. I still havent bought it. The 
 only experience I had was on a free version server running in Denmark. Only 70 People at once. 
 I guess you could say I havent had the tru experience yet because I havent had to interact with 
 the community. Thats what made me un-install the game. But i will buy it soon and play the real 
 thing. Heres what I thought so far.
  
  Graphics: AMAZING! Its incredible how nice they make this game look. It really makes the world 
 come to life and feel as if its really living and breathing. The green in Elwynn Forest, the snow 
 of Dun Morogh, The concrete of the Ironforge Metropolis. Its really good.
  
  Sound: The music is well done giving you the right track for the right place your in. The ambients 
 are also well done. The voices are ok but could have been better but they were still pretty good 
 since alot of MMO's dont even have voices.
  
  Gameplay: THe leveling ISNT BAD! A hard hard grind is normally a turn off for me and this one was 
 pretty friendly. Exploring the GIGANTIC world is fun on its own and yields experience. The quests 
 are sort of repetatvie if your solo. Get into a party and its lots of fun to explore and hunt. 
 There is tons to do in this game, have a drink with friends, explore the lands, hunt animals, trade 
 items, set off fireworks, go mining, fishing, fly on gryphons and see the sights, lots of fun. 
 The PvP is pretty good.
  
  Overall it was good from what I played of it. Its a good game for anyone who likes the Warcraft 
 Universe or Rollplaying in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game at my friends house every now and then. Then I realised that it was 
 so god that I should get it myself. It has not let me down one singel bit.
  
  I play as a dwarven priest I am level 54 now. I play with 4 other firends of mine and we enjoy 
 going to contested areas and wipping some hordes ass. The battle style of this game is amazing. 
 it is just impressive to run around with a great rank next to your name.
  
  The professions in the game are also very nicely made. The skinning and leather-workin g are the 
 ones that work verry well together. SKinning dead animals to get leather and then leather-working 
 to make armour out of it. 
  Another great few professions are mining and engineering. Engeneering is for making rifels and 
 ammo. Also the great part is you can make monsters that fight for you for a amount of time. Also 
 you can make explosives and so on. Then another great skill that works well with mining is blacksmithing. 
 Mining to get the resources and bars that you need and then blacksimithing to make it into mail 
 armour. There are many other skills for cloth and potions. Also side professions that you can get 
 anyway are fishing, cooking and first-aid. Out of the main professions you may only choose 2. If 
 you don't like the professions you unlearn them and get another.
  
  The classes in the game are:
  
  priest:
  Can be used for healing your party members or doing 
 alot damage wih shadow damage.
  
  rogue:
  a very sneaky class that can sneak in the darkness and become invisible and then sneak up behind 
 you and do massive damage.
  
  mage:
  The highest damage dealers in the game. They do not have many defence skills so they rely on high 
 damage dealing to kill their enemies quickly. They can use fire to burn or ice to slow down or 
 stop the enemy
  
  warlock:
  Summons creatures to fight for them. Which can do high amounts of damage if used correctly. One 
 of the hardest classes in the game due to that you can not just create a creature you have to have 
 soul-shards for some.
  
  warrior: the class that atracts damage. Using high defence to be able to run into enemy lines and 
 atract damage to them-selves and at the same time doing heavy damage to the opponent.
  
  paladin:
  Is about the same as a warrior just uses holy damage to kill enemies quicker.
  
 
  druid:
  Uses nature damage. It can turn it self into different types of creature for different bonuses. 
 such as a bear for high defence and a cat for high speed.
  
  hunter:
  Uses bows or guns to stand away from the target and fight it. Also uses pets for extra damage. 
 This class can set traps aswell which is handy for extra damage.
  
  shaman: A bit like a priest just different skills. It can be a main healer or heavy damage dealer. 
 These can also summon little totums for one shaman class. wehich help them during fighting. For 
 atracting attention to the totum or just adding damage to attacks.
  
  One last thing that you have got to do is:
  Is when you have gotten to a very high level you 
 can start doing raids so if you are part of the alliance you can go to horde cities and fight people 
 there or fight other horde raids.
  SOme times you need raid groups to fight big bosses. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3jsmk
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I like mmorpgs, i use to like RYL, then i started coh (city of heroes) and i still play it, along 
 with city of villains.. and i rolled up the 10 day trial of wow and just couldn't get into it, 
 i honestly do not know how people can like this game, it's to complicated, bad controls, not many 
 commands.. kinda hard to talk, not a good map, crappy enemies, crappy moves.. i just cannot get 
 into it. Im going to continue to play city of heroes and city of villains because they're for the 
 slow minded, or ones who don't like to do complicated things and actually have fun :) . Also, for 
 6 million subscribers it was hard for me to find people @ low level? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLank52
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  
  Lots of my mental friends were telling me how I just had to get this game, how "It's definitly 
 worth it, even if you have to pay 15 a month!". So I thought what the hell, i'll give it a try. 
 My intial reactions were, the same as my idiot friends. Great! But that was my INITIAL reaction. 
 The more I played the worse it got. What I mean by that is the gameplay, (as in combat) can get 
 sooo repetitive! So around level 15 i'm kinda getting fed up with the consistent questing, and 
 fighting. And by 22 i'm really starting to get bored, because you don't even get any cool stuff 
 yet, and if there is anything that you can get that is cool, it's a ridicoulous price at the auction 
 house! So now your set on getting that item, do your gonna have to make a darn lot of gold. But 
 to do that you'll usually have to get a proffesian, which is mining, skinning, black smithing, 
 herbalism, alchemy ect. Most of these professians, need you to require things like leather, coal, 
 plants.... I can not tell you how boring this gets! Walking around a gigantic map looking for supplies, 
 just oh GOD IS IT TEDIOUS! And guess what, when you finally get the right amount of things you 
 need for your professian, you can't even make anything anyone wants!!!!!!! So therfore your going 
 to have to spend hours, and hours working on your professian! Ok so now you finally make enough 
 gold to get a really cool piece of armor, or a weapon you want. So you get the item and now what.... 
 You need to go fight more things to level up, and fight and quest, until your head explodes!!! 
 Man I cannot see what anyone likes about gameplay in wow! The only good things I can say about 
 it are that the sound and graphics are exceptionally good. But that does not even mean anything 
 if the game is boring as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allsportsgp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game around October of 2005 and had a blast playing it, until I reached level 60. 
 
  
  The only way to progress with your character once you hit 60 is to participate in end-game content 
 raiding guild, 19-39 other players per raid.
  
  You will find yourself a lot in Molten Core, Black Wing Layer and AQ. If you love waiting a few 
 hours a few nights a week for enough people in your guild to show up and have the patience for 
 repeated wipes on bosses, then you won't mind this game a bit.
  
  I have had 2 level 60's, a Hunter (my first) and Druid. I also had multiple mid-level toons. 
 
  
  With my guild I've seen it all but Onyxia before I quit and got rid of my account.
  
  My suggestion to you is, do not buy the 6 month subscription but try the 3 month option to see 
 if you really like it.
  
  I had a huge problem with it, as I would constantly play and stay up to the early morning hours 
 (everyday) . I logged more hours per week than what you would do at a full time job, while I was 
 going to college classes and doing a part time job - lets just say my life for 6 months outside 
 of WoW was horrible and suffered because my addiction. 
  
  Quitting was the best thing for me, lol.
  
  But back to the review, I suggest you TAKE YOUR 
 TIME AND ENJOY playing this game, don't rush to 60, as once you're there the only way to progress 
 your toon is to do raids that take hours to complete (if you're lucky enough to do, and lucky enough 
 to have enough DKP for the item to roll on) . So enjoy the experience.
  
  I hit level 60 on my first toon in three weeks, I just blazed through everything, big mistake. 
 Do all the quests and enjoy it.
  
  Otherwise this is a great game that has huge queue problems on many servers, bugs since beta still 
 persist and online support/phone support is horrible!
  
  I give it a 5 for value due to the fact they keep adding more features but don't fix the existing 
 ones, like when they added weather atmospheric effects they still hadn't fixed class specific skill 
 text errors on improved skill buffs (been around since BETA, over a year of bugs still there) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SjamPe
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The game was launched as a revolution in the MMO-industry, yet offers absolutely nothing new to 
 the genre. Blizzard has done what they do best - polish everything up nicely. They've done this 
 wonderfully well, and in that way, the game is great. 
  
  It just doesn't offer anything that'll make it last long to a true MMO gamer - that is what really 
 destroys the ''MMO'' part in it TO ME. To me an MMO will have to be able to last for years, yet 
 with World of Warcraft, you'll be able to hit the level cap in a matter of weeks. Sure, some might 
 argue that ''you can just take it easy and go slowly through the game'', yet to me, an MMO needs 
 to be impossible to play through and get bored of in such a short matter of time. The best thing 
 in the game, is that it has introduced the MMO games to the mainstream people - but did we really 
 need that? Sure, had it mostly been mature people joining our ranks it would have been a great 
 thing, but I seriously don't hope that all these ''l33t'' guys will join other games, which is 
 also the only reason I want to keep WoW running for a long time - that way we won't get this kind 
 of people into the games that's really got something new and revolutionizing in store for us (games 
 like Roma Victor, which has the greatest potential at the moment, but will be very dependant on 
 a great user base) .. 
  
  All in all, the game is pretty mediocre, though it has a few strong spots. It's mediocrity in both 
 gameplay and graphics (some love 'em, some hate em - I don't care) is completely ruined by the 
 lack of people in it, capable of speaking proper English, though, and it's actually a rather poor 
 game to join then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEBUDDHAMAN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I finally got to start playing WOW just yesterday, and all I can say is holy crap! This game is 
 truly what everyone says it is. A wonderful MMORPG for everyone. I 100% agree with that statement. 
 I'm only a level 9 Human Rogue, but I'm already in love with this game. And, the graphics are a 
 lot better than I originally thought. There are, however, some slowodwns, but that doesn't take 
 away from the game. I absolutely reccomend this to anyone looking for an MMO to play. If you don't 
 mind paying 15 dollars a month, and you shouldn't, then go buy this game. To sum it up, WOW is 
 without a doubt the best MMORPG on the market. I can't wait for the burning crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishRage
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a mammoth of a game. There truely is a lot of content to go through. From 
 Guilds, PVP, Honor, Instances, Role Playing, and Questing, you can really just get lost in the 
 warcraft universe. However, like anything you do a lot of, it does loose its charm after a while.
 
  
  Blizzard starts off the game by dropping you into a beautiful, detailed, and well put together 
 world. You begin your experience in the starting zones which are absolutely perfect for beginners. 
 You follow the golden exclamation points guides and you will level in no time at all. Its a lot 
 of the same stuff for the first 15 levels, but when you begin getting more of your skills this 
 is where the game really shines.
  
  Tallent points and more skills keep you glued to your keyboard for hours on end. The quests, creatures, 
 and atmosphere is just amazing and very detailed. The game is just very polished and put together 
 very well. Once you begin your mid to late 20's you begin to notice a major flaw, the grind.
  
  Like many MMORPG's WoW has a grind, but isnt that what mmo's really are? They are created to 
 engulf you in a fantasy universe where you have so much to do. They offer time sinks and addicting 
 gameplay.
  
  World of Warcraft has a large flaw though, it seems as if the developers ran out of ideas when 
 they began to create end-game content. Endgame content is Grind, after grind, after grind, after 
 grind. It really becomes a pain in the but to try and enjoy endgame if you do not have a raiding 
 guild. 
  
  There lies another huge flaw. Raid or Quit.
  
  Raiding is the grouping of 20-40 people and spending 4+ hours at a time in a dungeon. If you do 
 not have a guild capable of leading 20+ max level players through encounters ranging from insanely 
 easy to head smashing hard, than your end game experience will be dull.
  
  "Hey Irish.... What about the pvp man? I wanna slit some throat!!"
  
  The PVP in this game is 
 aweful, if you are looking for a PVP game, play DAOC (Dark age of camelot) or Guild Wars. The player 
 versus player content feels more like ANOTHER grind than anything else, and if you do not have 
 the time to raid and think "Hey, i can pvp for gear" you are massively mistaken. There are groups 
 of 10-20 people that spend 10+ hours A DAY in a battleground FARMING honor so that they can get 
 max pvp rank.
  
  ~~~~CONCLUSION~~~~~
  
  : Pros : 
  Beautiful Game
  Many things to do
  Abundant amount of quests
  Very fun classes
  If you have time to raid, 
 it is insanely fun
  
  : Cons :
  Raid or die
  Many time sinks
  End game = Grinds
  PVP sucks
  
  If you are a teen looking for something to spend some time doing, look no further. 
 World of Warcraft is an amazing experience if you have a lot of free time to spend. If you are 
 a typical american with a full time job and a family i would say to look elsewere, you would feel 
 so left behind when people you grouped with at level 20 for some Wailing Caverns is level 60 when 
 you are taking your first step into Uldaman.
  
  Final Word : Try it, its worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hubertquakenbus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played in my life. The graphics, sound, and gameplay, 
 simply amazing. 
  
  The only drawback about this game is the monthly fee, you can live with it, but if you are stretched 
 for cash dont, I just cant wait for burning crusade to come out.
  
  I love the diversity of this game, between all the races, player types, and profesions, it is just 
 a plain good game.
  
  The amount of quests is amazing, amount of people playing is also amazing. Great to play with groups 
 of friends.
  
  It is impossible to finsish everything that is in this game, thats what makes it so good, poeple 
 will be playing this game for ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  well well well, we all know tht this is the number 1 most addictive game of all time.
  But why? why all the over rating?
  
  first. let me explain. WoW is a really cool game i must 
 say. but only at the start and mid of the game.
  you guys should know. getting all the cool loot, doing quest with a whole bunch of people. doing 
 raids and stuff, all these are pretty cool i must say. and you can only find all this in WoW.
 
  but as time goes by. as hours goes by as days and months goes by. what will you be doing at this 
 game. the same old shiet man!
   for better loot..
  all the same old **** after months of playing???
  COCK and BULL man!
  oh, and of course. doesnt 
 the armor looks cool? doesnt the flying mount looks cool? oh and isnt it exciting when u enter 
 a dungeon with a number of people to kill enemies to get special loot? isnt it exciting when u 
 enter enemy lines with 40 plus people.. OF COURSE IT IS FUN.. REALLY IT IS FUN..
  BUT.... doing all the same old **** for months. no man! cock and bull!
  this game is just too 
 repetitive! and i mean REALLY REPETITIVE!
  
  so gamers. do give urself a chance to try out other wonderful games. SPORE is the upcoming revolutionary 
 game.. followed by our fav red alert 3 coming at end of this yr.. these are what we call GAMES 
 people. to me WoW = JOB
  i played WoW for 2 yrs man.. and why i call it a job? caus when u take a break from it. u lack 
 behind like **** even if its a day .. cause poeple around the world are grinding like mad day and 
 night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaodyn
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Well, Blizzard has done it again. With the release of WoW in 2004, it has been a complete success. 
 It perfectly merges the Warcraft storyline we all know and love into an idealistic world where 
 everyone can enjoy. 
  
  The two main factions are the Grand Alliance and the Horde. The alliance is composed of the noble 
 Humans of Stormwind, the stout Dwarves of Ironforge, the ancient Night Elves of Teldrassil, and 
 the Gnomes.... who are really just there. 
  
  The Horde is comrpised of the murderous Orcs, led by the Warchief Thrall, which we know from WC3. 
 The renegade Forsaken, who have broken from the Lich King's grasp under the leadership of the Banshee 
 Lady Sylvanas Windrunner. The nomadic Tauren, led by the the wise Carine Bloodhoof, and the mystic 
 Trolls, led by Vol'Jinn, who share their home with the Orcs.
  
  The game takes place four years after the events of Warcraft Three, and the Burning Legion has 
 suffered a great setback. The price for peace comes at great cost. The great city of Lordaeron 
 has been betrayed (And fell) by Arthas, once the glorious prince and heir to the throne, he now 
 serves the Lich King. However, the renegade Forsaken have taken up residence in the ruins, they 
 live in this Undercity, organized and ready to defend themselves from everyone who shall call them 
 monsters.
  
  The Dwarvish domain of Khaz Modan has also fell. The High Elf city of Quel'Thelas has also fell 
 to the ravenous Scourge. 
  
  This is where the game takes place. You are an adventurer in Azeroth, tasked with many quests, 
 ranging from simple gathering quests to venturing to the most dangerous places in Azeroth for an 
 item. With the release of Patches 1.9, 1.10, and the upcoming 1.11, more content is added to the 
 world. The ancient Qiraji civilization is now explorable with the release of 1.9 in the Temple 
 and Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj. In 1.10, Blizzard introduced weather effects. With the upcoming 1.11, the 
 Scourge launch another invasion, hellbent on exterminating all life on Azeroth. The Scourge have 
 reached Kalimdor, and in the Plaguelands of the Eastern Kingdoms, the Necropolis floats menacingly. 
 
  
  If you're tired of questing and just want to up and take the fight to the opposite faction, there 
 are multiple battlegrounds and scenarios. Warsong Gulch is probably the most famous for the lower 
 level brackets, it is a Capture the Flag game so if you play CTF on a first person shooter, you 
 should get the hang of it real quick. Next on the list is Arathi Basin, where the humans and forsaken 
 fight to claim the basin's valuable resources. This is, in the best way I can describe, as an Warcraft 
 III meets Half Life. It is an all out warzone as each side claims resources, object of the game 
 is the first side to hit 3,000 resources wins. Last, but not least, is Alterac Valley where the 
 Frostwolf Orc clan is locked in a severe battle with the Dwarven Stormpike clan. It is a 100 man 
 battlefield with 50 on each side. To keep it simple, it is an all out hellzone where you must overrun 
 the enemy.
  
  Living up to the nickname "Warcrack", WoW will deliver hours of entertainment as you level your 
 character. The game is just right in difficulty, while people who have never played an MMO can 
 quickly get familiarized with the controls, experienced MMO players will feel right at home. Blizzard 
 has also included the ability to customize your User Interface so you can create your own look 
 and feel. 
  
  The graphics on WoW may seem a bit cartoony and not what most people expect with epic games, but 
 they add to the "right at home" feel. 
  
  With the expansion pack looming in the horizon, more phenomenal content will be added to the game, 
 along with the two new races. The Draenei and the Blood Elves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever. If you don't have this game you HAVE TO BUY IT NOW! There are so many 
 things you can do on it. Most of the time you have to be careful when it comes to computer games 
 but this is probably the best computer game you could get! This game is great even for people who 
 don't like MMORPG's (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games) . You can be several different 
 races including: Troll, Orc, Undead and Tauren for the Horde. For the Alliance you can be: Human, 
 Dwarf, Gnome and Night Elf. You can also be many different classes including: Hunter, Warlock, 
 Warrior and many more. Overall this game is AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  First off I hav actually played this game for a good amount of time. I have a level 60 character. This 
 game is probably the last of the classic style of MMORPG and it just happens to be the best of 
 those currently out there. Everything else after this as E3 2006 has shown will be attempting new 
 stuff and not just copying the style seen in this game.
  This game is pretty much you standard hack-n-slash action rpg. You get quests,.. complete them get 
 experience/gold/and items. It is not really much of a grindfest as some people have lied about saying,. or 
 at least they dont understand the meaning of grind. Yoy very rarely during the course of your character 
 60 level life just have to go out and kkill monsters just for the sake of gaining xp which is the 
 proper use of the word grind and instead you will gain most of your xp though the above mentioned 
 quests.
  This game was designed by Blizzard to be easy btw and to be able to get as big of an installed 
 user base as possible which one can certainly say has worked well for them. This simplicity though 
 will make the more hardcore gamer grow bored after awhile and you will probably want to move on. The 
 character classes are mostly cool of the ones I have really tried. My least favorite is the warrior 
 to play as. And least favorite to go against is the overpowered Paladin. Blizzard by the way is very 
 biased torwards that class and the aliance in general. If anyone or side gets some thing first it 
 them. The races have very little difference other than looks and starting location. They do have 
 some racial differnces but they are so minute that they hardly make a differnce. I wouldn; t say 
 this is bad thing except that Bilzz seems to think that adding two more is like huge big deal as 
 far as the soon coming expansion goes. It isn't.
  Most of the world that you will experience is MMO with the exception of dungeons and battlegrounds 
 which are intstanced. Which is fine because if you have ever played non instanced dungeons before 
 in other MMO'sthey can be a huge mess with so many people in there to kill the same thing.
  PVP can be a big part of the game and is actually pretty fun. Depending on how big a part it is 
 for you depends on the server you choose since some are PVP all the time and others are more ny 
 choice. I am not really a fan of PVP so by choice realms are for me.
  For the time I did play this game I really did like it,.. however just don't be surprised if you 
 end up growin bored after a few months. Maybe you won't though so either way id you do get 5-6 months 
 than you have certainly gotten your moneys worth out of the game. I would reccomend it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icy06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this game for over 1100+ hours now since i got it about six or seven months ago. Don't 
 get me wrong WoW is a great game and I would recommend anyone who hasn't played it before to buy 
 it, as when you start your first character and enter the world for the first time its an amazing 
 experience. Even the amount of time I have played this game, I'm still finding out new things each 
 day.
  
  From levels 1 to 59 you will gain XP by killing monsters etc and along the way can take part in 
 5 man dungeons or 'instances' to upgrade your gear and to get a bit of XP along the way. These 
 instances are fun to play as the mistake of one person could bring down the whole group, so you 
 have to work closely as a team and you may be responsible for multiple tasks.
  
  When you get to 60 however its a whole new ballpark. When you reach 60 you have 3 options 1) take 
 part in 20/40 man 'raids' to upgrade your items (PVE) 2) collect honor in the battlegrounds (PVP) 
 3) re-roll another character.
  
  Ok, so with raids you can't just decide "hey lets do stratholme today!" as you need 40 people to 
 complete them. As you can imagine this can be a big task in itself. So if you are in a small guild 
 then you can forget about raids, unless you manage to team up with other smaller guilds. I personally 
 do not like raids because unlike 5man instances you don't make a huge difference to the raid. For 
 example if you are a paladin you will heal&cleanse only, if you are a priest you will heal only, 
 if you are a mage you will cast one spell only (frostbolt) . As well as the lack of interaction 
 you will most likely come away empty handed with no loot. Most guilds operate a 'DKP' system or 
 (dragon kill points) which means that each time you turn up to a raid you will be awarded a certain 
 number of points which can be spent on loot. So unless you can turn up to every raid, other people 
 will most likely always have more DKP than you.
  
  PvP is just a grindfest. Each time you kill a member of the opposite faction in the battlegrounds 
 you get awarded a certain amount of honor points which then determines what rank you achieve. To 
 get to rank 14 ( the highest rank) you will need to play in excess of 14 hours per day for several 
 months (no joke) . Even Blizzard have admitted that the system is heavily time based instead of 
 skill based and said they are working to fix this. When this will be no one knows, but knowing 
 blizzard im guessing a long time from now.
  
  So basically end game revolves around getting better gear (taking part in raids) and is very linear. 
 You get your tier one set, then you upgrade to tier two and with the introduction of patch 1.11 
 tier3. Btw only about 5% of the servers population will be even take part in the new content, as 
 they don't have the gear for it.
  
  So bottom line really is if you like raiding good. If you don't too bad there is nothing else to 
 develop your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lego_bond
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  absolutely briliant only one flaw once u hit lvl 40 it gets boring because everything else is either 
 for lvl 50+ or 39- its anoying and on my server (frostwolf) barely anyone plays battle grounds anymore
 
  
  anyway on to the good stuff =)
  awesome gameplay
  good music
  very good graphics
  and each race has its ups and downs (except shamans theyre annoying cuz their basically a mix of 
 druid, mage and hunter) but all i can say more about the game is if ur a hunter stick to leatherworking 
 and skinning unless u want to be 
  an enchanting fairy **** and always keep an eye out for rogues (those damn sneaky bastards stun 
 u then kill u before u get out of stun)
  not much more i can say but my computer could pwn urs cuz it has 7331 masta ski11l3z foo lol
 
  
  let me remind u that this is my opinion yours may differ but this ones mine my own my precious 
 SO DONT STEAL IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyber04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  So, I bought this game the second day it was release and after that day i was a WoW addict. The 
 game appealed to me so much , over a year befor it was even released i had dreams about the few 
 screen shots i had seen. Of how they said it would be.
  
  My race: nightelf
  My class: Hunter
  Server: Bronzebeard
  
  With this character i loved the game, me being a 
 more independent type of person, i enjoyed playing as a hunter with my pet :) . 
  
  So anyways, i played for about 4 days straight. I was in love with the game and said i would never 
 stop playing, knowing they would add more content every few weeks, or months so i played and contiuned 
 for about 2 months. had about 6 chars - than i got halflife 2. And i got into that and played it 
 alot, kinda forgot about world of warcraft for another month or 2, but i came back and enjoeyed 
 the game, had some pretty high guys and enjoyed the game tons. but it got more boring, and more.. 
 just grinding, and questing, some pvping, doing runs.
  Just the same old, my inspiration was, "oh i wanna get this set of armor!" but it just got pointless, 
 and i ended up just quiting. for about a year. ive played recently, the game just seems to be the 
 same old stuff to me, i know it is a good game, and it is fun, and gave me maybe even 1000hours+ 
 of fun. but all good never stays good.
  
  this game was good if you look at what people ussuly base there reviews off. i base mine off fun. 
 but for the more techniqle (or however u spell that) people i do
  
  Graphics: The game looked good on my nvidia 5200. i liked the vast enviroments and the wild life 
 that roamed around, detailed characters, and i loved the armours and weponds. 10
  
  Sound: Enviroment sounds were good, i liked how you could talk to people with the voice emotes, 
 music was decent, not great, but decent. 7
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay i loved it, its pretty fluid for a MMORPG, and i liked how you could use 
 WASD to control your character, im a FPS fan so it was easier on me, I enjoyed the community, but 
 like all MMORPGs there are A$$holes, and you cant get rid of those guys, but besides them i loved 
 making friends and joing guilds and doing runs, until i got bored of the game. 9
  
  This game is good. And i recomend everyone who liked Blizz's games, to check it out. maybe you 
 wont get bored of it like many people i know who still play it these days. I mean, outta about 
 30k votes the game got a 9.2, it has to be good, and it is. try it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gogandontas07
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  You can ask anyone of my friends, I'm really not the most serious of gamer, I love being in the 
 "know" about things, but I'm really not allways there, except for this! World Of Warcraft is truely 
 one of the greatest games on the market right now, I can only begin to describe how good this game 
 is, and the weird part? My highest level character is 36! 36!, I havent even gotten through half 
 of this magnificent title and yet, I would recomend It to anyone. weather you've been a warcraft, 
 or just Blizzard in general fan like me, or if you just love mmorpg's It doesnt matter! Blizzard 
 has put together a gaming expirience that has had people who became level 60 (the highest you can 
 get) coming back for more, day, after day, after day, and these are the people who bought it at 
 launch! over two years ago! Blizzard, I LOVE YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatzui
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  + Enough content to keep you busy for months.
  + Blizzards approach - graphics, sound (ok, the sound is only slightly above mediocre) and humor.
 
  + Regular content patches which keeps it fresh.
  
  The bad:
  - Somewhat repetitive at times, do try to spice up the experience grind with some dungeons when 
 you're bored though!
  - The world is not that RP friendly nor immersive. Bad character customization (and you'll end 
 up looking like 30% of the other members of your class at level 60) and quests that feel more like 
 a chore than helping out (if you're trying to RP) .
  - You need a friendly and fun guild to enjoy yourself enough at level 60.
  
  The ugly:
  Wii
 
  
  World of Warcraft is an addictive game. You're probably saying "2000h+, dude, your crazy playing 
 a game that much." Yes, it's a little over the top but here's the thing: I enjoyed it a lot and 
 I don't feel the time was wasted. I'd recommend it to anyone with a few hours a week open for some 
 gaming. It's by no means a perfect game though.
  
  I had fun leveling my first character to level 60, which is the highest level in the game at the 
 moment. There were times when I wished it could be less repetitive or slow but overall, it was 
 fun times. Then came the countless visits to Scholomance, Blackrock Spire and Stratholme, some 
 of the 5- and 10-man end-game dungeons in WoW, in search of the Shadowcraft set for my rogue. It 
 was one of the only goals you could have at the time and this was by far the most boring time I 
 ever had in WoW (it wasn't terrible but it wasn't fun after several 2h runs through each of the 
 listed instances.)
  
  My advice, get yourself a friendly guild before or at this point, it was what saved me. Blizzard 
 should be thanking my guild mates for the 9+ score, they really made the game better (Blizzard 
 employee? I expect a thank-you-letter from your president by the end of this week) .
  
  Anyway, the guild grew bigger and we were soon doing Molten Core (the "easiest" 40-man raid dungeon) . 
 The dungeon itself is fun, the game challenges you for real for the first time in here. But that's 
 not why I kept showing up for it on the evenings. Again, it was my guild mates.
  
  I continued playing my main character with the guild in raid dungeons and enjoyed some mindless 
 alt-leveling for several months but now I've really sucked everything out of this game. I've played 
 all of the instances several times, I've become exalted (the highest reputation one can have) with 
 several factions, leveled three characters to level 60, PvP'ed more than a few nights and done 
 everything else WoW has to offer - probably more than what you'd consider too much.
  
  I'm by no means bitter because I've spent to much time on this game, as I said earlier, I really 
 enjoyed it. And I think you will too. If you have a bored friend, try to get him or her to play 
 too, it will enhance your experience (no, not the kind that will make you level faster, you nerd) .
 
  
  This is my first review but I hoped it helped anyway!
  - Mikael Norling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millsymills
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I've been playing World of Warcraft since Christmas-time of 2005 and the game never really gets 
 boring. The thing to the game that draws me into it for hours and hours is the level of complexity 
 the entire game has to it, while still being action-packed and fun. It doesn't take anyone long 
 to figure out the controls in how to operate the game, but it takes a while to understand the many 
 subelties to the game that allow you to succeed at the higher levels. While this game might not 
 have all the punch and swagger of a FPS or the intricate strategy of a strategy war game, it merges 
 the two together and creates a whole no realm that is really fun.
  
  While the cost might be a fact if anyone is interested, but a cost of 14$ a month is not much if 
 you look at it as perhaps a movie ticket or layin off Taco Bell for a little while. The 14$ or 
 so a month is definately worth it for all the updates and support Blizzard gives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game, with a good amount of features.
  You can choose 8 races and multiple classes which makes the game good.
  
  Gameplay:
  Excellent, 
 nice races, big world, different lands, different classes, lots of items. Profession which really 
 rock.
  A good amount of enemies.
  
  Graphics:
  Looks great but cartoony, but still it looks good for a warcraft game.
  Nice variety of lands 
 and weather.
  
  Variety:
  Good and unique.
  A huge world too discover, 6 mayor cities, good amount of monsters and enemies.
  Different classes, 
 races and proffesions.
  Skills are all different.
  
  Value:
  Great, keeps you playing for years, because it takes you ages to rally finish one of your chars.
 
  
  Sounds:
  Good, music is good and changes when you enter other lands.
  Sounds are OK, but not that good.
  
  Online:
  DUDE this is a Massive multiplayer game.
 
  
  WOW is a good game, but you have to pay too play online so thats not very good, not like Guild 
 wars.
  : ( but still it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SythasVC
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 30, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Note: Score is based on the individual patch, based on how it plays and how it has changed from 
 past revisions.
  
  The good in 1.11:
  
  - The Shaman and Mage reviews were very well done, specially for mages. Not as necessary as say, 
 the hunter changes, but good non-the-less.
  
  - PVP rank 12-13 gear updated. This is great news for former CP farmers such as myself who worked 
 hard (yes, worked, not played) to have the best gear the game had to offer at the time. The warrior, 
 priest and hunter sets now rival Tier 3 stats, while the paladin set has been transformed into 
 a PVP support paladin's dream come true.
  
  - New caster weapons for rank 14. Rogue off-hand as well.
  
  - Scourge Invasion event is more 
 linear and in the end, more fun than the Ahn'Quiraj gate opening events. Good job. Naxxaramas is 
 a sight to behold, both with exellent presentation and creepy music.
  
  - Deserter de-buff rules changed. Now nobody in a group can queue for a battleground if even one 
 has a deserter de-buff. This is great news for good teams who get constantly AFK'd out from by 
 cowards who play the game for standing and not competition.
  
  The bad in 1.11:
  
  - Naxxaramas. Sure, it's gonna make the PVE guilds happy, but in the end, its more of the same. 
 More scripted fights that will be learned, then mastered, then boringly and routinley farmed just 
 like everything else.
  
  - No rank 14 gear update. Granted that the warrior and rogue weapons are still the best the game 
 has to offer, but every other class seems to have been eclipced with better weapons found elsewhere 
 in the game.
  
  - PVP has been forgotten once again. This is the 4th patch that lacks any PVP additions. The ranking 
 system is still the worst ever concieved in any MMO. Arathi Basin is now more boring than standing 
 in your capital city all day chatting. While Blizzard has promised a return of outdoor PVP and 
 a new ranking system for 1.12, it's still sad to see they prioritized yet another instance over 
 the more important PVP in the game, or lack there of.
  
  Peronal Perspective:
  
  PVP: It seems that with the new PVP gear, a new of nobodys are coming forward wanting to rank up. 
 That is good for now, since there is no skill involved in the process. It will be interesting to 
 see how skill based Blizzard's 1.12 system is however. If it is very skill based, then those nobodys 
 will have a sudden reality check when cross-server battlegrounds are implemented.
  
  PVE: I'm finding it hard to get exited for Naxxaramas. Only 1 person in my guild has completed 
 his AQ set, and we're the top guild in the server, dare I say one of the top guilds playing WoW 
 today. The instances were released to close to each other, so now players like myself, who raid 
 just to remain competitive in PVP, have to dedicate 3 or 4 days to learning Naxx while another 
 2 farming an instance they're not done with. When AQ came out, most of the guild had farmed BWL 
 to the ponit our alts were getting gear, so if you stopped going to BWL, it wasn't a big deal. 
 No such thing with 1.12 however.
  
  The insane requirements for Tier 3 mats were shocking, but it's good to see many people anticipating 
 this and starting to make their mooncloths and cured rugged hides.
  
  Hunter Perspective:
  
  The class remains pretty much the same. No mayor changes on any of the 
 mechanics. However the gear on Naxx has scaled considerably, specially with the new crossbow from 
 the spider wing. And of course, the PVP gear is a good "free" set that's almost to the level of 
 the Naxx gear. The PVPers deserve it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursiveSaturn
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  General info: World of Warcraft is the best mmorpg ever. It has great graphics and some awsome 
 things you can do. The pvp is very addictive and the gameplay goes great. It takes awhile to lvl 
 up in the game once u get to like lvl 15+ but its well worth it. PvP info: Ah the pvp is one of 
 the best things in it. One of the bad things is that there are alot of Twinks (for you ppl who 
 never played ppl who stay lvl 19 just to whoop ppl in pvp.) The twinks are really making the pvp 
 as fun as it should be. Anyway the pvp is great and gets better as you lvl up. PvE and instances: 
 Instances are really fun and challenging. In the instances there is a very good chance you'll get 
 something you want. Now when i comes to just grinding it can be nice and easy. You may find a good 
 item sometimes but you'll usually find stuff to sell for some cash. As you lvl up you'll find better 
 cash from creatures. Ending: All in all World of Warcraft is a very good game and i really recomend 
 that all you mmorpg lovers should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NandoSupes
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  WoW is simply an amazing game, from the inmersive beautiful world to the easy to learn interface, 
 this game is a mmo fan dream come true or even console gamers. the beauty of WoW lies on how versatile 
 this game is, easy to get into, colorful world , great quest system that is really easy to read 
 and understand. WoW doesnt bring anything spectacular to the genre, but Blizzard just manage to 
 incorporate the best qualities of the mmo genre and really outclassed any other mmo out there, 
 because they just polished them to make it a whole lot better. plus their little nice touches too. theres 
 a good variety of classes and races to choose from as well. but the most appealing quality to WoW 
 is the way this game draws you in. you really believe that you are that paladin fighting evil , 
 or the mage hurlings fireballs with ease. the world in Wow is full of life and color and is also 
 huge. I really love the music in this game, is simply superb, is also very pc friendly since you 
 dont need the best computer in the world to play this game or an Alienware lol , I could go on 
 and on. if you are a Warcraft fan you are gonna love this game, if you like the mediaval fantasy 
 setting this game is for you, or if you are just simply a gamer, play this game, you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgspyro
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This really is one of the best games in the warcraft series. The game was perfect. This was a good 
 step for a internet game that blizzard has done. 
  The game was just right it had alll of the diffrent type of enemys and bosses as seen in warcraft 
 3. also the game has a perfect idea for the classes and charachters and how they devided them up 
 in to diffrent races.
  the game might of had some flaws with running on the internet and gliching but the game was still 
 wonderful. It really filt like you were in the world of warcraft it had all the places in warcraft 
 series. the enviroments were outstanding along with the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Good engine, many options, smooth framerate, lots to do, inspired graphics, believable virtual 
 world. Cooperative play is easy and reasonably effective. The game does not penalize dying too 
 muc, and this is a very good thing since death is routine in any RPG.
  
  Cons:
  For those that are brouhgt up on solo RPGs and adventure games, the lack of a cohesive and arcing 
 storyline is apparent. Quests feel very generic and similar.
  
  After spending over 30 hours of gaming, I fnd almost 90% of the quests are completely generic: 
 (E. g Kill 15 monster X and collect 15 items from their bodies. ) Although it is fun initially to 
 kill these beasts and starting levelling, after a while, it becomes mundane. The only difference 
 is now you have to kill 15 level 20 monsters instead of 10 level 3 monsters !
  
  True, the positive side of this type of gaming allows players to just play in short bursts and 
 can just dip in from time to time. However, I think it would be nice to learn from single player 
 games where there is a consistent story that builds up over a series of multiple quests. So, by 
 the time you have spent 30 hrs into the game, you are intrigued by on ongoing story and you have 
 made many important decisions along the way to influence that story (or your part in that story.) . 
 I think this may not necessarily be easy to implement into an MMORPG, but I think it would certainly 
 enhance the gaming experience when added alongside the existing mundane missions.
  
  Having complained so much, however, I still have to confess I like the game although I feel there 
 is much lost potential.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shyuio
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Me personly all the people that say dissapointing and such must be crazy
  
  offers so much than warcraft 3 and frozen throne (i own frozen throne and its great but WOW you 
 can't describe.
  
  So many classes, races, and the forever battle Alliance vs Horde
  
  i like horse the best because of ogrimar and the undercity
  
  oggrimar has great shops and 
 battlefields
  undercity because it just looks cool and awsome and most importantly this game is huge!!!!!!!
 
  
  my favourite is the horde, my favourite rece would be trolls and their hunter
  u go around with your own pet (u can choose) i own a corrupted rare raptor he is cool
  
  but 
 you could pick form boars, giant emu's, bears, bats, scorpians, and way more !!!
  
  i rate this game 20/10 da best (this game does cost a fair but it is well worth it!
  
  i set 
 the learning curve to 4 hours or more because everytime u log on you will learn something new (well 
 most of time unless u play it 24/7)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipodaf
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 28, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  WoW is good the first week you play it, then it begins to bore you. It is the same quests all over, 
 just different as the races are different. Most quest are kill those creatures and bring me its 
 hoofs. But you can kill several of the creatures without getting any hoofs.
  Another bad thing is the humans they are always strong, even though you are a mage.
  I would 
 say that World of Warcraft have destroyed the warcraft game. Warcraft III comes up with this great 
 story and it is totally opposite now. Taurens like the undead, don't count on it. And with new 
 burning crusade, blood elf and Dranei helped each other in frozen throne.
  There is sense of freedom in it, if you were a human rogue you might like to join the defias brotherhood, 
 but you can't, weird. There should be freedom as you see in Star Wars Galaxies.
  World of Warcraft is bloody disappointing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DartK
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game cannot be given justice just by talking about it. It is truly a must-play for all people. 
 People who have given up or who have never played the MMORPG style of gameplay should really give 
 this game a try. The gameplay is so easy and feels just right and just flows with everything the 
 game has to offer. This game has a great experience for anyone out there who likes this style of 
 gameplay. With all of the features that this game has to offer, it is most likely to be one of 
 the most popular games for now and in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeldorDK
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Buy it, and you'll love it. Thats all, there is no doubts that everyone truly thinks that this 
 is a 10'er!
  
  Good luck playing it..
  
  The one and only minus of the game is, if the realm/server you play on lags, but whatever, you 
 can always just migrate to a newer and lower populated realm/server :D
  
  Im Lovin' It!
  
  By the way, Undead Rogues and Undead Shadow-Priests Owns the Game :D
  
  You know, if you 
 don't like the monthly price, don't play it.. But I must say this: All those who does not wan't 
 to play becuase of the price, you are not worth playing 'World of Warcraft', cause the GM's are 
 very nice people who answers questions faster than you say "huh", so thats the service they give 
 us for nearly No cash at all.
  
  Thank you,
  TJ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myhouseonthesun
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, a game that has revolutionized MMORPGs, most likely tripled Blizzards stock 
 value, and is the sole possessor of about 25days of my time. It is absolutely amazing, for a while. 
 Keeping in mind that game-wise WoW has nearly no faults, the online community has nearly ruined 
 what once was a brilliant concept. 
  
  Let me elaborate.
  
  Quick note: If you would like to read how good WoW is, and a bunch of well deserved glorifying 
 garbage, just read one of the other million reviews. THIS review touches base on what a huge group 
 of well organized, mic-toting, website-having jerks did to a great game.
  
  Numerous classes, a seemingly endless map, professions, specialties, skill trees and armor classes 
 up the wazoo. Youd think a game couldnt offer anything more. Well youre pretty much right, 
 except one major fault. Everyone else. I know Im subject to degradation as being called a Newbie 
 or Baby, but after a bout  of a year playing WoW I just HAD to quit. It wasnt because I had 
 a few Level 60 characters (highest possible) , It wasnt because I had nearly seen everything there 
 is to see (40person raids, Molten Core, ect.) ; it was the people. Early in its development, you 
 could meet 50 hunters, or 50 priests, and every single one would be put together a little bit differently. 
 However, nowadays, if youre a warrior all youll hear is; youd better have a Defense Build 
 or If you cant be a good tank, then good to heck you newbie. These adopted attitudes of how 
 the game should be played accompanied by zero perspicacity to hybrid builds or alternative designs 
 quickly ruin game play. If youve spent 10hours playing WoW you probably know what I mean. Its 
 a dog-eat-dog world out there, and our friends who now are reporting 50+ DAYS of playtime are governing 
 exactly what, when and how to make a winning character. Who said being right had to be so rigid? 
 
  
  My advice, get it, play it, and the second you lose interest cancel your account, its a downhill 
 spiral. Theres no creativity or sportsmanship left in the world (my world) of online RPGs. Go 
 play myst.
  
  Cynical, but honest.
  
  Love brad
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superchicken77
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) takes elements from past MMORPGS and improves upon them greatly. PvP parts 
 of this game aren't complete but innovative quest systems and great solo content and group combat 
 is it's better side. WoW is great and should be put down in MMORPG as one the best games for the 
 genre. Some of the things that are amazing in this game are taking everyday thing such as, riding 
 the subway (tram) , getting the mail, and doing a job (profession) . This world is immersive, beautiful, 
 and very large. The combat in this isn't as spaced at as one would think and it is really action 
 packed.
  
  
  Two Thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_lord100
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an amazing game. It has transformed the qualifications for a good pc game 
 and has blown away any form of competition. Though the game produced suprising results, there is 
 one catch. Its not free. To join the world of warcraft Battle net, it is 5 dollars every month. 
 World of Warcraft is a more advanced edition of its 3 predecessors, War Craft 1, 2, and 3. In World 
 of Warcraft, you create your alter ego by choosing from a variety of colorful races and powerful 
 classes, and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling with other players. I recommend this 
 game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atreyu27
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  
  
  World Of Warcraft is the most addicting game of all time. Even if you do not like Rpg's or MMO 
 games you will still like this game. 
  
  I think this game is so amazing.. Its never gets old. You can do just about anything in this game 
 also like flying or making weapons or going to an auction to dancing, drinking, and laughing.
  This game is the game that wil ruin your life! (i mean it i showed my friend this game about lets 
 say 2-3 months ago and he already has 2 lvl 60's and all he does is play and go to work.. p. s. im 
 sorry) luckily i didnt get too into it because i was busy but if I wasnt i would be playing 24/7.
 
  
  All in all this is probably one of the best games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft takes you on a unique journey. There are many options to this game and it is 
 highly addictive for many players. Although this game depends on your style, if your a hardcore 
 MMO player then this game is not for you. However if your the type of player who likes to ease 
 through things than this is the game for you. The game is based on 60 levels which you can get 
 to in a simple amount of time, if your up to some of the repetitiveness in the game. However this 
 game has updates frequently, however most of the content is only availble for high level characters. 
 All in all this game is one great MMO but it depends on what you like to see if you want this to 
 be your main MMO. So if you look intrested then deffintly pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  I have never actually paid for an MMORPG longer than the two months I tried EverQuest after the 
 first expansion came out. After putting in only 10 hours of gameplay and paying $25 above the cost 
 of the game, I thought it was a waste of time, since I couldn't dedicate the time needed to the 
 game to actually make it fun and worth the money.
  
  Since then, I have tried the Lineage II beta, City of Heroes beta, and others, without any desire 
 to move into the pay for play phase of the game. I finally signed up for the Guild Wars beta through 
 a pre-order, since, after all, there was going to be no monthy fee. After a couple of weekends 
 with it, I thought, this is finally the MMORPG for me. Then I heard a guy at work talk about the 
 stress test beta of World of Warcraft. For $8, I could get a monthly subscription to FilePlanet 
 and join in on the fun. Hey, for eight bucks, why not?
  
  That was the end of my search. After two days with the beta, I was nearing level 12 with my Night 
 elf rogue and having a hard time going to bed, stopping to eat, going to the bathroom. Ever heard 
 of a catheter? I immediately got my brother-in-law to pony up the $8 as well, and soon we were 
 zipping around the world of Azeroth together having a blast.
  
  Never have I played an MMORPG with as much drive or addiction. If you only have 5-10 minutes to 
 play, why not log on and go kill the 10 furbolgs for the latest quest, or just level up your leatherworking 
 a couple of points, or visit the Auction House and browse for equipment upgrades? There is a plethora 
 of things to do in a matter of minutes. In fact, Blizzard has made it so easy to play, that even 
 non-MMO and non-computer gamers in general are hooked. I know husbands and wives that play together 
 on the game, where the wife had never touched a computer game before. The learning curve is so 
 gentle, that you soon find ways to squeeze in another 30 minutes just to reach that next level 
 where you might learn the next uber spell or skill.
  
  Trust me, if you like computer games, and have hesitated on an MMO, your chance is now. The $14.95 
 per month? I don't even think about it, I'm too busy playing to worry. Too bad I have to work to 
 earn money to play, or might just be on all day long.
  
  Gameplay:
  After choosing one of eight races from two differently aligned sides (horde - undead, orc, troll, 
 tauren and alliance - human, night elf, gnome, dwarf) and one of 8 classes (mage, priest, shaman, 
 paladin, warrior, rogue, hunter, warlock) , you start your journey in a "Newbie" zone, where the 
 monsters don't attack you unless you attack first, and the quests give you a good taste for what 
 to expect in the future. Go here and collect 10 items dropped from these kind of creatures, or 
 find so-and-so, he went missing earlier today, or kill 8 of these, because their population is 
 threatening the city. This is the driving force behind the game. Your quest log can hold 20 quests 
 at a time (believe me, sometimes you wish it could hold more) , and you end up running from one 
 to the next, just to get that next bit of XP or the next equipment reward. Incredibly, with the 
 amount of quests available, very rarely do you get lost not knowing how to complete one. If you 
 think you don't know, reread the quest, and you'll likely find the answer in it.
  
  The controls and interface are user friendly and lend themselves well to the combat system and 
 information tracking. Combat works on a timed attack basis, so if you have a slow weapon, you will 
 attack at longer intervals. Spells have a ready period or cooldown that prevents the diablo button 
 mash, but still makes you pay attention to comat. Once you are engaged in combat, your spells on 
 your hotbar light up when ready and you simply click with your mouse or hotkey it. My complaint 
 is that there aren't enough buttons! Luckily Blizzard left the UI interface open to modifications, 
 and already mods like CTmod and Cosmos have added buttons, clocks, configs, and more to make the 
 experience that much better.
  
  One of my biggest gripes with previous MMORPG's is what people call the grind, killing thousands 
 of helpless rats before you have enough xp to hit level 2 and enough copper to buy a weapon that 
 upgrades your damage by 1 point. Not so here. After completing the first quest, I was already level 
 3, and had replaced my dagger, my chest armor, my boots and gloves with new upgrades from drops 
 and quest items. It is a compelling system that keeps you coming back for more. Another part of 
 that grind is the travel. To get from one area to the other, you usually get lost, end up walking 
 for 40 minutes and then not having a way to get back. Blizzard has given a lot of helps for the 
 players in this area, and it rarely takes more than 10 minutes to get anywhere in the world (which 
 is absolutely huge) . The only problem with this lesser grind is I find myself leveling up too fast. 
 Once you reach beyond a certain level, old areas with lower level creatures go "gray" or basically 
 don't provide any more XP for killing or questing. It keeps you moving to the higher level areas, 
 and as a result, I have a level 57 character (60 is the max) that has only seen 40% of the world. 
 This does lend to replayability thought, as I have a new lvl 26 character that started in a different 
 part of the world and has seen a lot of cool new areas I never saw with my other character.
  
  I know I have gone on already, but I haven't even touched on Player versus Player, or PVP. 
 On PVP servers, alliance and horde are always at odds, meaning if you see one, you can attack. 
 On non-PVP servers, you can still fight, but it is voluntary, meaning, if you attack a Horde city 
 guard, your PVP flag gets set for 5 minutes. During that time, you are free game to get hit by 
 other horde characters that want PVP. It is a simple system, and not rewarding in any xp or items, 
 but it is a heapload of fun and a great diversion from the monster killing quests once in a while.
 
  
  There is so much to say about this game that I haven't touched on, like the skill system, where 
 you choose two professions and level them up as you go (blacksmithing and mining, or skinning and 
 leatherworking make good pairings for example) , or the simple daily tasks you can learn, like first 
 aid, cooking and fishing. The game is so much fun that I find myself logging on just to chat with 
 guild members or go fish for 5 minutes. Because of this game, I haven't finished Half-life 2, haven't 
 started Pirates! or Battle for Middle-earth that I got for Christmas, in fact, I haven't bought 
 another game since starting it, so basically, I am saving money each month.
  
  I've gushed enough, so I should mention the few problems. Server crowding is a bad thing, and lag 
 in the busy cities is almost intolerable. Some realms are so overpopulated that they have major 
 instability options. Blizzard has brought up a whole lot of new servers, so if you are getting 
 into it, you shouldn't have a problem signing on to a new one. I have never had a crash, unless 
 it was server related, the client is extremely stable, but once in a while, that network is extremely 
 picky and can put a crimp in your available 30 minutes of gameplay time.
  
  Graphics:
  Some people will complain about the graphics being too cartoonish, but the artwork direction in 
 this game is consistent, beautiful and doesn't take itself too seriously. Each area is rendered 
 in different themes of color, so it isn't hard to tell you just left Redridge for Duskwood. The 
 buildings, trees, environment is decidedly low polygon, but that helps with the speed of the game 
 and adds to the "Disneyland" appeal. My wife thinks it is the neatest looking game I have played 
 in a long time. I think your player model could use a few more polygons, and the customization 
 at the beginning could be a bit more flexible, but I have no complaints. Armor changes the look 
 of your character appropriately, and weapons, although sometimes ridiculously large, fit in the 
 world just fine. The thing I like best about the graphics is they allow me to have the game running 
 on four of my computers at home, since it doesn't require a horse to run.
  
  Sound:
  The ambiance added to each area by the music and effects of wildlife have a greater effect than 
 you realize, until you try and play without the sound. The battle sounds are excellent, and you 
 find yourself relying on it to determine if someone has hit you or if another monster has just 
 joined the fight from behind. Some of the sounds get repetitive, but that is just in the nature 
 of the frequent combat. Although, I can't tell you how frustrating it is to hear "not enough energy" 
 or "not enough rage" or "not enought mana" when you click a special ability. The voice acting of 
 your characters is good, but you don't hear them too often. I think it would have been nice to 
 have a little more voice recording for the NPC quest givers. As it is, you must read every quest, 
 nothing is ever told to you. I don't mind the reading, but it sure is wierd to come from a sound 
 rich environment in battle to a quiet one while you watch the quest text scroll by. As for the 
 soundtrack, I am glad I bought the Collector's edition, as I have the whole thing on CD. The music 
 is good enough to sit with my best soundtracks or classical music. I love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap1959
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game 
 but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game 
 but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game 
 but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game 
 but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game 
 but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  Perfect game but not worth 17$ a month.
  
  "Never 
 give up, never."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Scoring board: Out of 100
  
  Monthly Payment: -1 [Though there is a monthly payment, WoW is worth it!]
  Big map: +20 [Lots 
 of exploring and beautiful sceneries.]
  Okay Graphics: +5 [The graphics arent beautiful but what do you expect from an MMORPG?]
  Swimming: 
 +20 [Not like most famous MMORPGs, in WoW, you can actually swim!]
  Fun Game play: +30 [In WoW, you just dont click but you can do jump attacks and so on.]
  Jumping: 
 +20 [This is probably the only famous MMORPG that you can jump in.]
  Realistic sounds: +3 [The sounds are realistic making the experience even better!
  
  -1+20+5+20+30+20+3=97
 
  
  Total: 97/100 9.7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irikos
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This surely is the best MMORPG ever. It has everything! Gameplay, excellent storyline... for those 
 warcraft maniacs (like me :D) , you get the chance to see the places you`ve already been to in warcraft 
 but, this time from a unit`s perspective: D. And, unlike other MMORPG`s, there are 2 teams, of players.... horde 
 and alliance.... what more could you want? You get to play against other players, you get to meet 
 the heroes from the original warcraft games. Some say that the graphics is bad, but that`s how Blizzard 
 wanted to be, to look more like a game.. and... that`s brilliant!
  And.. the best part... you can`t get bored of it.... there are people everywhere, you`ll never feel 
 lonely: P. Believe me, this is the best MMORPG ever.... the best game ever... and with the burning 
 crusade on it`s way, it will be just flawless, perfect; if some people still say that this game 
 has it`s need, then they will surely be completed in WorldOfWarCraft: The Burning Crusade.
  
  In WoW you have the ocasion to be the hero, the one that saves the day. How many RPG`s have 
 you played, finished them by becoming the hero, from the peasen with no experience you get to become 
 the greatest warrior, bla bla bla. Well, in normal RPG`s, you finish the game, and.. that`s pretty 
 much over. WoW is a MMORPG, but think about it, you can be the hero you dreamed of being, you can 
 finish the game, defeat the boss, save the day, be loved... and yet, when all this is "over" (the 
 fight against evil can never be over, you now the old story, if there were to be no evil, how can 
 you define good?) , you get to relax, and admire your work, your reputation, your reward for doing 
 all these, not just a last movie that tells you:"o, you saved the world, gratz, everyone loved 
 you and lived happily ever after, so go now and buy the new addon with a new story and even more 
 expensive". In WoW, you chose you way, there are hundreds of epic quest, and thousands of normal 
 quests, so you get to go againts the enemy, in any part you want... you don`t have and allready 
 built-in mod so for everyone else, the game is a different experience, what makes it to lack of 
 boredom :D. There are even a lot of classes, everyone has different storyline, different interests, 
 specific class quests, and as every other player, it`s own place in the world of Azeroth. 
  
  Had to edit this, forgot about it. The games has a little twick, a little buggy problem, so 
 be carefull though. Once you start playing, you may never wanna stop :P, just kiddin`.... just, don`t 
 forget to "Take all the things in moderation, even World Of WarCraft".
  
  P. S : WoW has it all, just try it... now with the trial accounts everyone can. But be aware: you`ll 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithsevirit
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  The gamplay for this game is funaminal from killing stupid little bunnies to raiding those insecure 
 orcs (just kidding the orcs are stupid & awesome YES) the graphics were pretty damn good but, they 
 could have been less umm cartoonish still increadible the sound was glourious especially with my 
 surround sound ;) the value every single penny (4000) so if you don't have it ( and don't have 
 a life) get it ( then ( I know you won't have a life) 8) well it says I need 100 words so ill just 
 say so stuff either be a nightelf (alliance) or be a tauren (horde) I find them to be the funniest 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who follows MMORPGs or computer games in general knows about the phenomenon that is World 
 of Warcraft. Even the most jaded observer has to be impressed by the success of the game, especially 
 in a genre that many felt had peaked and was settling into a more steady growth pattern. As of 
 this writing, Blizzard is claiming over one-and-a-half million subscribers to their persistent 
 world based on the popular Warcraft series. Impressive numbers for any computer game, especially 
 one that requires a $15 monthly fee to play.
  Why in the world is this game so popular when other big budget, highly anticipated, well conceived 
 games are only seeing a fraction of the subscribers World of Warcraft (a. k. a. WoW) is? What is 
 driving people to Blizzards offering in droves? The answer can be found in the game itself. While 
 other developers have spent time introducing new features and retooling the formula that has worked 
 in many other games, Blizzard has taken all the best features of the standard MMORPG and amplified 
 them. Theres nothing here that hasnt been offered before, but its the way in which WoW implements 
 all the familiar trappings and integrates them into an engaging persistent world that gives the 
 game its duende. Its an addictive game which does just about everything right. In fact, the only 
 thing that really looks to be a roadblock in WoWs progress is Blizzard itself. Those who achieve 
 success arent always the best equipped to handle it, and while Blizzard has done a great job handling 
 success in the past, it appears that a refresher course is in order, given the developers track 
 record since the games 2004 release.
  The land of Azeroth is where one finds himself as he begins his adventure in World of Warcraft. 
 The age-old feud between humans and orcs has raised its foul head and war is at hand. Each side 
 has formed an alliance, and the new player must choose his allegiance before creating a character. 
 The humans have teamed with the gnomes, the dwarves, and the night elves, collectively known as 
 the Alliance. The orcish Horde has enlisted the aid of the undead, the trolls, and the Tauren, 
 a tribal race of bull-like creatures. Multiple characters may be created, but characters on the 
 same server must all be on the same side. No problem playing both Alliance and Horde characters, 
 just not on the same server.
  Once a race has been chosen, the player may select his characters class. Not all classes are open 
 to all races  some are even exclusive to Alliance or Horde characters  so choosing ones race 
 (and even alliance) becomes a factor. If the goal is to be a paladin, Horde is out, as are gnomes. 
 Beyond these choices, theres little else to do at character creation, save selecting a name and 
 tailoring the characters look. Although relatively simple, creating a character gives a player 
 enough latitude to make the avatar his own.
  Azeroth is made up of two main continents. Depending upon the characters race, he will start either 
 on the continent of Kalimdor or in the Eastern Kingdoms. Both factions have major cities on either 
 continent, with the capitals split. Orgrimmar, the Horde capital, is in Kalimdor, while the Alliance 
 capital of Ironforge is in the Eastern Kingdoms. The continents are split up into areas which are 
 either controlled by a faction or contested. On balance, only a few areas are uncontested and they 
 are fairly low level when it comes to adventuring, so players who wish to advance must venture 
 into contested territory. On non-PvP servers, the difference is not nearly as important as on player 
 vs. player servers.
  A new character starts in a small settlement and is immediately thrust into the action. All around 
 are NPCs offering quests that are level-appropriate for new players and that offer rewards a young 
 character can use, such as low-level armor or weapons, as well as experience bonuses. Prominent 
 exclamation points floating overhead designate quest givers, some of whom may offer general tasks 
 to all players. Others are class specific and engage the player in a path toward a better understanding 
 of his characters abilities.
  Rather than have the player begin in a large city, which can be overwhelming to those just starting 
 out, World of Warcraft starts players in a much smaller location where options are plentiful, but 
 not overabundant. The quests in these areas eventually direct the player to a nearby larger town, 
 then to a city, in a cleverly designed progression that provides a great sense of discovery. Theres 
 a feeling of wonder when the new player makes his first entrance into Orgrimmar or Ironforge or 
 the Undercity and sees them in all their cartoonish glory.
  The cities are fantastically represented and each boasts a unique style. The Undercity, home of 
 the undead, is a crypt beneath an abandoned city which may be accessed by sewers coursing with 
 green slime. Thunder Bluff, true to the tribal nature of the Tauren, is constructed of teepees 
 and totem poles, high atop bluffs connected by swinging bridges. The dwarven city of Ironforge 
 with its high stone arches is hewn into the side of a mountain. The other cities are equally impressive. 
 Each is a zone unto itself, is heavily guarded by high-level NPCs, and is tucked away in uncontested 
 territory. Raids are possible, but it will take a large, well-organized raid party just to journey 
 to the opposing alliances capital, let alone to successfully assault it.
  Out in the other zones are smaller towns where adventurers may congregate, sell, repair, quest 
 and travel. None of these communities feels unused or isolated. Blizzard has placed the settlements 
 of Azeroth with specific intent. Each little town serves a purpose and many are favorite targets 
 for players from the opposing faction. In contested territory, it is common for towns from both 
 factions to be in close proximity. This is not a neatly compartmentalized set of zones that opponents 
 must spend a good deal of travel time reaching. Its common ground, and the shared claim makes 
 for some interesting turf battles.
  Zones are big but not huge, so running is a viable means of getting about, but the preferred method 
 is flight. All cities and many smaller towns have flight masters that offer flying beasts on predefined 
 courses. The city must be reached on foot first and the wrangler must be visited before the flight 
 path is open. Once the path is established, the player may travel to and from other towns on the 
 same continent. The trick is that not all cities are directly connected, so getting from point 
 A to point B may require a stopover in town C, therefore it pays to make a mental note of which 
 cities connect. Travel between continents is accomplished through zeppelins or boats which run 
 on regular schedules. Players wait at towers or docks until the ship arrives. Once the vehicle 
 hits the zone boundary after debarking, the map pops up and shows a dotted flight path to the other 
 zone, so transoceanic travel is fairly swift.
  The graphics in World of Warcraft are fantastic. In creating the gameworld, Blizzard chose an amplified, 
 almost caricature style. Rather than resemble a real goblin city or night-elf grove, the game 
 looks more like a high quality animated film. The landscapes are imbued with generous amounts of 
 color  even the snowy peaks around Ironforge and the dreary swamps in Dustwallow Marsh  so that 
 it has a vibrant, almost surrealistic quality. But this does not mean that the effects arent of 
 the highest quality. Lighting effects are fantastic, textures are very good, buildings and other 
 structures exhibit a great amount of detail. Theres no denying that the graphics in World of Warcraft 
 are as good as any MMO on the market.
  These are important areas and they need to be fixed quickly, but they are not endemic to the actual 
 game. In other words, its not a design flaw that will requires millions of dollars to reprogram. 
 All it will take is a few more servers, an effective population management plan, and some more 
 warm bodies on the Blizzard customer support team to make it all better. With 1.5 million people 
 paying $50 for the game and $15 a month, that should be no problem. World of Warcraft is a fantastic 
 game in almost every respect. Its a shame to see it tarnished by things that are so easily remedied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedudetoocool
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! when i heard it was only going to be online, i was dissappointed. but when 
 i played it for the first time, i couldnt stop thinking about it!
  a must-buy for anyone who likes huge battles and lotr. I love the idea of humans, night elves, 
 orcs, taurens and undeads fighting to death with big spells, epic armor...
  
  The only negative things i can think about is the monthly payment and the frequent patches.
  
 otherwise, if you have a high speed internet connection, a few gegabytes on you computer, spare 
 time, and you are ready to pay monthly, BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentShadow
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is by far one of the most original looking MMORPGs in a while. The game does 
 not rely on the use of complex models or realistic looking characters. It instead relies on immersive 
 content and a heavy back-story to bring the world of Azeroth alive.
  
  Gameplay keeps at a pretty decent pace throughout the levels. One thing you will notice is the 
 repeat of FedEx quests and kill x amount of enemies. As with most MMOs, there is no escaping these 
 types of quests due to the reusability that these quests contain. Never fear though, for there 
 are many unique quests besides the standard two I just mentioned. Questing versus grinding has 
 always been an interesting subject in World of Warcraft. Questing and grinding seem to go hand-in-hand 
 rather than one being better than the other. If you load up on kill x enemy quests and then go 
 grind, more than likely you will end up getting not only experience for killing those guys, but 
 you will have also completed your quest objective and can reap the benefits and sometimes useful 
 items obtained from turning in your quests.
  
  When it comes to PvP, World of Warcraft has taken an alternative spin on the classic idea of PvP 
 by moving world PvP to a private instance called the Battlegrounds. Before the Battlegrounds were 
 introduced, world PvP existed on a much larger scale and for the most part was enjoyed by the majority 
 of the community. However, world PvP often place was occurring in lower level zones that severely 
 hindered game play for people trying to complete quests in that particular zone. With the introduction 
 of the Battlegrounds, players were able to take the fight to instanced arenas. The instances include 
 Capture the Flag (Warsong Gulch) , a campaign Warcraft III-like instance that lasts for many hours 
 with more PvP group action and a more objective based play-style (Alterac Valley) , and the latest 
 is Arathi Basin which is basically control the most resource nodes by the end of the round.
  
  As with all MMOs, community is important. Were all used to the village idiot or two when we 
 play these types of games, but World of Warcraft seems to be overpopulated with them. When it comes 
 to player interaction there is a lot that can be said, but I will leave it at Get to know the 
 people you play with. Inexperienced players are the key reason why pick-up grouping fails. More 
 likely than not you will find a pick-up group that cannot get passed the simplest of enemies in 
 the instanced dungeons. This is not saying that pick-up groups are bad, but I recommend that you 
 get into a guild that has members that are willing to group with other members who are in need.
 
  
  Theres so much to explore and so much to do in World of Warcraft that by the time you hit level 
 60, you will have still have not accomplished everything there is to accomplish in the game. This 
 is where this game shines. Unfortunately, if exploring is not your cup of tea, then you will be 
 stuck doing the same boss encounters until the Burning Crusade expansion is released because the 
 end-game is nothing but raiding or PvP. If you want to even have a chance against any of the newest 
 end-game bosses, you need high-level gear and that gear is obtained by moving your way up the PvP 
 ranks or participating in boss raids several times per week. There are lots of options when it 
 comes to boss encounters, but eventually you will have done all of them many times before you finally 
 get what you need from each encounter.
  
  Theres always going to be a problem with every MMO no matter how good it was designed. If you 
 are the type that easily gets frustrated over games, World of Warcraft is not for you. If you like 
 becoming part of a very large community of players and you like working hard to get somewhere in 
 a game, then World of Warcraft is right up your alley.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackdaddy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have been playing World of Warcraft since the one of the first Beta releases. For an MMO this 
 is far and away the best game for your money. I played quite a bit and was in a high level raiding 
 guild for over a year. MC, BWL, Onxyia all became trivial. Still fun, but the entertainment value 
 started to falter. As my life became increasingly more busy with work and a new family I was forced 
 to level my raiding guild and joined some old friend in a far more casual guild. Sadly this is 
 where WoW falls off BIG time, I know Blizzard is trying to tweak the game to be more friendly to 
 smaller guilds and casual players, but thus far I have seen nothing to indicate the future will 
 bring the level of fun a top raiding guild did. Bottom line is, if you have the time this is one 
 of the best PC games ever, if you don't have the time I wouldn't bother. When you get to 60 and 
 you've got nothing to do. PvP is lacking refinement and for me having multiple lvl 60 characters 
 is absolutely pointless. Still a great game, Blizzard came through again producing a FANTASTIC 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Best MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest 
 MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG EverBest MMORPG Ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  the grafix are all right but not the best, i found it pretty blockie, any way
  another thing is the sound it also doent seem 100% it seems a little
  "muffled" any way they 
 did keep it in line with the story which is good!
  well another problem i want to address it the cost, this game is pretty hefty on 
  the pricing 
 well here are my PRO's Vs. CON's
  
  PRO's
  1. Story fall in perfactly ( i actualy thought it went off before i got it )
  2. game play is 
 actualy pretty nice! i love how some of the features work!
  3. Charactor ablilities are great!
  4. no disk
  
  CONS's
  1. Payment is a little to much 
 for how meany people are playing
  2. some of the movment controls ( i found it a little to sensitive )
  3. Sound seems a bit muffled 
 (no its not my speakers or my config or the card)
  4. grafix seem a little bad when campaired to some of the other rpg's online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eberkain_basic
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I played this game so much you cannot really imagine it. For weeks all I did was wake up, eat, 
 play WoW until I had to crawl back in bed. Any game that will make you give up on your real life 
 is a 10 in my book. Any game that can do that to more than one person, is evil incarnate. WoW is 
 the greatest MMO game ever created, it will also lead to the downfall of the species and the deaths 
 of those who play it into exhaustive collapse. If you know of a person playing WoW for more than 
 20 hours a day, please stop them, they need to stop, they just don't know how. I didn't know how 
 to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicK765
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best MMORPG out right now. I'm a great warcraft fan and i had to get this game 
 besides the cost. The gameplay and social interaction in the game is awesome and it is actually 
 quite an addictive game.
  
  But this game has to be by far the most expensive, First you'll need a good computer to run it, 
 High speed Broadband, as well as a subscription package of your choice. All that is very very expensive.
 
  
  But if you put the cost aside you'll find that this is a Awesome game that is worth the time to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi10
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  blizzard nos trae world of warcratf sin duda el mejor juego online k puedes jugar..... con mas de 
 2 millones de viciosos jugando a diario se ha convertido en el juego mas famoso jamas echo... y 
 hasta a salido en noticias etc.... hasta se han matado personas por cosas del juego por item y eso... jejej 
 ya se imagen lo adictivo k es... lol.... tienes muy buenas graficas, muy buen gameplay... seguro no 
 te aburres... pork hay muchas cosas k hacer... no solo matar bichos y bichos etc.... lo unico malo 
 k tienes esk es un poco caro pork esa cuota de 12 dolares mensuales no es facil las personas k 
 no ganan dolares.... ademas no creo k deberian cobrar semejante dinero por jugar un juego??? lo k 
 ha llevado a que se crearan muchisimos servidores privados o piratas donde no tienes k pagar ya 
 k blizar cobra 12 dolares.... bueno lo unico malo esk seguro a varios meses se vuelve un poco repetitivo 
 y te das cuenta k no vale la pena y lo dejas..... pero de verdad a todos les gusta el wow no tiene 
 finall... no tienes k preocuparte de k se termine.... nunca lo pasas .... solo te aburres y lo dejas!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok well here it is, the best medevil game on the market and is constantly upgrading. Always up 
 to date and never too much lagg. Always go on to a low populated realm if you have got lower that 
 1gig Internet speed. Its a 5 disk game so that just says something. For real it makes other online 
 games look silly. This is not just running around and killing, its all about building your own 
 reputation and learn professions. Now get this the map is so big it takes a day to get from one 
 side to the other.... now that explains the 5 disks! Well its my best buy, if your not sure check 
 out the website: http://www. worldofwarcraft. com.
  
  Many thanks for reading......... Mikey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting to like another MMo after SWG i loved it but then it made me hate it but my 
 friends told me to play WOW so i borrowed his trial and after the 10 days i had my own copy and 
 was playing it full on this game is as in depth as it is beautiful i found the game easily to get 
 used to and unlike some MMO`s the ability to buy game cards almost anywhere is a big plus for people 
 like me (who are to poor for a credit card lol) the only problem i can find in this game is the 
 people lol but thats only a small minority.
  
  WoW is a real escape to a world of magic and fantasy and although at time it can be difficult to 
 lvl up and form groups i still find myself hooked.
  
  One downside i would say is unlike some mmos there is no class that doesnt involve fighting which 
 those classes i find fun on a lazy afternoon but if youre that bored you can always go fishing 
 XD.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooldude22
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review, I'm going to be completely honest, and tell you that I never considered 
 an MMORPG because of its monthly costs. I know, pretty shallow. Thanks to my friend however I decided 
 to go out and purchase this and give the genre a bash. And I was surprised. Very surprised.
  
  I had played a few free MMORPG's previous to this, and never succeeded in getting interested 
 in any of them. But that is where World of Warcraft stands out from the crowd. As soon as its finished 
 installing and you boot it up for the first time, you see the awesome gob smacking movie-like intro, 
 and you know that this isn't going to be your normal game. You have 8 races to choose from, spread 
 over the Horde and the Alliance. Each race has different classes to choose from, so the combination 
 of what race and class you choose are endless. Then you fire into the game, and the cocaine-like 
 addiction kicks in.
  
  The combat system is very good, and depending on what class you chose, the gameplay will be very 
 different, so you will possibly just be experimenting to begin with to find the class that suits 
 you. Once you've got one, you head out into the world. The quests are very varied, and you will 
 never find yourself doing the same one over and over again. At this point, I will also say that 
 for a game which came out late 2004, the graphics are colourful and it is a very attractive game 
 to look at. It will be a while yet before the game starts looking dated. While you are doing quests 
 and exploring, the games startling first impression it gives you straight from the intro onwards, 
 definitely sticks with you. The game becomes time consuming, and you start to realise that maybe 
 u can't play it all the time (unfortunately) . Thats where Blizzard did a smart move, and introduced 
 the rested experienced feature. While you are not gaming, the experience in your level bar starts 
 to double. So when you return to the game to find your friend has levelled above you, you will 
 have a lot of double experience, which will enable you to quickly catch up with your friends. This 
 is a smart idea which should be introduced in most MMORPG's.
  
  When you finally get to level 60, which is the level cap, you will find that there is still LOADS 
 to do, such as maxing out professions, raising your honor rank and participating in high end raid 
 content to acquire epic quality items and weapons. The raid content in the game is one of the most 
 enjoyable parts of the game, as you are raiding with 39 other people and working as a team to take 
 down the big raid bosses. This provides the game with almost endless playability, and even though 
 you are level 60, you will find yourself returned to the raids every week, to see if you can pick 
 up any more pieces of your class set.
  
  To round things up, World of Warcraft really did blow me away. I never expected a MMORPG to be 
 so highly addictive and entertaining, and even after a year of solid playing, I still find myself 
 going back to play it. There is so much other stuff that i've failed to mention in this review, 
 but its better to buy the game and find those things out for yourself, and I can guarantee the 
 monthly fees won't seem a problem once your into the game. This game changed my views of MMORPG's 
 completely, and it proves to me that I should never judge a game on price alone. If you are EVER 
 going to buy an MMORPG, don't think about buying anything other than this. It will provide you 
 with hours upon hours of entertainment, and you won't find many other role-playing games of this 
 caliber in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badabing3dgs
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has something for everyone, hours of non stop fun. You meet so many new and interesting 
 people, and making friends is pretty fun....
  
  learning to play is fairly easy, and once u get used to the gameplay it' becomes almost natural 
 to move. The high-end part of the game once the level capped is reached, opens up a whole new world 
 of fun, and play style.
  
  This isn't just a game for computer nerds, it's a game for people of all walks of life. From the 
 person who plays RPGs all the time, to the casual gamer who only has time to play a few hours a 
 week, this game is perfect.
  
  buy it, play it, love it, live it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Explow
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  its a great game whit perfect graphics and sound. Its nice to play whit the different characters. 
 nice PvP between Horde And Allaince. sometimes its hard to lvl up but if you know how then is it 
 perhaps easy. You can play whit manny classes like rogues and paladines; my preferde character 
 is a rogue because he is really fast. but the other characters are fun to. its cool to use emotions 
 like dance or laugh. the instances are fun to the game is good but its hatefull you must pay for 
 it pretty much.
  
  If you got the money and really like games then BUY IT.
  
  *****Dark-explow***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Mccloud666
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW for about 10 months, Loved it, i think it is possibly the best game i have ever come 
 across yet. The graphics are amazing (if you have the right hardware) , the loot system is unique 
 and fair (just watch out for those ninja looters) and the gameplay is open and not those FF "take 
 turns" fighting styles. They even have an auction house where you may sell items or buy them just 
 like you would in ebay which was quiet special in my view. I only had 3 problems with this game. 
 1. $15 bucks a month (ouch) , i understand you gotta keep the servers up but im sure blizzard has 
 enough money to pay for the servers for at least 50 years? 2. Lag issues, im running on 1500 MB 
 Ram with a 128 MB Graphics card, 1.6 ghz processor, yet i still get terrible lag in certain areas 
 of the game but hey thats not a big issue so im not complaining. 3. Dramatic conditions, such as, 
 when you get into a guild on this game and start doing end raiding, you get many conflicts about 
 loot issues, such as, people you thought you could trust take all the loot and log off for a few 
 hours which leads to about 4 hours of wasted time beating the Mob's to get there, getting all exicted 
 about a certain piece of loot and ending up getting it taking from you (not a good feeling) . Other 
 than that, i would no doubtly still be playing this game but i have quit due to the payment. If 
 you can afford it.. and love MMO's, this is the game you should go for. A 4 out of 5. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy667
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Its that good. While im one to play shooters, like COD , or RTS like CNC, this is my favorite game. 
 Period. Everything about it is great. (Except maybe they could update the graphics and fighting 
 a little) There is different feeling for each race and class. A Tauren feels huge, while a dwarve 
 is usually drunk (On RP servers) . While a little turn-ish, the combat is amazing, with fighting 
 both NPC and player. For an NPC, just use spell/range then melee,. But for a player, you may have 
 to get advantage, like "The Drop" on them, or better gear. And you need to have good $$$ on your 
 guy, or your gear will be broke or out of date. My one complaint is that the guns feel out of place 
 in the game, like they dont belong. And with an upcoming expansion, i dont see this game ending 
 anytime soon. Otherwise, best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imm
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Yep, we all know this is one of those games that take precedence over your job, family, other hobbies, 
 eating and breathing.
  
  Of all the MMORPG's to date, WoW has captured the magic formula of being easy to pick up but yet 
 provide enough depth to keep you hooked.
  
  Some other games may do one or two things better than WoW, but as a whole this game provides a 
 near perfect blend of gameplay elements.
  
  It is highly addictive and extremely time consuming, so be prepared to sacrifice every other aspect 
 of your life.
  
  I believe there may be a market for products to help people quit their MMO gaming addictions. Someone 
 should invent it and change the meaning of "WoW Patch." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 12, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  After 2 years in AO (anarchy-Online) , and 3 years in SWG (Star Wars Galaxies)
  and after months of constant persuasion from many friends, i Finlay tried WOW,
  received the 
 10 day Trail code from a friend who is a long time WOW player.
  and well, all it took are 3 days to both get used to the cartoon-ish graphics and to completely 
 fall in LOVE with the game!
  
  the main reason for this game being soo great, is it is by far the most balanced game out there!!!!!
 
  
  Balanced Classes (Jobs - like Rogue, Warrior, Mage etc.)
  any class can take on any other class in pvp or pve, all depending on game-play, and equipment 
 (of course the best equipment is looted after very very tough battles) , on contrary to many other 
 online games out there that usually you'll have a FOTM - favorite of the month profession (depending 
 the the latest nerf in the resent patch) .
  
  Balanced Leveling, (XPing)
  you don't need to power level to level up, you actually get your rest time to count as 200% xp 
 gain after rest, if you logout in an inn, that way you can catch up to your friends in no time, 
 even if you are a casual player.
  
  Balanced Deaths
  no loss of xp, no loss of time, you just become a "blue ghost" and you run back to your corpses, 
 unless you'r in a group and a healer resurrects you.
  
  Balanced Grouping and Enemies
  in a group everyone has the same pull, each class has its benefits to a group and any type of group 
 can hack it, the more variety you'll have the easier the gameplay would be, so basically the game 
 encourages you to group up, certain areas are so tough that you would need up to 40 people (yes 
 thats forty) to kill the final boss, and even then its a challenging fight.
  
  Balanced Professions and Economy (trade skills)
  everyone can make money if they work at it
 
  there is no freebies and money is really hard to come by so even 1 gold piece is a tough prize 
 (money starts at copper, 100 of them are worth 1 silver and 100 silver are worth 1 gold piece)
 
  
  Blizzard Differently hit the Jackpot with a Perfect Masterpiece!!!
  (yes you can changed the balanced title with perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mungen_Jin
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 11, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great MMO rpg but when something has so many great attributes it is easy to pick 
 out the flaws.... for instance it can get boring after a while and there should be more diffrence 
 in the classes ( ex. orcs, trolls) and although this isn't a problem with the game the monthly fees 
 are a little steep but other than those this game also has great features such as the graphics, 
 I love that style, the combat and the amount of depth ( with professions, rade groups etc.) but 
 all in all WOW isn't the hight of gaming everyone would like you to believe but it's close, plus 
 with the burning crusades coming I'm sure it will get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrLance
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  As with any MMORPG servers have there share of issues. As is the case with Blizzards World of Warcraft 
 . In my opinion its made up for by the sheer multitude of gameplay expierences they a gamer can 
 enjoy. With so many new instances and events they occur you owe it to yourself to kick back and 
 give this one a try. If your a true gamer you can only appreciate the beauty and eloquence this 
 game portrays. For instance choose your race, skills and class and your on your way. Money? No worries 
 if you decide to choose gathering skills mine your ore pick your plants or skin your animals and 
 sell what you get on a virtual e-bay. Not saying your limited to what you can do having the option 
 to create alternative characters you may send items even cash through the in-game mail system to 
 create a nice little nest egg. Banking is also a plus for those items you just cant seem to get 
 ride of due to your "Pack Rat" nature. Those friends you like to keep in touch with have them get 
 an account and join the fun for friends can be mailed and added as you play. Try this one become 
 one with the addicted and i'll see ya in-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkeye19
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Its very addictive and for a reason. there is so much to do and u can do a lot by yourself or with 
 a bunch of friends. i do not believe there is much wrong with this. A few glitches here and there 
 but nothing that you really notice without really looking. Some of the traveling can be boring 
 but seeing new places is great. The fighting system is great and fast paced. Although it might 
 not seem that way to some, to me i find it to be. Plus, it doesnt take new players to get involved 
 in the community. Most player are very nice and will answer questions or even help you out right 
 there. When i first started playin i thought lvl. 60s would be the snotty people but i soon realized 
 they were probably some of the nicest and most helpful. Please, buy this game unless u are under 
 13 cause trust me, u have better things to do than get addicted to this early. Thanks for reading 
 and but it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentween
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  
  You can create your own unique character and customized to suit your own personal preference, theres 
 eight classes and races to choose from too!
  
  Amazing game to play once you get into it! might find it a bit boring even tough and daunting when 
 you first start as its a vast world to get to know, learn and explore, but the map system is good 
 so very rarely will you find that your lost. From my experience of playing this online game it 
 can be very lonely at the begining because nobody will talk to you, something to do with being 
 a newbe!!!! Sad huh!... but if you do play this game just do what i did ignore them and there idol 
 comments! 
  
  You may also encounter a few players higher in level than yourself challenging you to duels this 
 can work two ways, firstly on the negative side i noticed some players just do it to pull you down 
 so they can be mean, make fun of you and feel big! Had one idiot bug and follow me round like my 
 shadow and annoying me with his pathetic comments, just could'nt get rid of him until i decided 
 to quit the game for about 10mins. if i could of and had a BFG in that game i would of blown the 
 grunt a new *F.. k....*Ass....* but sadly couldnt! just shows how small minded certain people truly 
 are though!.... i got alot of that CRAP!!!.. when i first started, but hasten too add doesnt mean 
 you will ok. 
  
  The second more positive part is some players who challenge you to a duel just want to see how 
 tough they are getting or try spells or whatever and will thank you after, this can earn you some 
 measure of respect with them! even a friend or too! like most things its a gamble but you dont 
 ever really loose anything or die so its not so bad! on the duels i mean but these duels can get 
 rather annoying after awhile especially when your trying to get on with your quests and level up 
 quicker, have found throughout this game that most duels seem to take place in the towns mostly. 
 
  
  On the bright side this game has alot to offer! the further you advance and get to understand how 
 it all works and the tougher you become the greater the game gets, other players will start talking 
 to you even offer help or advice if needed, have found whilst playing this game that some people 
 will give you things too if your respectful when they approach you, by this im mean bow etc: one 
 guy gave me a gold coin because i blew him a kiss! Ha ha! lol... how cool is that huh!!... have 
 met alot of nice people online playing this game, have a great laugh with them sit in an Inn together 
 and get drunk watch ur monitor start to get more blurry the more you drink and when you type on 
 key pad the words come up on screen all miss-spelt, which is fun if ya sad like me!..... you can 
 dance an chat aswell as make some good friends.
  
  Thats when the game really comes into its own and expands your gaming pleasure too! as the more 
 friends you make an go on quest with the more you learn with the bonus of leveling up quicker! 
 get to join factions and guilds or even start your own too! these can also have great benefits, 
 there has been alot of changes made to the game too and loads of new stuff added in the past month, 
 so in spite of its flaws which most games have anyway i would still regard it as a great game and 
 it takes you on an epic journing into a whole new world of fun and excitement, this is what i call 
 a true escape from reality. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  If you are looking for a game review with buttons and cheesecake, then you're reading the wrong 
 nerds review, World of WarCraft is a great game, it does what other MMO's can only dream of, its 
 graphics and artistic style are simply amazing, the game play is involving and challenging yet 
 easy to learn and enjoy, and it suits the casual gamer as well as the hard core MMO fans.
  
  Okay heres the beef, WoW has substantial end game problems, for the first 59 levels of the 
 game one can easily play once a week, almost completely solo, unless you want a pick up group or 
 guild run to a dungeon for some better quality loot, when you get to level 60 you can survive and 
 be reasonably entertained for a while earning money for an epic mount or completing some of the 
 more challenging quests and groups in smaller dungeons, but after about a month of being 60 the 
 excitement seems to wear off, If you want the best quality epic loot you need to be involved in 
 large scale weekly 40 man raids to the games most difficult dungeons such as the molten core or 
 Blackwing lair that can sometimes be in excess of 3 to 4 hours long, most guilds run on a dkp system 
 to distribute loot on attendance, thus attending one raid is unlikely to award you any loot.
  
  If you're into that (like me) thats fine, in fact it can be very entertaining, but for casual 
 players the game lacks quality loot and quests, after all how many times can you run one 5 or 10 
 man dungeon before anything you want stops dropping off mobs?
  
  Blizzard has tried to rectify this situation with armor upgrade quests recently implemented and 
 20 man raid instances (such as Zul gurub) with some epics and epic quest rewards, but the quests 
 take a lot of effort especially for the casual players. The silithus area is the site of Blizzards 
 hardest dungeon, Ahn Qiraj, that includes the games hardest 40 man instance and a new 20 man, the 
 quests in the surrounding area are very interesting for casual players, but have no significant 
 rewards, unless you earn large scale reputation with factions in the area. It seemed like Blizzard 
 is attempting to rectify the problems but progress is slow.
  
  Another thing to do at 60 and during you leveling is to enter pvp battle grounds, a challenging 
 and rewarding experience, killing the opposite faction and fighting real human beings rather then 
 mobs is a thrill! 
  The rewards from pvp both the rank system rewards and the factional rewards are fantastic, but 
 again the more elite items and the epic items are difficult to access for casual players.
  
  Surprisingly compared to most MMO's WoW has little lag if you have a good pc and an expansive 
 world to explore with almost NO loading screens only when you cross continents or enter an instanced 
 dungeon.
  
  Player communication within your faction is brilliant and easy, the social aspects are also exciting 
 such as easy guilds and party groups. Some servers do suffer population problems, but other then 
 that WoW is free of some of the problems other MMO's encounter.
  
  So in conclusion, World of Warcraft is an exciting and addictive MMORPG game, its heaps of fun 
 to play and if you can manage your character well and have no great lust for elitist items it can 
 serve as a great game for casual players and an exceptional game for hard core experienced players! 
 
  If I had to say weather to buy it or not despite the fees I would definitively say purchase this 
 game without hesitation, after all if after 6 months of level 60 you get bored you can always cancel 
 your account. : -)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Crusader
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is completely amazing in all aspects. It has good sound, gamepaly, and quite unique graphics.
 
  
  It is pretty hard to say there are things you can't like about htis game, but I have a few things 
 to say. I am an old Everquest lover. When i was brought to WOW I excited and amazed just like everbody 
 else. Though there are only 8 classes you can choose apposed to the many in Everquest. Limited 
 classes means a feeling of character uniquness that i dont feel much in this game.
  
  The graphics are quiete different I have to say. They are not good, they are not bad, just very 
 different. "Cartoonish" persay.
  
  Tons of people play so i can interact with them and group, but EQ2 i think did do a better job. 
 Why i quit EQ2 i really have no idea, lol.
  
  You can spend little time and get far in this, or so called "Fast paced" which i love. EQ2 did 
 do a good job, just not the best. Too many MMORPG's to pick right now, but i think ill be with 
 WOW for awhile.
  
  Level 60 Paladin
  Alexanderr
  (Azure Dragons)
  Feathermoon Server
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fast, accessible gameplay; stunning art direction; massive and seamless; near-instant gratification 
 and rewards; Battlegrounds.
  
  Cons: Fast and accessible comes at the cost of a distinct lack of depth; repetitive quests; differences 
 are cosmetic between races; pay-to-play.
  
  World of Warcraft is a game that, as it's six-million-plus subscribers will attest, has nearly 
 limitless appeal. Or appears to, anyway. Nearly anyone will love World of Warcraft from the first 
 moment they pick up the game. But, as you continue to play throughout your first month, thankfully 
 provided free, you begin to see a distinct pattern emerge in WoW that ultimately renders it too 
 repetitive to deserve the vast awards and money that it has accrued.
  
  WoW will stun you at first, once you install it, patch it, and log in, you're into the world and 
 able to create your character. There are two factions in the game (as there are in the strategy 
 series that WoW is based off of) , the Alliance and the Horde, and each faction has four races each. 
 Each race has th e pick of a certain number of classes out of the pool of 10. Some classes are 
 available to nearly all races. The more limited ones are only available to two races. Anyway, once 
 you pick your race and your class, you'll spawn into your starting location, and then the game 
 will start.
  
  The main difference between the races, other than the Faction that they belong to, is the starting 
 location of the race. While any race is free to traverse the lands of other races of the Faction 
 during the game, and can enter the areas of the opposing Faction at their own risk, each race has 
 a separate starting point (except for Trolls and Gnomes, who share with other races) , which are 
 visually radically different from each other. The Dwarves and Gnomes, for example, start in a mountainous 
 area blanketed with snow. Tauren start out in a grassy plains type of region with teepees and wells. 
 Each race is also cosmetically different as well, the Tauren are slightly reminsicent of massive 
 walking cows, Dwarves are short and stocky, etc.
  
  One problem with WoW, though, is that ultimately the differences between the races are nearly never 
 fundamental, but always esthetic. The only real thing to differentiate the races other than their 
 looks are one or two largely inconsequential racial abilities and perhaps a slightly boosted propensity 
 for a certain type of profession or skill. While this makes it so that you can play as any race 
 without feeliing hampered, and they're all pretty much balanced, it also lends a sense of dilution 
 to the game once you spend extended time with it: you can't really get a very different experience 
 by making a different character with a different race.
  
  One reason that WoW is so popular is that it's intuitive and extremely accessible. You don't have 
 a tutorial, but even the more computer-illiterate people would find that unnecessary, all you have 
 to help you are the occasional pop-up tool-tips and your own smarts. However, that's all you really 
 need to play WoW. Click to move. Right-click on a monster to attack it. Click or use the number 
 on the bar to use the spell on the monster, or yourself. And click on the guy with the big, prominent 
 green exclamation mark over his/her head to receive a quest.
  
  Quests. Questing will be your main consideration when it comes to how you invest your time in WoW. 
 Questing is a smooth and enjoyable experience from the start. You get a quest, do what it tells 
 you, come back, and get a nice, substantial experience bonus, and often an item on the side. However, 
 since questing is really the meat of the game, you have to wonder why Blizzard didn't bother to 
 put a little more variety into it. Quests are identical nearly invariably. You're either killing 
 monsters or doing a delivery. And while each quest is surrounded by a nice window dressing that 
 serves to immerse you more in the game and perhaps lends a bit of context to your actions, it really 
 doesn't help the fact that you'll find yourself ultimately engaging in the same type of thing over, 
 and over, and over. So while quests will be amazingly fun for your first couple weeks since one 
 of the strengths of WoW is that you DO advance quickly and get tangible, meaningful rewards; you'll 
 start to tire of it.
  
  The fact that the quests are so repetitive isn't helped that the actual bare-bones gameplay of 
 WoW tends to lead to repetition itself. In WoW, to engage in combat, which is often necessary, 
 you right-click on your enemy. Then you use your skills, or spells, to damage the monster further 
 or augment your person in some way. Spells will drain a certain amount of energy or mana or whatever 
 it's called, depending on your class, from your pool, which will recharge. The main point of combat 
 is how to manage your spells to defeat your enemy while not dying, since after your initial click, 
 your character will continue to attack automatically. The number of spells you have will be determined 
 by your level, as when you reach a certain level you can buy new spells from a trainer of your 
 type of class. What you'll realize happening, though, is that whenever you combat a monster, you'll 
 start to invariably use a certain combination of spells in a certain order to defeat monsters. 
 And once you level, when you grab new spells? Well, if they're good enough, incorporate them into 
 your order or try them out, and if they work or don't work, then you devise your new running order 
 and stick with it until you get new spells in another couple levels. Exciting, isn't it? This only 
 adds to the monotonous feeling already created by the similar quests.
  
  There are a couple of other things available for you to do in WoW, although for the most part they 
 are more diversions than true alternatives for questing.
  
  The first one that is still in the PvE (Player-versus-Environment - no combat against fellow humans) 
 portion of the game is the professions system. Each character has the ability to have any two professions. 
 Most professions are either a raw materials profession, in which you gather materials from the 
 wild outdoors as you go around, or of the producing variety, in which you manufacture materials 
 to produce some kind of useful item, clothing, weapons, etc. While you can pick two unrelated choices, 
 to be a self-sufficient character, you'll want to pick two professions that match up so that you 
 can gather your raw materials and then use it to produce something. Professions are great, because 
 the stuff you get is actually USEFUL and you can actually do stuff with it without a huge investment 
 of time or hours of working it up. That said, they aren't really a viable alternative to going 
 out questing to take up a bunch of your time. This is because professions are more something you 
 do all the time while you quest. You're not going to find any more materials out looking for them 
 than if you're just questing around and gather them as you see them. And actually producing the 
 stuff takes mere seconds.
  
  The other major distraction for some people is Player-versus-Player action, or PvP. The context 
 for PvP is mostly set using the Factions. Players can't really attack other players of the same 
 faction even on PvP 'realms', or servers, except in friendly non-fatal and impromptu duels that 
 you can challenge a fellow adventurer to at any time and takes very little time. The real stage 
 for PvP action, and an added in portion of the game that wasn't available at launch, is the Battlegrounds. 
 Battlegrounds are exactly what they sound like, big, instanced battles between several players 
 of the two different factions that play Capture the Flag or something of the sort. There are a 
 few Battlegrounds, although the top two do have level requirements, and are comparatively more 
 epic in scope. Battlegrounds are great fun, very fast-paced, and extremely hectic, and are addictive 
 and a nice change of pace from the PvE fighting against monsters. However, PvP Battlegrounds do 
 have a couple drawbacks. First off, teams don't really coordinate very well at all, besides the 
 perfunctory forming of raids (really big groups) and the occasional frantically typed sighting 
 of a flag-bearer, and there's no voice support out of the box, which, as in any team-focused type 
 of game, would be a big help. Also, since Battlegrounds obviously can't happen between unbalanced 
 teams, you have to wait until there are enough people on both sides to start one, essentially joining 
 a queue. While in the queue, you can go around and do whatever you want, however, when you play 
 the Battlegrounds, you're warped back out to the major city, no matter where you were before, essentially 
 making it so that you can't do any questing during the potentially long queue-time or long travel 
 since you'll have to waste a bunch of time. Plus, the Battlegrounds really aren't that long, at 
 least the lowest level one or so, and it's annoying to have to wait in queues that are potentially 
 as long as the battle you're about to play. There's no real way that I can propose to solve this 
 problem, but it's an annoying one anyway, and Battlegrounds really take too much down-time so that 
 you'll eventually come back to Questing.
  
  There's one other arena for PvP gameplay, on certain realms. As has been implied, there are different 
 types of realms in WoW. The majority of these are either PvE (Player versus Environment) or PvP 
 (Player versus Player) . There's only one real difference here. In PvE, even against players in 
 other factions, you can't attack unprovoked except in the Battlegrounds. In PvP, any character 
 can attack any other character of the other Faction at any other time. While PvE is less consistent 
 with the game world, PvP is detrimental to the gameplay, as PvP servers are littered with high-level 
 jerks who apparently have nothing better to do than kill low-level players of the opposing factions. 
 This interrupts totally harmless low-level players who are doing questing, and although death really 
 holds rather harmless consequences at first, it does constitute a distinct annoyance and death 
 penalties get worse if they're in quick succession. Basically, it's an almighty pain, so I suggest 
 you just play on PvE if you want to do questing.
  
  One thing that can't be complained about WoW is the visuals. Which isn't to say that WoW is cutting-edge 
 technology, or even was at time of release in late 2004. In fact, it's positively low-poly. Nevertheless, 
 this is still considered an extremely pretty game, because it features positively astounding art 
 direction. While all the starting points, as previously mentioned, are radically different, and 
 the zones that you don't start out are also varied as well, there is still a sense of tremendous 
 cohesion in the world thanks to a raw cartoonish style. Azeroth is littered with awe-inspiring 
 sights as well (some distinctly Tolkien-ish) , making the process of exploring the world - which 
 takes up a lot of time, since you can't travel fast anywhere without going there first - enjoyable 
 and quite pretty.
  
  Sound is not a sticking point either. Spells have appropriate, and suitably powerful effects that 
 fit the gameplay very well. The clincher, though, is the score, which is made up of beautifully 
 orchestral music that is varied. The only real complaint is that the music repeats often, but it's 
 good enough that you won't mind.
  
  The replay value of WoW is a point of criticism for many of WoW's detractors. However, since launch, 
 WoW has continued to improve, and to bolster the end-game they have released many multi-man and 
 complex raids with uber-loot for level 60 players with nothing to do. This appeals a lot to hard-core 
 players, and silenced most of the criticisms, but for people less attracted to the prospect of 
 loot and playing with super-nerds all the time, they don't really have all that much to do at level 
 60. Nevertheless, I think that if you like the game enough to take a character to level 60, you 
 won't have any problem simply creating another character of different class and/or race and enjoying 
 it all the way to level 60, and that alone will net you another few hundred hours of play-time, 
 plenty if you're not a hard-core player that lives and breathes WoW. The only other thing about 
 replay value is that, beyond the first month of play, there is a monthly fee required to play this 
 game as is standard for the genre.
  
  I can't really pretend that I'm not in the minority with my opinion about WoW. Most people love 
 WoW's accessibility and would absolutely abhor my complaints about lack of depth and repetitiveness. 
 I can't really say that the average gamer wouldn't like it, because I know I'm wrong. Nevertheless, 
 WoW is NOT as good as it should be with all the hype. There are better games out there to play, 
 although if you want to investigate the genre of MMORPG there's probably no better game for you 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebFlyte
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was fantastic at launch, and has got better and better ever since then.
  
  I've been playing it on and off for nine months, and am still as compelled to go back to it every 
 day as I was when my first Troll stepped onto Kalimdor.
  
  I've got one character at 60, and am now starting another on the other side on a different server, 
 and it's only on the second run through I've realised how well-designed the game really is.
  
  It's not faultless though... the live code is unacceptably buggy since Blizzard do not have 
 a good enough QA process for patches, and sometimes one feels they don't do enough to keep the 
 current system running properly, but overall the game provides an unrivalled playing experience.
 
  
  Buy this game, but don't expect your life to be there when you get back.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Christof
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  First of all let my start by saying that World Of Warcraft is a fun and very addictive experience. 
 The learning curve can take a hour if you're familiar with MMORPGs. The game pretty has it all, 
 great fantasy world which can remind you any other D&D based campaign with elves, dwarves, orcs 
 etc... The variety of races and character classes really adds to the experience and to the replay 
 value, but after you've reached with one or two characters to lvl 60, you'll find this game boring. 
 Yes there are a lot of dungeons to explore, fight other players and get better equipment to your 
 character, but that's pretty much it. Even though the game contains professions, like: smithing, 
 tailoring, leatherworking, skinning, enchanting etc... it doesn't add challenge because to advance 
 in them is so much easy that even a 7 year old kid can do it, unlike EQ2 that it takes a huge amount 
 of time, skill and mini game effort to advance in just a few skill points.
  Besides that World Of Warcraft has very cool graphics and style to it. Huge world to explore with 
 your friends, quests to undertake, monsters to fight and treasure to collect. It's fun but gets 
 repetitive after half a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swizz-the-gamer
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 7, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a while back, It's not great. I got to about level 25, and then gave up. This 
 game sets to set it's self apart from regular grind mmo's. But It fails.
  
  The game does have some good features, the one instance I went into was pretty fun. The pvp... 
 Well that's pretty mediocre. The battlegrounds (pvp arena) are terrible, the levels are to varied, 
 you have level 11's playing with 19's! People just sit in there bases all the time.
  
  The variety of items is pretty amazing, thousands of diffrent items. Some for incredible prices.
 
  
  The graphics aren't great, but the scenery is. Huge mountains and castles. That's probably the 
 best thing about this game. Uness you into the levelling grind provided by most mmo's, then don't 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulzfo
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  I feel like more of a collector than an actual user of games. I see something I like, I shout like 
 a giddy school girl, and then I buy the game. OK, maybe not the schook girl part, but you get the 
 idea. Most times, the excitement for the game wears down after a while. I always feel like games 
 lose their luster, especially modern games with their lowered difficulty levels and  
 attitude that runs ramapant in the industry today. World of Warcraft is NOT one of those games.
 
  
  I originally bought it around the end of last summer at the call of my friend Ryan. He and my friend 
 Joe had been playing as hunters for the past summer, and were completely engrossed. Naturally, 
 I'm into good games (but not MMOs; I despise monthly fees really) and thus I wanted to check it 
 out. Luckily, my PC Gamer DVD contained a free fourteen day demo and I played it. My human warrior 
 hit lvl 23 before I knew it. But then I lost focus. See, my friends were 34 and 36 before I even 
 began, and not playing with people I knew felt... weird. I just sorta quit (because of that and 
 the school year) .
  
  Recently, however, I got right back into the fray this March because a huge group of people I know 
 were playing. Now I have a lvl 48 NE hunter, which has been going pretty smoothly.
  
  What makes it so great?
  
  Well, I'm not gonna bore you with the obvious. The community aspect 
 is what really drives this game. Just being able to have fun questing with other people is a rush 
 in itself. I can't quite put the feeling into words, but it is most certainly there. What really 
 makes the game are the instances. Dungeons are always cool, and Blizzard took the time to make 
 these places challenging and fun - something you rarely find in games these days. The classes are 
 well balanced; if you play well, you are an important asset to the group regardless of class. True, 
 some members of the game typecast you based on class ("Are you a resto druid" may as well be a 
 catchphrase by now) but you truly can play a class any way you desire. That's why it is good to 
 have friends and family along for the ride; you can set up when you want to go somewhere. Makes 
 life alot easier when you schedule your play time as well; it does not need to absorb you life 
 too much.
  
  I can only see one problem with the game that bugs me a bit: other people. Sometimes you just have 
 problems finding a group. Really, it depends on the time of day. All in all, it's not the games 
 fault anyway.
  
  Really, this is truly superb. If you don't want to play another game, make your last purchase this 
 one.
  
  Oh, and I have a request. Please annoy Padfeet on Shattered Hand. It'll be good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg2692
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  You have definitely got to at least try playing wow because I guarantee you will love it once you 
 start playing it. There's lots of variety in every part of the game and so many different characters 
 you can be and places you can go. This is not only the best online game I've ever played it's also 
 the best rpg game I've played. This game is addicting and once you start you can't stop. Quests 
 are added all the time so you never get bored and once you hit lvl 60 you can battle other players. 
 I highly recommend playing this game and you should try wow today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: A whole new addiction for people of all ages.
  
  OK, I know some of you well notice Im talking about a game that has been out for a little while 
 now but World of Warcraft, or WOW for short; is such a entertainment phenomenon that I could sit 
 and not do this article. So for all you WOW fans and for those who want to know what WOW is all 
 about here is my view on the WOW phenomenon.
  
  In order to understand the WOW phenomenon we need to turn back the hands of time and go back, way 
 back to the year 1994; Warcraft is released and in no time strategy fans find them selves falling 
 in love with this crude but entertaining version of a war between humans and Orcs. The game is 
 pretty simple in these days you chose to be Orc or human and duke it out. Its simple and fun to 
 play. Skip ahead one year to the forever classic Warcraft II which later introduced one of the 
 first few online based RTS games with the battle. net edition attracting even more players. This 
 time the game features a bit more complex gaming system and a lot more cut scenes. The story is 
 much more developed and gamers find them selves even more involved in the game then the first version 
 of the game. In 2002 and 2003 Blizzard released Warcraft III and its expansion pack witch are still 
 popular even today. The game introduces a completely new style of 3D strategy gaming. It also introduced 
 the Elven class of characters as well as the undead. The story is nothing short of a work of genius. 
 All these events lead to an increase in popularity for the Warcraft series.
  
  At E3 2003 the world had its first glimpse of the new first person MMORPG, World of Warcraft. Right 
 away both long time fans of the game and MMO players alike could not wait to get their hands on 
 this game. On November 23rd 2004 Blizzard releases and opens the servers for World of Warcraft. 
 The game becomes a spontaneous success. 
  
  So what makes WOW such a kick ass game. After asking several WOW players the thing they like the 
 most is the sense of family players get. Players playing a human character well team up with other 
 humans, Orcs with Orcs so on and so forth. The over all graphics of the game are pretty kick 
 ass too. Blizzard kept in mind that WOW is a fantasy game and as such keep the graphics at a level 
 that make it so the world looks fantastic. The other thing player like is that no matter what class 
 you are the world is never the same. You can do a quest and re-do that same quest a second time 
 and have a completely different experience. All these things and more make WOW a pretty fun game 
 to play.
  
  As far as system requirements WOW is pretty easy to use. You well need a 800 MHz CPU with at least 
 256 MB of Ram. Youre also going to need a basic 64 MB video card as well. Now the only Big Hog 
 of WOW is hard drive space. WOW will require a minimum of 4 GB of hard drive space plus some more 
 as game add-ons are available, but all and all not too bad. Oww and lets not forget a high speed 
 internet connection.
  
  The only down point that I could really see as far as anything goes for WOW is the price; Players 
 can expect to pay 60$ for the game then another 20-30$ a month depending on your method of payment. 
 This is the only thing I dont like about WOW and other MMOs of its kind. The only reason WOW 
 charges so much, is to generate a huge profit. I know and I heard it all (what about server cost 
 and developers and ) Well the truth is you could just as much manage to keep your head above water 
 and be making a big profit by charging players 5-10$ a month. But for WOW player it does not matter. 
 Ive heard some players go as far as saying they would pay 50$ a month if they had too. Some players 
 are a bit too addicted.
  
  To finish off on WOW I leave you with this. WOW is a GREAT game. It provides an atmosphere with 
 excellent graphics, excellent stories and excellent multiplayer interaction. This game is looking 
 like its just going to get better with the announcement of the soon to come expansion pack for 
 WOW, with all new lands and monsters and stories to be had. If you want to get addicted to a kick 
 ass MMO WOWs for you. If you already play, then good for you. If youre on a tight budget and 
 still want to play a MMORPG with great graphics and story lines try Kalonline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamecek
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is based on Blizzard's hit Strategy series, Warcraft. There are eight races to 
 choose from, four belonging to each faction. You can choose to be Horde or Alliance and choose 
 from eight different classes. The formula plays the same as any MMORPG, but is setup so much better.
 
  Unlike most MMO's, WoW does not hate you. Dying does not lose exp, nor does it steal items or 
 gold. It simply takes a few mintes away from your adventuring
  
  Gameplay: Everything about WoW's gameplay surpasses other MMOs. WoW is my third game I've played 
 of the series and has beaten the other two tremendously. The game is relatively challenging, yet 
 not difficult enough to turn players off. Several precautions were taken to ensure common MMO problems 
 were dodged. For example, all dungeons come in the form of "instances". These are private dungeons 
 created for only you and your party, so you won't have to camp enemies, or worry about people "training" 
 enemies to you. Plus, there is always something to do, even if you don't want to fight.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nice, every area is detailed and looks very pretty. Every area stands 
 out and no two are the same. Dungeons are also very different, they range from caves to churches 
 to temples and otehr things.
  
  Sound: There is some music, you can set it to loop, yet I akways end up muting the sound and playing 
 my iTunes playlist.
  
  Value: There is no doubt this game will devour your soul and leave your life a burning ember of 
 what it once was. So, it has much value
  
  I love this game, and it is one of the few that I have constantly played for over a year. If you 
 don't mind the $15 a month, do yourself a favor and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renger6002
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I was reading the other reviews that people had made and I saw them complaining a lot about the 
 cost. If you cannot afford fifteen dollars a month, then don't buy the game, but that doesn't make 
 the game bad!
  World of Warcraft features an AMAZINGLY detailed world, just try riding a gryphon between cities 
 and you will go through jungles, deserts, mountain, lakes and pass real people. 
  -There are countless quests in the game that follow the story of Warcraft and keep you going until 
 the end. 
  -PvP isn't exactly the best part of the game as some characters have certain advantages, but still 
 battlefields are very fun. 
  -The best quests are "instances" which are done in a group as they are too hard to do alone.
 
  -Then there is the variety of classes and races. There are four races each of which can be a diferent 
 class such as , Rogue, Mage, WArrior, WArclock, Hunter, Paladin, Shaman, and Priests. But not all 
 races can be all classes. Humans, for example cannot be shaman, and taurans cannot be rogues. 
 
  -This, forces people to try different races to be able to try different classes. Every race starts 
 off in different cities and has completely different gameplay.
  -Interface in this game is very easy, you could just install the game, pick a realm, make a character 
 and instantly start playing and using hotkeys
  
  I don't believe that people who don't like these kind of games should review them because they 
 will mislead people. So here are the Pros and Cons as I see them, so u could decide for urself:
 
  
  Pros 
  -massive interactive world
  - (almost) no loading screens, fast graphic rendering
  -tons of quests
  -races and classes have 
 different gameplay
  -VERY easy interface
  -instances and other quests let you do quests in groups and make friends
  -night elf girls are 
 hot
  -weekly updates
  -customer service is very helpful (I should know)
  
  Cons:
  -PvP is a bit unfair at times
  -U never noe if you are talking to a guy or a girl (but thats the 
 same everywhere)
  -there is a level cap (no more than level 60, it will be raised in the expansion pack)
  -it is 
 hard to have a REAllY good character (but challenging isn't a bad thing)
  -realms get filled up (but new realms are added regularly)
  -there is a lot of accounts being 
 hacked into (like mine = ( 
  
  
  
 
  Phew.... that was a lot of typing.... that is all I got.... so ...... U dont have to buy it. However, 
 if you can afford 15 bux a month. And you can wait until you are level ten so you could have lotsa 
 fun.... buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  A huge world in the likes of the Warcraft universe.
  The easiest MMORPG for someone to jump into. It's what Diablo did to Dungeon & Dragons.
  Patches 
 galore which means more items, quest, and a ton of tweaks.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Terrible lag most of the time, which makes your wonder why you pay $16 a month for this.
  Steep 
 price per month. Especially with all the problems in the game.
  90% of the players are either Asian farmers (basically bots) or little kids who like to boss you 
 around and always have to eat when you're trying to do a quest.
  
  :Overall:
  There's a ton of fun to be had but only if you have patience. There's a ton of annoying people 
 in the game, a ton of lag, and a lot of money to be paid out. It's fun and will save you money 
 if you catch the WoW flu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr1g
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This obviously the best rpg out there it has so much instore it can always keep you buzy although 
 lvl 30-40 can be fairly dull this is still my favorite game. with 8 races and 10 classes and 13 
 professions theres always somthing to keep you entertained from enchanting your weapon to getting 
 your mount i think this is one of the best games out there and just b\c some people dont like it 
 doesn't mean you wont i suggest reading a bit about it on there community site http://www. worldofwarcraft. com/ 
 also check out some of the the other reviews thank you for taking the time to read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guthix122
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  WOW this game is realy not a wow game at all I can tell you that. frist off for the good list there 
 are tons of items to get, lots of things to kill, pritty good graphics, and great muiltiplayer. 
 bad side its realy boring at around lvl 30 (eny one who can get past the lvl 30 point going to 
 40 should do fine) , all th combat is the same and it takes a long time to go eny were with out 
 a mount ( and that not flying) . overall its a boring mmorpg that nerd get hocked on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked MMORPGs from the moment I began playing them. I began playing MMORPGs in 1999 
 with the not-so-popular game, "Tibia." Next, I moved on to EverQuest in 2002 and became a level 
 50 paladin. Next, I bought World of Warcraft in 2004. World of Warcraft is my personal favorite 
 out of them all.
  
  World of Warcraft has very fun gameplay. There are nine classes to choose from with eight races. 
 Humans, Gnomes, Night Elves, and Dwarves make up The Alliance. The Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Forsaken 
 Undead are the Horde. Something that makes the game fun is all the classes. My personal favorite 
 is the melee-oriented warrior.
  
  The graphics are good, especially for an MMORPG. Blizzard really knew what they were doing when 
 they decided to make World of Warcraft. The water and sky graphics are especially good.
  
  There are some good sounds in the game. You will hear the sound of weapons hitting each other when 
 you or your opponent parries your attack, you can also hear your character talk at times. Some 
 of my favorite music in the game is from the towns, especially the Orc capital of Orgrimmar.
  
  The game has a steep monthly fee of $14.95 a month. That's $2 more than EverQuest was. However, 
 World of Warcraft may be expensive, it's well worth it. Many things come with the updates, such 
 as the BattleGrounds, the Honor system, and many major things that weren't implemented at first. 
 Many people think that the game is just throwing money away, but it's well worth it.
  
  World of Warcraft is a great game that will keep you playing for a long time. You should buy this 
 game if you can shell out the $15/month and you really like RPGs.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Traditionally online games aren't well accessible. They are rather complex.
  World of Warcraft is actually the first MMORPG to approach this differently, to make it right.
 
  In the beginning you choose one of the generally well balanced classes and races, just like in 
 every other RPG, but instead of leaving you alone with your character in a huge world, like in 
 the early MMORPGs WoW takes you by the hand right from the beginning. It gives you things to do 
 for the first few hours, during which you learn the basic mechanics of the game. Then the grip 
 becomes looser and you are able to choose whether to continue following where the quests lead you 
 or you decide to explore the world on your own. Either way there is always enough to do and you'll 
 have a great time meeting other people and exploring dungeons with them, always getting to know 
 your class better and collecting more and more powerful items as you level up.
  Once you have reached level 60, however, you will soon discover the one but quite immersive problem 
 of World of Warcraft.
  After you've gathered most of the equipment you can get on your own or with small groups up to 
 15 people. There's hardly anything left to do, because the most difficult dungeons in the game 
 require a minimum of 20, but in most cases 40 players. So you're time of playing the game will 
 dramatically decrease, since you'll only be playing it at pre-defined dates and times.
  There are two ways to avoid this problem:
  One, focus on player versus player battles. The PvP 
 System is very well balanced and motivating in itself, but it also has one big flaw: Since you'll 
 always be playing against the other side (Alliance/Horde) you have to be on a balanced server in 
 terms of population on each side. If you created your character on a server, which is Alliance 
 sided for example, like I did, you will have to wait eons till you get to fight the Horde, since 
 much more Alliance players are trying to get into pvp then Horde. That's something Guild Wars or 
 Dark Age of Camelot does better.
  The second thing to overcome the emptiness at level 60 is to start a new character right away. 
 That's what I tried to do as well, but I got bored very soon, because I had already seen most of 
 the world with my main character and there just wasn't enough motivation left.
  That's something Everquest does better, simply because it has such a big and mere endless world.
 
  
  So, I quit my abo after a year, exactly for those reasons, but hey: how much playing time can you 
 get out of a single game ? Despite the monthly fees you'll hardly find something, which will give 
 you so much game for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xEMPORER13x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  After months of pressure put on by friends to purchase WoW, I finally went to EBgames and bought 
 it. When I returned home, after installing it, I played it for my first time. The game was alot 
 more than I expected. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics were definately not the best. They were, however, what I expected from the 
 game. I did, however, very much like the effects. Weather, spells and animations are just a few 
 of the good looking effects that the game has. But other than the effects, the actual graphics 
 (Textures, Skins, etc.) were not very impressing.
  
  Sound: The sound was pretty good. I loved the sounds you hear while in combat. I also loved the 
 background sound effects. Wherever you are at, you will hear sounds in the background that reflect 
 your surroundings. The music was also very good. It fits right in with the game. The only thing 
 I did not really like it the voices from NPCs. They are usually a little cheesy. Overall the sound 
 is excellent. 
  
  Gameplay: After spending about 15 hours of total play time with this game, I am very impressed 
 with the gameplay. The game is pretty easy to learn for an MMORPG. When I started playing, I tried 
 several different races and classes to see which I liked most. You should definately do some research 
 about what each class and race offers so you can make your descision. After finally picking a race 
 and class, I started really getting into the game. The game has alot of stuff to do. Depending 
 on what class and race you choose, you can have some special abilities or powers that make the 
 game so much better. If you choose a hunter, you have the ability to tame some beasts and keep 
 them as pets. As a warlock, you can get a little imp demon as a pet as soon as you start playing 
 by simply completing a simple quest. These are just a couple of the many things that you can get 
 depending on your race and class of choice. The game has a cool mail system where you can send 
 items and money along with messages to other players on your same realm. There are also auction 
 houses in the game that you can use to easilly gain a profit from your items as well as getting 
 some good deals on items you may need. In WoW, there are professions that you can use to gain money 
 fast. Mining, smithing, skinning and herblorism are just some of these. There is way too much stuff 
 to list in this review. The game has many things to do. Here is a list of some of the things that 
 you can do in the game. Some were allready mentioned, some were not:
  
  Pets
  Duels
  Guilds
  Auctions
  Professions
  Mounts 
  Travelling (It can sometimes take a while)
  Fighting 
 in parties
  Exploring (There is a ton to see)
  and many many  more
  
 
  Overall this game is probably the best purchase I have ever made. It is extremely fun. The game 
 has so much to offer that there is no way that I will be able to list all of it. If you are a fan 
 of MMORPGs, then this one is a must buy. There is no way that I can fully express how great this 
 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  While I don't play this game anymore, and only played it for about 4 months, I will say it's just 
 quite an amazing game. I don't like alot of things about it, because my playstyle isn't for this 
 type of a game. I still cannot ignore though, how well done everything is. To me, the biggest reason 
 why this game is so popular, is because this game has so much personality.
  
  It's got so much character, and such a unique way the game is presented. I still think there is 
 no end game, and I feel like the PvP is boring, i only liked raiding towns, and the item system 
 doesn't excite me in the least. But man, what a foundation for blizzard to build from. It's fun 
 when you're lvling to 60 but after that, it really depends what you expect from the end game. This 
 wasn't what I expected, so I quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  What World of Warcraft has to offer are only monthly fees, no value, good graphics and absymal 
 gameplay. That's all I can say. It is a big.... no, it is a giant waste of time. I don't know, 
 why these millions of people in all around the world says that's amazing. There is no RPG in this 
 game. I don't know why Blizzard has decided to make it MMO. It should be normal RPG without access 
 to Battle. net. It is game with poor valors. In my opinion, the worst game Blizzard has ever made. 
 GameSpot wasn't right by giving it 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best game evr i was sooooo adictted to it!!!!!!!! Once u START u dont STOP!!!!!! 
 With all the races like humens to dwafts to even night elves (my own race) this game has syle!!! 
 But that is only the allaince side (good) . There is the hord side where u are (bad) toruns (cow like 
 thing) orcs abd much more!!!!! This game is all about what U WANT. U can do WHATEVER u want to 
 do!!!!!!! There is even a system (much like EBAY) where u bid on stuff from other players!!!!!!!!! 
 U can make MONEY or spend it ALL. What ever u do IT IS YOUR CHOICE!!!!!! So buy NOW!!!!!! 
  
  P. S ( u can get DRUNK in the game and i think that should make u buy the game ALONE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicMuffin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok heres the scoop. This game plays great, The grinding, PvP, and all imbetween are seemlessly 
 intergrated into a beautiful game called WoW.
  It's a great game... the first and second and maybe third time u make a character with your aim 
 at lvl 60. Once you reach level 60 the first time the game does little to keep you hooked. your 
 can start over but essentially i dont think you would want to spend another three months lvling 
 a char up when you already have one. Blizzard has taken approaches to help high level character 
 by introducing Battlegrounds and the honor system but the Battlegrounds get boring fast and the 
 honor system is too much of a pain to even focus on. for lower than 60 chracters the game is great. 
 The game has enough spunk and enough content to keep you hooked for the incredibly long time it 
 takes to get to your lvl 60 destination. Many fans of the Warcraft RTS series will feel this game 
 as somewhat of a downgrade and upgrade at the same time. The games approach to the warcraft universe 
 takes a steep turn from any other WC game. RTS fans will enjoy the beautiful lucious world and 
 all the gameplay mechanics that go into this game but will feel on the same token the game has 
 fallen up short.
  Many of the places that your have ventured through Azeroth in the RTS games have been left out 
 of this game. on the other hand a lot of land has been added. Players will undoubtly miss Quel'Thelas 
 which is expected in the expansion pack. also maelstrom i know i wanted to do some seawar maybe 
 ill see that in the future but it leaves the navy pretty much out of the game except as a tranport. 
 The game is very uneven at times. one class might have extreme advantages over a certain class 
 but cant get any help.
  if you are not in a group you will die a lot. other side players like to take advantage of the 
 honor system by ganging solo questers. this gets very annoying very fast. sometimes they will camp 
 at your body for minutes before you can resurect. warriors might be good againt lets say a mage 
 for instance but there not one to be found. youll get your butt kicked by some loser thats a lower 
 level than you but his spells are specificaly tuned to kill you. on the other hand you can do this 
 as well but, not every class has this ability. like paladins for example they have a great survivability 
 factor but their melee skillz suck. they are support classes who can never do anything more and 
 less because the game restricts them. paladins are also always slaughtered by shamans. some people 
 call them the best of both worlds as they combine priest like healing powers but also have warrior 
 like melee skillz and can wear heavy armor. do not be decieved by this. they have horrible healing 
 powers that at higher levels barely even heal. and their warrior esque skillzz lack abilities like 
 taunt and mocking blow allowing monsters to rampage thorugh your priests mages and warlocks as 
 your try and get them off. the game does have its good sides. theres always someone you can quest 
 with. the in game events they have are cool and brings the communities of azeroth together. also 
 all the classes are fun and dont get old all that quick unless youve played the game before then 
 they do. With countless quests and items the first time around the game will be very fun and entertaining 
 causing little boredom but after you hit the big 60 the game takes a change for the worst. hopefully 
 with the increased level cap in the exp and some new additotins in the future blizzard can keeps 
 its enormous customer base playing. This game is the most immersive and one of the best MMORPG's 
 on the market but its not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diving_devil46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is mainly for all those people complaining about the lvl 60 characters. The game has been 
 runing for well over one year now... OF COURSE MOST PEOPLE WILL HAVE A HIGH LEVEL CHARACTER!!! 
 I find the wow community to be fairly nice... yeah you get some players whom are a little big headed 
 about having a high level character but name one MMORPG where you don't get the odd few? I've played 
 MMORPG's since the days of Avalon (a rather dated text based mmorpg) back when it was a beta so 
 I do know what I am talking about when it comes to this kind of game.
  
  The gameplay is addictive yes; but that is a good thing.... Very few games have gripped my attention 
 for 200 hours + and I think that it is a real achievement if a game can do that in terms of how 
 competitive the industry is.
  
  I have al life; I am at university, I have been with the same partner for 17 months now, I have 
 a 30 hours a week job AND have owned wow since feb05... I get to play wow usually about 2 weekends 
 a month (so i clock around 12 hours a month) and over the course of the year I have emmensely enjoyed 
 the game. 
  People moan that the game is so expensive but it is actually a 3rd of the price of a new game per 
 month. and most people whom plays games gets a new one every month or two. I have had no temptation 
 to get a new game so am happy to pay 8.99 a month to play rather than 29.99 every other month 
 for a game i will play 5hours or less... 
  
  The game is very enjoyable for those whom are more casual than the die hard addicts. The only gripe 
 i will make is that instances (dungeons) can take some time so I do not always get the opitunity 
 to play them.
  
  I play PvE by the way; I fully understand that Because of my limited time; I would never be able 
 to achieve a great status in PvP, If you are okay with this fact (as I am) then the game is solid!
 
  
  I have had a great time with this game and am very keen to play the expansion as it is close to 
 relase now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja1c0b
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  In World of Warcraft, you get to play as a character and walk around killing things, doing quests -- 
 the standard. There are some key features in PVP that make World of Warcraft so fun, plus there 
 is gorgeous graphics. However, the game is not NEARLY worth fifteen dollars a month, and the community 
 can get a little, out of hand. World of Warcraft has grat, fundamental voice-overs, (Whether is 
 be serious or comical.) plus the nice glow effect MMOs are using these days make World of Warcraft 
 seem a little more realistic. (Although the graphics are still a bit cartoony.) All in all, this 
 is a very fun game that will entertain you with at least 100 hours of fun, compelling, non-monotonous, 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Before I write this review, let me just say to all you slavering WoW players out there that if 
 I make negative comments about it, that doesn't mean I think it's a bad game. It's a great game! 
 Really! I routinely sacrifice goats to it! Don't send me any angry e-mails full of bad words! Thank 
 you! I'm merely adding this because I now there are some people out there who... well.... are vehement 
 to say the least about their WoW. They should be shot for their own good.
  To violent, you say? Shut up or I'll kill you.
  Now, as to World of Warcraft. 
  Pros: The gameplay 
 is simple to learn, which is pretty important. The graphics are a little bit cartoony, but still 
 good. The world is innovative, the girls are cute, and life seems good until....
  Cons: FIFTEEN DOLLARS A MONTH! IT'S BAAAAAAAACK!
  That's my main complaint, but here are some 
 others. I'm a social kind of guy, and I like to talk to people. But geez, you can't create any 
 kind of character most of the time on the full servers, and there's hardly any people on the other 
 ones! Another complaint I have is that the community, such as it is, is, and I say this in deep 
 brotherly love, a bunch of buttheads.
  Good stuff is too expensive, it takes too long to level, you can never be sure if the person you're 
 talking to is male or female, blah blah blah. I played it for a while, and enjoyed it, but frankly 
 I perfer Oblivion.
  Remember! No angry comments or e-mails! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplague4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of good and bad about this game, but it is mostly good. There are tons of class-specific 
 and other quests to complete and tons of monsters to kill. You'll only find it hard to level up 
 if you only kill monsters and do no quests. The vast amount of items and item combinations are 
 great not to mention the higher level class specific set items. This game will absorb hours of 
 your life at a time. But there is a drawback. Dun-Dun-Dun the $15 a month fee  . I as well as amny 
 others have a complaint about this fee. It's a great game and all but after I just dropped 50 smackers 
 for this game why should I have to pay to play it? If your a kid with no job and your parents won't 
 pay the fee than I suggest you go to Diablo 2 :LOD It's a great RPG and free to play online until 
 your parents agree to let you play this, that or until you can pay for it yourself like me :) All 
 in all its a great game to play but with the minor gripe of having to pay money to play it. which 
 in my book is a big point dropper I give it an 8.9 on that bad factor alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastermike99
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Its so bad the graphics how can u rate this game so high from what i have seen its a waste of time 
 its terrible the game-play is slow and boring there is lots of quest but still its not all quest 
 the game at first is very very boring i only played for a few days and got bored of it for a game 
 you have to pay monthly it sucks i have seen free games better than this awful game i have no idea 
 why everyone keeps bragging about it its nothing special the score they gave here is too over exaggerated 
 it isn't the true score the true score is 4.0 thats what it deserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avitu666
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  I've always disliked Blizzard, whom I personnally view as being the most overrated game company.
 
  But being an avid MMORPG'er, I wanted to give WoW a try and was actually positively surprised.
 
  
  Here's the Pros and Cons as I see them:
  
  PRO:
  - Good interface. Easy to learn and feels... well... right
  - Quest are really interesting, and 
 make you feel like you are doing something that actually impacts the gameworld
  - The world is highly detailed and feels alive.
  
  CONS:
  - Walt Disney-like graphics.
 
  - Originalty 0%: every aspect of the game is ripped of some other Mmorpg
  - Boring once you hit level 60
  - PvP is poorly done.
  
  All in all, this is certainly not 
 the best Mmorpg on the market.
  If you've never played Mmorpgs before, or if you're a Warcraft fan, you certainly try this one 
 out.
  However, if you've had some experience playing Mmorpgs before, I recommend you pass on this one, 
 since it'll bring you nothing new.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Wolf_86
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  all you do is stupid quests to kill x amount of monsters or collect x amount of items from monsters.
 
  
  i played hardcore to level to 60 and it took me about 4 weeks, but that was after having other 
 characters so i knew what to do, where to go etc.
  
  it gets really annoying spending 3 hours+ in a hard, crap instance with a group of idiots (who 
 are also highest levels) to just constantly keep dying, and havign the item you want not drop.
 
  
  the difficulty of the game needs to be raised because there is too many idiots at level 60, anyone 
 can reach it you just have to waste a few hours of your time constantly grinding monsters, doinh 
 some crap quests which ask you to go kill them etc.
  
  the only way you gonna get a good group is if you're in a good guild, random groups suck loads, 
 only will ever get a good group once in a while.
  
  also the pvp really sucks, many times i've been killed in 1 or 2 hits and to have them camp your 
 body until you respawn just to kill you again get's really frustrating.
  
  level 60 pvp is all about who can kill each other in one hit first, if you don't have some big 
 epic sword or something you just die.
  
  i never got to end game instances (Zul'Gurub, Molten Core, Blackwing Lair) i left when we were 
 starting zul gurub because i couldn't stand to play the game anymore, 20 man instance, good luck 
 getting the gear you want when everyone needs it, you end up wasting more time playing and it's 
 just a waste of time.
  
  for a first timer the game is good, but pick your character wisely, otherwise making other characters 
 just takes the fun out of it, doign same crap again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zowona
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  It is frustrating for someone who has only got limited time playing games due to a more interesting 
 life than the average hardcore geek-gamer, but when the developer choose to create a fantastic 
 game around these people, it gets frustrating. For one, people like me (casual gamers) do NOT want 
 to do the same god damn instance over and over to get that ONE item to be able to compete with 
 other players with similar items. Take Molten Core, an End-Game (end of the game content) , you 
 need to do that one instance (dungeon) EVERY week with a guild to be able to get the require items 
 to be able to PVP.
  
  Its a great game, but if your fine with not EVER getting a chance to be No1, or even to survive 
 a battle against a geek in epics, then this game sadly wont be for you, unless you want to play 
 through the game in PVE mode and just make a new character when you 'complete' the game (get lvl 
 60) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Simply put: this is THE BEST MMORPG game to come out to date (but that's just my opinion) . I played 
 this game since the first day it came out (November 23rd) and just now decided to write a review. 
 I quit a month ago (March) and got rid of my account. If you want an addictive, time-consuming, 
 ever-changing world, deep gameplay, etc. please, please, please pick up this game or try it at 
 a friend's house. Let me go into detail.
  
  Gameplay: Level up, choose your talents, choose your race, choose your class, travel an engrossing 
 world of two full continents. Content is added frequently and is a great addition every time. The 
 game is balanced and enjoyable. You can group with your friends, make or join a guild, take on 
 HUMUNGOUS and challenging dungeons for level 60's (soon to be extended to level 70 in the expansion 
 coming out 'The Burning Crusade') . All these things put together means you will spend countless 
 hours working and striving to be the best (PvP, PvE, RP, it's all here) . I have had 2 60's (priest/warrior) 
 and they are fun and just a joy to level up and get new gear.
  
  Graphics: Depending on your computer, you can make this game look beautiful. Although this isn't 
 Oblivion graphics, please remember you have millions of other people playing this game (don't worry, 
 it's put on different servers) , and everything from the moon to sun-rises to sunsets to dungeons 
 to terrifying dragons to countless enemies everything has great skins and graphics for an MMORPG 
 and definitely delivers.
  
  Sound: Hear the clash of sword against your armor, the deep breath of Onyxia raining upon your 
 full raid of 40, use vent (independent program you may use with a microphone) to strategize huge 
 dungeons, the voice-acting is great especially hearing a huge dragon speaking to you while he breathes 
 acid on your people. Everything has a unique sound and it's great to turn up the speakers and just 
 listen.
  
  Value: Ever-changing game, they always add new content frequently, this game just has hours upon 
 hours (more than Oblivion) of worth and is so great to hang out with friends on. You may lose your 
 life but you'll be getting a great story, epic gameplay, countless dungeons, and a unique community.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: WoW (World of Warcraft) is the best-selling MMORPG out there currently for obvious 
 reasons. I loved this game for 1 year and a half, and played it every day, I had no life but it 
 was great fun and a changing experience. Try it out, just try not to get too wrapped into it.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review I hope you try the game or are already enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eternal15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  World of WarCraft is an amazing game with tons of new features and a magnificantly large world! 
 That aside let's talk about the gripes... End game when you have completed every quest and taken 
 down every beast there is really only pvp. And pvp end game can get boring after awhile from my 
 experience. There are however end game raid instances where you can complete large challenging 
 dungeons and aquire better more powerful armors and weapons. But this requires you to join a very 
 large organized end game guild.
  
  That aside let's talk about getting to end game. The quests are many and varied. Your first thoughts 
 after experiencing the game for the first time will probibly be ones of joy and elation. The world 
 is massive and very original. For those Blizzard fans it will feel like a warcraft world. There 
 are two factions, these being horde and alliance. Neither faction can communicate with the other 
 and are constantly at war. Besides that there are multiple races in each faction. Each with it's 
 own culture and unique look.
  
  I would recommend everyone to give WoW a try at least once. Some find it not the MMORPG for them 
 and others find their long lost love. Others burn through the game get to lvl 60 and then go on 
 to other things while others take their time getting to lvl 60 develop a friend base and explore 
 all of Azeroth. Whatever your play style I recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  con excelentes graficos y ambientes de juego, personajes, modalidades y otros WORLD OF WARCRAFT 
 se ha convertido en uno de los juegos mas vendidos a nivel mundial, la interaccion con otros usuarios 
 de este juego le han dado un gran giro a los juegos con versiones similares, pero solo para red.
 
  
  apesar de ser un gran juego mucho otros usuarios de blizzar no poseen el servicion de banda hancha 
 lo que lo hace poco accesible desde la comodidad de nuestgro hogar, para jugarlo, se espera entrw 
 los usuarios una version de rol para pc de un solo jugador con opcion de multiplayer en la red 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJGraniel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the greatest game I have ever played! Not only have the developers gotten the basics 
 of an MMORPG to perfection, but they have added in all of those extra details that make a game 
 absolutely perfect and truly stand out. The gameplay is excellent and appeal to all players, hardcore, 
 casual and everyone in between. Besides being one of the most addictive games, World of Warcraft 
 is immensely fun. Time flies by as you say to yourself, "Just one more quest," or ,"I only need 
 a few more gold to get that new piece of equipment." The sound is also fantastic. The sound effects 
 of swords clashing together and spells being cast are great and the background music only adds 
 to the atmosphere. The graphics are superb and bring the world environment to life. The wonderful 
 colours of the Warcraft universe are excellent and create a sprawling world with two enormous continents. 
 Everything looks great, from taking in breathtaking views while riding on a gryphon, all the way 
 down to close-ups on individual characters. The only bad thing people have to say about this game 
 is that the graphics aren't realistic. And, despite what many people say, the monthly fee is worth 
 playing the game. Why spend $50 on individual games that only last for 20 hours at the most when 
 you can regularly pay a small amount of money for a game that will last for 100's of hours? Overall, 
 this is a truly amazing game that will appeal to all people and is even better than it is cracked 
 up to be. I recommend this game to everybody, no matter what preference of games you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorilla_Knight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked MMORPGs from the moment I began playing them. I began playing MMORPGs in 1999 
 with the not-so-popular game, "Tibia." Next, I moved on to EverQuest in 2002 and became a level 
 50 paladin. Next, I bought World of Warcraft in 2004. World of Warcraft is my personal favorite 
 out of them all.
  
  World of Warcraft has very fun gameplay. There are nine classes to choose from with eight races. 
 Humans, Gnomes, Night Elves, and Dwarves make up The Alliance. The Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Forsaken 
 Undead are the Horde. Something that makes the game fun is all the classes. My personal favorite 
 is the melee-oriented warrior.
  
  The graphics are good, especially for an MMORPG. Blizzard really knew what they were doing when 
 they decided to make World of Warcraft. The water and sky graphics are especially good.
  
  There are some good sounds in the game. You will hear the sound of weapons hitting each other when 
 you or your opponent parries your attack, you can also hear your character talk at times. Some 
 of my favorite music in the game is from the towns, especially the Orc capital of Orgrimmar.
  
  The game has a steep monthly fee of $14.95 a month. That's $2 more than EverQuest was. However, 
 World of Warcraft may be expensive, it's well worth it. Many things come with the updates, such 
 as the BattleGrounds, the Honor system, and many major things that weren't implemented at first. 
 Many people think that the game is just throwing money away, but it's well worth it.
  
  World of Warcraft is a great game that will keep you playing for a long time. You should buy this 
 game if you can shell out the $15/month and you really like RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakie91
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Well its Good! But is it really that good??? Some of my friends say "get this game it wicked". 
 But I say "Whats the point all u do is pointless missions and running around for no reason." There 
 nothing that makes me want to buy this game. All u do is finish missions thats it. Unlike WoW, 
 "Guild Wars" has a hell of a lot of stuff to do, and it has a storyline and there is no online 
 fee. I find it boring and nothing new!!! For people who like "WarCraft" stick to that because thats 
 all you will be getting.
  
  Come on People don't get taken By the Name!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_xxvii
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 26, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I have played Final Fantasy XI since 2003. I played FFXi before I played World Of Warcraft, so 
 I compare any MMORPG to FFXi.
  
  For me, the questing in WoW is great in the beginning, but after 10 levels, I become bored and 
 I want to look for a party and do nothing but kill mobs. No more quests, please!
  
  But that's not going to happen in WoW, this is a quest based game. I love the areas and scenary, 
 the graphics are great, and everything is so attractive.
  
  In FFXi, you are forced to party up with other players in order to advance in the game. In WoW, 
 all you have to do is quest, and not every quest requires you to be in a party. This is where I 
 lose interest in the game. I like being social and talking to other players, doing important quests 
 or missions that will give me rank or important items.
  
  Not being able to switch jobs/classes in WoW is the number one problem I found in this game. I 
 like being given the freedom of changing my job whenever I want, without losing all the progress 
 by having to start a new character.
  
  The crafting in WoW is great, I like it a lot compared to FFXi's crafting system. In WoW, I can 
 get my craft skill maxed in a day or two at an affordable price. In FFXi, it takes upwards to a 
 couple months to max a craft skill, and millions of gil. But, in WoW you can only master two crafting 
 skills or professions. In FFXi, you can have all crafts, without limitations.
  
  At fifteen dollars a month, I feel this is a little spendy. Granted, you can have up to eight characters 
 on your account, whereas FFXi you have to pay an extra dollar for each additional character. But 
 still, what do I need EIGHT characters for?
  
  There are many aspects of WoW that are great, especially the graphics and environments. But the 
 questing is tedious, and it IS enough to make me quit playing the game. I recommend this game for 
 a serious gamer who enjoys questing. If you're like me and you like to hack up monsters, try something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcloudestine
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  You as a human or not, its fight for survival. Its like world of doom of demons where there is 
 no light and you are the light as the hero here.
  Its like eclipse of sun in the world.
  
  But seems the light seems to shine on you, with the exclusion of all others so long as they 
 are not of the light as by the prophecy of the prophet.
  
  The prophet leads you on as your eyes in the darkness most darkest night in the world. You conquer 
 to extend your empire or to defend little stock you have from encroachment from the demons.
  
  You as the hero have 4-5 guardians, which you use to clear your path in your quest in the unknown. 
 They are under your control but are independent of their lives, i. e. they fall when their energy 
 runs out, unlike you who have special attributes and gifts to re-energize you on the way.
  
  As of the development of the game, where human's leave with non human's who have an added edge 
 over demons in battle to destroy them, in a world of doomed demons who only seeks to destroy and 
 create disorder and confusion.
  
  It is passionate with emotional scenes which will really move you as you play along, which counts 
 for the popularity of the game, any new player never forgets of what he or she has seen or heard.
 
  
  It is highly strategic, it's no joke or child's play here, every step in the way you think of what 
 to do, less the demons out think you to over come you.
  
  If you are of POWER PLAY, you will stand the chance to build your faith here, as you might come 
 against demons in real life much greater for you handle or easy to trample over, like Johny Quest.
 
  
  Just like bricks, you might be building your faith of destroying it, it's up to you to decide you 
 fate and faith, to follow the prophecy and the prophet in a world of unknown where trust is of 
 high importance here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitsune0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Ok I know there are loads of EQ and Starwars fans out there that are just going to hate me for 
 saying this but I personally think that WOW is one of the best games that there is. Loads of quests 
 and character designs. Non stop game play and tons of people on almost every server. 
  
  Ok now for the drawbacks:
  
  Server reliability as of late has been sort of low. There is always 
 an auction house bug or the server is just overcrowded so all you see is your character move about 
 an inch on the screen when according to the server you just ran off a cliff and drown in the ocean 
 cause you kept trying to move the character.
  
  Classes even though Blizzard keeps trying to make them even in some way are still broken. It used 
 to be hunters were good at everything then they tone down the hunter. The warlock used to be good 
 at everything solo then they tone down their abilities and so on. There is no good class for more 
 than a few months at a time. Once someone finds out how to turn a class into a killing machine 
 Blizzard comes and "Nerfs" the class entirely... and sadly they can barely do that right as some 
 times they make the class stronger.
  
  As for player experience I would say ignore most of the chatters unless you want to start a flame 
 war over the littlest of things. 
  
  Economy on more servers is by far broken. The things people are getting away with in this game 
 in real life would have a person sent to jail for 10 years. Expect to never find an item that you 
 want or need at a price that is reasonable unless it is a guild mate selling it to you and even 
 then the price is outstanding. 
  
  Finding a good guild that will help you develop at your pace is key. Once you have done this ride 
 that guild til high 50's and then find an end game guild to raid with. 
  
  It is hard to not keep writing about the bad points in this game however I will let them rest as 
 there are many forums that you can read all about them and make your own judgements. 
  
  As for the good stuff:
  
  Classes are cool. Each person does not need to make their character 
 just like every other person. You can customize your character to your play style using their talents 
 and weapons and armor found and purchased through out the game. 
  
  Tons of zones and instances (Dungeons) to fight your way through.
  
  Holidays are made more 
 interesting by Blizzard. For example
  
  Easter eggs can currently be found all over the starting areas for characters that contain coins 
 and treats. 
  Christmas had a celebration as well on both sides. 
  The forth of July had a fireworks display that was quite interesting. (I swear there were more drunk 
 characters there than there were actual drunks in bars!) 
  
  I can keep going on for hours but I will again hold my tung and let you decide for your self. 
 
  
  I would say pick up a copy today and you will be hooked by the time your alarm will be sounding 
 in the morning for you to go to school/work (yes I stayed up all night playing it the first day 
 and even did not stop playing while I was at work) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzzofthesaw
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for about half a year and its AMAZING I've never seen such a big community 
 of players. The only thing bad i can say about this game is that i think its a bit too cartoon-like.
 
  Everything has followed from the warcraft series perfectly. Its such an addictive world too be 
 a part of. If anyone should get 1 online game it should be this one. The others don't come close 
 to it. What other online game allows you to turn things into sheep whilst getting hit over the 
 head by an ogre. What other game has you climbing up hills, when you finally reach the top only 
 to discover 20 enemy players waiting for you. This is the game that created Leeroy Jenkins!! Its 
 so large and there's so much to do. It would be better if there wasn't a monthly fee. But it doesn't 
 matter because its great
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosierman5000
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 7, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  You really can't trust any one person's rating on this game alone. WoW marketed to 3 cornerstones 
 of the game: PVP, PVE (raiding) and crafting. I came to WoW looking for good PVP after several 
 years of Dark Age of Camelot. Boy did I make a mistake. Of the 3 cornerstones listed above, only 
 PVE raiding will allow you to advance.
  
  You must raid to be competitive in pvp. You don't realize how little of a chance you have until 
 you take the insane damage being put out by raiders in full gear. I took a frostbolt for 3,555 
 damage when the spell only delves at around 550 dmg. It doesn't matter how skillful you are, how 
 well you move, how well you use the right skills at the right time, when someone hits you with 
 ONE bolt for 3,555 dmg, you're either dead or close to it. For someone who just wants to PVP, raiders 
 with their gear has made the game unplayable, game breaking.
  
  The problem doesn't stop with gear. WoW's pvp system in general is horrible. Their game CANNOT 
 handle world pvp. World pvp was going to any random town in the world and attacking it. Opposing 
 faction players would get a warning in the chat box everytime a guard died. They would respond 
 and a battle would break out. It was dynamic and more fun because you knew it could go down anywhere 
 at anytime which added to the excitement.
  
  Unlike DAOC, WoW cannot handle a large number of characters on screen at the same time. In those 
 100 albs vs 60 hibs vs 30 mid fights you'd get 1 frame every 3-5 seconds. But that frame was real 
 time action. In WoW, everyone has no lag, but just runs around not able to use any skills until 
 the entire server crashes. To combat the crashes they turned the town NPC's into civilians that 
 ruined your honor rank, which I'll get to next, if killed. The best element of WoW was killed at 
 this point.
  
  Wow's pvp shifted to instances. Alterac Valley/Warsong Gulch/Arathi basin. Instead of fun and dynamic 
 battles breaking out all over the world, 95% of the pvp is now done in the same 3 scripted instances, 
 most involve flag play running and capturing them. The only way to get Epic gear to match the raiders 
 gear is to run these instances over and over and over again literally 20 hours a day, 7 days a 
 week for 3 months straight, because if you don't someone else will. PVP is now just a grind, like 
 raiders play style. If you don't believe me, take a look at the reviews that even give this game 
 perfect 10's. Even they don't praise this games pvp. The ones that say it's "fun" give absolutly 
 no details why it is, because wow's pvp is so boring it's indefensible. It's just fanbois propping 
 up the game.
  
  The lead developer, Tigole, should be given some kind of medal for peace because he has single 
 handedly ended the war in Azeroth. Don't take my word for it, look at this own sites screen shots 
 with the horde and alliance fighting together down at the gates of AQ. He took fun, dynamic pvp 
 and turned it into an everquest grind, then just ended the war all together with AQ content.
  
  Crafters haven't had it any better. Most of the recipies or schematics that teach them how 
 to make powerful weapons are only dropped in raid instances. Or to make powerful armor like the 
 Dark Iron set, you need drops from inside the raid instance. So you must raid to craft.
  
  So if you are a raider and loved Everquest, then WoW is the game for you. If you love crafting 
 or pvping then just know you must become an everquest raider if you want to enjoy those 2 elements 
 again. So if you're a raider who doesn't care about pvp, don't listen to anything I say. 95% of 
 the games content is catered to you and you will be a preferred customer. If you are a pvper or 
 crafter, run from this game like the plauge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is like WHOA... it pretty much puts almost all PC games to shame with its music sound 
 gameplay and graphics... if you havent played warcraft dont worry about it becouse this game is 
 way better... it hooks you up like a 70's drug...
  
  aside from its great sound graphics and no loading time for those with high speed computers and 
 i mean... good computers with a great graphics card... but all games have a downfall and this game 
 does the fact is since its such a great game and i mean alot of people play it it will get very 
 laggy in some areas dont matter what ure computer is... for example in major cities and iron forge 
 is the worst considering half of the population is overrun by night elves... plus in battlegrounds 
 wich is a little PvP area wich will get very... very slow and laggy as you play... there are a 
 few of them such as warsong... wich is ure first battleground from lvl 10-60 its a CTF very cool 
 but annoying after awhile... due to druids how they are the flag running masters... then comes 
 my favorite... arathi basin wich is a huge map for killing those alliance cowerds or horde scum... 
 this map is great for any class... basicly you need to take all the flag points and get a ammount 
 of resorces... but there is a secret to ure succes and people dont belive this works (capture these 
 three posts... the farm the blacksmith and the mill defend them with ure power and might and ull 
 win) also if you get all 15 of the enemy players coming send a rogue out to the mine or stables 
 to split em up) then comes... alteric valley the biggest and most challenging battleground map... 
 you can either do side quests or party up and take over the posts but be carefull this is full 
 of lvl 60's ... also be aware of guards and wild animals this map is just like a PvP server... 
 now battlegrounds isint the biggest thing to this game... there are ure powers spells even pets... 
 to blast ure enemy races or monsters... also tons and i mean TONS of quests wich is the best way 
 to lvl up... speaking of leveling-up... its very easy and also sometimes annoying... for many reasons 
 and this is one and thats all i am going to say... ebay gold buying... i said to much : (... there 
 will be other characters who are the same lvl as you and will be twinked out to the max leaving 
 you either sad or upset... i know i always feel both... anyways this game is a must buy... also 
 the expspansion is out with new races... be warned if you choose the horde... all the kids will 
 be going there 
  
  before this is wraped up and getting you so exited to buy and play... the online fees suck balls... 
 just stick to game cards 20 bucks every 2 months and take a break after awhile... or by the time 
 you know it ull be broke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Good MMORPG game, They aren't doubts, but the sounds and the graphic aren't very great. 
  
  Yes, I think that World of Warcraft is a great game, one of the best in series. Well, ok, Final 
 Fantasy XI's graphic is better than WoW, but, it isn't important. But the sounds, no, bad... 
 
  Sometimes, one person can to think that the game are without the sound! Really! it is a thing... 
 
  The gameplay is fantastic, but it's slow. For example: 
  For grow of level, you have to wait 1 or plus days also if you die 1.000 of enemies! A thing.... 
 terrible, really! 
  The month's price of the game for play it online is cheap, it isn't expensive. I want to remeber 
 that this game can be played only online, then, if you don't have an ADSL connection or Fastweb... 
 don't buy it. That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWorldIsSquar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I'm no fan of MMORPGs, I hated Everquest, and Final Fantasy XI is subpar, but WoW on the 
 other hand managed to hook me.
  
  I love RPGs, but I could never seem to get into MMOs, but a couple of my good friends at work played 
 WoW and finally talked me into trying it. I went into this thinking it was just another EQ, but 
 I was very wrong.
  
  WoW is extremely in depth, with a HUGE world to explore and thousands of quests to undertake... sure, 
 just like EQ. Where WoW stands apart though is taking up the on going battle of the Warcraft universe, 
 the Alliance versus the Horde. And I'm not talking about massive quests to undertake to continue 
 the war, i'm talking about player versus player combat, which each side at each others throats, 
 with no other goal than to kill. not to duel, but to kill each other for the sake of your side 
 whether it be Horde or whether it be Alliance.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's not just a matter of running around killing each other for fun, there 
 are rewards that go along with that. First of all, you hahve a ranking system based on Honor points. 
 For killing players higher level than you, you get honor points which then give you higher ranks 
 and access to exclusive items and equipment. Then there's the bragging right that come along with 
 your ranks.
  
  However, you can also make yourself look bad by killing lower level players and getting dishonorable 
 points. There's no reward for that, other than taking satisfaction in killing a player who never 
 stood a chance against you... but what fun is that.
  
  WoW is certainly immersive, and you'll find yourself spending alot of time playing, but be warned, 
 when i say alot of time, I mean just that, ALOT of time. Like any other MMO, it takes a significant 
 amount of time just to get place to place (unless you're higher level and have a mount) , and some 
 quests may be out of your ability to finish until you gain a few levels, which again can take some 
 time. But, if you've got time to spare, you love fanatasy worlds, you love RPGs and you like playing 
 with other people WoW is for you.
  
  Noobs to masters can enjoy this game as it's controls are easily picked up but not easily mastered.
 
  
  The major downfall to the game is the same as any other MMO, the monthly fees. But what do you 
 expect from a game that never ends and is constantly having new material put in? Things are always 
 changing, and thanks to having so many other people online, any given game will never be the same 
 as the last.
  
  So, in the end it's up to you to judge whether it's worth the $15 a month to play or not, but at 
 least give it a try. if you don't like it, then yo can cancel after your first month, and if you 
 do, well, what's $15 versus hours and hours of fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exodusayon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Alright, if you are into mmorpgs then this is what you've been waiting for. First off let me say 
 I have a wide background in mmos i've played everything from everquest (4 years) , FFXI (5 months) , 
 DaOC ( a yeaR) , Everquest 2 (a year) , to CoH for a couple of days etc etc the list goes on. 
  This mmo is different, I am a pretty casual gamer seeing as how I work and go to collecge but I 
 can still accomplish stuff on here. 
  
  Of course there are grinding on this game and of course there are end game content that you can 
 grind grind all you want. I quit that with eq though. This is the FIRST mmorpg i've played thats 
 basicly not forced grouping. You can solo to 60 with any calss if you play your cards right. The 
 quests are very easy to follow yet in depth just the right amount.
  
  Graphics: Ok this is a huge contreversy when it comes to this game its cartoonish , yes, but it 
 looks really good in my opinion. It's a game folks if your going to play something to escape reality 
 why not go all out, right?
  
  Gameplay: This is the most important to me Gameplay over graphics anyday. The pvp even on pve servers 
 with the battlegrounds are set up amazing. Of course there are a few broken classes but with any 
 mmo there are problems. The instances are designed excitingly to keep you on the edge of your chair. 
 The bosses interact with you, and just get you more into the game. The major problem i've had with 
 this game thus far is Ninja looters, Folks that jump in fronth of you and grab that item you've 
 been waiting to get for ever so long *ouch*. That can simply be solved by joining a guild and questing/griuping 
 with them. After you get to nkow a guild really well ninja looting should not be a concearn.
  
  Value: The value of this game is endless with new patch content every tuesday and a promised 
 expansion in the near future you cannot go wrong.
  
  Whether your a seasoned MMO veteran or a first timer this is the mmorpg that you've been waiting 
 for. All fun no Hassle.
  
  pick this game up now. you will not regret it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the highly anticipated game for a lot of peoples and for games in general. 
 but for me this game is great not awesome. cause i doesn't like warcraft game whole a lot but world 
 of warcraft was for the first time built in 3D instead of in strategy as the other warcraft games. 
 the graphics is great as well as the sound and it's a extremely huge game. the highest level you 
 can get into is in level 60. but don't be tired of the game if you're in level 60. cause if you're 
 in level 60 then you have a lot of good stuff and then it's really fun to kill animals or whatever. 
 i not love this game but like it and the really bad thing with it it's that you've have to pay 
 per month so you can play this game. that's really bad, cause i wanna play it without paying per 
 month. but whatever it's a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JujuMagic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  WoW is a great MMORPG, easily the absolute best out now. The stats, PvP, instances, and everything 
 are will made and stunning. A simple desciption of World of Warcraft is that it is a fun and immersive 
 game up to level 20 (lvl 60 cap) but after that the game degerenates into a massive grind fest 
 with occasional breaks for the lower level instances. From level 20 - 40 all you have to do is 
 find level appropriate gear and upgrade your profession and level your character. The monthly fee 
 is also a down side but i don't begrudge Blizzard thier money because WoW is very detailed and 
 with a population of about 7 Million it takes work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbig
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to play with millions of other people in a world that is always changing and 
 bringing new places to explore. You will spend hours on your char leveling from 1 to 60 and trying 
 to get the best gear and finding the best way to play. There is 8 races and 9 classes finding your 
 favorite to play as and learning about each is just as fun as the next!! If you want a game you 
 can spend endless hours playing and still getting better WoW is for you. Spell casters, melee, 
 and ranged play styles to best fit anyone who is looking for a multi player game where you can 
 find players of all experience levels from newbie to veteran..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyssion100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  greeat! just what i dreamed about! the best mmorpg in the world!!! the graphic are nice and sweet! the 
 spells looks cool, and its fun to do emotes and theres much. and a thing that is really important 
 is the professions its like in runescape and what would runescape be if it chould not have professions! yuck! but 
 saddly theres only 10 professions and that sucks and can only use 3 at one time but its actually 
 pretty difficult to controll al the professions! and the classes are fun too all haves somethin 
 that i want to try the rogue: invinsibility, dual  
 looking spells, stat  dont know exactly 
 so much about then... spells? warriors: well they are normal shield and sword... and paladins! a combination 
 of healing and strengt! thats so cool with different things with all! and theres sooo many quests, weps, items, uh 
 players and there comes more all ower again!!! and its actually pretty fun to go with a group into 
 a dungeon and kill the boss! so what else would i say! oh yeah a small but nice thing is the jumping! its 
 pretty cool to jump in the city and swimming is cool too! well i recommend to all mmorpg fans, its 
 even better than the new mmorpg dungeons and dragons online even if its real time fight and better 
 graphics! but this game!!! its the best! the best, the best, the beest! and its worth the month fees! but 
 i admit its pretty much 13 in a month thats bargain but its worth it, the game friggin rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAchaos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, for anyone thats never played this game, your going to be immersed in a world 
 like no other, the game play is extremely easy to pick up on from the moment you log in for the 
 first time. The Graphics are pretty good, cant say the best but it is good. 
  One thing I really loved about this game was each armor and weapon had its own look, if you put 
 on a new Breastplate, it will look totally different from any other, same with most weapons.
  The world its self is remarkable Theres loads of exploration and lots more to come in on coming 
 expiations.
  
  Ive played this game for quite some time and the only problem I have with it is that it becomes 
 very Group dependent later on. Your ability to excel in the game is governed by your ability make 
 friends online pretty much. So if your getting in to this game please be sure your able to socialize 
 later on or chances are youll find your self stuck.
  
  Great game, loads of fun and excitement!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  
  What i think of its so called RP:
  
  If you expect a good RP game, then this isn't the best of its kind, but you will still uncover 
 the Massive content put into it, you will spend Many many hours building your own Character and 
 meet alot of other people along the way, if i were to describe all the things about this game it 
 would take a while so im not going to.
  
  Good About it:
  - You can meet alot of friendly people along the way
  - You can Spend Many hours getting the 
 right items for you / your class
  - You can Enjoy instances, killing bosses, Raids (for those bigger instances)
  - If you are an 
 RP Gamer there are realms specified for that
  - You can PVP (player versus player) and dominate the battlegrounds if you're good enough, and earn 
 Rewards in the long run
  - You can Gain Reputation from the Various Factions and get some very nice rewards.
  - You can 
 Look for A Guild to join (almost like a clan)
  - And so much much much more.
  
  Bad About it:
  - If you've played the game for quite some time and accomplished almost everything, 
 the game can get boring doing the same things over and over. (for some)
  - The Game is Very Addictive, and if you wanna get it, make sure you don't have alot of Work ie, 
 School, Work ect, for some the game can take over social life.
  
  Over All : its a great game packed with hours / days / months, of fun. I think this game will fall 
 into the likings of many people of all ages. 
  
  My Score: I give this game 9.1 Basicly because i've played it for a very long time and its not 
 the same as when i started playing, i would given it a 
  9.9/10, if i wrote this 3 months ago. 
  
  Thanks For reading me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanX97
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Ive played some MMORPG's before like Final Fantasy and EverQuest. But to be honest World Of Warcraft 
 does pull ahead of the rest. That being said in my opinion.
  
  What made WoW fun is its easier then the rest of the MMO games. Final Fantasy that got frusturating 
 and boring. It was hard also. Battles In WoW are fast and fun, you heal fast also after the battle 
 was ended. Unlike FFXI you would have to go in the kneel possition and wait to heal.
  
  Death happends and it will seem to happen a lot at first In WoW, but it isn't a real biggy when 
 you do die. No experience is lost and all you have to do is run to your dead body. But if you are 
 far away from a grave yard it can be a long run. Unless! you talk to the angle of death, by doing 
 that you lose 25% of your durability of the items your wearing and the items in your bags.
  
  Graphics arn't as good as you would think they should be. It came out in 2004 so keep that 
 in mind. The characters arnt breath taking but your surrounding area is really reall well done. 
 The enviroment is stunning to see so its well worth a good run around just to get to see the huge 
 enviroment thats out there.
  
  To cut the rest of this review short, the sound is good in the game, the game play is addicting 
 smooth and fun and the community at its best is really greedy but you can find still a lot of people 
 willing to help you out. The MAJOR PROBLEM with this game is server instability. The servers are 
 down sooo often its a major pain and in some servers you have to wait in line to get on. They just 
 added new servers to help this out but there are still a lot of bugs. If you get impatient easily 
 and you hate a game with constant server problems stay away from this game for awhile till it balances 
 out more, or wait awhile after the expansion comes out because when that comes out i cant imagine 
 the problems it will have then. But that aside its still a good game:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJGebauer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not entirely sure why people are expecting this to be any different than the other MMOs because 
 it's not. The central problem with the genre is that you can't have a game tailored to over a million 
 individuals. Simply put, no one person can be the hero of the story. That's the problem people 
 seem to be having with this game. WoW is fundementally the same as Everquest, Dark Age of Camelot, 
 City of Heroes, etc. What this game has going for it is a unique art direction, no xp death penalty, 
 a sprawling community, creative touches galore, frequent content updates, and surprisingly good 
 sound. 
  
  I've played damn near every MMO since before UO was released and I can tell you this is the same 
 as the rest. The quests may have a different wrapper but the inside prize is the same. Grinding 
 is still the best way to level. Whoever plays the most is the strongest. There is no goal except 
 whatever you can come up with. 
  
  *Update* I finally cancelled my WoW subscription. Truthfully, I haven't really played it in a year. 
 Off and on but nothing significant. It's a grind to 70, then a grind for gear, then more grinding 
 when "new" content is released. As of this update, the game has 10 million players. If it was a 
 state in the US, it'd be ranked 8th in terms of population. Despite this staggering number, all 
 10 million people are doing the exact same thing. It's impossible to understand just how one-dimensional 
 this game really is until you take a step back and analyze it objectively. Take off your fanboy 
 goggles. Blizzard pulls in $130 million/month from this entity but the game itself has only cost 
 $200 million to date. Where is all that money going? Not development of groundbreaking, genre-defying 
 gameplay. That much is for certain. It sticks to what all MMOs have done but for a game of this 
 magnitude, that's unacceptible. When the next expansion is released, I guarantee it will be more 
 of the same. Grind to the new cap, grind for the new best gear, keep grinding until you realize 
 that's all this game is. A grind. Players, stop allowing yourselves to be pacified with "good enough". 
 Cancel your subscriptions and demand more from this behemoth because so much more can be done. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheonite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  The first time I came in contact with the Warcraft-series was when I played Warcraft 2 on my friends 
 computer. It really got to me and since then I haven't been able to keep my hands of Blizzard games. 
 I bought World of Warcraft when it hit the stores, ran home, logged on and started playing. Wow 
 was my first MMO game and I had read many reviews about the game that said that it was amazing, 
 so of course I was very hyped. I made an undead Mage and started playing. I got tired of my character 
 after 13 levels. So I started a new one. An undead Rouge witch is in level 60 now: D. Anyway the 
 game is one of the best games Ive played for the PC. The graphics is good and the sound is almost 
 perfect. Even though you dont need a mega-computer to play the game I suggest u have at least 
 512 MB RAM, otherwise the lag will be insufferable. To get your character to level 60 will probably 
 take you at least three-four months if you play about 2 hours a day. After you hit level 60 theres 
 a number of things you can do to make the lifetime of the game even longer: Get an Epic mount, 
 full epic set and raid some of the many high level instances! If you have done this and you still 
 want to play more, the first expansion of the game will be out in the end of 2006! The only real 
 minus is that you have to pay every month to be able to play the game, but Im sure you dont mind 
 if you really love the game. Try it, and youll be stuck for at least six months. I can almost 
 guarantee it. Almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaco666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) is the greatest MMO and the greatest online game in history. This game 
 is so amazing that you will be glued to your seat as soon as you log on for the first time. Its 
 really addicting and really fun to play. I have a level 60 paladin with a few other alts but every 
 night i always log on to my paladin and do instances and pvp and its just so fun and gets better 
 later on. The game is played by 2 factions Horde and Alliance. There are 8 races to choose from 
 4 being horde, Troll, orc, tauran, undead and 4 alliance, human, dwarf, night elf, and gnome. And 
 there are a bunch of sweet classes you can also choose from like paladin, warrior, mage, rogue, 
 warlock, shaman, hunter, priest. Each race has a starting area with a bunch of quests and it might 
 seem boring in the beginning but once you reach level 25 you can start doing Battlegrounds and 
 basically the two factions fight on these maps and you can do like capture the flag and a bunch 
 of other different ones. And you fight them and its real fun. Once you get like even higher you 
 can start to do instances my favorite being molton core and can fight bosses or still do battlegrounds 
 or just be in a huge raid with your guild and do pvp. You also get to choose between 2 professions 
 like mine are mining and smithing but there is also skinning, leatherworking, enchanting, alchemy 
 etc. Also you can also choose some free professions like first aid and cooking and many more. There 
 are so many things you can do in WoW and it still can be fun many years in the future. With 6 millions 
 subscribers and expaning it is the most popular MMO ever and its the only game that ever made me 
 not want to hang out with any of my friends and bother calling them cause its just so addicting. 
 I give it a 10/10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is the definition of a great mmo. The open feel gives you the feeling that you are there and 
 brings you into the world of Warcraft. The only downsides is paying $50 retail and having to pay 
 $15 every month to play. There are new bugs with every update. It also requires the most space 
 any game i've played takes up almost 5 gigs and then the updates (which sometimes is every day) 
 are big too. You better have a big hard drive to play this. The game glay is addictive and worthwhile. 
 If you have played the game runescape and loved it here is your new lover. The graphics are killer. 
 This is a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryank81283
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 6, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Great Game, but not worth the time. The game is well done no doubt, but theres no end and it gets 
 to be verry repetive.
  
  you'll spend 45 min killing the same zebra's over and over again to collect a body part only a 
 few drop. You'll wait in a dungeun for an hour for someone to show up. For like 6 months i wasted 
 so much of my life playing this game. I would play for like 6 hours a day. Quit please. If you 
 have any social life, job, school, sports anything don't even look at this game. There's a world 
 outside of the computer. I mean i play games but dont devote the time this game requires. Go outside, 
 look for a girlfriend, some non-WoW friends go to the lake. something real plz. i'm looking out 
 for the good of the future i am going to be growing up with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  The best MMO ever in the eyes of God!!! So far i only have a Lvl 15 Night Elf Warrior, but i still 
 unbelievably love this game! At first when i was standing in front of it on the shelf at Wal-Mart, 
 i thought to myself, "FFXI or WoW?"
  
  Soon afterwards remembering my father playing this for hours to reach Lvl 60, i hands-down chose 
 it because of the family relationship between it and my long lost father. (who is not really long 
 lost)
  
  Don't hold out for Auto Assault or choose another crappy MMO like the Freeware "Runescape". Nothing 
 can out stand this game in a head-to-head fight in a boiling pit of lava surrounded by spectators 
 flashing there genitalia in pride. choose WoW now, or suffer later when your mother asks if you 
 have a life.
  
  Decide before it's too late!
  
  UNCLE THRALL WANTS YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlareBlade1211
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a brilliant game. With the vast expanses of the online play, and the great 
 PvP action, this game is very addicting and keeps you playing for hours on end. The different classes 
 are all equally fun, each having their own distinguishing characteristics that makes them really 
 fun to use. The great amount of skills and abilities makes combat intense and fast-paced. Strategy 
 is also of the essence seeing as it will determine your survival in the war-stricken world.
  Overall, this brilliant MMORPG is a great game for people new to the genre or old. With the new 
 expansion coming out, this game should become even more immersive and addicting than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zootsuit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  That's really where it begins and ends for me and World of Warcraft - the game has so many aspects 
 that can just drag you into a fantasy environment. Even just visually, the attention to detail 
 in even small details in the world will intrigue you. There seems to be a great deal of content 
 just dealing with appearance that has no technical game effect except for fun or flavour.
  
  The other aspect I can appreciate is the regular updates given by Blizzard. I'm an EverQuest 
 veteran - to me, patches equalled "bug fixes and nerfs" - however it's generally a cause for celebration 
 for World of Warcraft players since patches generally indicate, as well as bug fixes (and yes, 
 occasional nerfs, I'll admit) additional content or changes/addons to the interface, for example. 
 In other games, they would release an expansion to add entire new zones of content along with fundamental 
 changes to aspects of the game - with World of Warcraft, it's just enough that you subscribe.
 
  
  Many of the seasonal patches are also extremely fun - various events like Christmas, Easter, Chinese 
 New Year, Halloween and Valentine's Day have been celebrated in the world of Azeroth, albiet under 
 appropriate fantasy names and figures. Even lesser known events have been heralded, like Children's 
 Week, where characters of both faction could take care of an orphan for a while.
  
  Speaking of which - there are a fair few young players already in World of Warcraft, but it doesn't 
 actually make it a "specific for children" game. It's interesting to note a fair few things seem 
 to have positive atttitudes being enforced - I noticed that two orc raiders in Razor Hill actually 
 allow their mounts to rest and drink - an example of proper treatment and respect for animals. 
 Subtle enough that you can generally only spot these examples if you actually look.
  
  I'm particularly impressed with the grave made in game near The Crossroads in Kalimdor dedicated 
 to a deceased member of the dev team, also involved in the Warcraft RPG (now better known as World 
 of Warcraft RPG) , Michael Koiter. A fitting tribute, I feel.
  
  All in all, an enjoyable game that can occasionally have downsides like any online game, but that's 
 pretty much going to happen in any case, of course. As to what Blizzard and the dev team have done 
 ... they've obviously put a lot of care and thought into their offering.
  
  I'm not writing this because Blizzard needs more subscribers. I don't think they need any more. 
 I'm writing this because you'll enjoy the game itself, and do yourself a favour and sign up. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very intuitive (did i spell that right?) and easy to use and the way you lvl and train 
 is much better than other games, i like the fact you can swim and jump since the only othere mmo 
 i played was ff11. Im a lvl 12 hunter dwarf currently i love the way you control your pet its very 
 cool Gameplay gets a: 10
  
  Graphics: Nothing special I like the weather effect tho since i have a good computer i have all 
 the graphic setting on high and it dousent lag but it still dousent look THAT good as people say, 
 FF11 has better graphics but i dont care Graphics get a: 7
  
  Sound: Musical Score IS AWSOME i love it and the sound of voices are funny and the monster sounds 
 are good too. sound gets: 10
  
  Value: sooooo addicting so replay Is VERY HIGH replay gets a: 10
  
  Tilt: BUY IT tilt gets 
 a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  At first, I really enjoyed this game and thought it was fantastic. It offered a fairly good community 
 and provided many quests, weapons, armour, and various other items. I also really enjoyed the vast 
 number of ways one could customize their character, both attire-wise, and skill-wise. I must have 
 spent quite a few hours playing the game when I first tried it out. I also give it props for combining 
 many great elements from many other MMORPG's and RPG's alike. 
  
  Unfortunately, after about 30 hours of playing the game, it just felt much too repetitive. Yes, 
 I know, many games are repetitive in the sense that you must complete objectives, hack and slash 
 through a number of enemies to get from point A to B, et cetera, but the quests just felt much 
 too similair. It seemed as all the quests I encountered where, "Kill this monster said number of 
 times, or retreive items from this monster, and return them to me." To me, it really did feel like 
 I was doing the same quest over and over again, but with different creatures and rewards. After 
 a while it just became 'boring', I had lost interest in playing the game anymore. Maybe I hadn't 
 really delved deep enough into the world to experience the wealth of quests, but from what I played 
 it was definetly dissapointing. I had heard so much good before trying this game, and that, quite 
 possibly, could have been one of the ruining factors - my standards were set much too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I think World fo Warcraft is a great achievement as over 5 million people play this game and the 
 game keeps getting popular all the time. I would warn you though that you will need a good pc to 
 play this game in a decent way. Make sure you have all the latest drivers and graphic cards before 
 you play this game. 
  
  I used to play Runescape, which is another popular MMORPG. I played that game for 2 and half years 
 until I decided to play WoW. I still go on Runescape now and again but I mainly play WoW. I think 
 in WoW they could of let you learn more than just 2 proffessions. I think its a bit sad really. 
 Like in Runescape there and so many different skills, like over 20 different proffesions. That 
 was good as you always have something to do. But in some ways its not bad to just have 2 proffesions 
 in WoW as you can work at those two and get really good in them both without getting carried away 
 with another 10 proffesions. WoW does get repetitve, well between the levels of 1 - 13. Between 
 those two levels all you is, do quest, sell items, kill things and so on so on. If you want to 
 go to places like battlegrounds and instances you have to be a much higher level. But at least 
 you can have something to look forward to. 
  
  In conclusion, I recommend WoW very much. Its very enjoyable and there are many things that will 
 keep you coming back after you have maxed out your character. Totally recommend !!!!!!! 
  
  NOTE: This game is highly addictive. Keep control of yourself !!!!! Or you could throw away your 
 social life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silverslash
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft fans sure love this masterpiece set of work from blizzard entertainment co. Its one of 
 the best mmorpg game that i had ever played so far during the last few years. The sound is simply 
 amazing and graphics are just superb. Gameplay keeps you busy hunting for higher level items known 
 as tier sets . Higher sets are less subtle when finding and it adds a better image to your character. 
 There are just too many good points to be stated out. The down side is probably the money spend 
 every month since its an mmorpg but nevertheless its well WORTH the value for this sort of game 
 seriously. For those looking for an mmorpg, grab this game quick in store shelves! It will keep 
 you biting your finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The Warcraft franchise has been around for a while now. And since then Warcraft has produced 4 
 of the greates real-time stratergy games of all-time, Warcraft II: Tide of Darkness, the Warcraft 
 II expansion, Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos and the Warcraft III expansion. And now Warcraft is 
 responsible for the greatest MMORPG ever. Great MMORPGs don't come along too often. But when they 
 do you know people are going to lock their doors, dump their girlfriends and throw away their social 
 life. And I'll tell you what this game is worth it. The world is huge with two different continents 
 to explore. And every inch of the world is very detailed. No matter who you are you should play 
 World of Warcraft. Because not only has Blizzard brought us the greatest MMORPG of all-time, they 
 have brought us one of the greatest game of all-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zua12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Jeu de rles en ligne massivement multijoueurs bas sur l'univers de Warcraft, World Of WarCraft 
 permet donc  des milliers de joueurs d'entrer dans une aventure dont les personnages et les mondes 
 leur seront familiers tout en leur faisant dcouvrir de nouveaux territoires.
  
  Bas sur l'univers imagin par Blizzard pour ses premiers jeux de stratgie temps rel, World Of 
 WarCraft emprunte videmment beaucoup  cette srie et plus particulirement au dernier volet en 
 date, WarCraft 3 : Reign Of Chaos. Le monde est ainsi habit de nombreuses cratures et de huit 
 peuples majeurs qui constituent autant de races accessibles aux joueurs. Ces races se divisent 
 en deux clans qui prennent eux aussi leurs racines dans WarCraft : l'Alliance et la Horde. Une 
 fois l'installation des 4 CD effectue et un compte cr sur le site officiel du jeu, c'est parmi 
 ces deux clans et ces huit races majeures que votre choix devra se faire. Un jeu de rle massivement 
 multi-joueurs (MMORPG pour faire plus simple) comme World Of WarCraft, ressemble sur de nombreux 
 points  un jeu de rle classique et l'une des tapes clefs du dbut de partie est la cration 
 d'un avatar.  ct du choix de la race (Humain, Nain, Elfe de la Nuit, Gnome, Mort-Vivant, Orc, 
 Troll, Tauren) , du sexe (un dessin ?) et de quelques caractristiques physiques (pilosit, coiffure, 
 visage...) , il faut galement opter pour une classe de personnage.
  
  Petit  petit, on devient moins petit
  
  En rgle gnrale, la rcompense prend la forme de 
 pices de cuivre / argent / or auxquelles peuvent dans certains cas s'ajouter quelques objets plus 
 ou moins intressants. Mais pour les concepteurs donc, le systme de qutes est surtout l'occasion 
 de faire bouger le joueur, de l'amener  voir du pays,  dcouvrir d'autres zones de jeu et, de 
 ce fait,  rencontrer d'autres PNJ pour obtenir encore d'autres qutes. Dans la pratique, cela 
 se fait de manire presque transparente, sans jamais que nous ayons l'impression d'tre contraint 
 ou forc. Ainsi, un Humain commence son existence  proximit de l'Abbaye de Northshire, mais les 
 qutes proposes par le Marshall McBride et ses acolytes le conduisent bien vite  explorer les 
 zones avoisinantes,  se rendre dans la petite ville de Goldshire puis, trs rapidement, dans la 
 capitale de StormWind. Ces qutes permettent donc de se familiariser avec le monde environnant, 
 mais galement avec les systmes de combats, de progression et de gestion des objets.
  
  Conclusion
  Sans vritablement rvolutionner le jeu de rle massivement multijoueurs, Blizzard 
 frappe malgr tout trs fort et son World Of WarCraft se classe d'entre parmi l'lite. Le dveloppeur 
 californien n'innove pratiquement nulle part, mais reprend  son compte la majorit des progrs 
 observs depuis Ultima Online et l'mergence de ce style de jeux. World Of WarCraft se caractrise 
 en premier lieu par son incroyable prise en main qui en fait un titre de premier choix pour les 
 dbutants. L'interface est un modle du genre et les mcanismes du jeu sont tout simplement limpides. 
 Pour les joueurs plus habitus, World Of WarCraft est galement trs intressant dans la mesure 
 o Blizzard a trouv de trs nombreux moyens de relancer l'intrt du joueur. C'est ainsi qu' 
 partir du niveau 40 certaines classes ont moins d'interdits et les montures deviennent accessibles.
 
  
  En ralit et de par ses nombreuses possibilits, World Of WarCraft ma vraiment impressionn
 
  Pour quelque dollars FONCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thuch
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly a great game but the gameplay isn't that good when fighting you just keep 
 spaming the number buttons or clicking manually on the abilities.
  I played this for a long time from my point of view but never got to lvl60 and I belive I didn't 
 stick to this game becasu it wasn't that addictiv as many said just going around gaining experience 
 and gathering items.
  Its the same through the whole game but I didn't get to lvl 60 though but from how far I got it 
 was just the same thing all the time.
  But this doen't make the game very bad in any way its great, its impressiv nature and huge world 
 really amezad me.
  Every time you got to a new place you got amezad of how big and cool it was but after sometime 
 you didn't get that impressed anymore.
  The graphics of the game is OK but not more.
  THe sound are the typpical warcraft sounds and thats good.
  overall this game is probably the 
 best MMORPG in stores today.
  But for my part the adventure of the world of warcarft is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfTorment
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my opinion, is extremely interesting and great in terms of story lines but it does 
 get repetitive and maybe boring after a while (meaning the Fed-ex quests) . I've heard many people 
 say that it lags horribly but that's because they were unable to be smart and join a medium or 
 low server instead of a high one. I can understand what people mean by the game can be full of 
 immature brats (which is quite true) and the customer care service sucks (also quite true) but 
 I was able to avoid all this and if you can also (unlike some people who seek out to get themselves 
 into problems) then it would be a very great game. People who say that it takes to long to grind 
 are just used to the stereotypical Korean MMORPGs (nothing but endless grinding such as Maple Story, 
 Silk Road, from what I heard RF Online) and those who say it's nothing but grinding have very short 
 attention spans and should go play fast paced action games such as shooters (not tactical shooters 
 but super fast paced ones) . The graphics are low quality compared to MANY other games but I gave 
 it a pretty high rating because that is the style that Warcraft fans are very much used to. People 
 complaining that the graphics suck should sit and think about it. What if Nintendo made a new Mario 
 game and made Mario and Luigi big, tall, muscular, and handsome? It's just NOT the style and look 
 fans are used to and the ratings on the game would most likely drop faster than Enron's stocks. 
 Of course this is all in my opinion and I would still recommend Guild Wars for it's superb graphics. 
 As good as this game is there are other games that have a style that this game does't take on so 
 I would not recommend this game to be the only game one plays (currently on hiatus playing on Silk 
 Road 'cuz of it's based in Asia and playing Tales of Symphonia which I got way to late and Fire 
 Emblem: The Sacred Stones 'cuz I felt like relearning the story) . I think WoW is one of the best 
 games I've ever played but as you can see I temporarily stopped playing it for games with lower 
 ratings because of their different style. Everyone has their own style and likes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_Arnen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok so World of Warcraft is well.... The greatest game ever (besides Guild Wars of course UNION 
 4EVER!) . The graphics are very cool. Its almost lik watching a cartoon but its so much crisper 
 and sharper but at the same time smooth and silky. The gameplay will keep u busy til the cows come 
 home. Unless u plan it ull almost never find som1 who looks the same as u. And the quests are awesome. 
 Theres one thing i dont understand. We spend $40-50 (earlier buyers spent more) and then we buy 
 all the old games how come we hav to pay to play? Blizzard shouldnt hav a single problem with money 
 there incredibly rich. So why do we pay?
  
  
  But this game and Guild Wars (UNION 4EVER!) are the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Blizzard is slower than molases, secretive of projects like a mother protecting 
 her child, and incredibly good at making video games. Company-wise, Blizzard is in my opinion in 
 the top 3 game makers of all time and one of the few producers I am willing to buy a game from 
 on company merit alone. But, as much as it pains me to admitt it given my peronal hatred for pay 
 to play MMORPG's in general, this one really is worth the 15 bucks a month. 
  
  Firstly, I'd like to qualify myself as a reviewer of this game. I have 5 months of play in on this 
 game and several characters including one who has reached the level max of 60. Nothing special, 
 but you now know I didn't just install the game last night.
  
  On to my review.
  
  It is my opinion that how much you will enjoy this game depends greatly on your expectations going 
 into it. I, for years, had spent time playing on heavily RP intensive and highly monitored and 
 RP enforced MUD's. Although Blizzard offers RP & RP-PVP servers, these are mostly a consession 
 made to those who would like to attempt RP. I have spent my entire WOW career on these servers 
 and have played on most of those servers offered, and I can say that there is no enforcement of 
 the RP policy and you really have to work at getting into RP. So, if you want to play WOW to further 
 the Warcraft storyline and be a part of that storyline interacting in an epic manner with other 
 players, you will be greatly disappointed. The game gives you a great deal of freedom to explore, 
 yes, but the quests and enviornmental interaction is very much scripted and plays out the same 
 every time you do it. I can't really say this is a negative to the game, although my beating heart 
 wants to do so, as Blizzard very obviously created this to be like a 3d multiplayer version of 
 Diablo 2, with a Warcraft theme of course. So, in the end, you really don't get that "change the 
 world" kind of satisfaction you might like. In the end, it's all personal preference and really 
 the game shouldn't be judged by these merits alone.
  
  That said, here's what the game should be judged on. 
  
  Gameplay - WOW is constently under 
 scrutiy by the developers and changes/updates are made regularly to enhance the blance of the various 
 character types and their skills and the enviornment. One really nice feature about WOW is how 
 intuitive the interface is. At first, I was a little worried that I would spend a lot of time trying 
 to figure out how to work the menus and find the info about my character I need and organize skills 
 and such. I was suprised how easy Blizzard made this complicated system work. Buttons are organizable, 
 character sheets and quest logs, maps, and other menus are all easily accessable and easy to navigate. 
 One time through them and you'll be able to know your way around them and where to find the info 
 you're looking for. Character movement is similar to any FPS and combat flows smoothly with a simple 
 click of your mouse (once you organize your skills on your interface bars to fit your play style) . 
 As far as gameplay goes, you'll learn your character pretty quick. That's not to say the enviornment 
 doesn't take some time to get used to. The auction house is a bit confusing at first, but soon 
 becomes your best friend as you trade junk you find and buy better equipment that could take forever 
 to find on your own. Vendors, like many things in this game, will seem familiar to anyone who has 
 playd Diablo 2. That's one of the nice things about Blizzard, they take things that work well in 
 other games and expand upon them in future games, giving their fanbase an easier time picking up 
 on how things work. In a nutshell, you can expect gameplay to be standard Blizzard quality.
  
  Graphics - I don't have a whole lot to say here. The graphics are now a bit dated (as is to 
 be expected as the game ages) , but for what they are, they are well done. Every polygon comes together 
 as you would expect and, as graphics are intended to do, they do a good job setting the scenery 
 for the game. What really stands out with graphics is the little details like instead of a table, 
 you have a table with a complete dinnerware setting. Blizzard spared no expense in making sure 
 those details were taken care of. Plus, the world in general is highly detailed as well. Who wouldn't 
 get a chill the first time they walk into Stormwind with the monolithic statues of heros of the 
 past standing over them.
  
  Sound - Again, quality. The musical score sets the mood instead of just gettting in the way and 
 taking over. Blizzard was detailed to the point of making sure certain tracks begin playing at 
 just the right moment to drive the tone for whatever quest you are on. Sound effects, in short, 
 just as good as the music. 
  
  Value - It's worth the 15 bucks a month. What more can you say.
  
  Overall WOW has held my 
 interest longer than any game in my 16 year gaming experience. In fact, I'd say it's held my interest 
 longer than any 4 combined, with the closest competitors being previous Blizzard titles. WOW is 
 not without it's downside though. Once you hit high levels, you find yourself increasingly reliant 
 on other players who's time is just as valuable as yours. You'll find yourself spending 30-45 minutes 
 just sitting around trying to assemble a group for an instance that could never be attempted alone. 
 Epic gear, that could take months to assemble. I just don't have the patience for that. So, regardless 
 of new content, WOW does reach a point where it's just not much fun anymore. You spend a lot of 
 time trying to hit level 60 and once you get there, it's like standing on top of a mountain taking 
 a deep breath and saying "Well, I guess I'll go down now." The mood of WOW is also set by other 
 players, which you can imagine, aren't always a perfect match for you. Regardless, you'll make 
 some good friends too.... and if you're lucky a few enemies :) (for those on PVP servers) . Lastly, 
 the game has a tendency to be goofy at times. Luckily Warcraft itself has been known to be goofy 
 too, so you can kind of ignore that.
  
  In conclusion, WOW is a phenominal game with more addictive qualities than a hallucenogenic drug. 
 Be warned, you'll likely find yourself neglecting friends, family, jobs and even the leaky plumbing 
 you've needed to fix for weeks. But if you can live with that, this game is likely to bring you 
 hours and hours of Blizzard quality entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wenolas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit that I was nervous to shell out the forty somewhat dollars to buy World 
 of Warcraft. With all the mixed reviews in the gaming community it was hard to get a good feel 
 for whether World of Warcraft was another promising MMORPG that couldn't cut it in the end, or 
 if it truly was going to raise the bar. 
  
  In the end World of Warcraft didn't exactly do anything that hadn't been done, and the graphics 
 didn't blow me away. With that said, it was the game's charm that pulled me in and consumed literally 
 days of my life before I just didn't have enough time to keep my character going.
  
  The game offers player versus player (PvP) for those into fighting other player characters. You 
 can raise amongst the ranks of PvP through battleground type games or simple Horde versus Alliance 
 encounters (Horde and Alliance are the two factions in World of Warcraft for those of you knew 
 to the Warcraft series) . The game has thousands of quests for those who prefer the player versus 
 environment (PvE) scene. Leveling, questing, and raiding will keep you busy for days.
  
  I truly believe that World of Warcraft is the best MMORPG released in the past few years. I'm a 
 huge EverQuest fan but I am not biased in either way. World of Warcraft is simply the next step 
 up from the over-expansioned EverQuest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afterburner1313
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Clearly the best MMORPG to date. Even if you don't like this genre, you will like this. Warning: 
 this game is VERY addicting! Please, play responsibly.
  
  Gameplay:
  Just like in any MMORPG the objective is level up, get stuff, and become more powerful. Pretty 
 much like real life. To do this you go around kill stuff and do quests. That's what an MMORPG is 
 in a nutshell. What makes WoW better is the way it "dresses" these somewhat monotonous tasks and 
 makes the game fun rather than make it seem like a job (a problem that other MMORPG's do) . Killing 
 stuff and doing quest actually seem like they have a purpose. Even though the game isn't linear, 
 the way the quests are set up and the way the world is laid out it seems like you're willingly 
 following a storyline on your own. Speaking of the game world, it is HUGE! Each zone is unique 
 and big despite there being only 2 continents. The game is easy to pickup even if you are not famiar 
 with MMORPG's. The interface is easy and very customizable. There are even some mods that make 
 it even easier. The combat is very easy and exciting. unlike other MMORPG's there seems to be more 
 skill involved like an action game. this aspect becomes important in the PvP part of this game. 
 All the problems like corpse runs, losing xp when dying, kill stealing, and "training" are eliminated 
 from this game. things like the auction house and in game email system make trading and buying 
 items a whole lot easier. no more shouting forever in the West Commons of Everquest. the PvP (battlegrounds) 
 in this game is INCREDIBLE! currently, the level cap is at 60 and it is relatively easy to get 
 to. However, it's the PvP that keeps level 60 players busy for a LONG time. Blizzard revealed that 
 the level cap will be increased in the next expansion set. All these things make this game stand 
 out among all the other MMORPG's out there.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not as jaw dropping as other MMORPG's like everquest, city of heroes, or guild 
 wars. They are still good nonetheless. The graphics are similar to Warcraft 3. However, when you 
 make improvements on your equipment, it is clearly reflected on your character. this makes it easier 
 to tell which characters are high level. My favorite is "fiery enchanting" my weapons to give it 
 a fire glow! There is some customizability to your character but it's not as versatile as City 
 of Heroes. All in all, the graphics are solid and can run on even lower end systems.
  
  Sound:
  Excellent sound! The sounds of battle are very detailed from the clanging of the swords 
 to the casting of spells. The speech is limited with voices pretty much sounding the same as others 
 of the same race. Then again, it's pretty much understandable since this is an MMORPG. The music 
 is AMAZING! the music fits every zone and town that you enter. example, when entering the human 
 city, the music is very ominous and noble. when going into horde territory, the music is rough 
 and barbaric. The music is perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft the most played mmo and im about to tell you why. The first part of wow is kinda 
 boring but trust me it gets awsome. in my opinion it doesnt feel like just an average normal mmo 
 its fat paced and it really feels great. you get the option to pick between 2 factions (horde, 
 alliance) then u pick a one of 6 races (undead, night elf, ect...) and a class (hunter, mage ect......) 
 like i said before its kinda boring at the start but it gets addicting. you can get up to lvl 60 
 and when you at lvl 60 (trust me it takes along time) your just getting started theres fun aranged 
 battles called battle grounds. Graphics. the graphics arnt oblivion ok its not really realistic 
 looking but theartwork is beutiful and it doesnt take a high end pc you can enjoy the game being 
 very smooth. the sound is very nice the music isnt the greatest like it isnt jermey soule but it 
 works. value. its worth every $. though there is a monthly fee of 15$ but its worth it. final thoughs 
 is to say that world of warcraft is a great game is a understatement. this game will bring memorol 
 moments. world of warcraft will take you months to even start to scratch the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderRadeon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Ok well let me start off by saying, the way i started playing world of warcraft was because Starwars 
 galaxies, when the new Combat upgrade 2 came out. The game wasn't even worth looking at anymore 
 so I loved the MMORPG so i needed to find a new game fast, alot of people were talking about World 
 of Warcraft so I had to check it out... 
  As soon as I got my first kill I knew I was hooked... The PvP, Instances, PvE there is so much 
 to do in this game its a MUST have if you don't already have it you need to pick it up or at least 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caeldplay
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  When I got my first taste of WoW, I believed that I had stumbled upon the fountain of youth and 
 its undeniably sweet nectar. Nay, I had not found the succulent bosom of the earth's magnificent 
 teet; rather I had found the unwashed stench of it's nether regions. I have spent 80 scores of 
 my withering young life at the helm of this textural polyhedron, and I must say that it could have 
 been better spent experiencing the cool wind of the Cliffs of Dover with my soul mate at my side. 
 Nevertheless, my mage of 35 levels has much to say on the subject of advant guarde and has engaged 
 in counltess conversations with other entities about the topic. This makes for things that we in 
 the business call "Honest Possibilities", a. k. a. Life in a Horrible Vaguery. Back on the topic, 
 World of Warcraft beckons back to the days when life was simple and defacating was a matter of 
 self-preservation instead of needless statement; a day when it was deemed acceptable to fling yourself 
 towards a middle-grade celebrity in hopes that they would bed you. In other, more intelligent words, 
 this game will take you to places that are not has-been, but will-be, but be prepared for the unmistakable 
 noise of your life shattering to pieces beneath you, my fair-weathered friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakkro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  When World of Warcraft (WoW) was announced, I had
  little interest in it. Mainly because I did not read any articles on it. 
  But, no not that butt, 
 but "but", my friend was talking about
  it one day at school, and I was mesmerized. He had 
  so many comments on the game and polished 
 it
  with beautiful depictions of gnomes, did I care? The answer
  is yes. I got the game, I got pissed trying to install it, and I
  was glad to see it up and running 
 (after 4 days.) Anyways,
  The game itself is open-ended, from the character
  creation window to the first couple of quests to finish, and so
  on. But what really striked 
 me as awesome, was the ability
  to do almost whatever the heck I wanted! The best classes
  in the game IMO are Warrior, Rouge, Paladin, and Shaman. 
  The world itself is vast and suprisingly 
 enough there are only
  one or two loading screens. Another brilliant aspect is that you
  can choose to group up with other players and kill massive amounts
  of NPCs. Or play by yourself 
 and most of the time get killed. The 
  'professions' are well thought out, and depending on what type
  of person you are in real life, 
 it will lay out your economic future.
  Just kidding. So to anyone reading this article, those who know
  what an MMORPG is, and those 
 who do not use silly colloquials like 
  'lol' or what they stand for, playing this game is a great idea,
  and wastes your life in doing 
 so, no matter what human you are.
  The End.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Stunning graphics, intense fast gameplay, and a indepth story are a few things that make World 
 of Warcraft a monumental achievement by Blizzard. 
  
  It's impacted the Massive Multiplater Online community greatly and will sticking around for a long 
 while.
  
  Players of WoW and people watching eagerly await it's expansion and people have high hopes for 
 the game's first expansion as do I.
  
  The areas of improvement would have to be sound, a bit more variety in different areas instead 
 of the same track being repeated in a few different areas. Also I feel, and i'm sure others do 
 as well, that there needs to be a bit more customization for character creation or another level 
 of customization somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rchadwel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Imagine if your doctor never responded to your questions when your heart monitor went crazy at 
 the hospital. That is the connection Blizzard support achieves with its customer base during the 
 game's daily outages, frequently lasting for more than an hour... Now for you Virginia's out there 
 who say, "Games ain't the same as goin to the hospital... you got a real purty mouth boy..." Here's 
 your Captain O Badge. You've never played this game. When it's on, it's unbelievable - it's rarely 
 on.
  
  BTW - Gamespot, when you rate a game, add a category for Technical Support - and see how many games 
 still rate a "9.5... Best Game Since Cows Pooped On Bingo Squares For Prizes". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasmusforsberg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Just gotta say that this is the best pc game i have ever played and for a while it had taken over 
 my whole life. But Wow is lacking something and that thing is Pvp, i got soo tired of just grinding 
 the battelgrounds fr reputation and honor and it just wasent fun, What i would like to see is 
 more non instance pvp whit lagg free servers and armies whit over 1000 players on each side battling 
 out for some major city... Even though its somewhat lacking the pvp i would like to have seen in 
 it its one of the best if not the best pc game ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aarond373
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  With such a big world and so much to do, how could anyone not like World of Warcraft. The game-play 
 is fun, and the graphics are great for such a large scale game. There are so many interface options, 
 quests, and different attacks. Once you get to level 40, you get to ride on an animal to get around 
 faster. I bought this game and have never been disapointed with it once. With how much time you'll 
 spend on it you might want to get a better computer chair. This game is highly addictive. This 
 game is well worth the monthly charges! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inc3sticid3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a great open ended game literly a working HUGE world. This is a MMORPG (Masivly 
 Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) so you will come to see a few interresting gents. There are 
 to Factions The Horde & The Alliance the horde has orc's, tauren's, undead, troll's, and comeing soon 
 Bloodelve's The alliance has nightelve's, dwarf's, gnome's, humen's, and comeing soon Whisp's so 
 you can pick from a good selection of races. You can fight the other faction on sertan server's. Well 
 W. O. W. is just lvl'ing up doing quest's and collectiong items so dont ecspect that much but its 
 a buy ps. You have to pay 15$ a month to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelBamboo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for the past 6 months now and I'm not even close to being bored with 
 it. There is always something to do, from grouping up with friends to run through quests to re-living 
 the true spirit of WarCraft in the Battle Ground instances, it never ends. The world is so gorgeous 
 and huge it can take months to see it all. Plus Blizzard likes to keep everyone happy by decorating 
 the world and celebrating almost every holiday from halloween, with costumes and treats; to Christmas, 
 with a Santa character, snowballs, and presents. Within the first few days of playing you really 
 start to understand just how much time and effort Blizzard must of put into this Epic-Instant Classic 
 of a game. The only downfall to this game is that the human body does require sleep even though 
 your mind might not want to.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nkenobi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I was an addict before I even began playing. This game has the ability to keep someone playing 
 for long periods of time. Maybe it is that desire to finally get to level 35, or that urge to find 
 and kick that guy's butt who just ambushed you in the wild. Whatever the reason, this game is hard 
 to quit once you start.
  
  Time and time again I have attempted to play MMORPGs, and time and time again I was turned off 
 by the complicated nature of them, and the large amounts of time required to play. Quite on the 
 contrary to someone who has a life. However, WoW is unique. It didn't take me long at all to figure 
 out where I needed to go, or what I needed to do. A simple interface that made sense to me, and 
 little hints pointing me in the right direction helped a lot. Rather than a five week long tutorial 
 that required a few cups of coffee to go through (I'm looking at you Star Wars Galaxies) . The game 
 was also well suited for many play types. If I felt like playing alone, then I could play alone. 
 If I wanted to play in a group of players, then I could play in a group of players. It took no 
 time at all to get playing this game.
  
  I was rather disappointed with the character creation. I was hoping to make my orc completely my 
 own. But with very few customizable features, I have found my orc like many others in my realm. 
 However this was a minor set back, as I do have plenty of armor and clothing to choose from.
  
  Quests were understandable, and most of the time I knew where I needed to be, or what I needed 
 to do. And the epic scale of the game is truly something. The game play is fun, however, this is 
 not one of those games I can play for an entire day. The repetitive nature of the type of game 
 prohibits me from playing more than and hour or two without getting bored. The game hardly changes 
 between level 1 and 60, as you still find yourself questing and killing things constantly.
  
  Graphics are amazing due to how much the engine is actually rendering all at once. Nice animations 
 and cool effects really add to it as well. Sound is good, but nothing notable, no moments notable 
 of saying I was basking in glorious sound effects. However, the sound track is explicit, defiantly 
 mind capturing music.
  
  Over all, the game looks and plays nice, also allowing many types of players to play the game in 
 their own way. Repetitive game play is one minor set back, but that would be hard to avoid in this 
 type of game anyways. I enjoy, and often lose my self in Azeroth daily.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshorty16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Huge, beautiful fantasy world.
  Exciting Player VS. Player.
  Rewarding quests.
  Useful professions.
  Many classes and races.
  So so so many items.
  So much to do, so much 
 to see.
  So many hours and dollars spent.
  It's worth every second and penny.
  Seriously, this has got to be one of the best games I've ever played. I've never even played any 
 Warcraft games before this one and I'm completely immersed. No matter how much time I spend sailing 
 between continents or flying between cities or running to quests and back, it's all worth it. I 
 wish they'd lower the monthly cost though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malethai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a gorgeous, and fun game that will steal many hours of your life away. The 
 game play is fast paced, requiring quick thinking under pressure, even more so in pvp. The quest 
 style, as well as letting you play solo or in a group helps solve many things other MMOS have gotten 
 wrong. After playing for a little while, the combat is second nature, and still feels fun.
  The graphics may appear cartoony, but thats part of what makes them so great. The game adapts a 
 unique style, which is a mixture of cartoons, and realism that looks gorgeous. 
  This game also has its own soundtrack that really fits the theme for the area your in, as well 
 as the entire game. Areas of peace have a quiet tranquil music, while places of danger have a fast 
 pased, war drum style music.
  Overall if your looking for an MMO, or just a game that will entertain you hunderds of hours, look 
 no farther. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax2099
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, involving, and enjoyable. The graphics are great because they can be run 
 on an older machine (1ghz, 32mb video card, 256 memory) but I do not recommend this. To play with 
 the graphics up and to prevent lag withing cities like Ogrimmar, it would be wise to invest in 
 1gb of ram. At the same time, i only leveled up to level 21 then I canceled my subscription because 
 I didn't have a network on the game. If you have a lot of friends that play this game, it is a 
 must buy, if not, then play it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Proabably the biggest game ever made or at least. this game offers such a wide range of charcters 
 and races to choose from not mention all the cool stuff you can do afterwards. this is a game for 
 novice gamers or even hardcore veterians of mmorpgs but so far this is the mac-daddy of online 
 games. this game has an unlimated play time and you can do everything you want. you can do quests 
 by yourself, you can grind to lvl up, you can do instances or whatever you want. either on your 
 own or with a huge group of people. there are thousands of people who play this game which form 
 guilds or clans each can specailze in a different areas of the game. the area for playing is huge, 
 proably the biggest map of any game which is easy to navigate with the help of griffons or a mount. 
 there are a choice of sides alliance being good and horde being evil, you can play on servers which 
 pitt you agianst other players or just computer controlled charcters. you can take up a trade like 
 a tailor to create armour or cloth. wepaonsmith to create and sell weapons. you can chat to people 
 using the game text box. 
  
  this game has created a huge fanbase and even a culture of gamers that take the game seriuosly 
 (a bit too seriosuly if you ask me) .
  
  a must be buy but beware monthly fees are required 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbuckley
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  I have played hundreds of games over the last 15 years and own loads of PS2 games. But since buying 
 WoW about 4 months ago i havent played another game because it so addictive. I cant describe to 
 u how good the game is and how much fun it is to play. I was put off buying it for a while as i 
 didnt understand why i should pay a monthly fee so i bought guild wars (trust me compared to WoW 
 guild wars is complete trash) but because the game is so good i cant play any others so the fee 
 is cheap compared to the amount of fun and time u can get out of the game.
  
  This game is the best game i have ever played or seen it is the kind of game i have always want 
 to play but never thought it would ever come just try this game and give it a good go. i have heard 
 people complain of silly people and kids but to be honest they r in the minority and you will always 
 get silly people in whatever online game you play. This is the best game i have ever played and 
 i own pretty much all the games that r highly rated on pc and PS2 i have never given a 10 before 
 and dont think i ever will again. the only problem with the game is thats its so good it will take 
 over your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sschacha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  this game goes as fast as you want it. you can lvl up your main character to the max lvl in a month 
 or two, or you can lvl up 20 alts to lvl 40 in 2 months, this game lets you choose how fast you 
 want to go or not to go. the game (unlike many others) rewards you from taking a break from playing 
 it. if you log out in certin areas, the next time you log on, you exp you earn will multiply by 
 2 for a certian time. this makes leaving for a family function actully not that heart breaking. 
 the game play is awesome, so many things to do and so many different servers to choose from. i 
 personaly have a lvl 60 hunter and working on a mage right now. i also have so pretty good armor 
 on my characters without camping mobs that take 4 hours to spawn ( cough cough FFXI) . World of 
 Warcraft will completely change your on look of MMORPG's forever. i give it a 7 out of 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m762
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the many, but few great games for the PC right now. It holds unlimited potential 
 on game-ability and enjoyment. Blizzard scored well with the Warcraft series but this takes it 
 to a new realm of entertainment. Fully intractable and diverse it envelops the player into a fantasy 
 real world environment. Imagery and sounds come to life as you battle your way through the quest 
 and adventures of different races and classes.
  
  All in all the only downfall of the game is that it COSTS to play it. Making a huge profit and 
 allowing the only truly addict to play, but 13 or so dollars a month can't hurt that bad... right?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up in December of 2004 after talking my brother into trying it out. Him and 
 his buddies were hardcore into Everquest at the time. He dropped his Everquest account about a 
 week later, and all of his friends from EQ made the jump too. (that is a testament in and of itself) 
 He then actually had to talk ME into getting it, which is a bit ironic considering how much talking 
 I did about how great this game looks, but I had yet to buy it. 
  
  Well ever since then I have been hooked pretty good. It has been over a year, and this game still 
 delivers. There is so much to do, and so much that you can do in short spurts. You can sit down 
 to play this game for 30 minutes and get stuff done, or marathon it for 10 hours in a day and get 
 a whole lot done. Anything you are doing is just plain fun all around. The crafting mechanics make 
 crafting fun (yeah.. that's right.. CRAFTING is even fun) .
  
  Want to go solo and kill a bunch of stuff? Plenty of that here. Want to get together in a group 
 with some random people? Check. Big groups with LOTS of people? O yeah. PVP arenas? That too. Small 
 business simulation? Yup. Are you a loot collecting crazy person? This should do it.
  
  A number of years ago I used to play a text based MMO called Major MUD. Ever since I have not been 
 able to find a PC or Console MMO game that had that level of depth and fun. This is the game that 
 I was waiting for all those years.
  
  Blizzard is extremely good about keeping this game fresh as well. The number of patches that have 
 gone out over the last year have been plentiful and interesting. Of coarse a lot of people will 
 complain about classes going through significant changes that have been known to occur, but these 
 changes only mean you have new strategies to figure out and work with.
  
  Content has also been added on a regular basis. When I bought the game and started enjoying it 
 as much as I do, I had no idea that they would add some of the content that has been added. Dungeons 
 with groups of 40 people taking down exciting bosses and getting crazy items was just not part 
 of the picture back then.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that has a PC. Even if you do not dedicate hours and hours on end 
 to it, you will still have fun. This is one of those games you can play every day for a month, 
 put down for another, then pick right back up and not feel regrets for taking a break from.
  
  Kyle B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSiderOne
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  After playing many MMORPGs for years including but not limited to titles such as DAOC, SWG, FFXII, 
 Ragnarok, etc. here's my take on it.
  
  WoW experience & background: Two level 60s, one on PVE & one on PVP server, also ran MC a few times.
 
  
  WoW is good from level 1 to 60 (60 means when u just reached that level and still kinda fresh) . 
 Once you hit 60 and ran a few dungeons and battlegrounds, it gets old very quickly.
  
  The game is designed to draw in all types of players which it does but it doesn't keep players 
 interested in end game because there is literally no end game. For many MMOs, end game is actually 
 when the fun starts, for WoW it's the opposite, u have fun leveling but once u hit 60, shortly 
 the game becames not so fun, nothing but grind.
  
  It's designed to grind players once you hit 60. Either you grind PVE (hitting the same and very 
 few dungeons over & over just to collect your class set etc. and that's if you are lucky, in many 
 cases, you won't get it til 20+ runs which is very tiring and NOT fun to say the least) .
  
  PVP is the same, it's just grind, the PVP rewards is actually not very rewarding. There's no sense 
 of accomplishment besides some meaningless ranks. You don't feel like you've done anything for 
 your faction either you win or lose.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you've never played WoW before, why not? Try it, it's fun for awhile but you'll get bored quickly 
 after hitting 60.
  
  If you've tired it and already hit 60 for awhile, most likely you're either waiting for the expansion 
 pack to come out to see if it would extend the life of this game or you're just waiting for another 
 MMO around the corner which hopefully would be more interesting.
  
  Bottomline:
  
  PVP ---  DAOC FTW! (Too bad that game is old, if they make DAOC 2, I'd be the first one to join, 
 however they're making WarHammer Online!)
  
  PVE ---  Ragnarok, just plain fun, I quit before they added PVP, heard PVP is fun in that game 
 too.
  
  WoW ---  Somewhere in between, it appears to be fun but not really. Unless Blizzard add some meaning 
 to the PVP aspect of it and PVE shouldn't be a grind once you hit 60, otherwise it gets old too 
 quickly like the way it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review after playing the game ever since it came out. When I first started this 
 game was the greatest thing I ever played. If I am gonna rate the game when it first came out I'd 
 rate it probally 9.6-9.8 around there. I'm goning to reviewe how the game is now, WoW players I'm 
 sorry but face the truth.
  
  Graphics- Pretty good. Not the best some people freak on how good the graphics are. They aren't. 
 Only when your dead the reflections and crap look good. The enviorment is beatiful and huge. You 
 can see everywhere for miles which i found unbelivble.
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game shines. This game is very easy to get into. The action in this 
 is very fast paced and fun. The PvP one on one is awsome. It's just now a days people that have 
 a life don't have that good of gear. There are people that are 60 and have the greatest gear in 
 the game and they don't PvP. I can not believe. I am a mage and if I had all epic gear I would be 
 Doing PvP right now. I have 5 peices of Magisters gear and I do decent in PvP. Also, there are 
 some class balance issues. Blizzard needs to fix a few things here and there but they did a hell 
 of a job.
  
  Sound- Decent all i gotta say here.
  
  Value- If this was free I'd give it a ten, but 15 bux a month? Daaaaaaaamn.
  I aint that rich. 
 This game was aimed to the casual gamer. 15 a month is NOT for a casual gamer. Also, if your a 
 hardcore MMORPG freak you might find this is easy. For lazy asses like me, its great. After one 
 year I hit 60. I only played like 2 hours every week. Its nice and easy when you have rested XP 
 which is a nice touch.
  
  Overall- Thanks to the awsome gameplay the game is saved. If only it was like the olden days of 
 WoW I'd be playin it still. I quit awhile 4 months ago. I doubt much has changed. Was the perfect 
 game now a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I have played WoW since it came out, and bar none, best MMO ever made todate. 
  
  First of all graphics, the graphics in this game are great, and for a few reasons.
  1. They work 
 with this kind of game, very cartoony, but are really rich with detail
  2. Almost any computer can run this game
  They are not revolutionary, but they work great
  
 
  Second, Sound, the soundtrack is great, amazing, if your a warcraft fan, you will notice all the 
 old stuff and some new tunes which really synch up to the battle you will be having
  
  The Immersion is the best part, even thou the character creation is kinda pathetic, and the differnces 
 you may have from other character is not really that substantioal except formthe gear you wear, 
 you really play to your play style. Either you want to fight far away and cast spells, or if u 
 want to get right up in the action, their is a class for you. The PVP is great, not that difficult, 
 dosnt really tkae that much skill, but its relaly fun
  
  The World, is very richly detailed, most of the dungeons are great, and the content is overall 
 amazing
  
  In ocnclusions i would just like to say, that this game is good for everyone, if u have spare time 
 on your hands, pick this game up is an experiance to be had
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaffster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a very exciting game, has a very open world to explore, wide selection of 
 races and classes to choose from, thousand of items and quests, and heaps of other online players 
 that usually are willing to help you out. If I had to say anything bad about this game it would 
 be that during the levelling progress you get to stages of boredom, due to lack of new and challenging 
 quests in some certain levelling areas. this game is for a dedicated gamer who will not loose interest 
 in playing after a month, the to level in this game is level 60 and for a new inexperienced player 
 it could take up to 5-8 months to get to 60 (thats with playing 3-4 hours a day and 5-8 hours 
 on the weekend) . All in all World of warcraft is a great online game, out of all the other ones 
 such as guild wars, city of villains, star wars galaxies, and ever quest. World of warcraft beats 
 it.
  
  Enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loiosh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing WoW for several years now, and during that time have stopped playing it and 
 started back up numerous times. First, I must say that this game does take a while to get the hang 
 of things. Once you learn the basics of the game play you will be well on your way to having a 
 ton of fun. I /strongly/ recommend that you brush up on your 'netiquette'  
 - most of this translates directly into playing video games online, so just be courteous ;)
  
  WoW has a unique style of graphics, which are commonly referred to as 'cartoony'. I agree; 
 however, this is not a bad thing... it seems to be appropriate at all times and never seems to 
 be unimpressive (EverQuest 2 has awesome realistic graphics, but they seem out of place) . 
  
  A common concern is the ~$15.00 a month required to play the game online. There are some online 
 games that require you to pay, and are certainly not worth it. WoW, on the other hand, is definitely 
 worth it. Blizzards developers are constantly creating new content for the users to enjoy and explore. 
 Blizzard is very good at keeping the world new and impressive. You can stop paying any time you 
 wish and 'freeze' your account and play again when youre ready and your characters will still 
 be there. Ive done this several times, and each time I go back, theres so much new content that 
 the $15/month is a great deal in the sense that its almost a new game!
  
  Another part of WoW that I absolutely LOVE is the WoW community. WoW has a huge fan base which 
 provide users with a lot of helpful information. Also, WoW has the built-in feature of ADDONS. 
 This is great! You can go to several of many websites  and 
 (http://ui. worldofwar. net/) and find addons/mods for just about anything you can think of! Want 
 to incorporate Winamp into WoW? Look no further. Dont like your user interface? Grab a new one! 
 This is a great feature of WoW that the community really embraced and uses to no end!
  
  If you love online games this is definitely worth it. Ive played all of the big and some of the 
 lesser known MMORPGs and would have to say that WoW has me coming back for more!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is by far the greatest MMORPG that I have ever had the experience of playing. 
 You can create a character who is "good" (alliance) or "bad" (horde) . You then pick a class, go 
 through some kind of rights of passage-esque quests that also serve as a tutorial for the new player. 
 There are guild of up to hundreds of players, "Parties"little ten-man groups used for lower-level 
 dungeons and quests. "Raids" 50-man groups that are used for upper-level dungeons, battlegrounds 
 and raids on the opposing side's villages and cities. The gameplay is just amazing. Words alone 
 do it no justice, as I could go on and on about how great the graphics are, the amazing sound and 
 the indepth experiences the game offers. However, if you are a casual gamer who plays mabye 1-2 
 hours a day b/c of other commitments, you should probably think twice before buying WoW, as its 
 $15 per month subsciption fee really bankrupts you fast. But if your a hardcore MMO fan, WoW is 
 perfect for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deer_Hunta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Guild Wars for the past few months and thought it was excellent. One thing 
 that lured me to was it was free. I thought nothing could possibly compare until I decided to give 
 WoW a go. Boy was I amazed. Im practically going to throw my copy of guild wars in the garbage 
 can. Beleive me it pays to pay when it comes to a game of this quality. I have only been playing 
 for roughly 6-7 hours so far and I'm thoroughly impressed and convinced that I will be playing 
 this for quite some time in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedoomer42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  this is possibly one of the best mmorpg games you can possibly find it has brilliant graphics and 
 it will work well on any computer really but its only the monthly fee which is the annoying part 
 but the game is actually well worth it you have alot of different abbilites and you get a variety 
 of characters like the humans, dwarfs, gnomes, nightelfs and the horde which are orc, tauren, undead 
 and troll and they also have a variety of classes like rouge, paladin, warrior, preist and mage and 
 so on but if you are thinking of getting this game well i cant say anything apart from get it!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohakusho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  For those who haven't played this game yet, and heard that WoW is a "drug", they're not kidding. 
 Once you play this game, you really don't stop. So if you have ambitions, please do NOT play this 
 game. Everytime I play this game, i feel that this is the last MMORPG i'll be playing because it 
 ceases my temptation to play other games (let alone other mmorpg's) 
  If you haven't found entertainment for the past week, this game, my friend, can cure your sickness. 
 It's easy to learn, long to master, and hard to put down. 
  
  My point of view towards this game :
  The classes have an excellant variety of skills/spells 
 and gets even better after each level. Leveling isn't hard, and even more, the quests for leveling 
 are fun! In this game, battlegrounds and raids are wonderful. You can't get more than having 39 
 other members ganking town by town of your opposite faction. The graphics may be a bit bad for 
 those who look up to the graphics of Xbox 360. But WoW is made so that even people who don't own 
 high-running computers can play and won't get a crash when killing twelve monsters Rambo style. 
 The sounds in this game is creatively made and mixed. Many people sees WoW as a excellant game 
 but when come to the pricing, they say "Oh, I can't afford this" and doesn't bother trying. Think 
 about it, $15/month, and if you're buying new games, you'll probably get over it in 3 months. 15 
 x 3 = $45, around the cost of a new game. Trust me, you won't be buying new games if you're playing 
 WoW. Those who are paying $15 now and enjoying this game, I highly believe that even at $30 a month, 
 you would still keep at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImChuckNorris
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Let me preface by saying I've been a life long gamer and have played many other MMORPG's.
  
  
  
  In most cases I tend to say "don't believe the hype", but in the case of WOW there 
 is a reason it is so insanely popular, it is THAT good. As far as I'm concerned there is no argument, 
 this is the best MMORPG ever made, the real discussion should be is this the best video game of 
 any genre ever created, it just might be. If you are a gamer and have not played WOW then you are 
 in fact missing out.
  
  
  Everything about this game is top notch... graphics, gameplay, sound, the world is full of life, 
 there is so much to do and see. Bah, I don't want to finish this review, I'm going back to playing 
 WOW =p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latchley4114
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It has so much freedom and u can practically do anything! If I were to suggest 
 a MMORPG game to a person I would suggest this game. Me and all my friends play this game and were 
 having a blast. I played UO and FF XI, fun for a while but got old quickly. This game never gets 
 old and i won't be quiting it for a long time. Also they have Battlegrounds where u go in a battleground 
 and PvP, or we can go to contested territory and fight or even in our own land if we enable PvP. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlamingWonky
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is my first MMO. Until it becomes obsolete and Blizzard releases the inevitable 
 sequel, it will be my last MMO. In fact, I don't feel temptation to play other games, either single-player 
 or online. I really don't want to play anything else; it seems like a waste of time better spent 
 leveling up and getting phat lewtz. This, my friends, is addiction.
  
  WoW is a hugely entertaining game. It's very easy to play, difficult to master, and harder still 
 to put down. In this review I will take the subjective point of view when talking about WoW's excellent 
 qualities. However, I don't suggest anyone with obligations pick up this game, as those obligations 
 will take the back seat and your long-term goals will suffer for it. My grades in high school have 
 nosedived since I don't bother with homework. My admission to the college of my choice is in question. 
 This game has had detrimental effects on my life, but it's my fault. Consider that. There, I've 
 said enough, and I'll stop impersonating your collective mothers.
  
  *Gameplay*
  
  This is my any means an RPG done right. The classes are highly entertaining and distinct, the crafting 
 system is excellent, most quests are excellent and varied (although the basic "kill X of Y monster" 
 quests are the most fun, in my opinion) , and the world is masterfully designed. As far as player 
 vs. environment gameplay goes, it's essentially a dressed-up level treadmill, with the ever-present 
 goal of leveling up, learning new skills and moving on to the next exciting area. This element 
 is an expected trademark of an RPG, and contributes greatly to the replacement of "craft" with 
 "crack" when referring to the game. In fact, it's easier to level to 60 quickly (provided you know 
 what you're doing) than in competing MMORPGs. The first time through with my Tauren Shaman (people 
 - don't play shaman, they are highly overrated) , it took me 19 days (19 days x 24 hours/day = 456 
 hours) , which is pretty long, and can be shortened to about 10 days with some skill. In other words, 
 the treadmill gameplay is highly satisfying, so though you'll be fully aware that you're essentially 
 "grinding" levels, that's not an incentive to quit the masochistic self-induced torture. After 
 all, at level 60 you too can get phat lewtz and raid the well-designed high-end instances with 
 your guild. Moving on... PvP combat excels in WoW, especially of the variety where to raid enemy 
 cities with 39 others. However, World PvP is rare (although ganking and the subsequent corpse-camping 
 on PvP servers is fairly common in certain busy areas) and most people get their fix from the epic 
 honor treadmill that is the battleground. In short, gameplay in WoW is excellent, even considering 
 that it's derivative of the level-grinding formula used in countless RPGs online and off. A clear 
 10/10.
  
  *Graphics*
  The textures and models in WoW may be underwhelming to those who habitually play sharper-looking 
 games. WoW's graphics were designed to run on lower-end computers while allowing for dozens of 
 players and monsters onscreen without major slowdown. While the graphics are serviceable and modestly 
 attractive in a stylized manner, they aren't impressive by any means. However, this means that 
 on my powerful PC, WoW runs at brisk framerates of 60 dps with a decent 1280 x 1024 resolution 
 and most video settings maxed. Wide-screen monitor users will be delighted that the game supports 
 wide-screen resolutions natively. All in all, the graphics are pleasant and easy on the eyes, if 
 not cutting edge. 8/10
  
  *Sound*
  The sound is a mixed bag. Music ranges from epic, honest-to-goodness opera (Stormwind and Astranaar 
 soundtracks are my favorites) to less-impressive, forgettable audio. Also, since play time runs 
 into the hundreds of hours and each musical piece last but a few minutes, there's a lot of music-free 
 time. Overall, the soundtrack is decent, but it doesn't compare to Final Fantasy XI, the soundtrack 
 of which can be downloaded for free. Google it. 
  Ambience in most areas is good, if nothing extraordinary
  Combat and spell sound effects are 
 pretty decent, and I've yet to tire of the grunting as my characters take damage. Your mileage 
 may differ.
  Perhaps the best sound bits are emitted by player character voice emotes. Although some leave me 
 guessing (Undead female /silly track, "I heard a knee-slapper once ,and skipped my kneecap right 
 across a lake") , others are downright hilarious.
  Overall, the sound receives a 7/10 for being "good", but most of the time, I turn off the game's 
 music and run a player in the background.
  
  *Value*
  Some people scoff at a $15/month fee. Before they play the game that is, and once they realise 
 that because they no longer need to buy new games... or books... or movies... they've saved a bunch 
 of money. WoW features excellent production values, a friendly gamemaster staff, and enough content 
 to keep you busy for a long time. I bet if Blizzard raised the fee to $25/month, the vast majority 
 of players would have grumbled but kept at it. If you're looking for the last game you'll need 
 to buy for a while, this is it. The value scores 10/10.
  
  *Tilt*
  I think it would be unfair to judge WoW harshly in this category based solely upon my own inability 
 to balance work and play. WoW remains a passion, a genuine craving. That alone deserves a 10/10.
 
  
  I'm hoping you, the reader, has caught on to the fact that this is a wonderful game that comes 
 with my recommendation under one of three conditions.
  
  a) You're in prison.
  
  b) You're not in prison, but you have no real-world obligations
  
  c) You're not in prison, 
 you have real-world obligations, and you posess the willpower to place those obligations ahead 
 of this wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay for WoW is amazing, it's pretty much the longest game ever made since you can't beat 
 because there will always be a quest wating for you. The graphics aren't the best but who cares 
 when the gameplay is so much fun. The sound is good depending on your speakers. There are races 
 such as Humans, dwarfs, elfs, minataurs and orcs. For each race there are about 6 classes such 
 as warrior, archer, mage etc. You gain levels as you progress through the game, you can reach up 
 to level 60. You can buy a lot of armour, weapons, spells, food etc. The whole game is online and 
 unfortunatly costs a monthly payment. I definatly recommend buying this game to anyone who likes 
 RPG's. Overall I give this game a 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazanarkand
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an excellent game, from PvPing (player vs. player) to 40-man PvE (Player vs 
 Environment) . World of Warcraft is a Online game played by millions of gamers. 
  
  Good: Very fun, lots to do, feels massive, and has good gameplay. Also the game gets updated every 
 2 months by a large patch that greatly changes the game in a good way.
  
  Bad: Very addictive, needs some economy and pvp improvements. $10 to $15 dollars a month depending 
 on the payment type.
  
  All in all, the gameplay is great, graphics are a little old, very fun, and recommended buy!!! 
 
  
  This game is recommended for above 12 and a little mature. some language.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  I have been paying this game with my friends computer, and the only thing that stops me from buying 
 this game is that you have to pay every month for playing WoW, also when you have reached the maximum 
 level, it might get really bored, unless you're interested of making a new character. Also leveling 
 up can take forever. It's a shame, that they made it pricey, actually it's not even that cheap. 
 But WoW is still a great MMORPG game, if only they could had made it free, like the most others 
 online games, then I could also had bought this game. But I'm not willing to pay that much for 
 it, I'll rather make others pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  The best thing about World of Warcraft is the amount of content in the game. To start off there 
 are two factions, the Alliance and the Horde. In each faction there are 4 different races, 8 total. 
 There are 9 different classes that can be chosen from, and are all pretty balanced well. For example 
 a warrior can use almost any type of armor and weapon, but has to rely on those items for survival. 
 A mage is a magically powerful class that can deal lots of damage at long range, but it doesn't 
 have much to protect itself. Through the most part of the game you will take on quests and challanges 
 that will have you go through many great adventures and with some big rewards. If that is not enough 
 you can learn professions that you can use to make money or use for yourself. There is a wide variety 
 of professions you can learn but only can learn 2, so choose wisely for whats best for your character. 
 If that is not enough you can fight players on the opposing faction using Player versus Player 
 combat, PvP. Which can offer unique and quite large battles between players. The more you progress 
 into the game the more it has to offer you. However because of all the content it does take a long 
 time to fully get into the game.
  
  WoW has extremely good envrironments for you to play in, which is another great quality. You could 
 end up in snowy mountains, tropical forests, deserts, or open grasslands. Just about any type of 
 landscape you can think of. WoW also sounds really good too, but not quite to the same level of 
 the graphics of the game.
  
  One of the best things about the gameplay of WoW is that downtime is kept to a minimum. In battles 
 the action is so fast it feels like you are playing a fighting game more than an MMORPG game. You 
 can play on your own or join parties and do quests together, or do even harder quests in a party. 
 You can join guilds and join friends together to play. In PvP combat you can gain honor and achieve 
 a title before your name when you get a high enough level. One of the neatest things is that they 
 offer rested experience. For the time you are not playing the game you can earn double the experience 
 when you slay monsters, up until a certain point which can be seen in your experience bar.
  
  The gameplay isn't flawless though. One of the most frustrating things to happen is when you 
 finish battle with an enemy and your health is almost out another enemy respawns right next to 
 you. The enemy attacks you and kills you. Death in this game isn't so bad in this game. Instead 
 of losing experience or items you just have to travel from a gravesite to the location of your 
 corpse and resurrect yourself. So the only thing that goes away is time. A problem that can happen 
 is that there may not be a safe spot to resurrect yourself. Which can be frustrating to have to 
 die twice in a row. Something that was also frustrating has to do with the players more than the 
 game, is when a really high character like a level 55 attacks a level 23 player in PvP combat. 
 The 23 is helpless and something needs to be done to help reduce things like that from happening. 
 Another dirty stragegy is corpse camping. Sometimes after you get killed in PvP the other player (s) 
 will camp at your corpse so they can get another kill off of you. The game also has a bug or glitch 
 happen everyonce in a while too.
  
  Despite these slightly annoying things in the game WoW is a very fun game to play to anyone. Just 
 be prepared to spend a long time to get into the more in-deph material of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCause420
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and I'd have to say it's phenominal. All the races and classes to 
 choose from are almost overwhelming, but once you get started it just keep getting better. Nothing 
 really "big" I should say happens until you reach level 10, since you get your first "class" specific 
 quest and you can start entering the Battlegrounds for some Player Versus Player combat (capture 
 the flag) . There is too many things to name, but I can tell you the high points of the game. Well 
 when you finally reach level 40 you can pitch in ALOT of money for your first mount. Depending 
 on your race your mount will be different. The music in this game has a "Lord of the Rings" feel 
 to it, and that's just fine. There are two factions in the game called the "Alliance" and the "Horde." 
 The Alliance's races are the Night Elves, Humans, Gnomes, and the Dwarves. The Horde's races are 
 the Tauren, Trolls, Undead, and the Orcs. If you want a game to steal your life away, than pick 
 this one up, if you don't want to deticate your life to a game, pick this game up and you will. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nova42
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I love WoW, but the content keeps repeating itself even the new Patched in things...
  
  You farm and grind until you can do MC, later you're good enough to do BWL, now it's AQ, and it's 
 the same thing... after I started thinking about what I'm doing in a raid, becaus it was not so 
 amazing farming BWL the n-th time I realized quitting will come sooner than I thought.
  
  MMORPGs do cost a lot of time, think twice before starting to hardcore waste it, I lost 130days 
 Playtime during the last Year playing :)
  
  But it's indeed a nice game, try it if you don't know it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle6185
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  It just doesn't exist, this game sucks you in and just takes away your acknowledgement for the 
 outside world completely, with over 100 days of gameplay put in and only less than a year and in 
 it being my first and only mmo, it amazed and WoWd me. Once you get started you can not stop it 
 would be more appropriatly named world of warcrack. Check it out if you are a fan of MMO's or of 
 role playing games at all, you can have fun soloing grouping, raiding, or if you are into pvp... 
 just imagine 40-40 all out war with NPC's fighting side by side with and against you or just taking 
 a group of people and just destroying an oposing factions town. so much to do and only 24 hours 
 in a day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The Warcraft series could be known as the best RTS series now coming to the MMORPG world. World 
 of Warcraft came out 2 years ago, and is still being played by millions today. The success of the 
 reason why is because it brings easy tilt, wonderful graphics, and superb gameplay like any other 
 MMORPG. The story of this game is all about the Horde and the Alliance still fighting the war, 
 since the first game ever game out, and now you the gamer now get to play either race, either class, 
 and either side. There are tons of races and classes and really, they are really great. There are 
 no down sides to this, but then again you start off your character Level 1 in a new location that 
 is considered for low levels. After many hours of becoming a level 13 or so, you join guilds and 
 go to faboulous locals that looks really good. The players in WoW are either nice or helpful which 
 is a great thing for the community. Guilds are really great and for people who think of making 
 them, have alot of coins especially gold and silver. The new features in WoW are caves, which bring 
 hard challenges and only for the really high level or also raids which is mainly 2 or more groups 
 together however do not really get the same features as 1 group all together. And also the all 
 new BATTLEGROUNDS which is where the 2 sides fight each other in Capture the Flag which is kinda 
 weird for an MMORPG but works and definatley is better than playing RTS in WoW when you already 
 have Warcraft 3. Overall, gameplay is easy and innovative. The graphics are really beautiful but 
 has some errors but they are easily forgetable. The sound, well sometimes theres no sound but sometimes 
 theres good Hollywood-fell like music. The tilt is easy and doesn't require more than 2 hands. 
 And you should really buy it, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix-Suns
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game, I have to to say, is made pretty detailed and great. The graphics, the music, the gameplay, 
 the idea are all superb. There are many choice in characters in this game and is pretty highly 
 addictive. There are unlimited missions because new missions are added into the game everyday. 
 There are even special events during festivals like Halloween, Christmas, even Valentimes! There 
 are also a variety of gears to choose to equip on your character (Human, Ork, Elf... 8 in all I 
 think) . Moreover, better than Diablo, not only that you can pick what nation you want to be, you 
 can even pick what career you want-for example, hunter, warrior... Next, after you pick what career 
 you want to be, there are more careers to choose in the game. You can choose to be a black smith, 
 medic... For me, I love the part where you choose male or female. All female characters in this 
 game have big boobs that I always admire... Gulty pleasure, I think... The only thing bad about 
 this game is that it lags a lot and that you have to pay for it. It lags, because it is very popular. 
 It is okay to pay, but... the map is huge, you'll waste time to walk from one place to another (waste 
 money too.) . Also, I find it pretty amusing to sit in front of another players corpes and type 
 in LOL. Overall, this game is wondeful, and I strongly recommend everyone to buy this game. BLIZZARD 
 never dissapoints you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalaxyCluster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is the kind of game that almost anyone can play. It is easy to pick up and play, 
 and it gets more difficult as you progress. There is no question that anyone with even a small 
 gaming habit will truly enjoy this game. The graphics and sound are stunning, and play control 
 is very easy to learn, especially if you are a veteran of games like Diablo. The world is almost 
 totally seemless, and absolutely massive. It really makes you feel like you are in the game. It 
 sucks you in and it won't let go. 
  
  One criticism I have of the game is that for an MMO, it can be difficult to find a party at times, 
 and even more difficult to find a party that works well together. The good news is that it is possible 
 to play most of this game completely solo, which I found myself doing quite often. More needs to 
 be done with this game to encourage people to play in groups and work together. Playing solo all 
 the time in an MMO usually isn't much fun, not to mention a waste of your monthly subscription 
 fee.
  
  World Of Warcraft is very quest driven. Much of the experience you earn comes from completing quests. 
 Gaining experience and moving up in level takes a relatively short amount of time for an MMO. The 
 penalty for death is nothing more than lost time. There is no XP loss for dying, however your equipment 
 will take a durability hit, but that can be fixed for very little money early in the game. Later, 
 the cost for repairs rises significantly which can be quite bothersome. 
  
  If you are contemplating buying this game, I would have to caution you on the ramifications of 
 doing so. It is very easy to stay up to the wee hours of the morning playing World Of Warcraft, 
 and even easier to play it all day and all night on the weekends. Having said that, make sure you 
 keep tabs on your home, your family, your work, and your friends. Otherwise, you may end up neglecting 
 all of them for 6 months or more as you descend into the downward sprial of addiction that is World 
 Of Warcraft. You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talkingprimate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this wonderful game on and off since it was released and the longer I play, the 
 more I appreciate how incredible World of Warcraft is.
  
  Let me say that I've been playing mmo's since 1999 and have a ton of experience with them, I play 
 almost ever one I can get my hands on, including foreign mmo's I've played at least 50+ of them. 
 I think having played all the others I have an even greater appreciation for WOW, it simply is 
 the best MMORPG ever created.
  
  Right from the very first moment you begin play you feel immersed in the game immediately, the 
 controls and interface are intuitive and easy to pick up. The questing system in this game is so 
 robust and well done that it almost brings me to tears =P Quest story lines are well written and 
 interesting, and the sheer number of tasks available means you'll always have something to do.
 
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful. The artistry, color, and lighting in this game makes everything 
 feel alive. Nothing in this game is boring to look at.
  
  The sound is equally well done with the soundtrack differing with each environment. Enter Stormwind 
 and hear a majestic melodies, visit Duskwood and get creepy mood music, everything fits perfectly.
 
  
  My only complaints about WOW are that still after being out this long there are still some connectivity 
 issues that plaque it at times. Blizzard is releasing a new data center at the beginning of April 
 that is said will fix these issues, hopefully it will.
  
  In closing I'd like to say do NOT buy World of Warcraft if you value your real life, as you can 
 kiss it goodbye if you start playing... I know that sounds like a joke but I'm not even kidding 
 =P The game is THAT good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an amazing game. It has tons of quests, tons of items, skills, and professions, 
 and it also has great graphics and a HUGE world to explore.
  
  The quests in World of Warcraft are never ending. Even when you reach level 60 (currently the level 
 cap) there are still more quests for you to do, which therefore means more and better items to 
 receive in order to make your character better. Quests also give you really good experience when 
 you complete them so it is a really good way to level up.
  
  The items, skills, and professions list is also never ending. There is so much to do, to buy, and 
 to use. Alot of good items come from the completion of quests, but you can also buy items in the 
 Auction House and you can also find them from monsters. Every 2 or 3 levels, you can go to a skills 
 master and buy skills for your character to use on the enemy. You can buy buffs, attack spells, 
 and even shock spells. You name it, you can buy it. The profession are also really fun. You can 
 be a miner, a leather worker, a black smith, the list goes on.
  
  The graphics are even good in this game. You can't really compare them to a FPS game where the 
 graphics are absolutely awsome, but for a MMORPG, it is definately the best looking one in the 
 genre. The fact that they can make the graphics so good, and keep the lag to a minimum in a world 
 that is so huge and has so much going on at once is amazing. The world is so big that you have 
 to fly from place to place sometimes. There is pretty much no loading times either unless you are 
 going into an instance which is a place where you can fight elite monsters for really good experience 
 or items.
  
  Now for the down sides. The things I don't like about World of Warcraft is that it can be slow 
 and repetetive at times. The combat isn't exactly past paced and thrilling, but since you can use 
 so many cool spells, it evens out in the end. The quests can also be repetetive. Most of them are 
 to kill or collect a certain number of something but there are so many different zones that you 
 need to go to in order to do these that it too evens out in the end.
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft is a game that any MMORPG fan needs to buy. It has awsome graphics, 
 never ending list of things to do, and tons of skills, proffesions, and items. World of Warcraft 
 truely is revolutionary and I don't think any MMORPG could ever top what Blizzard has done here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnofwarhero
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  a great game, best mmo ive played. i own SWG and have played it for about a year, i am canceling 
 because of this game. the grpahics arent that great but it makes up for it in gameplay. and for 
 all the people whining about too much groups, why buy an MMO? it freakin stands for massivly-multiplayer, 
 what do you expect 2 people on it? and if you want to be so powerful that you can kill anything, 
 go play a kid game like diablo or something. and if you want to be lonely and have no one to play 
 with and talk to in games go buy a regular RPG you social outcast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrum345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  World of war craft is a excellent game jam packed full of grea charactors great levals and the 
 game can never be compleated becase they always make new quests. and there is an expantion pack 
 full of new charactors and other extra features. 
  
  World of warcraft or (WoW) is one of the most played online games and there is a reason, it makes 
 MU online and runescape look like jokes to the gaming nation.
  
  WoW only costs 40 for the disks and ( pounds a month for unlimeted play
  
  There is a wide 
 range of great charactors you can desighn, like orc, night elf, Tauren, Human, undead, troll, nombe 
 and dwarf but even in those different races you can still change the attributes of your charactor 
 like you can be a warrior, a mage, a preist, a hunter, and a shamen and yet theres more you can 
 choose 2 proffesions
  
  when your a hunter at lvl 10 and above you can train a pet wich will follow you around for the 
 rest of the game unless you dismiss is. 
  
  if your a shamen you can do spells and if your a preist you can do spells aswell and you can be 
 a druid wich can transfigure itself in to different animals making them faster tougher and stronger
 
  
  Altogether i rate WoW 9.6!!!! and amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limp_Laky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  If you're willing to fork up the 15 bucks a month for an MMO this is the game that deserves your 
 money. I loved this game, I played for 1 minute shy of one year (not total from first log in to 
 last) . I had a level 60 Night Elf warrior, I loved leveling from 1-40 then its boring and slow 
 then 60. At 60 you had better not have a job if you want the good items. This is a game for those 
 with time and that dont mind waiting, and walking. You have to wait to level 40 to get a mount 
 and then you have to fork up 90-100 gold and then at level 60 you get a faster one for 900-1000g. 
 The flight paths are slow and long it can take you 5 minutes to cross a continent if you went to 
 the wrong harbor. For those that say it takes 1 hour to get the hang of the game it takes 2 to 
 get enough to survive and however long to get to 60 and get in instances before you will stop asking 
 questions and finally feel smart. all in all great but time consuming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_G_A_13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a incredible game!! A perfect example of a great "OMM", (On-line Massive Multi-player) . 
 This is one of BLIZZARDS best so far, and i think anyone over 10, do to some complicated game-play, 
 would love this game. The only real problems with the game are, ONE: it can get a bit repetitive, 
 and TWO: having to deal with begging noobs. Once you really start playing though, THIS GAME RULES!!. 
 Now if you don't have a strong computer, or graphics card, don't get the game until you do because 
 without one gameplay is slow, and will really get on your nerves. 
  
  Great job BLIZZARD!!! keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaris83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Hailed by the masses as a godsend of MMORPG goodness, I eventually caved in and tried out World 
 of Warcraft. While this game does feature solid content and gameplay that is well done, Blizzard 
 didn't advance MMO's any when they made this game. 
  It's quite easy to play and level up in, which is probably the main reason it's so popular. However, 
 the community is quite atrocious, mostly consisting of "kool doods" and immature brats. Graphics 
 were one of the things that first turned me off in this game. While you can say Blizzard has it's 
 own unique aesthetic design, I find the look of the game pales in comparison to other MMO's on 
 the market. Sound effects in the game are acceptable, and the music is very well done. 
  As I stated before, the gameplay is solid and should keep you interested for the most part while 
 you grind through to end level. Although I did find myself getting bored towards the end there. 
 PVP is one of the cornerstones of this game, as it helps to extend game life. However class balance 
 is a thing of constantly evolving nature in these games, so your experiences with it may vary. 
 One of the biggest drawbacks I found in this game, though, was it's poor character creation. I 
 feel that being able to create a character that you can use to distinguish yourself from other 
 players is an important aspect to any MMORPG, and in this WoW fails miserably.
  World of Warcraft, just like any other MMORPG, is a big game that will eat up lots of your time. 
 And while Blizzard has managed to cash in big with World of Warcraft, it really didn't do anything 
 exceptional to distinguish itself from every other MMO out there. It is for these reasons that 
 I feel World of Warcraft is overrated, at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkoneGogeta
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This MMORPG is the greatest one of the market... and will probably stay that way for MANY years 
 to come.
  
  World of Warcraft has a HUGE world to explore and see, with amazing visuals and many people to 
 meet. It also has many races to see and other classes to inspect. It also has great sounds as you 
 explore the huge world to back it up.
  
  WoW is also a very easy game to get into. The interface on the screen is really easy to understand, 
 and basically anyone can get into this awesome game.
  
  WoW is also just an action game, with no really slow-down times like other MMORPG's. The closest 
 game to this kind of masterpiece is GuildWars, but that's nothing compared to what this game has 
 in store.
  
  This game also contains two factions: The Horde and Alliance. These factions are basically at a 
 war with each other, as the Alliance is protecting themselves from the Horde, which is the rest 
 of the Burning Legion (demons) formed with other races like the Orcs, etc.
  
  World of Warcraft also features a PvP system which is also a lot of fun, where different classes 
 use different abilities to win over their opponents.
  
  Even thought this game has a $15 a month price tag, this game is really worth it. I mean, $15 is 
 the cheapest babysitter you could have, and trust me, THIS is the best babysitter you could EVER 
 have. Go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbc5714
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the most innovative and expansive mmorpg ever. The graphics for this game 
 are amazing, lag is not bad usually, weekly updates and patches, millions of subscribers, and tons 
 of servers. I have 2 lvl 60 characters, a priest and a hunter and i have played over 1200 hours 
 of this game. This game is always fun not only when your leveling up to reach 60, but when you 
 finally reach 60 you can raid and obtain godlike items or PVP and become the best pvp player on 
 your server. The amount of items makes this game amazing, because there are never two characters 
 that are exactly the same. Not only can you work on getting items and leveling up but you also 
 can learn crafts and jobs. These jobs can provide hours of fun making different items to sell or 
 to use. This game will have you addicted the second you start playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeWLMoNkX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Now I've never felt the need to go and pay a monthly fee for a game before ... I looked at all 
 those other MMORPG's as sort of silly .... that is.. Until I got my hands on a free 2 week trial 
 of WoW..... and that is exactly the word that comes to mind .. WOW! I have been sucked into this 
 magical world of Azeroth almost overnight ..... I find myself being drawn back to this magical 
 place each evening, even if only for 20 minutes .... just to get my Paladins Hammer swinging. Although 
 I am restricted to only a short time to play (thanks in part to my wonderful lady) , I do not feel 
 let down. This game is so gratifying, no matter how long you play for your bound to enjoy it and 
 walk away with this tingly feeling all over.... well.. that is until you venture off at level 5 and 
 get your butt handed to you by some whako farmer and his wife, die, and get lost trying to find 
 your body .... something told me I shoulda just left that pig alone .... that being said, this 
 game really doesn't penalize you much for dying ... its as if the programmers KNEW this would happen 
 and so developed the game in a way that wouldn't discourage players like myself who simply do not 
 have the time to play like some of the regulars do. Speaking of regulars, everyone I have met online 
 has been great. I havent met any ill tempered players, or people out to just hack me to bits for 
 the sake of doing it. I get directions when I need them, and some items and help at times as well. 
 All in all this makes for an outstanding gaming experience which makes me wonder why I am here 
 writing this silly little review and not playing my game ... and then I remember, as reality set 
 in ... I am at work ... bored.... and waiting to go home so I CAN jump into Azeroth before my Girlfriend 
 gets there and throws me off once again.
  
  Don't miss this AMAZING experience ... even if you only have the chance to play for a short time 
 ... a few weeks with a free trial, a month or 2 cuz its all you can afford ... whatever the case 
 may be ... you owe it to yourself as a gamer to PLAY THIS GAME! You won't regret it!
  
  ~KeWLMoNk~
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft did a magnificent job of tying the other warcrafts into this game. the graphics 
 are amazing, the gameplay is awsome. the game itself is completely out of this world. i recommend 
 this game for anyone, whether you like RPGs or not. If i could give this game higher than a 10 
 i definately would. please go buy this game. the multiplayer aspects are amazing, the PvP is awsome. 
 everyone should play this game. GO BUY IT NOW Blizzard did extraordinary with this game, and i 
 cannot wait until the expansion. i have never played such a great game. the only games i can even 
 compare to are the final fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraugEfil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played this game yet, you must be living under a rock! Millions cant be wrong. 
 World of Warcraft fulfills all the needs for the online gamer in you. Graphics, story line, game 
 play and the right to kill almost anything you want. It just brings a tear to my eye. Between dozens 
 of servers and custom character design with thousands of armor and weapon combinations, theres 
 never a chance youll ever see your twin brother or sister here. It is highly recommended that 
 you purchased this title. So what are you waiting for? GO OUT AND BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pattydude666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft gives you everything you want in a MMORPG, I have not seen a thing as good as 
 this ever.
  
  The new MMORPGs that are coming out? Huh? -Spits on the ground.- This game puts them underwater 
 and holds them there. 
  
  You can't beat WoW. It's fun, though in PvP servers there are problems with ganking in certain 
 areas. 
  
  Quests ? I hate quests but some of the WoW quests are actully worth it.
  
  Though leveling is a task, that is boring and repeatitive.... PvP elements of World of Warcraft 
 make the game worth it. There is a system that cannot be beaten, WoW has so many different character 
 types and races it raises a revolution in games. No game, can beat this game. It has been almost 
 flawlessly designed and it's terribly addictive. It's fun though. 
  
  Okay, so... WoW   All other MMORPGs. And when you try to leave WoW, you'll come right back to it 
 'cause there's no better. And that's the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandi_m812
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best and most addictive games i have ever played. the music is grest if you 
 get in to it. Quest can be challanging and fun. It is also a great place to find friends all of 
 the world.
  
  There are alot of people out there that love it and just a hand full that don't. Personally for 
 those who don't like it I just think you havent' found the right guild, or were unable to make 
 friends in the game. Making friends and Joining a guild i think is a big part of the game play 
 and it helps and makes the game play better. Every one i know that disliked the game, were people 
 that didn't get in to a guild or make friends. That is why i say this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  
  If I had to describe World of Warcraft in one word, it would be BORING. 
  Everything about this game is a grind. Absolutely zero skill is needed and the quests are repetitive. 
 Possibly the worst part of this game is the community. Imagine a place filled with a bunch of whiny 
 12 year olds. Then imagine them having no parents. Well this is what the community and chat is 
 like in WOW.
  Gameplay is mundane and boring. Questing gives you no sense of accomplishment or meaning.
  Graphics 
 are, O. K. However, they are clearly outdated.
  Sound is decent but the music is repetitive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucardsilvryn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  All in all this game has it all. If you are one of the MUD gamers (Multi-user- dungeons) like myself 
 then you will love this game. Draw back is that you have to pay. Besides that the game is better 
 than all the games out there now that are like this. Players or generally nice and the player vs 
 player option is fun if you just like to kill others like your self. I gave the game a 10 just 
 cause it was better than FF online and Ultima online. But if you don't agree try it yourself. All 
 the classes and races are fun and the best way to learn them is to use them.. One great feature 
 about the game is that you can have as many charaters you wish up to 5 on any server and not pay 
 a cent more.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tordinn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Yes, World of Warcraft have plenty of BUGs, character and item balance issues, server stability 
 problems... Yet, it's one of the best MMORPGs of our time, compared to other. You may don't like 
 the graphical appearance of the game, but it's done in style of the previous parts of Warcraft 
 series. The main thing WoW rules - gameplay, awesome sound, terrain... Every action in game will 
 bring a lot of fun to you - starting from crafting, ending with instancing.
  
  I won't retell the original review of this game - there's no need. If you ever wanted to find a 
 good game, worth your money - buy it.
  
  Find me better MMORPG and I will stop playing it. But at this time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliooo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  The World of Azeroth is amazing. It's a huge seamless environment that seems to go on forever, 
 and would have to be the best part of the game.
  
  The amount of work gone into the environments is amazing.
  
  The game starts off at a fairly 
 quick pace, quests are fun, there are alot of classes and races to choose from, allowing alot of 
 good customizability. The armour system is pulled off extremely well. All the individual armour 
 pieces fit in with each other, allowing every player to look different from the last.
  
  The PvP battlegrounds are great fun to get involved in, and provide alot of fun.
  
  Although, 
 once you reach around lvl 20, i found I had to spend alot of time travelling around to get to where 
 I needed to go, which was very boring. You really had to have alot of time to give if you wanted 
 to accomplish anything in the game.
  
  Overall, the game has a ridiculous amount of stuff to keep you entertained for years to come, although 
 it can become quite tedious. Plus, the whole monthly fee thing just isn't right... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very easy to geat into and play. This is the game for everyone out there because, 
 of the simple reason of you don't have to be playing every day. The charecters look great but you 
 can look like alot of other players in the game. The terrain looks and feels real and the look 
 is one of a kind. The weapons and armor are really cool and look soo bad @$$. You can play for 
 a month or two and look pretty cool and if your lucky be a good level and be on a guild. There 
 are now alot of mmo's to choose from but the best buy for your buck is World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KinGn1e
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Good looking but boring experience! And overated! 
  Can you imagine, huge world, millions of quests, millions of people! Yeah it sounds like paradise, 
 but it is not a paradise. When I first got the gime it was like "wow this is the best game ever".3 
 days later it was like "this is so boring, now I need to spend half hour to get back to city to 
 finish quest. I dont got any animal to ride on because i'm low level, and i got only 5 silver coins". Proffesions 
 are, I could say, interesting for first 15 mins, then it gets boring. One more thing, that system 
 of attacking that is used in WoW is so stupid and frustrating, I mean how can melee attacker can 
 hit me when he is 2 meters from me o0.
  PvP is crapy, PvE is way too crappy. I mean 95% of quests you are gonna do alone. Then let it be 
 an offline game. PvP is so stupid, that there are no words with which I can describe that crap.
 
  Graphics are technicaly bad, but very attractive and good looking. Even with max AA and ASF it 
 still looks bad, technicaly bad.
  One more thing, it has passed, I dont know, one and a half year and the game has still the same 
 price, the same game price and same monthly fee price. So I can say that this game is NOT worth 
 of spending so much money on it. If they stop with monthly fees and add travel option like in Guild 
 Wars, then this game will be worth of buying.
  If you are looking for a MMORPG do not buy WoW buy GW, its better and its cheaper. Well GW is not 
 exactly MMORPG but it is not far from it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  These are quotes from people close to World of Warcraft users:
  
  What happened to my kid? Hed always do his homework and get good grades, but I cant get him 
 off that computer. Damn you World of Warcraft 
  
  Thank you World of Warcraft. No more need for babysitters. My wife and I are going out all the 
 time now leaving our son alone by himself. We always know World of Warcraft is keeping an eye on 
 him.
  
  Yeah, I used to have a husband, but then he got World of Warcraft one day. I dont know what happened 
 to him, he just wouldnt stop playing. Ive been trying to get him help, but he refuses. Whats 
 going on?
  
  As you can see, World of Warcraft is the craze taking over the world. Okay, maybe that was a bit 
 exaggerated, but try it for yourself and youll be hooked. Blizzard has been one of the more famous 
 video game companies for a while now, most notably for their work with the Warcraft strategy games. 
 Then one day, they came up with the idea of an MMORPG set in the World of Warcraft, hence the title 
 of the game. While Blizzard has had some excellent titles in the past such as Diablo and Warcraft, 
 World of Warcraft surpasses all of their previous work. If youve ever wanted a game to keep yourself 
 occupied for a long time while still having fun, this is it.
  
  To start off the game, youre going to need to create a character. Theres a nice variety of races 
 and classes to pick from. Some races are restricted to certain classes, but there are still various 
 combinations for you to make up. This ranges anywhere from an undead mage to a night elf whos 
 a hunter. You can then choose your gender and appearance, which includes facial features. The customization 
 of appearance is fairly broad, so you might find yourself looking like other people online, but 
 slap on some new armor and that wont be a real problem, so its easily ignored. 
  
  For the bulk of the game youll probably be fighting, which is fun with all of the different options. 
 Youve got your weapon, or you can use any of the spells or abilities you learn from class trainers. 
 Theres a huge array of them, and some can be leveled up to increase their effect. At other times, 
 you may find fun just doing some jobs and hanging out at the auction house. Jobs are side activities 
 that can help you gather or make things. Examples would be mining, which produces ore. With the 
 ore, you can make weapons from them if you are a blacksmith. You can have two jobs at the most, 
 and some usually compliment each other, just like mining and blacksmithing. With the things that 
 you collect and make from your job, or just things received along the way, you can head over to 
 the auction house and gain some extra silver or gold. Here you will be able to set up an auction 
 with a time period and buying price if wanted, or you can purchase things. These auction houses 
 are located only in a few of the major cities, and are a really great idea. It offers something 
 not seen in other games. All of this offers satisfying gameplay that will keep you hooked on the 
 game for a long time.
  
  Simplicity and accessibility are key when it comes to MMORPGs. Whether youre a newcomer or veteran 
 to the genre, you will find that World of Warcraft is easy to get into. Playing is simple, especially 
 when in combat. All of your abilities and spells are assigned to certain numbers and symbols on 
 the keyboard, so one tap of a button and youre done. The combat may be a bit too simple in that 
 with the click of a mouse youre engaged, and press a few keys and youre performing your best 
 attacks. While simplicity is always nice, it would be a bit more fun if you felt more involved 
 when fighting the enemies. Forming groups isnt a hassle. You can just click on them, go to their 
 little icon on the top and click, invite to group. And if you ever have any problems, you are online 
 at all times, so you could feel free to ask around for help. There are always people out there 
 willing to lend a hand. The interface looks great and is intuitive, and although theres not a 
 tutorial, some pop-up hints will help you along the way, which works just fine.
  
  World of Warcraft is solid when it comes to technical graphics. There are the occasional hiccups 
 such as body parts going through walls and slowdowns, but that all comes along with the type of 
 game it is. There are all kinds of players online constantly, so some of these minor problems are 
 to be expected. From an artistic standpoint, the game is very impressive. The massive world of 
 Azeroth is beautifully vivid in color and detail. Although the character models are similar to 
 each other sometimes, each of them still manage to have their own unique look with the different 
 race and apparel combinations.
  
  The music is great; its simple orchestral score helps embody that feeling of being in a beautiful 
 fantasy world, and it stays fairly low, letting the sound effects show their excellence. The best 
 part is that they fit in with every situation, whether it be venturing through a city or dark cavern. 
 There are also special sounds indicating things like when you level up. There isnt much dialogue, 
 but the small outburst from characters is still great. Overall, the way people may feel about the 
 sound is its great, but not a very important aspect to the game. Its very easy to ignore the 
 sound when youre so focused on playing the game rather than listening to it.
  
  When a game earns the nickname World of Warcrack you know there has to be some lasting appeal 
 to the game. Completing quests is what moves you along throughout the game, and youll be doing 
 a lot of them. Some are very time consuming, but the hours pass by so fast you wont even notice. 
 You may be going from one place to the next, not even realizing how far away your destination was 
 until the hours pass by. Or there will be so much combat occupying you along the way, you wont 
 even have bothered looking at the time. Of course, it is an online RPG, so there are always groups 
 to be formed. You can meet up and play with friends, or face off against others in the player vs. 
 player combat. These two things have to be the most redeeming qualities of the game, as theyre 
 what will keep you playing day after day with no sleep. I once knew someone from school who loved 
 to play the game. He had all the symptoms: dilated pupils, shakiness, always drinking coffee. He 
 was a World of Warcraftoholic.
  
  If you have the money to pay monthly fees, and youre ready to kiss goodbye to your social life, 
 then World of Warcraft is the game for you. Itll keep you occupied for a very long time, and it 
 never gets old. Youll have fun traveling the colorful world that is Azeroth, completing quests, 
 going on raids with friends, and so on. All of this makes up for one heck of a game, one of the 
 best youll find on the PC, and possibly the best MMORPG on the market. Now if youll excuse me, 
 Ive got to head on down to my World of Warcraftoholics class.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic374
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Sound: i think the sounds for this game are very good for example.... If ur a hunter and ur a pet 
 u can make ur pet attack other things and itll roar (if its a lion/tiger) . The sounds goes along 
 with the nature.
  
  Graphics: i think the graphics are 10.00. The graphics on this game are the best that ive ever seen 
 in my whole intire life. Your weapons can be enchanted with an incredible glow.
  
  Gameplay: I dont think any game for pc is better than this one. You can see this game as a rpg game 
 or an action game or adventure. This game is a very very large game i dont evan think that you can 
 evan beat it. One of the things i like best is that u can a charactor then you have a choice of 
 what u want to be, for example: warlock warrior hunter (my favourite) paliden rouge mage priest 
 shaman and druid.
  
  The view: i espacily like the view (as in camera) because u can controll it so if u want to look 
 behind u, u just hold left click and move the mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  First of all it rocks it's just the best game it's made perfectly and it has alot of stuff to explore 
 and still beeing added more. I can't say more then that is it what you need if you like to play 
 something you really fell is worth the money!
  
  The gamplay is really well done and you can download mods to make it even better
  
  The graphics 
 are good and you don't need a top of the line pc to play it with out jurking
  
  The sound it awsome the music is cool the inviroment sound really makes the game feel superb
 
  
  I highly recommend this game to everybody. If your not on your way to your local game store you 
 better be on your way now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurse71
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  After 4+ years of Playing EverQuest, I started playing WoW in it's beta. I was hooked immediately.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are very immersive, the storyline is amazing. 
  This game is definately a must-see if you like RPG games. 
  
  The game is based in the world 
 created in Blizzard's Warcraft series of games, and definately takes it to new heights. 
  
  The graphics are not your typical style, they are more "cartoonish", but they are none the less 
 still very spectacular. 
  
  PvP servers and standard servers are available, and even RP servers, so you can definately fit 
 your preferred playstyle.
  
  There are some problems, however. The servers are sometimes incredibly laggy, which can be very 
 frustrating to play, and even impossible to log in sometimes. Also, depending on which server you 
 join, you sometimes have to wait in a queue to log in, which sucks horribly! For a game with a 
 $15 montly fee, these problems can definately make you think twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is definately a fun game, but I don't think that it is worth paying $15 a month 
 just to play it. If you are thinking about buying World of Warcraft consider Guild Wars instead. 
 They are very similar games, but World of Warcraft is a little longer. On the other hand Guild 
 Wars clearly has a better player vs. player mode. You can compete in tournaments or team matches 
 whenever you want, and the crowd seems a little more friendly. The best fact of all though is that 
 if you ever get bored of the game for a short period of time, or can't afford it any more, there 
 is no reason to worry because Guild Wars has no fee. WOW on the other hand costs a monthly fee. 
 WOW is still fun, but I suggest Guild Wars. However if you are just looking for a great RPG try 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. Enjoy. Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my 
 other reviews while a make my way toward the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews 
 and edited this back in, so you should just have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FergieCR123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I had reacently before this game, played Guild Wars. I was very dissiapointed by the lack lustre 
 battle system. After I found out that it was much the same battle system in World of Warcraft, 
 I was iffy. I first got the game, installed it, played it for a week and said to hell with it. 
 This was because I was playing on a crap computer so I faced extreme graphical and performance 
 problems. I got my new computer so I installed it and now I'm hooked. This game is amazing and 
 is definatly a buy. It is so addicting. I can't get over how good it is. Consider youself lucky 
 that I'm taking time off from the game to write this review. GET THIS GAME. Are you still reading? 
 You are? WHY! GO AND BUY THIS GAME. What are you waiting for? ............... If you are still 
 reading this, you shouldn't be buying this game for you lack ambition and initive.
  
  Okay, complaint. Sound effects for swords are a bit bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a MMORPG taken after the warcraft hit sieres. The best part of this game is, 
 whatever level you are at, there is something for you to do. If you cannot be as acitve, or as 
 hardcore as some of the other MMORPG gamers out there, you can still play this game, and have the 
 same amount of fun. One of the great aspects about this game is, that the pvp ( player vs player 
 ) , as battleground you can go to just at your range of level, such as level 10-19 can go to one 
 battleground, ect. So no matter what level, you can enjoy this great addition to game, without 
 waiting for the very last level to experance the best of the game. Also, there are dugons you can 
 go to with friends, or your guild. ( aka faction, clan, ect ) . These dugons can be good for experance, 
 or certain boss loot.
  All in all, this game is thebest MMORPG, other games like D & D, MxO, EvE, Guild wars, Everquest, 
 are no matcj for this game. Other than the great game star wars galaxies that went belly up after 
 the devoplers screwed it up, this is in fact, the best game online, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalen_Nighteyes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  As I sat there installing World of Warcraft last year, I began to wonder if I had wasted my money 
 on it. Little did I know that when I finally got to play it, I'd think it was the best MMORPG I 
 had ever played. Having only recently taken an interest in Warcraft in 2004 with Warcraft III, 
 I was thinking it'd be played the same way, but I was wrong. Oh boy was I wrong!
  
  My first character on WoW was a gnome warlock. At the time, my friend and I played together on 
 the game with our gnomes and that was fun for a while. We got to level 30 and he decided that he 
 was going to start soloing. So I said ok and that I would see him later. Well... lets just say I 
 rarely get on my gnome any more. My friend came to me one day and asked why I didn't play anymore. 
 I told him that I did, I just moved on to bigger and better pastures.
  
  I now have a level 56 night elf rogue and am having lots of fun playing on it. My friend asks me 
 every now and then if I'd come and protect him while he killed things. Man does that guy draw aggro 
 or what.
  
  But anyways. World of Warcraft is by far the best MMORPG out there. I wouldn't trade it for anything 
 in the world. Not even D&D Online.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. I look forward to posting more reviews on other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empress_turbo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft loses its fascination quickly.
  
  Cons:
  Being held hostage by long flight times is a complete show stopper.
  The characters are too cartooney 
 for an immersive feel.
  Combat is same ol' same ol'. 
  Innovation is lacking.
  
  Pros:
  The world and props are graphically stunning and artfully constructed. 
  The crafting 
 is fun and simple and easy to pick up.
  Character building is also fun.
  Controls are good.
  NPC chatter, for the most part, is entertaining.
  
  Kudos for the amount 
 of work and assets in the game but for an MMORPG it lacks what it takes to keep a player for the 
 long term. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurgerBuster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  O my goodness lord of the morning this game is really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really good. 
 The ONLY MMORPG that even is in its league is Guild Wars. Guild Wars is also a great game but the 
 only reason WoW is better is that in WoW u have auction houses and you can meet people outside 
 of the towns while in G W u can only see the ppl in ur partay. But GW is also great u should get 
 it. Defenitely. Same for WoW. the only bad thing about wow is that it cost 16 bucks a month while 
 GW is FREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  As everyone knows WoW has been around for quite some time now and one thing is for sure, Blizzard 
 have kept the game fresh and full of good content especially towards the higher end of the level 
 range.
  
  When you begin in WoW you first are presented with a choice of races each with their own set of 
 classes to chose from and also races are split into two distincly different factions known as Alliance 
 and Horde. It is worth noting that it is a good idea to play both factions in this game as they 
 are both very different and to only play one side will mean you are missing half of the game.
 
  
  Once you have chosen your race and class you are thrown into the starting town of your chosen race 
 and you can begin to work through the games quest system or simply kill monsters to gain XP also 
 even joining up with friends or making new friends to party with and work together is always the 
 best choice and the most enjoyable, does anyone really want to play alone in a huge populated world 
 like this? I think not.
  
  As mentioned earlier the game has a very well made and in depth quest system where you take quests 
 from set NPC's in the world and do tasks for them be it run a package to someone or go find something 
 for them or even go into a dungeon and track down a certain monster to kill. The quest system in 
 WoW is one of its most appealing features and constantly gives you a direction to go while developing 
 your character however this system also has quite a drastic downside, the first time through is 
 good fun, when you begin another character (and you most likely will have many to experience other 
 classes in the game) you will end up redoing the same quests again and again, this is not a problem 
 for some but for others it can be a boring affair and can also put you off beginning another class 
 because you have seen the quests before.
  
  Thankfully the high end content is vast and varied enough to keep you interested for quite a while 
 including the PvP system and PvP Battlegrounds which are always fun for a while but can get old.
 
  
  This is a game for laid back players really and not one for a hardcore MMORPG player, the game 
 is very easy going and to be honest very quck paced. It doesn't take long to level your characters 
 and you can work from level 0 to 60 within a week without a problem which for a player used to 
 something like EverQuest or Lineage 2 will seem shallow to be fair, for a first time MMORPG player 
 it is a great introduction to the genre and you will play it for many months even years but always 
 remember there are other more in depth games available that may perk your interest more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  The first time I play the game, I played it for 2 days and took only 6 hours to sleep in the whole 
 2 days... I even now play it to talk to ppl inside the game only .... I play with mage, it was week 
 first but once getting to level 20 ( it just like a dream come true ) cause I know can use teleport 
 between 2 major city without using the train ( yes a sub way station in the game, cool ) or the 
 airport ( which cost money) .
  
  Even better, the grouping system .. Never enter a hard area without being in team.
  
  I already 
 have 6 of my friends playing the game and I met another player from Turkey and he walks with us 
 ( I am from mid-east ) ...
  
  For example: there was a mission named dead mines, as we are still low leveled, we made a team 
 of 4 characters ( 2 mages, 1 warrior and 1 hunter ...3 humans and 1 night elf ) with mages at the 
 back and warrior with hunter in the front.
  
  We ( the mages ) used the freezing ability ( frost nova ) in turns to not let the ( ELITE ) mobs 
 attack us cause they hurt alot ( very ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perrinwolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I've been playing since beta too. So far, World of Warcraft has held my interest longer than any 
 game I can remember (except for maybe Starcraft) . This exceptional game has an awesome opening 
 cinematic, huge battlegrounds which let you test your might against other players of similar level, 
 and the two realms, Kalimdor and Azeroth, are enormous. I would highly recommend this to anyone.
 
  
  Here's a brief summary (I'm sure there's a lot more, but this is what I've picked up so far) :
 
  
  Good things: Great graphics, lots of servers to choose from, lots of people in each server, holiday 
 specials, battlegrounds, awesome dungeons, and helpful players.
  
  Bad things: A bit laggy in main cities (make sure you have at least a Gig of RAM) and players sometimes 
 will spam you about one thing or another. You can report them, however.
  
  As well, you can choose to be 8 races: Night Elves, Gnomes, Dwarves, Humans, Trolls, Orcs, Tauren, 
 or Undead. 6 of those 8 races (not including Trolls and Gnomes, who each have their own capitol 
 city dungeon) have a capitol city. As well, there are many classes and professions to choose from, 
 and one can level up to 60. There is an expansion coming out soon as well. So many choices, so 
 many ways have made this my favorite game for almost two years now (including the beta) .
  
  Thanks Blizzard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that I used to love this game, It was a good... REAL good for a few 
 months back when the game came out. Everyone was leveling together, everyone was exploring new 
 zones, we were all "growing up" like we were kids again in a new world.
  
  That is not the case now, which is the basis of my review. Everyone that's now leveling if any 
 are alts, everyone knows everything about the game, and the end-game is an endless "grind" for 
 equipment.
  
  Gameplay: The interface of the game is very easy to use, but in terms of how well it works with 
 the game, i dont like it. You can put every single skill you have on our screen. 
  
  The PVP is horrid. It used to be fun back in the day, now it's retarded. Blizzard took PVP and 
 put them in instances away from the real world. Sure, good idea at first... but WOW did it get boring. 
 Now it is another grind for gear. To make it worse, pvp is a luck game. Resists and crits are the 
 basis of pvp, skill is not a factor.
  
  The end-game: After leveling to 60 the game IMMEDIATELY stops being fun. All things end-game link 
 to loot. You pvp for gear. You run 8 hour dungeons for gear. You grind reputation for gear. IT'S 
 ALL A GRIND FOR GEAR.
  Now you might say, no i just want to get on and hang out with people! Yeah, come say that to me 
 after you're jumping around the orgrimmar bank telling all your guild mates how bored you are. 
 And yes, I do know all about end-game. My guild has nef on farming mode, and we are progressing 
 through Ahn'Qiraj. You get equipment, for what? To kill more monsters? To kill in pvp to get more 
 equipment? FUN? NO.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't impressive, but the one thing I do love about this game is the vividness 
 of it. The art on the characters, the zones, some make you wonder in awe (for the first time you 
 see it, anyway) . Other mmo's can not rival the amount of art in this mmo. 
  
  Sound: I basically have had my sound off for a while. It get's pretty repetitive. The in-game music 
 is very well put together though.
  
  Value: It's not worth it. Not even in a money's perspective... but in a life perspective. This game 
 is addicting, that in this case is a bad thing. You will find yourself at level 60 trying to get 
 gear like I am right now. Why? People like me can't quit. It's the most boringest grind ever, but 
 it's like people who are hooked live in this game, and living isn't always fun.
  
  
  In conclusion, this game used to be good... but evolved with the help of natural player progression 
 to the DEVS who have had their thumb up their asses into a horrible thing. 
  
  This game shouldnt be called World of Warcraft. It should be called World of 
 
  
  Save your self your time and your money and play COV now. Or wait for Vanguard later.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhallo123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game the first time I found out that it was as addictive as people said, It's 
 almost perfect graphics, and It's high level performance were the main points which impressed me, 
 but I found really disappointing it's gameplay because to pick up a fair battle in this game you 
 will need a large amount of mates, it is almost impossible to fight as a solo hero, also to climb 
 up levels in the game its a bit tough if I may say because if you don't struggle enough you will 
 be instantly crushed by the higher level enemies.
  Well, as a resume if you you have enough money to play this game you can do it, but you'll be disappointed 
 when you find out that you cannot live your own adventure and you'll be depending on your mates 
 will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algolagnia
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I had this game the night before it was released officially, old contacts at the local Media Play 
 store.
  
  I loved the game initially, though as time went on (quit before the one year anniversary) I found 
 myself coming to dislike the majority of people playing.
  
  Continuing lag issues and server crashes aside the people are what make or break a game. A majority 
 of persons playing this game currently are demonic in treatment of other players.
  
  The game forces you into large groups for the best loot, I do not mind five person groups but fourty 
 person raids as a necessity to be on a level of fair play is downright sickening.
  
  This game has no notion of "alone but together", many older games such as Ultima Online had no 
 problem with the concept. A single person or small group could kill every creature in the game 
 with enough practice.
  
  This type of freedom allowed everyone to be on a relatively fair playing field, even those individuals 
 who wanted to adventure alone. Yet WoW forces social interactions with others, and in those interactions 
 people who have been present the longest on raids usually get the first rights to any items which 
 may fall.
  
  Overall the game forces too much from it's players and doesn't leave enough room for the solo adventurer, 
 and the playerbase are greedy self-absorbed degenerates.
  
  Once pvp ranks, epic sets and reputation levels have been acquired there is little to do in the 
 game except continue to maintain these levels and show off your pretty new dress (etc) .
  
  Skip this game if you don't wish to be disappointed by the overall atmosphere and quality of persons 
 playing, though if you like being harassed and unfairly stripped of item drops because you're "the 
 new guy" in a raid feel free to waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatsme123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Ive have a troll rogue on Emerald Dream and have been playing this game since February of '06. With 
 that said I have enough experience with the game to know the ups and downs of WoW.
  
  Pros:
  
  Lots of people online to quest or just hang out with.
  A good amount of class' and 
 professions to choose from.
  A huge world to explore and a weird sense of awe that goes along with it.
  You get to purchase 
 and loot cool mounts.
  Killing gnomes is just plain fun.
  Big events to participate in.
  Combat is fast paced and really fun.
  10 races to choose from.
  Lots of  
 and others to collect.
  Auction house.
  Gaining levels = gaining new abilities.
  Lots of quests.
  You can join guilds.
  Allot of dungeons to explore.
  Raiding enemy cities.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Campers but luckily haven't experienced to much of this.
  Some quests are boring and repetitive.
  No mount until level 40.
  This game can eat time like 
 its a buffet.
  Not a whole lot of customization.
  You'll find yourself grinding sometimes which is a bore.
  No housing or guild halls.
  At times 
 you feel like your surrounded by 5th graders.
  Got to pay to play.
  
  Overall the pros overweight the cons IMO. I would suggest trying the 10 day trials available at 
 the website before purchasing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWdarkJedi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is worth every penny you pay. It has everything a great MMO needs. The enviroment 
 is crisp, the characters are great, and the idea of the war is awesome. I fell in love with the 
 stroy of World of Warcraft, I guess I just love great stories. I will say that you must have an 
 execellent computer to allow this game to play to its fullest. World of Warcraft delivers on all 
 cylinders. The game just acheived such a great rating and it deserved it. So I will be giving it 
 a great rating also, I give it a.................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trueepower44
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft from Blizzard is a great game. Its unique in many ways that some people dont give 
 it credit for. However, the game misses in some key areas and therefor it suffers greatly in overall 
 value.
  
  Gameplay - I feel like is a stength in this game. Yes there are alot of buttons to push, some more 
 for the rogue then others. But, yes alot of buttons and really alot of skills to use also for each 
 character. Some of which you wont use as often but not useless and you will use them here and there. 
 The gameplay is pretty fast and its overall the strength for the game. I was never really disapointed 
 with gameplay. There always something you would like to change here and there in every game. I dont 
 think the gamplay is the problem in this game. Its superb compared to other mmorg's and revolutionary.
 
  
  Graphics - of this game are a hit and miss. I have asked alot of people and its either i love them 
 or i hate them. I think just like alot of graphics in any game they get really old. However, the 
 graphics in this game are unique. Help set this game apart from other mmorg's and alot of effort 
 was put into the graphics. I had to rate them high because again i think they are good but you 
 will have to enjoy more of a fantasy look then just that pure realistic look. 
  
  Sound- After all the days playing this game and lots of grinding and high lv instances such as 
 MC or otherwise known as Molten Core. The music is very special. From zone to zone to place to place 
 the sound for WOW is superb and its just obvious that time was spent making the music. Alot of environmental 
 type of tunes outside and nothing annoying. The sound goes well with the game.
  
  Value- this is where the game drops in a huge huge way. This game lacks really any motivation at 
 all to do pvp. Unless you like to just play for fun and not really solid benefits to your character. 
 You pick up a couple items early on that can help you when you gain a couple ranks. Blizzard changed 
 it so when you gain ranks you get to keep the gear you buy even when you fall in rank. That was 
 a good idea but still doesnt give most people (well practically the whole server of people) a chance 
 to reach the last rank which is where the only real reward is. If you cant reach Grand Marshall 
 and you are playing the bg's to actually receive something, you wont receive anything peticular 
 usefull untell the last rank. And unless you are in the best guild on the server and you win bg's 
 all day long you wont get to the last rank. 
  
  Where does that leave everyone else .... well play for fun only. For some people that works. For 
 some people they would like to feel like they have a purpose for the killing the horde. When Blizz 
 adds outdoor pvp and depending on the way they do it, they could really help this game. Untell 
 then they have a huge hole in pvp, that ultimately atm makes the game a waste of time for any pvp 
 who is serious about building their character while destroying the other faction. Biggest hole in 
 the game.
  
  Value- games also lacks more zones. WOW needs more high lv zones and a bigger world for over-populated 
 realms. The game also needs alliance chat similar to daoc to unite more guilds together in a easy 
 more simple way. Game lacks some flare and fun and i dont have all the answers, but it lacks alot 
 of flare as you get deep in the game. There isnt enough to do. I could probably think of some ideas 
 but blizz needs work on a product that is drawing alot of people, and in a way its almost a weakness 
 for the game. The outdoor pvp if done right could be huge. Add player housing and do that well and 
 then maybe something else then you have something going.
  
  Reveiwers Tilt- This game has so much that it brings to the table. No doubt this game diservers 
 a great rating even though of course not everyone will like it. Delivers with a different feel 
 on the graphics and great gameplay (revolutionary gameplay imo and graphics) . But the game lack depth 
 ..... not only in pvp.... but also in player specs. The way you spec your character in wow is flawed 
 and too shallow. Items are needed alot of the time just to set your player apart from the same class. So 
 the classes and the specs were clever and thought out but not enough to create enough diversity. Sub 
 classes like from Daoc would have been a good idea. World of Warcraft a great game, alot of hours 
 spent. But the lack of good pvp, diversity in character specs, housing, alliance chat, and other imaginative 
 things to do after 50 hurt this game badly. Unless you enjoy spending a full day in a instance to 
 hopefully receive supperior items, for the main purpose of killing horde for no reason at all..... then 
 this is the game for you. Great game, lacks depth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  I played WoW at release. I then played it 6-months later, after a few month absence. I just recently 
 came back to it again, after another 3-month absence. Bottom-line: I have tried most all MMORPG's 
 and WoW just has the winning formula. The quest system is untouchable. It's PvE is top notch. It 
 has the best balance between solo and grouping options out of any game out there. Of course that 
 changes at higher levels, but if you want to solo to 60, most classes can do it. If you want to 
 group up and run an instance, then the benefits are there and it is a viable option.
  
  Graphics are still some of the best. Some may like it, other don't. No different then all the other 
 games out there.
  
  Community is not that great and lag is common, but in time that will be cleared out. Choose a server 
 that is new or has a low population to be safe.
  
  Great game, give it a shot if you have not played it yet. 
  
  By the way, quit listenign to 
 these jaded level 60's. I am a casual gamer and this game is the best option in the genre. If you 
 a powergamer and going to hit level 60 in 3-weeks, then you'll get bored quickly. Unfortunately, 
 I don't think you can make a game to manage the main stream gamers and the powergamers at the same 
 time. WoW does a good job with this, but obviously the powergamers aren't able to make GOD status 
 soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has proven itself to be a success on a biblical scale. With 7 million players 
 now hacking at enemies and grabbing tons of loot, the game is more popular than almost any game 
 could ever hope to be. But is it really that good? Well, simply put, World of Warcraft's success 
 isn't due to the fact that it is 4.5 times better than any other game out there... it's due to 
 the fact that the game has a lot to offer to many different types of players, and it's a painless 
 game to play and enjoy for 20 minutes or several hours. The game just has a very broad appeal, 
 and if for some reason you haven't given it a try yet, you probably should.
  
  The presentation is very good, with slick interfaces and colorful graphics. The style is hit or 
 miss, but most people will probably find it to be a hit. The visuals aren't technically astounding 
 by any stretch... it actually kind of resembles a dreamcast game. But the upside to the visuals 
 is that they'd probably run on a calculator right off the bat... and if they couldn't, they could 
 most likely be scaled to do so. The game achieves a raw performance that's rarely seen in pc gaming, 
 and once again, the game will run on a wide variety of pc's, enhancing the game's already broad 
 appeal. On the audio side, the voice clips are well done, the sound effects are good, and the music 
 is fantastic.
  
  But how's the gameplay you ask? Well, on the surface, it seems to be just like any other mmo; you 
 run around, kill X number of monsters, fetch items and run them back to lazy townsfolk, and help 
 npc's ask other characters out. If that sounds a little underwhelming, that's because it is. Blizzard 
 should have put in less fetch quests and given players more inherently enjoyable tasks. Still, 
 they don't end up feeling like a grind, as the pace of the game has been dialed up from 4 to 11 
 when compared to most mmo's. In fact, the whole concept of the grind just rarely enters the equation 
 in World of Warcraft. You're always getting items, or a level up, or finishing a quest, etc. It 
 just never stops giving you stuff. The game is very generous. On the one hand this can be bad, 
 as you don't get that sense of uber achievement , like in grindier mmo's. But on the other hand, 
 the game is much better off for not being a second job and instead being an actual game, doling 
 out the fun around every turn. The biggest thing here, though, has got to be the way the game handles 
 death. Other games like Final Fantasy XI make death an utterly soul-crushing affair that has most 
 players losing the experience that they worked for hours to get, and then logging off in disgust. 
 In World of Warcraft, you have a two options: you can hike back to your corpse from a graveyard, 
 or you can be brought back to life immediately with some temporary stat reduction and armor damage. 
 Either way, you're not out of the action for very long at all, 5 minutes max. It's just steep enough 
 to make you not want to die, but not so severe that you'll blurt endless streams of curses and 
 then quit. It's fair, erring on the side of fun, and it makes the game much more enjoyable. There 
 are tons and tons of quests to do, and though many are of the kill this, fetch that variety, they're 
 mostly all enjoyable because they're either brief, or send you to cool new areas, or give you good 
 items, or give you good experience, or all of these. The actual world in this game is very, very 
 large and has a cohesive feel to it. Despite the size of the environment, you're pretty much never 
 going to be left without anything to do. Even though it has a monthly fee attached to it, the game 
 is a tremendous value, because there's so much to see and do, and new quests and features are being 
 added all the time. And you can bet that with the new expansion just around the corner, World of 
 Warcraft is just getting started. World of Warcraft is a game that introduces subtle, yet vital 
 and far reaching changes to a stagnating genre. It can be good for short bursts or periods of extended 
 play. It's every person's mmo. Gameplay wise, it's not a revolution, but rather a refinement. That 
 said, you definitely owe it to yourself to give it a try if you haven't... and with the game now 
 only priced at $19.99, you pretty much have no excuse not to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knofou
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I started playing wow 8 months ago and it took me like 5 months to get a character to level 60. 
 I also took up crafting and was high in all crafts with various characters. I tried all alliance 
 classes and also a few low level horde ones. I found out that the more popular the class the less 
 desirable in raids is at the end since there are a lot. I liked playing a hunter and a paladin 
 since I usually played alone but at the end game when raids are what is important its priests that 
 are sought after that nobody likes to play.
  I tried the battlegrounds and came to realize that you need epic equipment to compete and the only 
 way to get it was to do instances. Doing instances are a pain, even if you are successful, it takes 
 forever to get any descent equipment and not always what you need and I particularly did not want 
 to spend four hours a day doing the same instance to get equipment that could increase my survival 
 rate in battleground battles that were meaningless, that rewarded with ranks that you had to keep 
 on fighting the same meaningless fights to uphold. 
  Faction reputation, apart from your starting allies, is another time consuming or impossible task 
 to achieve with little rewards to show for at the end. 
  Crafting is not profitable and the best recipes require impossible to get materials. The only profit 
 comes from resource gathering that you need to be high level to access areas that have valuable 
 resources. Drops are usually better than anything crafters can make and much easier to obtain. 
 
  It seems to me that the game just forces you to keep on playing with no rewards with in reach. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft had a different feel to it besides other "Normal" MMO's, in this game you can 
 jump around even while fighting the enemy. Instead of running from place to place you can either 
 get mounts (lvl 40-60) , or take gryphons for a small fee of 50 copper. For the first few lvls about 
 1-15 the game is very addicting.
  
  The graphics is some sort of cartoony but yet "Serious" looking (i don't know how else to put it) 
 art style. This game may be in the past with robotic chicken for gnome mounts, but thats what makes 
 this game great it has it's own little time period. The graphics are not horrible but their not 
 very detailed, detailed enough that you know what your looksing at and it still looks great. However 
 i do recommend a 1gb RAM because when you are on the mount a sudden change of cenery can slow your 
 computer downs a lot. 
  
  The sound in this game is AMAZING when your in a capital city like Ironforge or Stormwind you have 
 this live heroic music playing, it's just fantastic. The characters also speak when you click on 
 them but they don't talk as in when you're talking to a gaurd he won't say whan your reading but 
 just greet you and say goodbye when your done. Better then what Guild Wars offers.
  
  The gameplay in this game is fantastic, i played Guild Wars and i still have about 20 some quests 
 but in this game you WANT to do quests the game is no forcing you. The fact that their is an Auction 
 House is great instead of saying "WTS" or selling it to the merchant everyone can bid on your product 
 and you'll most of the time (90% chance) your product will sell. now people are wondering when 
 your lvl 60 what do you do well thats where proffessions come in you can choose Leatherworking, 
 Skinning, Alchemy, Herbelism, Blacksmithing and more and their are secondary proffessions as well 
 which will take to long to name them all.
  
  The over all value of this game is a 10.0 because you have complete different stories as either 
 race or faction you play as and you can have 10 characters in one realm and their are about like 
 50-70 different realms, so technically infinate characters. Great service.
  
  So if your worried about monthly fee's don't worry they have game cards also IT'S WORTH IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammstein01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  One of the best PC games around. Been playing this game for ages now and I can say that it is addictive. 
 I didnt like the MMORPG genre until I played Guild Wars and soon after that I picked up World of 
 Warcraft and I have been playing it ever since. Now with the announcement of the expansion, The 
 Burning Crusade, theres never been a better to time to start leveling to enjoy the new areas/instances 
 when it is released. It took me a long time to fully get the hang of this game, even after my first 
 level 60 i fully didnt understand everything, there really is so much to be done. The graphics 
 are great for an MMORPG and sound is also good. The other great thing is that the world is constantly 
 being updated in patches- new instances, areas, weapons, npcs and armour to be found. There is 
 loads of quests to be done and there is some nice plots with some of them. I made one mistake when 
 starting this game, I wish I had made my characters on a PvP server as some of the High-end instances 
 (Molten Core) I find boring and take to long.
  
  Though I think ive spent a fair time in the realm of Warcraft and I dont think I could level another 
 character to 60 so I am going to freeze my account till the expansion is released and hope to spend 
 plenty of hours on that. Though maybe in a month ill want to come back to it, it has happened me 
 before and will probably happen me again, its just so fun to play. Overall, an awesome game that 
 most PC gamers should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a massive rpg online game that anyone would play infact it is so popular which 
 made it the best!
  
  In World of Warcaft, it has a new 3d world to play around and the best thing is that it is online. 
 When you play it for the first time, you feel very new to it and you will feel almost big. You 
 create your own character and keep gaining skill and items to pass through major events through 
 out the world. The game is completly massive. The places you go is very intersting too. You can 
 interact with other people around the world and you can go to guilds and be teams... it is the 
 most exciting experience that a player can have.
  
  Good- Very exciting game to play, massive world, new races, rpg, very interesting and more
  
 
  Bad- People have to pay mothly for WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an IMMENSE game with tons of stuff to do. For people who have played World 
 of Warcraft you know what i'm talking about. For the people who didn't read on. The game is online 
 so your going to meet some people, and if your a guy that likes to work solo, then this is not 
 the game for you. The game dosen't require you to group up for every single thing, yet, the game 
 requires you to group up every once in awhile. The original World of Warcraft revolves around two 
 continents Eastern Kingdoms and Kalimdor, the whole world in general, Azeroth. In pre-World of 
 Warcraft their are four races for each faction on Alliance: Dwarf, Gnome, Humans, and Night Elfs. 
 On the Horde their are Orcs, Tauren, Undead, and Trolls. The consists of classes such as: Warriors, 
 Rogues, Hunters, Warlocks, Priests, Paladins, Shaman, Mage, and Druid. You level up from one to 
 sixty at your own pace. The game has tons of quests and gives you decent rewards for the people 
 that just like to have fun with the game.
  
  Now here come's the bad part about this game. World of Warcraft can get really stressing for some 
 people, if you really devote a lot of time towards it. You can either Raid, PvP (Player vs. Player) , 
 help out others, faction grinding, max out professions, questing, etc. At end game however, it 
 boils down to either Raiding or PvPing. This is where it gets tough. So you have to apply to raiding 
 guilds or some Pvp guilds even, you have to waste your time getting good armor, faction reputation, 
 good weapons, money (to donate to their Guild Bank ) , and all this bull. And most of the time the 
 people aren't even nice. I'm a pretty successful Hunter in the game, this is coming from a guy 
 who's been through raids and pvp.
  
  You always do have the option of making an alt (Alternate character) . However, the game becomes 
 boring after you try to level up again. I have a Hunter then made a Priest. It just didn't work 
 out well. Once you know a lot about the game, their is no fun in leveling up another character. 
 This game requires so much time, and for some people they enjoy it, and i'm not making fun of anyone. 
 I understand it if you get into a raiding guild and get to go on runs, it's a blast to play. Yet, 
 so few people have an opportunity to actually apply and get accepted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rouge_Hunter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is simply the best MMORPG I have ever played. It has so many things you can do, 
 I've never had a dull moment. I never thought I would play a game like this, because I personally 
 hate fantasy (I'm more of a Sci-fi guy) . However, this game is just perfect.
  
  I'm personally not that into PVP, but I loved the PVP in this game. I like how there is a designated 
 spot where you can go and fight people near to your level, and have fun wondering what tactic the 
 enemy is going to use next!
  
  Roleplaying is great in this game. There are designated RP servers, and there are so many possibilities 
 when it comes to roleplaying. You can be a pirate, a holy paladin of the light, a devious spy, 
 a mercenary; the possibilities are endless!
  
  Leveling in this game is great too. You can grind, if you simply want to level fast, or you can 
 do quests and level up that way. Quests are great in this game because of all the different roads 
 you can go down. Plus they actually tell a story that you have to pay attention to in order to 
 complete the quest.
  
  Dungeons are good in WoW, too. In order to be successful, you have to have a well rounded group 
 of individuals, each doing their part to help the group succeed.
  
  I personally love this game, I don't see myself getting bored of it any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepiledriver
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Warning: playing this game will hook you to endless hours of roaming and rampaging through the 
 WoW. 
  
  The actual game WoW is just plain awesome. From the free roaming environment to the endless supply 
 of quests. Graphics are highly detailed and scrolling is smooth 99% of the time. If you don't have 
 surround sound, get it! The voice overs, background noise, and action are amazing. For fifty bucks 
 and a few dollars a month this is a value versus fun spectacular.
  
  If there is any draw back to the game it doesn't come from the game. At times depending on the 
 realm, and who is playing at the time chat and immature behavior can be a little annoying. Usually 
 a whisper will do the trick, but be aware that you will run into some annoying individuals. oh, 
 & u will start typing like this?
  
  Play at your own risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: softeffects
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Now, why do I say not to buy the game when I gave it such a high rating? Because it's just too 
 addictive, and eventually it's just depressing. If you want to do well in PVP, then you need good 
 gear. To get good gear you have to quest. Quests take FOREVER. Some instances require about 20 
 hours to finish, and there's no assurance that you'll get the gear you're looking for. Anyway, 
 you end up getting the gear, playing well, staying up until 3 in the morning all the time. You 
 don't go outside, lose track of your real friends.
  
  Well, maybe not that bad, but it's super time consuming and addictive. Then eventually you realize, 
 you've got nothing. I mean, I've been grinding, killing the same dudes for experience. It's not 
 exciting, it's not particularly fun. I'm working so I can have fun at a later date? Sound familar? 
 It's WORK. You're paying every month so that you can have a part-time job where you're allowed 
 to chat at the office.
  
  Really - you'll be dissapointed at all the time you've lost. Read a book, learn to play an instrument, 
 whatever - just avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down one of the best MMORPG's.. PERIOD. Its so damn good though its bad for you!!!.. seriously. 
 If you get addicted, and you will if you love mmorpg's, then say BYE BYE to reality.. and HELLO 
 to countless nights of WoW'n it until you start losing great amounts of sleep. I myself have 2 
 lvl 60s (plus some lower lvls) and am in a guild which runs end game instances for the goodies... Boy 
 oh Boy... i spent a whole lot of time gettin my characters to where they are now and i still havent 
 got the best stuff out there! Basically all im tryin to say to those who are thinking of getting 
 into WoW is go for it! its hella fun!! ... but be prepared to say "Adios 8 hour sleep!" ... and "crap 
 my grades are dropping... oh well, im almost lvl 60!" .. haAHahaha... see for yourself if you dont 
 believe me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corkster77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The game world of warcraft is a great mmo game. it has tons of depth and great gameplay. you could 
 literaly spend more then 500 hours playing this game. its one of the more addicting tyoes, you 
 always feel you have to play just for one more hour. an hour later you have to play for another. 
 i could spend a whole night on it. 
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game, and it has all the classic blizzard cinimatics you all loved. 
 the sound is also very good for this type of games.
  
  The only problem i have encountered is the pvp portion of the game. I dont think it is its greatet 
 asspect, its good but nothing new, if your looking for good pvp go play guild wars.
  
  The most interesting part of coures is the pve section. It is a toltal masterpiece and i encourage 
 everyone to try it
  
  If you have the time and money PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  It seems that everyone on Earth has become obsessed with World of Warcraft, and quite frankly I 
 can't see why. Graphically, the game is nice looking, not in an amazing, realistic way, but in 
 a cartoonesque fashion. The sound in the game is tolerable, but again not really the focal point 
 of an MMO game anyway. Where the game suffers is the gameplay. The world that your character exists 
 in feels very, very small... especially after you get your mount. Couple this with the game's premise 
 that all quests should revolve around walking from fight to fight over and over again for the sake 
 of meaningless levels, and this game becomes boring very fast. In fact the actual fun of playing 
 the game wears off after about ten to twenty hours of play, and what is left is more of an obligatory 
 sense of obsession. If you haven't taken the World of Warcraft plunge, I would advise you not to, 
 it is a waste of not only time and money, but probably a year or two of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Only Two words sum up World Of Warcraft, Sheer Brilliance. This is unlike any game you will ever 
 play. You will be hooked as soon as you start to play as this game is SO darn addictive !! World 
 of Warcraft is a massively multi-player online game that enables thousands of players to come together 
 online and battle against the world and each other. Players from across the globe can leave the 
 real world behind and undertake grand quests and heroic exploits in a land of fantastic adventure. 
 At long last, the world of Azeroth, first glimpsed in Warcraft 1 and further enhanced in subsequent 
 strategy games, is realised in glorious detail and ready for the arrival of millions of prospective 
 players. World of warcraft is 20 times better than all current MMORPG's, simply because it is 20 
 times more FUN. There are a few reasons why WOW is ten times MORE FUN than other MMORPG's. Attack 
 cities and kill its leader with 39 other people. Lots of PvP, Lots of fun. Warsong gulch is like 
 capture the flag in Quake except its an RPG game instead of a First Person Shooter. Endless hours 
 of fun there. The Battlegound Alterac valley. 40 vs 40 PvP-zone that is huge and even has PvP-quests 
 in it. Hours of FUN. A huge pvp arena where fighting is too the death. A chest is dropped in an 
 arena every 3 hours and opening it is interesting as pvp is free for all in there and everyone 
 wants to open it and will do everything they can to stop you. MORE FUN. Instance Dungeons for level 
 60's like Stratholme, Scholomance, Black rock depths, Lower blackrock spire, upper blackrock spire. 
 Dire maul north, dire maul west, dire maul east, Molten Core, Blackwing lair and so on and so on. 
 Plus all the high level elite bosses roaming around the world that takes 30-40 people some effort 
 to take down. More instances and brand new content added EVERY month in new patches (this is the 
 reason why we pay our monthly fee, and we are well rewarded) . A talent system that enables you 
 to define you character from everyone else and also an Ability to redo your talents whenever you 
 want which lets me do what I want when I want and the way I like it. OK this game does have it's 
 downside's. Don't all games? The main problem with this game is the company that created it. Servers 
 go offline with no warning, some servers can have bad lag at peak times, and most of the servers 
 are full with queue times when you first log in. The customer service from Blizzard Entertainment 
 is Auful, but it is getting better as time goes on. Also, a lot of younger players play this game 
 and some more mature people will find this difficult, as playing with 12 year old children that 
 spam the chat channels is not their idea of an Online game. If this does not appeal to you, play 
 Everquest 2 instead. As a final word, World of Warcraft is the best Computer game available for 
 the PC to date, and seeing its huge amount off success across the world, will be for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game, blizzard has out did themselves which their first massive online game ever. The 
 game is based off of their Classic warcraft 1,2 and 3 but of course you don't see the heros from 
 the series. The game has swords to bows to horses. Ya you heard me horses you can ride them around 
 the world saving you time from walking across one place to another. 
  
  The graphics are well done for its gameplay type. The gms seem to care and love to help out if 
 you have problems such as being stuck in a wall. The cities are towns are nicely done having mostly 
 every building you see able to walk in and meet npcs willing to sell, trade some of their goods. 
 Detail for lands are nicely done having plants and other objects bring the game to a more realistic 
 level and also adds fun to the adventure instead of seeing the same stuff over and over and over. 
 
  
  There are many quests for you to go on, some you need to group with other people to get it done 
 which is good because we don't want an online game to be soloable do we now..... of course not. 
 There are alot of creatures along your adventure from wolfs to orcs to weird looking things that 
 will fight you to the death. Also don't forget there is pvp yes player vs player like all online 
 games, but there is a war going on during the game, if you join the alliance side either dwarf, human 
 or elf then you will be open to attack by the orc and undead side. But if you pick undead then 
 you are open to attack by the alliance.... this is which has you jumping and careful throughout 
 the game because when you get in your already signed up to the war meaning if you run into some 
 humans if orc, they will not greet you with open arms.... but instead with swords and other weapons 
 to kill you. But to prevent those players from being meaning to those new players they added islands 
 in which each faction starts on allowing the player to be safe and level up without the other faction 
 running into their face with a sword. 
  
  Overall its a great online game, if your a online fan then get it but remeber it has a online monthly 
 fee, but if your the warcraft or blizzard fan then also get it.... but if your those starwars or 
 startrek guys..... you can try it but don't expect to see lazer guns and captain Janeway or Dark 
 Vader coming down to save you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconEye_basic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is, hands-down, the polish king of computer gaming. Nothing they do is particularly new, 
 but what they do, they do right!
  
  I played WoW at launch (day off work and everything) and stuck with it for a couple of months. 
 With my attention span, that's a compliment not to be taken lightly. Recently I convinced a friend 
 of mine to play it with me (for the first time for her) and I reactived, playing a different class 
 this time.
  
  1 1/2 years after launch and I still have no problem recommending this game to others interested 
 in trying an MMORPG.
  
  It's a simpler game, there really is no more Role Playing than what you imagine, and most people 
 you meet will won't to run you through leveling and instances.
  
  The honeymoon is certainly over, but the love is still real.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChickenBoo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  This Game Has Some Major Pluses And Not Many Cons. Some Of The Things You Might Find Enjoying Are 
 The Massive World Enviroment And The Really Great Professions, The Varying Quests Are Some Of The 
 Best. It Would Be Better If They Were Explained More. Countless Times I Found Myslef Looking For 
 Some Dude Who Was Standing Next To Me Because The Quest Descreption Gave A Much Too Vague Location. 
 Other Great Things Are The Skills, I Enjoyed Those Way Too Much. The Main Thing Everyone Hates 
 About This Game Is The 15$ A Month Fee. Though I Didn't Like The Overcrowdness Of Servers And The 
 Unability To Change Between Servers. Balancing Issues Are A Major Here, What With The Shaman Being 
 The Ultimate Kick Ass Class. The Uneveness Of Both Alliance And Horde Is Really Bad Too. Overall 
 If You Enjoy RPGs Buy This Game At Least For The One Month Free Trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valizotha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) may be the best PC game yet, and probably one of the best in history.
 
  
  WoW not only has its amazing gameplay and realism, but it captures you with its authenticity. It 
 has from thousands of quests, to stressing and brilliant wars and battles.
  
  In the game there are two "alliances" , if you will: The Alliance (lol) , and The Horde (bad guys) . You 
 choose for what side you want to put your player (s) . Each side is divided into four races: The 
 Alliance i divided in Humans, Dwarves, Dark Elves and Gnomes. Each with distinctive qualities and 
 flaws. The Horde: Orcs, Tauren, Trolls and the Undead.
  After choosing your side and race you may chose your class. Each race and side has classes (mostly 
 the same in some races) which are divided in: Druid, Hunter, Mage, Paladin, Priest, Rogue, Shaman, 
 Warlock and Warrior. Each one has different skills and qualities (which can be used for better 
 effectiveness on the professions, which i'll explain later) .
  Then comes the creating your character phase. Here you can select from different skin colours, 
 hair styles, tusk styles, horn styles, facial hair, et cetera.
  After progressing some levels through the game you can choose your profession, which can be from 
 miner, to engineer, to alchemist and herbalist (each one works better depending on what class you 
 chose) .
  
  I think that's all I have to say about the game so don't even doubt playing it. WoW......... WOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evest2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is simply an amazing game. The graphics and real-time simulation is unparalleled. I loved 
 this game, but I didn't get to enjoy its full potential due to its biggest strength -- it's ability 
 to immerse you. I don't have a lot of time. I'm 34 with a baby on the way and a new house. I've 
 been a gamer all of my life, so I appreciated what this game had and has to offer, but your rewards 
 are cursory if you don't have the ability to spend many hours in the world of Warcraft.
  
  Specifically, I needed more of an ability to go about quests on my own. WoW forces to you to team 
 up to do any quests of real substance, and let's face it -- there a lot of asses out there, and 
 folks who just want to dash through and get onto the next quest. I abhor playing with players like 
 that, and there are many in WoW.
  
  Don't get me wrong -- the socializing aspect is fantastic. I met tons of very helpful and generous 
 people out there who spent a lot of their valuable time helping me out in the game. Requiring you 
 to work with others on quests, though, is a different subject. Finding as many equally benificent 
 folks out there while questing is hard to come by.
  
  Overall, I would love to play this game more, and if you have the time and enjoy role playing, 
 I highly recommend it. For me, I anxiously await the new installation of Neverwinter Nights, so 
 I can enjoy playing at my own pace.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JP656
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  9.5 is to high for this game, even 9.2, Overall the gameplay and the huge world come out to be 
 really great, Plus the variety of 8 races 9 classes and the proffessions, Make it a great game, 
 Just some minor flaws. Well, For one it cannot suit all poeple because alot of gamers out there 
 cannot stand the hackandslash fighting system wich WoW uses, And for a 9.5 game, I think there 
 could be more races than that. Graphics and gameplay are good as well as sound but if you think 
 about it you cant really rate graphics in a game with little reason for them, The game does good 
 without realistic graphics. So basicly, Other than the HackandSLash the games great, But i think 
 a better combat system would bring the game to where it is supposed to be, As is i'd rate the game 
 in the 8.9 range, But with a better combat system it would achieve its current rating well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I played beta and bought it the day it came out. It was fun back in the day if you dont have it 
 yet dont bother. Farmers and blizzard have utterly ruined the game. Quests start to look the same. 
 As do the instances. Molten core looks like rage fire chasm. The new patches are just higher numbers. 
 Classes are unbalanced. People constantly **** about how unfair other classes are and how underpowered 
 their class is. All in all wait for the next mmo. You wont be doing much else but killing mobs 
 your level or doing the same instance over and over again to level. When you get to the level cap 
 you will either re-roll to another class, run high level instances on the weekend for about 5 hours 
 of your life, gain more weight, or pvp your life away. Blizzard will not listen to the crys from 
 the fans. They sit in the office looking at the checks they get daily and laugh at you. Nothing 
 gets fixed the game is unbalanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patman185
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  In the world of videogames people expect great graphics, excellent sound, a good story and for 
 the most part they just want to sit down and have fun. World of Warcraft lives up to most of these 
 examples.
  The world of Azeroth is a world with bright colors, a good musical score and is filled with 12 
 year-olds that cant shut up about Chuck Norris. Azeroth offers thousands of quests and has many 
 great items that you can find, buy from various vendors or ones that you can purchase from other 
 players at the auction house. There are two factions in WOW, The Alliance which consists of Humans, 
 Dwarves, Gnomes and Night Elves and the Horde which consists of Orcs, Trolls, Taurens and the Undead. 
 These two factions are bitter rivals and will fight to the tooth for controll of Azeroth. There 
 are two continents in the game, Azeroth and Kalimdor and each faction has 3 main cities, The Alliance 
 with Stormwind, Ironforge and Darnassus and the Horde with Orgimar, The Undercity and Thunder Bluff.
 
  The quests are repetitive for the most part but they are the best way to level up. Most of the 
 quests tell you to collect "x" amount of items that you can loot off different creatures, they 
 tell you do deliver a letter to "Joe Mayor" at a town or the quest can tell you to bring someones 
 head to the quest giver. 
  One of my personal favroite features in this game is the auction house. It is a place where players 
 can go and basicly auction off or buy items. 
  Many people dont prefer the cartoon style graphics, but I find it as a welcome change in a world 
 where game designers try to make everything look to "real". In the game, you will see the rich 
 green and brown colors of a pine forest, the bright orange of a desert or the crystal blue color 
 of a lake or ocean. The character models look good for the most part, there really isnt a whole 
 lot of customizing options in the early levels but eventually once you get to higher levels your 
 chacter will look very unique out of the many low level players in the game.
  The sound is very well done, with a good score and different voice emotes most people will find 
 the sound very well done. The only thing that is missing in the sound is voice acting. I think 
 it would have contributed to this great gameifquest givers would actually talk to you along with 
 the text showing up on the screen, but I Imagine it would be quite a daunting task if Blizzard 
 had to get actors to preform the voices for the thousands of quests in the game. Its not that there 
 isnt any voice acting in the game, you will hear people say "hello", "zug-zug" (orcish) and other 
 short lines but they will never give you full, voice acted quests.
  The gameplay is fun for the most part, with many combat moves for the different classes, but sometimes 
 players will get locked into a rutine of the same moves over and over again. 
  The community overall is decent at best, it is filled with what seems like 12 year olds because 
 there are a lot of rude and immature people in this game. Sure cracking jokes with people in your 
 zone is fun but when people call someone a "noob" or a "friggin idiot" just because that person 
 asked a simple question, is quite rude in my opinion. However if you find yourself a good guild 
 you will have a blast.
  WOW is extremely addicting and will have you saying "Just one more quest and I'm done" thousands 
 of times. Mabye the reason the game is so addicting is because its done right, it doesn't have 
 many bugs and the lag is not that bad if you that a decent computer. The world itself is so immersive 
 that you will marvel at the size of it and think to your self "Can I really do everything in this 
 game?"
  I give props to Blizzard Entermainent on making such a great and immersive game. They have definitly 
 raised the bar for online games and games in general on how to make a game fun, addicting, and 
 immersive. After all not many games designers can say they have 5 million costumers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  at first i thought the game was boring. it looked boring on the videos and that i had to pay for 
 it made it much less interesting. but one in my class at school said that the game was so great. 
 i had heard that getting to lvl 60 didnt take very long, well that depends. if you play very very 
 much on one char and no others you might get to lvl 60 in a couple of weeks. and i thought it wouldnt 
 take very long at all. and most of all: i thought there was nothing to do when i got to lvl 60. 
 cause then you had reached the top lvl, and thats it. well i was wrong. theres a lot to do, and 
 i never get bored while playing it. i just have one thing to say: play it once, and you play it 
 forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garurumon017
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  o man i gotta tell you, i thought i was never going to like this game, but i actually love it now. 
 the game is soo good. there are a bunch of classes and jobs to choose from. creating your character 
 is simple. once you start the game, youll be blown away. it is very easy to use the interface and 
 to find and beat up enimies right away. there is just so much information to talk about. this is 
 an mmorpg, so you can team up with others to complete certain quests. when i saw my brother playing 
 this game, i said how could clicking on an enemy to attack it be any fun? but was i wrong, im totally 
 hook with its engaging and thought-provoking gameplay. BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatfguy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  The best MMO out there. The ability to solo or group sets it apart from say EQ where after level 
 30 you could spend hours LFG because you can't actually fight anything your level. The quest system 
 and skill system are a cut above other MMO's as well by offering suitable rewards for doing both. 
 For example it is very beneficial to an armor smith even at low levels of ability because the things 
 you can make will very quickly be as good or better than the items that drop from enemies that 
 are you level. Definitely a good buy if you are into MMO's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda4ds
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  world of worcraft or wow is a great game. way better than the other warcraft games. if ur in the 
 draka relm (or something like that im just to lazy to cheack lol) and me to ur friend list and 
 give me a few gold cause im broke  
 well im tobatcha so send me a letter and tell me a game u woyuld like me to review and i will try. 
 but i cant wait for the burning crusades to come out ( but i probaly wont get it right away because 
 i have to get twilight princess 1st ) but i still think it will be a great expansion it wow. i cant 
 wait to be a blood elf. so again send me a letter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  This withouot a doubt the best MMORPG ever made in history, sound and graphics are both perfec, 
 I recommend this game to anybody with some extra pocket money and a pretty fast computer, cuz if 
 thats the case its worth it. If your computer is slow there is no point of buying the game, which 
 sucks because mine isnt very fast. If you liked Frozen Throne, you are quite simply going to be 
 speechless after you check this game out, so check it out. Little expensivge though, and you have 
 to pay EVERY month which is the only reason why not to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brethil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this IS, or actually WAS, the game for me, if u want to know more, read on....
  
  A friend of mine got me into this, not warning me for the consequences. 
  With that i mean angry 
 parents for not getting on the PC again and stuff.
  It was really addictive and REAL fun, specially when i got in a guild and started to play with 
 other ppl.
  The chances to get addicted are at least 80-85%
  
  But there is a downside to all this, atleast for me.
  I play it for 5 months now (almost 6) , 
 got a maxxed lvl char, almost a second, and it is getting repetitive.... Over and over again the 
 same Quests and stuff.... my playing hours that i spend on this game are dropping....
  Not that it isnt fun anymore, dont get me wrong, i still play it atleast 1 Hour every day, but 
 its not what it used to be....
  So yea, its addictive for the first few months but after that gets a bit boring....
  I tell u 
 though, this only counts for me, my best friend is still wishing he didnt have any school so he 
 could do this 24/7.
  
  Overall, a very addictive (at the start, beware social life) and after that still decent game. 
 I would reccomend that if u have the money to pay the 'upkeep' of this game then u must buy it. 
 But dont be surprised of it gets a bit boring after the first few months.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuski
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing MMORPGs for a good few years now from EQ, EQ2, Ultima Online, Guild Wars, SWG 
 and a few smaller ones and I can say WoW is good but not as good as people think.
  
  I see WoW as a the next stepping stone to MMO perfection. Buying it on the back of playing EQII 
 I instantly realised what they 'stole' and improved on to make this a good game. 
  
  The questing is better, the killing is better and basically everything is improved on. But theres 
 still something lacking. And I tell Blizzard to look at Guild Wars and then fine tune. 
  
  In WoW you are amazed and like it until you realise the quests are just killing a set number of 
 mobs or collecting - very boring. My main beef with this game though is the way it makes you grind. 
 Yes you can grind off quest exp and not killing exp but its the places which you do it that annoy 
 me. What I mean by this is say from lvl 20-25 you hunt in (zone) , then from 26-30 you hunt in (different 
 zone) . Im basically getting at that theres not much freedom and all thats happening is your regrinding 
 just on things levelled 26-30 not 20-25. It becomes very tideous and it ultimatly made me cancel 
 my subscription once I moved onto my next leveling place.
  
  I still think WoW is an elitist game. Where you have to have the most money, have the most reputation, 
 be of a certain rank etc etc to be thought of as a WoW player. Everyone else is just puny in the 
 eyes of these people. I think this derives from the Counter Strike players who illegaly played 
 WC3 and thought 'im amazing at this game and look, WoW is coming out'. So its got the 14 year old 
 abusive mentality.
  
  If you dont mind playing a game where once your half way through your first character you realise 
 what people are like in this game, and how the grind is hidden away - you'll be cancelling your 
 account. Guild Wars is a far better game in my oppinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to love than an actually good online RPG. The game is superbly done as the land detail 
 and sky effects are beautifully made. The character models are nicely curved instead of blocked 
 as usual MMORPGs are. Plus there are so many choices of characters, 8 right now and 2 more to come!! 
 Right now you can play as Gnomes, Humans, Dwarves, and Night Elves for the Alliance. For the Horde 
 side, you can play as Orcs, Undead, Tauren, and Trolls. Every character is a joy to play and there 
 is no end to how you can play! The combat is great too but it can be a repetitve exchange of blows 
 so it isn't real time combat. You can create an adventure by just running around the map. The towns 
 are spilling with people and quests so you can never say that there is nothing you can do. The 
 world is seamless so you can go anywhere instead of being blocked off by Guild Wars. The towns 
 are huge and mostly all character models from the games are seen. The game contains loads of instances 
 which are group needed and contain rare materials such as clothing and weapons. This creates a 
 good group activity and are crutially needed if you want to progress into the game without being 
 killed. It also features a PVP place called Battlegrounds. Its like capture the flag but you can 
 only score if your flag is at your station. There is only one problem about it though. People will 
 hide in places that cannot be easily reached and therefore the games can last on for hours if the 
 flags cannot be found. People do this all the time and it can get bothersome. But if you have patience 
 for this kind of stuff, go ahead and play! But if you don't, the game can still give you limitless 
 hours of play without the hiding of flags and annoying players that mess with your happy times!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telgias
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a game set in the world of Azeroth. Two factions control the world, The Alliance 
 and The Horde. Both sides offer four races, and each race has its own diverse class. This makes 
 the gameplay different and entertaining every time you play. The game has its own surreal art style 
 that will make you stop to gaze at the amazing and huge landscape before you. The game gives you 
 a amazing amount of quests and monsters to fight as you begin to level up your character. Right 
 at the beginning you are given your own unique starting area with quests and items abound. You 
 dont even need a tutorial as you can acess the interface with incredible ease.
  The gameplay is fast and easy to acess, the fighting is quick and simple to manage. The interface 
 works for you, not against you like some other games. You could be new to this type of game, and 
 within an hour your able to know every knook and cranny of the system. Death in the game is not 
 a punishment, as you simply have to return to your body when you die. There is no loss of items, 
 exp, or skills. The massive and awe inspiring towns give you a open interface to shop, and do whatever 
 needs you want. The profession skills in this game are excellent, as you can find and create items 
 that are acually useful to you or someone you know. 
  The graphics show a great surreal art style that fits with the games style and play. The shear 
 size of this world will make you want to explore as much as possible. The audio is magnificent 
 as it plays great ambience and sound effect noises along with theme music. This is a must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix_Rain
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  I am sick and tired of people dogging on WoW for the lack of quest types. I will admit you do collect 
 and kill and that pretty much sums it up. But here is the thing what other MMORPG games do you 
 know out there that don't do the same thing? EQ you do the same, Guild Wars you do the same, Star 
 Wars Galaxies you do the same. All of the MMORPG's are the same, but it is how you choose to play 
 is what makes the game. I never thought I would be playing WoW, but since I was always a fan of 
 the WC series I just had to play it. I have just recently started, but I am absolutely blown away. 
 To tell you the truth if you don't like WoW it is because you probably don't like to imagine in 
 your games and/or you don't play RPG's. So stop dogging on WoW. It is a great game and will take 
 some time for another game to overcome such a feat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachabros
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best RPG out there, and probably the most addictive one. 
  
  This game was made so balanced that most classes complain about every other class being overpowered... meaning 
 no class is actually better than the other, and every class from Warriors to Priests have good 
 damage output and just as good of a game play.
  
  The profesions can really help you out on the way to level 60, but on the economy side, gathering 
 professions are where the money is... (mining and herbalism are awesome)
  
  The player versus player system is very complex and easy to learn, but with all the space in this 
 game, there is no "i'll sit here and cast so he dies". It's not one of those repetitive, push-this-button-till-he-dies 
 kind of system, you actually have to know how to play.
  
  The raiding system is just all you could ask for and more, with storylines and dialogs in every 
 dungeons you will never find yourself bored of them.... or maybe after about 50 times.
  
  In conclusion, this is simply the one game you want to play if you're into RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frito_Lay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Although time consuming, World of Warcraft is a great game. This MMORPG is filled with much conent 
 and non stop game play. You can basically chose how you want to play. If you want to solo, or participate 
 in Player vs Player combat, or raid towns that you just hate. The possibilities are endless.
  
  If you liked the Warcraft Franchise you'll love being able to play the game in a new point 
 of view. World of Warcraft was my first MMO game, so even if you were geared on RTS games, I believe 
 you'll still like this game.
  
  Even if you don't have time to play much, the game balances (using the rest system) it so you don't 
 fall behind.
  
  Try it out for your first free month, to some (like me) your life will be consumed by WoW. If you 
 hate it, then you must not be human.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokills
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Well i spend more time on this than time and it does take up alot of time if you know how to control 
 your self ! but this is a really good game besides of the hours and day's. You can join a Guild 
 and meet player's with an higher Lvl or you can team up with somebody if you like. The bad thing 
 about is everyone talk's about Chuck Norris i have no idea but whatever. The game is really good 
 you might take like a litte while to get use to it!,
  
  Bad things about WoW.
  1. you cant change your char's look ah but who cares.
  2. When the server gets full you have to 
 wait 4 min or even an hour if your compture is fast it might take faster.
  3. when your Lvl you can do alot but than it gets boring cause you can't Lvl anyone.
  4. you cant 
 run fast its only with Rogues you get run faster for 15 seconds.
  5. it has some blooters.
  6. it lag's in alot of city's like Darnassus.
  7. I have no idea why they have owls that you buy 
 that dont do anything lol.
  8. you cant fly birds or short of stuff like that.
  9. Some people might be mean and not join ur group or Guild.
  10. that sometimes you cant learn 
 any other Pro trainers spells or like skinning.
  11. and fixing armor.
  12. Dying and sometimes really far from ur body.
  
  GOood times about WoW
  1. You can make 
 your char's 
  2. You can let your friend's join the World of CRAFT
  3. its amazing with 3D graphic.
  4. You can trade or even duel for the fun of it!
  5. Make leather, First 
 aid, herble, ECT
  6. Make anyname you like if it isnt taken
  7. Make guilds 
  8. jump and dance ANDalot more stuff you can do with your Char
  9. Kill other Players from the 
 other side.
  10. Buy Cat's. Hourses, ect to ride.
  11. Pick Humans, Night elfs, gonames, dwarfs, undead ,orcs, tuarens, trolls.
  12. Have a priest to help 
 you get healed if you are a Warrior, hunter, Rogue, ect.
  13. Go to different places with different race's.
  14. and get honor.
  15. swim
  16. jump night 
 elfs have cool jump's
  17. change your armor with a rode, hats, Pants, Boot or shoes, Earrings, ect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foodrocksjim
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I dont get it. How could this game possibly get such a high score? It's AWFUL! There are 3 things 
 to do in this game:
  1: get stuff
  2: do quests
  3: pvp (player vs. player)
  All of which are incredably reppitive and boring. The quests are the worst. Every single quest 
 goes like this
  "kill X amount of this monster" or "collect X amount of this item" all the rewards of the quests 
 are simaler too: armor or a weapon. This gets VERY boring after the first couple of quests. pvp 
 is only fun when raiding, or invading an enemy town or city. the downside to this is u need to 
 be a high level and you need a good comp. if you fail to meet these requirments, you'll be killed 
 constanly, and by the time u respawn, your computer will lag and by the time u get control of ur 
 charectar, you'll be dead.....
  to sum it up
  
  PROS:
  good graphics, alot of customization, its fun to explore and discover new places, especially if 
 your a different race becasue u will stand out, which is pretty cool. The monsters are also nicley 
 done
  
  CONS: very repetitive, no economy, lags alot, dying gets annoying, it takes a long time to level, 
 depending on when u play, you will sometimes have to wait for other people to log out before you 
 can play. i had to wait 4 hours once. The story is kinda stupid too. the game doesn't have enough 
 to do
  
  Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has really awsome graphics the enviroments change it turns from day to night 
 and vise versa. You create your charecter and depending on the charecter you make deturmines the 
 story. This is an online game so if you play and find a friend you can battle him or her or trade 
 items with him or her. This is a really amazing actio adventure game for the PC. It is very fun 
 battling your friends. I say by this game it is awsome! Oh by the way this is one of the best PC 
 games ever made! Like I said buy this game it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiggyPiggyMan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic 
 except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  It is fantastic except you must subscribe and pay $20 US dollars a month. : (
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markdzebissov
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, period. Stop reading reviews and just buy it. It is worth your money, becuase 
 if it wasn, there wouldnt be 5+ million people playing it today. You will love the game, honestly. 
 I thought I wouldnt like the game, but when i first played it, I started to love it! Buy it or 
 you are gay! Seriously, you are either gay, or poor, or maybe just very stubborn. I hate stubborn 
 people, i want to eat them. OK, I am just writing this to make it one hundred words long. Almost 
 a hundred words, am i there yet? I think so.
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has finally released a new RPG for the PC called World of Warcraft. Here is my my review 
 for WOW.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay for this game is the best simple as that. When you first start off you have to choose 
 a race such as nightelves, humans, orcs, Gnomes, etc. Then thats not were it ends. Then you can 
 choose the class you want your character to be depending on the race. Humans for example have the 
 choice to be a paladins, mages, preists, rouges, warrior, and warlocks. While other races can be 
 a paladin or a mage as well only each class has a certin selection of available classes. There 
 are a lot of types of magic and attacking giving numerous number of diffrent tactics. Team up with 
 friends and you could have a invincible team with good tactics. The world is just enormous as well. 
 It took me over 2 hours by foot to get one side to the other side of the map. Also with the new 
 upcoming expansion pack its going to be even more enormous. Also you can go on PvP servers (player 
 vs. player) which are funner then hell. Just walk in to the town of the opposite side (horde and 
 alliance) and just start hacking. The pets in this game are cool too. You can have the smallest 
 pet from a cat to the largest of a Dragon. Raising these takes time and they are worth it at the 
 end. There are a lot of quests in this game as well. So many it will take you a long long time 
 to finish all of them. This game is so fun for gamers or non gamers. I would just build a 2000 
 doller computer just for this game only! This is PC gaming at its best thats why I give it a 10/10
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of WOW is just simply the best for a MMORPG. The textures on the the ground look amazing, 
 when you look at the ground the effects of it are amazing. The character models are very well shaped. 
 You can also customize your character on what kind of clothing it has to which patterns and colors 
 it has. The weapons are very nice. Each weapon in the game has its own look to it making the graphics 
 more diverse. Each part of the body to the tip to the bottom is detailed as ever. The graphics 
 of this game are simply the best for a MMORPG. Score 10/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just as good as the graphics. The magic effects on the game have not only good graphics 
 but kick ass sound effects as well. The sound effects are good everywere, voices, footsteps, as 
 metioned magic, swords swinging in the air, ect. Music in this game very well done. No flaws or 
 nothing with the music. The music selection is very huge. Well with a huge game it should have 
 a large range of music. The sound and music are simply at its best on WOW. Score 10/10
  
  Value:
  Value?!?! This game is game is going to have you tied for hours! Do I have to say more? 
 Score 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  As a big fan of Blizzard and all there games such as Diablo and Diablo 2 I was excited to here 
 of another Warcraft game and wow... this game gives blizzard a bigger title more then ever. Score 
 10/10
  
  Overall: 
  This game is the best MMORPG with so many things to do and placed to see this game will give you 
 hours of gameplay! I had fun with this great PC game and will continue to play it for a very long 
 time. Even if your not a gamer try this game out! Overall score 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikei
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had this game for that long but it is a game that i can see myself playing for a long 
 time. It didn't take me that long to get the hang of it and it doesn't take the longest time to 
 level and work your way up to 60 and owning every one when i got the hang of it well lets say it 
 is worth the $15 a month. When the expansion comes out and i can play as a Blood Elf and go to 
 level 70 and all that you will not hear from me for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigelf72
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I have played more games than i would like to admit, this game has and still does hold my attention 
 more than any other game that i have ever played. I have played this game since dec 12 of 2004 
 and i am proud to say this game is the one game that everyone should own. I dont car if you think 
 $15 is expensive..... if you play this game, it will save you money on food, gas, and games. You 
 wont buy any games for the longest time, because this game will make you a serious addict. You 
 meet many friends, many new people, possibly a girlfriend *wink wink*. And you will lose weight, 
 cause youll want to do nothing but play play play. I am also proud to say that it makes for a very 
 awesome topic when talking with friends at school, talking to people at work, or talking to yourself 
 in your dreams. Come chill with me on daggerspine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostElf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  This is a phenomenal game that will keep you addicted for years and years!
  
  Making a character is very simple, and you can practically have as many as you want. First you 
 choose your realm/server. I would recommend a normal server for beginners in this game. Roleplaying 
 servers are just pretty boring, since there are many features cut out of the game, such as PVP, 
 which I will get to later. PVP servers are for more advanced users, because players on the opposite 
 alliance automatically have the ability to attack you when they go on raids of the opposite continent 
 (pretty much this means when other users from the other place come over and start killing the people 
 on the other side, like a war) . So I would recommend a normal server, because there are no features 
 cut out, like the Roleplaying servers, and you type /pvp to go into PVP mode, to be elligible to 
 attack the opposite alliance and have them ellligible to attack you. But if you have friends who 
 play the game, and you know what server they're on, go to it, no matter what =P 
  
  Ok, I definately think that was a lot to talk about servers... Well anyway, after you choose a 
 server, you get to choose you're alliance, Horde or Alliance. It depends on what you think are 
 cool, what your friends are on (if any) , and what class you want.. (I will get into that in a second) 
 because both alliances have classes that are not on the other. So after you choose your alliance, 
 you choose your race, which is pretty much what kind of thing you are. Like a Dwarf, Night Elf, 
 Human, or Gnome (on Alliance) , and an Orc, Troll, Undead, or Tauren (if you're on Horde) . Each 
 race is eligible to be certain classes (like warrior, mage, and so on) . All races have special 
 abilities that have to do with a certain class, so it might be a good idea to be that class if 
 it has good abilities that the class that you want. For example, if I wanted to make a hunter on 
 the alliance, it might be a good idea to be a dwarf, because they have "gun specialization". But 
 don't worry, it will show all of these abilities for each race on the side :P
  
  After you've named your character and clicked the big "Enter World" button at the bottom of the 
 screen after clicking your character, you get logged in. If you are unfermiliar with the game, 
 you might want to check out some of the interface options after clicking menue, so that you can 
 change them as needed. And also, if you're new to the game, I would recommend trying out several 
 classes to see what you like best :D Just click on menu, or the escape key, and click on key bindings, 
 and it will show you all of the hotkeys and all the controls. If you have a friend who plays the 
 game, I'm sure they will be nice enough to help you out with all of this sort of stuff. Otherwise, 
 you might want to ask the friendly GS community if you are in need of help. But actually, first 
 just ask the WoW community in general chat by typing /1 then the space key.. they can be very helpful 
 as well. 
  
  In the game, you get to level up to level 60, which can keep you entertained. To do this, you can 
 take on thousands of quests, do instances (which is where you and a group of people go into a tunnel 
 of things to kill) , and more. Also to keep you entertained up to and at level 60 are the series 
 of battlegrounds. Here you can play games like capture the flag, and games where you capture other 
 people's bases, and more. And all the while you're doing it against horde, and you're automatically 
 in PVP here, so you can rack up some honor kills, to get your honor rank up. You get your honor 
 rank up by killing players on the opposite alliance, and doing battlegrounds. At the end of each 
 day, it will tell you how many honor points you gained the previous day and week. And at the end 
 of the week (on Tuesday) , your rank will be updated. And when you just level up normally, every 
 two levels, you go back to your class trainer to obtain new skills! 
  
  Once you get to level 60, your journey is not ended; it is just a milestone for achieving the highest 
 character level possible. Once reaching it, you get TONS more availible things to do! 
  
  When you get various high-leveled items in the game, the Auction House makes it simple to sell 
 things. Not only to sell things, but to also buy things that you need. You just compare the things 
 that other people are selling that are similar to what you are trying to sell to get an idea for 
 the price, then just place it for bid. But the good thing is that there's a buyout feature, just 
 like real auctions like eBay. 
  
  I could go on for hours explaining all of the unique and amazing features of WoW, but I'd like 
 to just tell you to go out and get the game now, and start having fun! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benlong82
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  WoW is a good game to play it is a mix between diablo and everquest and it good i have a lvl 30 
 hunter and 10 rouge 42 rouge 23 pally 12 hunter and alot more i play the game evryday it doesnt 
 get boring so u need to buy it it only $50 and $30 every 2 month so u need to get and send me a 
 tell on stormrever and send it to profireload or benlong or on draka profirelord i have played 
 every toon in the game and there r 8 toons 4 good toons and 4 bad toons i like the good toon better 
 then the bad toons but the bad toons lvl up faster but the good toon get u more money so if u like 
 humans night elf gnome and dwarfs be on the good side of the toons the bads side toons have turans 
 undead trools and goblines so if u them be on the bad side toons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  What objectively defines a role-playing game? The debate has been stretched out as far back as 
 I can certainly recollect. You could say they originated in the form of classic traditional styles 
 similar to that of Final Fantasy. Perhaps it is based off of an intricate setup of mechanics relating 
 to the battle system and health display. Even the debate to conclude if Zelda is an RPG genre title 
 continues to be heard throughout the echoes of the gaming realm. No matter how many ways you look 
 at it, a role playing game should let you define what your character is. And I can assuredly say 
 that only one table of the genre gives you the maximum customization possible, with plenty of addicting 
 pulls along the way. All of which deriving from an expansive atmosphere and creative vision that 
 has hit a mark others have so miserably missed.
  
  Welcome to the World of Warcraft.
  
  It is an MMORPG at its finest and the first of such to intrigue me in such a fashion since Asheron's 
 Call. As previously mentioned, it is the obsession you have while playing the hero or villain you 
 have created in these games, that overshadows the pre-defined protagonists of its single player 
 predecessors. Freedom and exploration shape the incredibly expansive world that Blizzard has implemented, 
 with so many things to do I may not leave my basementerm room for quite a while. This is all due 
 in part to the excellent talent system this new installment portrays. Even though each new level 
 will earn me so many points toward my basic attributes, you can use the skill tree to help shape 
 your little avatar any way you desire. What helps root these techniques are distinct classes and 
 races that you can select when commencing the game. Want to be an elven druid and have all types 
 of shape-shifting abilities? Or would you rather be an evil troll with the pet commanding gifts 
 of a hunter? What brings these classes into unison would be the sense of war flowing through the 
 divided lands, all which take place between the Alliance and the Horde.
  
  Throughout histories and lore findings it is apparent that the huge world is sectored into two 
 major plains of good and evil. Elves, Gnomes, Dwarfs, and Humans coincide to meld the Alliance 
 while the Orcs, Trolls, Undead, and Tauren form the Horde. Aside from appearance each side will 
 let you experience a different end of the land, with unique enemies and quests essential to both. 
 The most surprising substance from these class characteristics is the contested battles that can 
 take place. Nothing more fun than seeing two or three members of differing allegiances swarming 
 into a smaller town and wiping out the newbies. Then being able to call upon members of your respective 
 guild to try to thwart the threat to your zone. While it all looks well and good on paper, the 
 player vs. player combat is still a little dry. Primarily deriving from the fact that victory is 
 placed heavily on levels. Even if you are just five or six levels under your opponent, you will 
 most likely be whiffing at wind and shooting into space. Regardless, since this is an online game, 
 why not take advantage of the fact there are thousands of people playing alongside you. So go gang-bang 
 the foolish bastard and dance on his corpse with a little help from your comrades.
  
  What truly sets World of Warcraft apart from virtually every other unappealing MMORPG out there? 
 Think of a battle system played in real time sequences with a real sense of strategy and tactics 
 built in all brewed into a heaping mound of exploration. Swords, maces, staves, wands, and hell 
 even guns are all accessible as you continue to grow in strength. From these weapons you can gain 
 different magical imbuement and techniques to apply to them in combat. I personally play a hunter 
 and setting up traps, sicking your pet on the opponent to lure them in, and then unleashing a flurry 
 of arrows on their ass are all part of my daily outing. Meanwhile as I am out earning my experience, 
 I am also earning my income by way of mining and blacksmithing. The more you use materials applicable 
 to your hobby, the better results you will have and trading back and forth at the auction house 
 afterwards is a blast. Kind of like E-Bay but without all of the negative feedback and crooked 
 salesmen.
  
  No matter how sugar-coated and glamorous an MMORPG turns out, there will always be skeptics who 
 put it down because of the constant need to be in a group. Well, there is good news for all of 
 you soloists and loners out thereyou do not need to party up to progress! Unlike the recent abomination 
 FF XI, you do not need to spend hours waiting around for parties to find you and help you complete 
 an objective. Everything comes gradual and there is an area in the world correlating to every single 
 level, so many in fact, that you will be second guessing yourself where to head next. Each zone 
 is more breathtaking than the next and the quests relating to each will allow you to explore these 
 territories as much as youd like. Though there are times you will grow weary of completing mission 
 after mission, the challenging and non-pointless enemies are a blast to fight, with an AI that 
 is dead on. No mindlessly walking into cliff-sides or repeating attack patterns here, instead your 
 antagonists know when to mix and match techniques, as well as when to back off and flee. Everything 
 seems so realistic and fluid that the sheer brilliance of it all is what manages to sky-rocket 
 the value.
  
  What helps fit the final piece of the puzzle are the resplendent visuals and atmospheric sounds 
 that encompass the mystic world. Watching a disgusting ogre burst into flames compliments to your 
 immobilization trap and seeing the fires spread even more thanks to a monumental crimson flame 
 attack from your fellow mage is as impressive looking as it sounds. The detail on monsters and 
 humans alike are extremely creative and the environments are incredibly articulate and vivid. I 
 can safely say that anyone with a non-crappy video card, that unfortunately I currently possess, 
 is in for a treat. Complimenting the range of colors and impressive conjurations are accurate sounds 
 all surrounded by over world themes ranging from mellow to heart-pounding. And depending on your 
 enthusiasm toward every situation will certainly affect the experience of the game-play.
  
  Yes, it is Game of the Year material!
  
  Why? Because there has been no game in quite a long 
 time that has kept me interested in such a fashion as World of Warcraft. With online games you 
 always have people to meet, new places to visit, and the understanding that the run through does 
 not end until you want it too. There is something here for everyone and this is, without a doubt, 
 why it has earned the recognition it has deserved. It is exciting to know that more and more people 
 are catching on to why these titles are so special. And it is the lore and deep quest system that 
 allows you to enjoy your protagonist better than any other available role-playing genre available. 
 Amazingly even though it has only been out for two months, the game has exceeded my expectations 
 by a landslide. The minuscule faults occasionally present are completely overshadowed by the quality 
 and execution of an RPG that will definitely be on the market for a while. So go out and purchase 
 it already...
  
  And enjoy what I believe is the true representation of an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2oPoloFreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing it for half a year now, and i can't get enough of it =P
  It's just sooooo good. The graphics are awesome and the ingame features are great. So what can 
 we say more. It's the best ^^ So i would really recommend it to all the people who read this, but 
 be careful it is very addicting. I can't get enough of it and neither can't the other players get 
 enough.
  So if you want a lot of gaming fun, pleasure, sleepless nights, and getting in contact with other 
 people, than you have to buy World of Warcraft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS-Army
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I have played MMORPGs for a while, and have a rather good time doing so. I would say i am fairly 
 versed in the ways of the MMO. I paid sixth months of Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided and 
 I couldn't play it because my computer was crap. So I paid a cybercafe $30 so I could come in and 
 play it for 14 hours straight. Dedicated.
  
  Let me start off with me telling you that I loved Galaxies and it was basically the peak of my 
 gaming career. There was no better game, there was no other game. I played nothing else and I was 
 in a realm of ectasy. EVERYTHING was beautiful. And then WoW happened. It turned my life around.
 
  
  World of Warcraft was, is, and from until the end of time, better than Galaxies. The enviroments, 
 graphics and overall gameplay is just better. My first time playing this game was 8 hours of pure 
 dwarven warrior, and each second was awesome.
  
  The graphics are astounding (if you are working more then minimum on your system) , the sound = 
 excellent, the enemies are refreshingly hard to kill, the missions are good (getting 33lbs of meat 
 for a tank driver is a little tedious) , the dying thing is awesome though sad when you lose experience 
 (I cried a lot) , and Leeroy Jenkins...
  
  Though I would say I have had a lot more experience playing Galaxies, and it was fun, it does not 
 even compare to the experience you get from playing WoW. Plus, I hate Darth Maul clones...
  
  WoW. I should have my account up and running in like march...
  I cry
  
  -FPS Army out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excimeral
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Where shall I start. Well this game starts off pretty fun at the lower levels and both the scenery 
 and sound in the game are pretty good too, however that's where the fun ends. This game has far 
 too many quests and far too many boring ones at that, by the time you finish one Blizzard bring 
 out another one for you to slave over for ages only to get a crappy reward. If that wasn't bad 
 enough, to kill some of the strongest enemies in the game you're going to need some extremely large 
 groups of people I mean like 50-200, which is fine if you go about trying to make friends with 
 every second person you see in the game or join a guild but some players just don't want that. 
 They don't want to have to rely on other players of the game, they don't want to be forced to talk 
 and work with people they don't know, they might just want to level up their characters quietly 
 themselves, and perhaps talk to a few friends they know in the real world who also play. No chance 
 of doing that in this game.
  
  In that aspect the game practically forces you to join a guild at the maximum level which is 60, 
 just because all characters don't get a good enough general power increase over levels. Also despite 
 what most people say I feel this game is not for the more extreme mmorpg players. As I've just 
 said the maximum level is 60 and once you hit that level trying to get the best equipment in the 
 game is more random than anything. 
  
  In conclusion this game does not reward excessive players enough. It's more suited to those who 
 have time to play it but don't play it heavily. If Blizzard raised the maximum level to around 
 300 then I might consider playing it more, but until then this game is too short in one of the 
 most crucial points of an mmorpg the leveling/stat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuCyInThEsKy101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is one the most amazing, most captivating video games to ever hit the PC. It is without 
 a Doubt one of the best RPG's on the market. The bad part about World of Warcraft is that it is 
 so massive that this game is a RAM hog. You will also a need a VERY good video card. Besides the 
 fact that the game is so huge i can find no other problems with the game. I will admit though that 
 the huge enviroment of the game and the constant walking untill you get to Lvl. 40 is quite annoying. 
 On fist sight of world of warcraft, the game looks absolutley captivating to the eyes. Another 
 amazing thing is the Armor and weapons you get. The armor suits in this game are amazingly beautiful 
 and the weapons are just as wonderful. This game is an ABSOLUTE must have for any RPG fan or PC 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsukuru
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  All right I will start off by saying; I have played this game since it came out. I had beta for 
 it as well I went to BlizzCon and got to play the expansion as well.
  
  Now on to the actual review... It is a very good game but it has its draw backs as with any game. 
 It takes not too long to learn how to play but it does take months to master the game. I have played 
 for over 58 days on my one lvl 60 as well another 90 or so on the other 60, and I do not claim 
 to know everything about this game at all... Also the actual game experience changes depending 
 on your faction and server choice. The process of leveling is extremely time consuming and often 
 is considered to be the hardest part of the game. Alliance tend to be grinding based (kill monsters 
 for exp) . Where as Horde tend to be a lot more quest based (ok, I want to kill so-and-so) . Since 
 I have leveled both horde and alliance to 60 I lean to the "horde is easier to level" direction. 
 Also depending on your class it may add more or less difficulty to the leveling process. To break 
 it down into its simplest form, hunter = easy button -  priest = good-bye social life.
  
  Once you get over the leveling process the entire aim of the game changes from "I gotta lvl [level] " 
 to "lfg [looking for group] Scholo 10 man PST [please send tell] ! In essence, once you hit 60 
 it is all about gearing out to your rare [blue] set or if you have the right hook-ups you can get 
 yourself into a large guild that attempts the larger scale instances that World of Warcraft has 
 to offer, such as Blackwing Lair (BWL, 40 man, Hardest 40) , Molten Core (MC, 40 man, Med 40) , Onyxia 
 (Ony, 40 man, Easy 40) , Ahn'Qiraj (AQ, 20 man, Hardest 20) , Zul'Gurub (ZG, 20 man, Easy 20) . Each 
 one of these instances requires large amounts of dedication considering it takes the average guild 
 7+ hours to clear the Molten Core. Because of the amount of coordination needed as well most guilds 
 employ chat servers such as "Ventrilo" or "Team Speak" to give orders efficiently. Also for your 
 dedication to the game you are rewarded with parts from your tier 1 (first epic set, all boss but 
 last one in MC drop them) or tier 2 set (last boss of MC, Ony, and BWL drop these) .
  
  Now getting to the look and feel of the game. The game looks like some one just beat the artists 
 with a frying pan to put it plainly. I was EXTREMELY let down by this after previewing the intro 
 movie as well the first stages of beta. The sound is very good the first time you hear each song, 
 but due to the lack of songs for the game it tends to get fairly repetitive and annoying, so most 
 of the time I have my sound turned off. Probably the best thing going for the game on a day to 
 day basis is the people that play it. I have to say that is one of the top reasons why I play World 
 of Warcraft is because of the people that you get to interact with during your time in Azeroth.
 
  
  One more thing that this game has going for it is the amount of UI (user interface) mods that people 
 have made and how useful they are. For instance, the UI mod "CT Raid Assist" (aka. CTRA) is a must 
 for almost any high end raid instance guild. Or another useful mod that I have come a crossed is 
 "Telo's Loot Link" or "KC Items [Link View] " both do basically the same thing, which is store item 
 links that you get come a crossed as you play the game. So basically if you are like "Oh man, I 
 for got what Thunderfury, Blessed Blade of the Windseeker's proc was..." you could just open the 
 mod and type in "Thunderfury" and boom there it is right in your face so that you can look at it 
 (and possible drool, since it is one of two known Legendary weps) . 
  
  Lastly because of the large community many WoW sites have pop'ed up, some more helpful than others. 
 Such as Thottbot. com, or wow. allakhazam. com. As I have traveled through Azeroth I have found both 
 of these places invaluable. They offer a place where users can look up items or quests (or even 
 to allow the user to play out his Azerothian day :P) . As well they allow users to leave their comments 
 about the items/quest/guild/etc.
  
  Overall I love this game, but GRINDING SUCKS. I have tried to quit this game as many times as some 
 people have tried to quit smoking, and like some of them I always end up going back to World of 
 Warcraft's website putting my credit card information back in and go back to my guild saying "Well 
 maybe next time... So, when is the next BWL run?". I am going to be interested to see what Blizzard 
 does with the expansion.
  
  ~Tsukuru 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redevill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  In dis game game u will find everything, from weapon crafting till mountion climing. Dis game has 
 it all. In it you can gt a job earn money buy weapons and armour and battle it out with opposing 
 races. In dis game u can chose from a wide selection of races such as elves orks humans and u can 
 chose ur own fighting style and battle it out in d world of warcraft. This is d best game ever, 
 you have 2 buy it! ull be saying d same thing 2 others after uv tried d game, check out d clips 
 and venture into d world of warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1987
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics of this game, put simply, are beautiful to look at. it's graphics are strange though 
 as the world seems to be realistic and believable as a real life and functioning world but also 
 have a cartoony hint to them. This just shows that this game is a real fantasy/mystical game. With 
 world influences that can be seen from the likes of lord of the rings, harry potter and final fantasy, 
 these influences are twisted and skewed to create wow's personal look and charm in its graphics.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay just shows what the designers wanted to achieve and that is to have fun. with an interface 
 so intuitive no tutorial is needed and allows the player to practically pick the game up whenever 
 they want a play a great game be it for 20 minutes or 20 hours straight. The levelling up system 
 is easy to understand and a new feature unlike other MMORPG's is the rest system, this is clever 
 as it means if a player stops playing for a long time they can pick it up and be granted loads 
 of exp for levelling up a lot quicker and makes play the game and get lost in its 'fun'. With about 
 8 different classes, 8 types of species and loads of professions available the game can be played 
 so many times and each time will be a different experience. The battle system is flawless be you 
 fighting computer enemies or other players in duels or PVP combat. There are two factions available 
 (Horde and Alliance) and because of this some servers allow players to fight the other faction 
 for it be either for offence or defence, you can play a huge online war without realising the scale 
 of it. The quests are well thought out and there are plenty of them, and even if they are finished 
 you can turn to your profession or fighting the war against the other faction which is rewarded 
 thanks to the honour system. All in all this game is fun and is unblivable to play. you're hooked 
 as soon as you enter its world.
  
  AUDIO:
  music is present in the world and sets the tone of the surroundings making this world your in a 
 more believable one. From the sound of the birds chirping or the heavy footsteps of Kodo beast, 
 the ambient sound just adds to the fulfiling world you are a habitant of.
  
  LIFESPAN:
  Simple you could play this game praticualy forever, there are sooo many different character options 
 to choose from, each with their own different styles of fighting and different abilities. you can 
 go through the characters again and again with different talents each time and each time will result 
 in new way of fighting. but really any excuse to play this game forever is welcome and will be 
 understandable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCMann
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Greatest game ever made, i love this game very much. I have a human level sixty warrior, a undead 
 level 55 rogue, a human level 32 mage, warcraft warcraft war war war wow wowo wowowo wowowow wowowow 
 wowowow wowowo wowow wowow wowo wowow wo wow ow wowo wwo woww ow oww owow w oww ow ow wow owo wwo 
 wow wo wo wwo wo wow wo wo wow wo w owow wo w ow ow wowo wow ow w ow owow wo wow ow wo w ow owo 
 wow ow wowowowo wowow wowo wow ow wo wow ow owo wo wo wow ow wo wo woo wo wo wo wow ow ow ow ow 
 ow ow owo wo wo wow owo wow ow owo wowo wowo wo wow ow owo wo wo in conclusion WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armourmen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Its a awsome game im a blizzard fan ive played all there games. It was cool when i found out that 
 blizzard was going to come out with a MMO of warcraft It maybes gets boring for some ppl after 
 about 9 months but then u quit for awhile then u wanna come back no matter what if u like MMOs 
 u will stick with this game. Fun since you get to pick out of 8 Races and 9 classes and gets better 
 mostly every patch they add too the game all the time while fixing the bugs and glitches... some 
 ppl quit before lvl 40 but when u get to lvl 40 its worth all the time since u get ur mount, and 
 when u get to lvl 52+ it gets even better with the high lvl instances... its also fun from lvl 10-60 
 playing Battlegrounds So ive u like Fantasy MMOs ull LOVE WoW... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft deviates a little from the standard Everquest clone. It adds Player Versus Player 
 combat and an interesting auction house system. I enjoyed World of Warcraft for a long time, the 
 beginning was a lot of fun. The instances are interesting, especially the first time you enter 
 the Deadmines. I suggest that all MMORPG fans play this at least once. The graphics are what a 
 lot of people consider "cartoonish." It didn't bother me at all that they seemed a little cartoonish 
 I loved them.
  
  World of Warcraft is starting to begin a trend (I hope) of games deviating from EQ. I enjoy player 
 versus player combat. I loved Ultima Online in the early days. Although World of Warcraft offers 
 you limited PvP it's better than none. The world is very immersive and you'll be sucked into the 
 Warcraft universe after an hour or two of gameplay. You'll notice a lot from your favorite Warcraft 
 RTS games. 
  
  One of the huge gripes about MMORPG's in general is the monthly fee. You might want to consider 
 saving your $15/mo for other games that don't charge a monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amilmadien
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I got hooked on World of Warcraft after I got frustrated with another MMORPG, and a friend who 
 had played the beta version talked me into trying it out.
  
  The gameplay is VERY fun, and the controls are almost intuitive to someone that has played any 
 sort of action-adventure game. I still learn new things about the UI every now and then, but most 
 everything one needs to know is laid out right in front of the player from the get-go. PvP is very 
 much a part of the game, as the 2 factions, Horde and Alliance, are set at each other almost from 
 the start. Even people like myself, who dislike PvP, can find their niche somewhere within the 
 PvP ranking system. Plus, it always feels kind of good to get that darn gnome back for stealing 
 your mobs. (For the Horde!)
  
  My PC isn't the best for running the game, so I could be a bit biased on the graphics, but overall 
 the game is very gorgeous. Watching the landscape go by from the back of a windrider or gryphon 
 is a real treat (the first few times, anyway) , and characters can be very diverse despite a slightly 
 limited set of features to chose from. The background music and ambiance really sets the mood of 
 whatever area you happen to be in, though as with most any background noise, your music playlist 
 sounds a lot better after hearing the same dungeon music for a few hours.
  
  Communities vary so greatly from realm to realm and depend a lot on which faction you're playing 
 that it's hard to generalize, though most realms tend to have more Alliance players. It takes a 
 lot of time, effort, and cooperation to access the end-game content, which is probably my only 
 bone to pick with the game. Again, I'm probably a bit biased because I'm what most players call 
 a "casual" player, one that doesn't have enough free time to spend 40+ hours a week raiding and 
 building relationships with other players, but Blizzard makes sure that there's something for everyone. 
 They at least seem to be working on content for those of us that are more involved in life out 
 in the real world. ;P
  
  World of Warcraft is definitely worth a try if you enjoy action-adventure games and MMORPGs. Ask 
 a friend that plays for a free trial version first, before you drop the money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingcucumber
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Warcraft universe goes online. Great? You bet!!!
  I think I waited for this game since the first day it got announced and couldn't wait to put my 
 teeth's in it. To explore the "World Of Warcraft". And now that I finally have I must say that 
 I'am surprised in a good way but also in some bad ways.
  
  That WoW is the most "beginner" friendly MMORPG out there to date and that it probably also is 
 the best one so far is no doubt about.
  First up here is the good things about this game.
  
  *Kick ass fun PvP gameplay
  *An endless amounts of quests and things to do
  *Great graphics
 
  *Cool weapons `n stuff
  *A lot of different enemies to battle, both humans and NPC: s
  
  bla bla bla bla, I think most of you knows how this game is due to all to all the other reviews 
 etc... let's skip to the fun part, constructive criticism!! "YAY" It's time for you to see the dark 
 side of WoW. 
  
  Being the Blizzard made game that it is which has pretty high standard I must say that I'am left 
 somewhat disappointed on how WoW turned out to be and how many different things they could have 
 changed and added in the game. The classes are somewhat unbalanced and being a warlock isn't nearly 
 as easy as being a shaman for instance or nearly as good. This leads to many "dirtyfied" classes 
 like the Warlock and Paladin. The spells in WoW can sometimes be a bit too overpowered and extremely 
 unbalanced so if you are getting killed from another player you can most of the times predict what 
 you will get killed of. ( Almost every single Mage are specialised on Frost, Arcane etc.)
  
  The quests are usually very repetitive and many players skips the questing part almost completely 
 and only does quests that *has* to be done, not very rewarding for us who likes to quests to only 
 end up wasting time. And if you are planning to explore the real fun dungeons in this game you 
 can expect to be at least 40 people gathered at the same place.
  
  You can also expect tons of different bugs in WoW like the target homing spells who follows you 
 to the end of the world traveling trough trees, houses and even mountains just to hit you = /.
 
  
  Since the level cap is so low and is only going to be raised to 70 there isn't almost a single 
 "new" player to WoW every lv 20-30 these days has a lv 60 alt and thats not very fun. And when 
 you finally become lv 60 you can count on that you will spend most of your days in one of the big 
 towns in WoW Looking For Groups over to join one of the overfilled guilds. Yay!
  
  These are actually the only "not good" things about WoW that I can find so I definitely recommend 
 you to experience this game by yourself. I mean I can't be right every time now can I ;) ? 
  
  FOR THE HORDE!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flame6491
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  this is the best mmorpg i have ever played the graphs are the best i have ever seen the sound is 
 amazeing the gameplay is absalutly amazeing. i have given up all other games and i have over 70 
 games and i never play any of them the lvl up syst is solid the battle syst rocks all the raids 
 groups guilds party etc. blows your mind. now the downfall it has a monthly fee yet it is low and 
 you need to have a fast comp or you will just be faced with i game about lag and getting kicked 
 off the game takes a while to learn you could be lvl 60 (the highist lvl in the game as of now) 
 and still learning new stuff. all the diferint ways to chat is mind blowing i can only hope thay 
 just keep makeing more and more expansions and so on. if i had to sum this game up in only 1 word 
 it would be .... "mindblowing" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnementh202
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Best game ive ever played believe me... you wont be disappointed its awesome. Once you play it you 
 most likely wont be able to turn away from it cause it will draw you back no matter what. My whole 
 family plays it and we cant stop playing it. I have a lvl 43 mage on it and i can kill alot. Once 
 you get to a high lvl you can kill what you normally couldnt kill in the first place.
  Kinda hard to get decent help on it but then when you do its awesome. Its awesome... but, hard to 
 describe all ive said here is what i think but everyone has their own opinions so mine doesnt count 
 much except to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryii
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing.
  
  The quests are great and there are plenty to do, no matter what level you are. The world is huge 
 but joy to walk through and take in the sights. The cities are spectacular. Very well thought out.
 
  
  Being able to create many characters is another plus, although I suggest limiting yourself to only 
 2 or 3. There is so much to do in the game that you'll never get bored. I"ve spent countless minutes 
 just asking myself what I want to do next!
  
  One of the most surprising aspects of the game is how Blizzard keeps it entertaining for the players. 
 There is always something new to go do or see.
  
  For entertainment and play value this is the best game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkp01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  There might be better MMORG's out there... but IMO this is the best one. Damn game is addictive 
 as hell and will consume your time fast. Only downside is you really have to invest huge amounts 
 of time for end game rewards. Overall great game. The rest I am typing is to fill the requirement 
 of the text portion... this stupid web site is making me type 100 words when I dont need too. blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to MMO-RPGs, I am a complete newbie. I had never played any before. I also had never 
 played any of the previous War Craft titles. So when I saw that WoW got a great score from Game 
 Spot, I figured, Hey, why not? So I went out and got the game. Starting out in the game, I was 
 amazed at how many things there were to do. The number of quest was amazing. Little did I know 
 that I had only been in my starting town. As the game progressed, I was continually surprised by 
 the number of things to do as well as places to explore. It was amazing at how big the game actually 
 was with more quest to than you could shake a stick at (or two or three for that matter) . The game 
 play starts out simple enough. As you progress through the game, you acquire more and more spells 
 and attacks to kill your enemies with. The game play in the game can stay simple for those who 
 dont want it to get harder. There is enough quest in the game to keep those who dont want to 
 get into the hardcore stuff busy. For those who want to do the hardcore gaming and obtain some 
 of the best items, there are a number of dungeons, each varying on difficulty. These dungeons require 
 strategies. With all this being said, there is something here for everyone. The locations featured 
 in the game are taken from previous War Craft titles and will be easily recognized by veteran players. 
 The games story line is also taken from previous titles and expounded upon. There are also memorable 
 characters that make their appearance in the game. Another thing worthy of mention is Blizzards 
 services to the game. They are constantly addressing issues and adding content to the game. They 
 have even added the PvP Battle Grounds that were not launched with the game. The game also features 
 a functioning economy that requires players to depend on other players professions to be able to 
 do their own. The auction house adds to this economy. With all this being said, it is really hard 
 to give the game justice in a review. It is like once you start playing it, the game grows on you 
 and your character feels like its a part of you. Its simply amazing how the game pulls you right 
 in. With all this being said, regardless of whom you are, you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMEER157
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Cool Game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game. It spans a wide and diverse cross-section of the population. 
 Women, kids, and people of all ages have found something in World of Warcraft to enjoy, and it's 
 largely due to the excellent foundation of a beautifully crafted game world to explore.
  
  If you were to begin playing this game, you would notice immediately the incredible scope of it. 
 There is enough meaningful content to keep you playing for a good long time, and enough goals and 
 plotlines to make it more than just a monster kill-fest. There is nothing revolutionary in the 
 gameplay department. Most of your time is going to be spent hunting down monsters for one reason 
 or another, but there is plenty of strategic depth. The choices you make while you level up your 
 character affect you in very apparent ways, and you can change it all at any time (for a modest 
 fee) .
  
  It's been said that this game is the perfect one to introduce someone to this unique style of online 
 gaming, and to an extent that is true. It is a real blast to party with some real life friends 
 and go through a dungeon or something, but if you aren't careful you can lose track of time while 
 you are playing. That is my biggest problem with this game, and it is why I will not play it anymore. 
 You need strong willpower to resist the urge to play, so make sure that you've got free time if 
 you get started with World of Warcraft... You'll need it.
  
  The graphics in the game may not look like much at first glance to some, but the deliberately low 
 polygon count on the character models really helps to eliminate performance issues, and also gives 
 the game a very distinctive look. Consequently the requirements to play are very low by today's 
 standards. The art design is absolutely incredible, and along with the sound creates a very believable 
 and intriguing game world.
  
  I used to believe that subscription based MMO-games were a total rip off. However, when you compare 
 the $14.99 per month fee to, say, the price of admission to a 2-hour movie, it compares very favorably. 
 Movies are in excess of $8 around here, and you can play World of Warcraft many more hours than 
 that in a month. It also tends to leave you little time for other games as well, so you will save 
 the money you would have spent on those.
  
  The bottom line is that if you are at all interested in an epic online game where you kill monsters, 
 play cooperatively with other players, and participate in some highly entertaining player vs. player 
 combat, World of Warcraft is far and away the best there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Intro: World of Warcraft is one of those games that seem to be becoming harder and harder to find. 
 Its one of those games that no matter who you are or what type of games you like to play you have 
 to at least give this a play. World of Warcraft is one of those games that keeps you addicted and 
 keeps you going. Why? Read on to find out!
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  Lets start off with the amazing stuff. The scenery is next to perfect, it has little to no flaws 
 and even those flaws are extremely minor and barely noticable. All the created environments are 
 very real and really bring you into the world! The enemy modles are also excellent and each enemy 
 is easily recognizable and of those that are similiar to real animals have been done well. Characters 
 models are also excellent and have a wide variety of cosmetic choices so you can make you character 
 look different! However it seem at some time some of those cosmetics, especially the hair seems 
 alittle flat, not a big issue though.
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  The gameplay in world of Warcraft can be summed up in two words, It Rocks. To explain that in a 
 bit more detail i'll run through the basics of how the game works. Once you get started and go 
 running around you'll quickly figure out what to do as the game is simple to understand, but difficult 
 to master. To attack enemies you can cick on them and as long as your in range you attacks will 
 begin, you also have a skills bar that can hold a certain amount of skills which will be useful 
 in certain battles, there are pletny of skills to keep you busy with. Apart from battling there 
 are over 2000 quests to complete between all 9 classes and all 8 races. There are also three huge 
 continets, two of which are basically connected all set in the world of Azeroth with its own unuque 
 history. You can spend your time exploring these places which will take many days just to get througha 
 continent or two and if you stop to do the quests as well, well you can guess fory ourself how 
 long that would take!
  Also you have the PvP (player verse player) option in which you can take on your opposing faction 
 (either Allianceor Horde) in this type of game you get to level up your character with competition 
 from opposing players as well as full scale wars!
  Each race has their own special skills, talents and weapon abilities and some races can only use 
 certain classes! For those of you who are interested the races and classes are: ALLIANCE; Human, 
 Dwarf, Night elf, Gnome. HORDE; Undead, Orc, Troll, Tauren. CLASSES: Warrior, Paladin, Hunter, 
 Warlock, Shaman, Priest, Druid, Rogue, Mage.
  
  Sound 8/10:
  In a few words I hate to say it, but in most cases the backgrouns music is boring. Hwever most 
 of the time you don't have any time to concentrate on it and the sound effects make up for it. 
 From jumping sounds, enemies attacking, crying, laughing and screaming all sound effects have been 
 done incredibly well and are worthy of praise! There are some cool skills sound effects too!
  
  Replay Value 10/10:
  8 Playable Races, 9 Playable Classes, Over 2000 Quests, 3 Continents 
 to Explore, Constant Updates and events, epic weapons, pets, guilds, RPing and more. If that does 
 spell out Replay Value to you in big neon letters then you seriously need to pay some more games! 
 I guess I don't need to say much more than that!
  
  Server Reliability / Monthly Fee:
  I thought I should discuss both of these since I know many people have been put of by both these 
 factors. Lets start with the servers. The servers on the whole are very reliable and work well, 
 there have been cases where people are booted off for unknown reasons, but they aren't all that 
 common. There are also server queues at peal times however as long as you have a few characters 
 on different servers there should be a free server. Also, I live in Australia and because of time 
 change I rartely am on a peak time and may not be a good judge of this as it is almost always fine 
 for me.
  Now the monthly fee, coming from my experience it really is worth the money, I don't like to pay 
 the fee, but you would have to buy about 4 or 5 games to get one of this size and depth and that 
 would cost more, for a while anyway. I recommed you buy a trail version first for $2 and see if 
 you like it, thats what Idid.
  
  Outro 9.8/10:
  World of Warcraft is an excellent game and not really one you can afford to miss. It has months 
 and months of gamplay which will keep you entertained and addicted, the graphics and sound are 
 fantastic and there is a great challenge to the game. So, will you play as Horde or Alliance? Thtas 
 probably only the question you ned to ask! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralCaesar25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I first started this game because some of my work buddies played it. One of my friends is a guildmaster 
 and let my character join his guild. Eventhough being in his guild has not played off yet it is 
 good to be part of a group. I would recommend to all players. If you choose a Warlock get a wand. 
 It is the best thing in the beginning. When I first started playing I first created a Troll Hunter 
 I was just messing around with him for 23 levels. Finally I just deleted him and started an undead 
 Warlock. They are the best. Remember do not destroy anything that you are carrying at minimum you 
 can sell items to the vendors. It is best to trick newbies into buying items that you have found 
 for all their money. I got my first piece of Gold when I was a level 6 warlock. Actually it is 
 fairly easy to do while you are completing quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Loved this game at first it suxed but i put my noes to the grindstone played hard and fast and 
 finaly got a 60 from then on it was cool. end game content is fun with prober skill and gear and 
 you have joined a proper guild.
  Alliance is fun Hord is better for the PvP people the shamans are very fun and hord get a easyer 
 time.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 with prober UI's
  Graphics - 8/10 its a blizz game what do you exspect the world is good but the characters are toons
 
  Sound - 10/10 Great sound trak
  Value - 10/10 its a MOMRPG youc an always make a Alt
  
  Difficulty will range person to person becasue UI's help people im loded with them CT raid assist, 
 Scrolling battle text, Call to Arms, Titan pannel, Decursives, ect. I had no prob with the controls 
 but if your an EQ2 or guild wars person you can be over welmed with the amont of hotkeys (guild 
 wars has 8 WoW can have up to 32 i think or more with good UI's)
  
  BTW UI's are user interfaces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto_136
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best pc games ever. Your proably thinking what is he thinking but i think 
 this game is terrific. I played this game for about two weeks now and i have loved since day one. 
 I heard there is a upcoming expansion pack to world of warcraft called the burning crusade and 
 i also heard it is coming out this year. But proably they will come out with a bonus pack with 
 world of warcraft and its expansion pack supposedly called the burning crusade. Well if they come 
 out with a bonus pack that costs less than world of warcraft and its bonus pack combined some people 
 will be mad including me. Well they proably will make a bonus pack and people will be mad or sad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: id_dmitri
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  So here is the story: 
  
  One day while I was playing another mmorpg my friend came and said why you are playing this game; 
 come to World of Warcraft play with me should be lots of fun. So I decided to check what this game 
 is all about. He gave me the http://www. worldofwarcraft. com website. The game looks awesome so 
 I without any hesitation called my friend and said, dude lets play it together. He was happy to 
 hear that I think and I was pretty optimistic about it. So last week I went to the store and bought 
 World of Warcraft. Installation was easy didn't have any problems, patching was kind of boring 
 but it was cool since I had a wow guide book to read while installing everything. 
  
  Next was the step of creating an account with monthly subscription etc. I bought game card with 
 the game as well so I entered the code. So here I am at login screen: entered name and password 
 then came up this window that suggests what server you should play on. Since I wanted to play with 
 my friend I don't really needed it and I went straight to server selection window where I choose 
 Eredar. Then I selected my troll character, entered username and clicked on Accept button and I 
 got "Creation of that race and/or class is currently disabled message." I've tried multiple times 
 and still got this message. I was very disappointed so called my friend and said everything about 
 it. He told me to go on blizzard website into support section and ask blizzard employee to help 
 you. So I did and in my mind was pretty optimistic about it. 
  
  I've sent message at around 3pm ET and received an answer around 20 hours later, pretty bad since 
 I kind of lost almost 1 day of my playtime. When I opened the message in my hotmail inbox all I 
 saw was something like we can't create the account because we disabled creation of the character 
 for now and that you should wait. Of course I can wait week or so no problem with me but what about 
 membership money. So I asked and 2 hours later I got the message saying something like that we 
 won't give you money back because you can create character on other servers and play. I was like 
 WTF why would I want to create character on another server when I want to play with my friend? 
 THIS IS THE WHOLE REASON I BOUGHT THE GAME. When I bought the game my intentions were to play with 
 my friend not to go to random server and get bored. They could've worn before blocking character 
 creation at least. Now I wasted almost 100dollars including monthly fee for nothing only disappointment. 
 
  
  Worst service I've seen. : (
  
  Here is the link just to prove how sad it really is: http://forums. worldofwarcraft. com/thread. aspx? fn=wow-tech-support&t=689465&p=1&tmp=1#post689465 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_dark7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  yes it has taken me this long to actually get the game. and it makes me sad to think i waited this 
 long.
  
  look, if you dont have this game, GET IT. i dont care if you dont feel like paying monthly payments. 
 just try it. you get the first month free so if you dont like it then dont continue the subscription. 
 and if your afraid you wont like it and dont want to pay for the game itself, then simply borrow 
 it from someone who does have it. luckely you dont need the discs to play this game.
  
  so now you dont have an excuse. try out this game, and dont judge it after the first few levels. 
 cause youve barely scratched the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ams714
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Wow is exactly how to describe this amazing game, which is Ironic thats its the name of the game 
 as well, lol. 
  
  The Graphics and Sound, Along with the different roles you can take on in this game are all outstanding. 
 
  
  For the longest time I really wasn't super into these types of games and thought i wouldn't be, 
 expecially the ones you pay online. However After using a trial from my brother in Law to check 
 it out, I was astounded. This game is great, You have many choices in Races, and how to set up 
 your player. Then once you start the quests its addicting. I've spent so many hours and continue 
 to spend nights and days when i'm able to ,playing this great game Blizzard bestowed on all of 
 us. Now i'm a Wow junkie (Can't get enough, lol) . I agree with everyone who has stated this game 
 ROCKS 100%.
  
  Worth the money, and the game time of playing. I"m absolutly positive we will all enjoy the Expansion 
 due out soon:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magrappy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  A faster game then others like FFXI with slightly less power put in to the hands of others on how 
 your game will play out. Someone not willing to dedicate their lives to online rpg's could play 
 this from time to time and still feel your advancing through the vast worlds. The battle system 
 is great and advances every step with upgrades and weapons. The vast aray of race's and jobs to 
 choose from will keep you going well after you max your first character out. Gold is easy to come 
 by and you wont have to spend days farming like in other online rpg's. Im yet to see a hacker on 
 my server so i dont think there is any, which is what wrecked other games like PSO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool and it is just perfect, and you can do so many things that you dont realize. 
 All i have to say is if you want a game that fits everyone and is fun and is never boring and is 
 just completly fun this is the game to play. If you dont like it, send me a message and I will 
 give you your money back. I was just kidding about the money but i was never kidding about the 
 game, this game is cool and you will not be dissapointed, get the game, play and have tons of fun. 
 But dont have too much fun, and try to get some sleep because this game is going to get addicted 
 and you wont stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fastnfurious_27
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game i have ever played in my life.... from the amazing graphics and settings to 
 the addicting gameplay. Awesome looking character models and much more. You have to play this game 
 to believe it! I have been playing it ever since it just came out. GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET 
 IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! 
 GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! 
 GET IT!! GET IT!! GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The World of Warcraft which takes place after the events of Warcraft 3 Frozen Throne pits players 
 in an online realm where they can due it out with other players from all over the world and form 
 alliances with friends and what not in order to go on hunting raids or other attacks on enemies. 
 The game is quite diverse as it allows each of its players to pick characters from different races 
 such as the normal humans, barbaric orcs, mysterious night elves, scary undead, and many other 
 characters all from the warcraft universe. Then with these characters within your own control you 
 can slowly build them up in an addicting game where you just can't stop playing the game. Currently 
 the maximum level is at 60 however if you want to stay at the top in the pecking order of the ladder 
 then you'd better keep on playing the game non-stop. Although it is addicting the game itself is 
 a very fun game for people of all ages no matter what or from wherever htey are from. I would definately 
 recommend this game for any die hard RPG fans of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotgunShogun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  When I originally set out to review World of Warcraft, one of the most critically and commercially 
 successful games of all time, I reconsidered. Despite being a regular on the GameFAQs World of 
 Warcraft forum for almost a year, and a regular visitor of that website for almost four years, 
 I had never before reviewed a game. I decided to wait, build my chops by reviewing a few other 
 games first. That was two months ago as I write this (January '06) . Though admittedly I didn't 
 exactly challenge myself with the nine game's I chose to review (making this my tenth, what I perceived 
 to be a kind of milestone) , I believe have gotten a grasp on the art. Such a massively successful 
 game deserves a critical, in-depth examination of what made it so popular in the first place.
 
  
  Since it first appeared for the PC in the early 90s, the Warcraft franchise has been one of the 
 most phenomenally successful franchises in PC gaming history (Only Half-Life and Starcraft come 
 close, and Starcraft is by the same developers) . Warcraft: Orcs & Humans created the Real Time 
 Strategy genre, and pioneered one of the earliest Peer to Peer multiplayer options in PC Gaming. 
 It's sequel, Tides of Darkness, improved upon the infrastructure of the original by offering increased 
 micromanagement options and nearly tripling the tech tree.
  
  Warcraft fell under the radar for a while when Blizzard Entertainment turned it's attention to 
 Diablo and Starcraft. It proved to be a turning point in Blizzard's career - both games supported 
 Blizzard's new Battle. net computer network. For the first time in the history of gaming, people 
 from around the world could meet anonymously and compete against one another using this crazy gadget 
 brought to us by the U. S. Government called The Internet. No more bungling around with TCP/IP 
 connections, no more exchanging phone numbers. Battle. net revolutionized online gaming, and is 
 arguably one of the contributing factors towards the Internet's mainstream popularity today. The 
 phenomenal success of Diablo II solidified Battle. net as the most successful internet gaming hub 
 on the planet.
  
  When Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos appeared, Blizzard had once again outdone themselves. While many 
 maintain that Starcraft is the superior game, Reign of Chaos had a few aspects in it's favor which 
 allowed it to hold it's own. First, the game had a 3-dimensional game engine, a first for a Blizzard 
 RTS. Starcraft utilized tricks of perspective to create a 3-dimensonial environment; Reign of Chaos 
 actually was 3D. But more importantly, Blizzard introduced an experience system for Hero units, 
 an introduction to the franchise that would prove prophetic.
  
  When World of Warcraft was first announced, the response from gamers was overwhelming. Blizzard 
 already had some of the most successful PC games of all time under their belts, and had produced 
 cult SNES classics like The Lost Vikings and Rock n' Roll Racing. Blizzard was famous for working 
 wonders with anything they were given, and doubtless they could do the same with the Massively 
 Multiplayer Online RPG genre. But the choice of Warcraft was interesting. Diablo was already the 
 clearly established RPG from Blizzard; why take such a great RTS formula like Warcraft and make 
 it into an MMO? In the end, it broke down to backstory and pre-established characters, both of 
 which Warcraft completely whipped Diablo in.
  
  The genre of Massively Multiplayer Online RPG was not only a mouthful to say, it was a mouthful 
 to play. The genre featured seemingly limitless gameplay options, and indeed the first MMOs released 
 almost ten years ago still have small but highly active communities. The first successful MMO was 
 Ultima Online, which took the cult text adventure game and created one of the first worlds where 
 people interacted in large groups. Everquest soon followed, and immediately proved the superior. 
 Indeed, Everquest was arguably the most dominant of all the MMOs right up until the release of 
 World of Warcraft.
  
  So Blizzard had a lot on their plate, and a lot to live up to. They had the reputation of being 
 one of the best (if not the best) PC Game developers out there, had a legendary and famous gaming 
 world to create in its entirety, and had already successful MMOs like Everquest and Dark Age of 
 Camelot to contend with. Long story short, Blizzard not only lived up to expectations, Blizzard 
 surpassed them. But the game has a few flaws, and makes some claims which frankly it doesnt live 
 up to. And then theres the community of people who you have to interact with. But more on that 
 later.
  
  Blizzard made no secret that most of the developers of World of Warcraft were experienced players 
 of other MMOs, particularly Everquest. This experience would prove invaluable. SOE (producers of 
 Everquest, Star Wars Galaxies and Matrix Online MMOs to name a few) had been criticized for years 
 for not listening to their players, and making arbitrary changes based on statistics and not actual 
 game experience. In a sense, Warcraft was being developed by players for players. And the developers 
 did a fantastic job, taking all of the great things about games like Everquest, Dark Age of Camelot 
 and Ultima Online and putting them into Warcraft, while leaving out the bad things (grinding for 
 endless hours and spawn camping being most notable amongst these) .
  
  Other MMOs featured level caps which very few players would actually reach. Even an extremely dedicated 
 player could take a year, perhaps longer, to reach the level cap. To make matters worse, the constant 
 stream of Expansion Packs (ironically a concept pioneered by Blizzard) released for these games 
 regularly raised the level cap, but didnt really offer much in terms of new content to actually 
 gain those extra levels. This is by far the way in which World of Warcraft stands out from its 
 peers. 
  
  The average player can take anywhere between ten and twenty days of total played time to reach 
 the level cap, while other MMOs the same amount of time would get you maybe halfway. Despite the 
 fact that Warcraft caters itself as the Casual Players MMO, you still need to dedicate a lot 
 of time to it. If you dont have the time to commit at least one or two hours a day to it, you 
 wont reasonably get anywhere. Once you reach the endgame content, that time can easily reach to 
 four or five hours a day.
  
  Grinding is a thing of the past as well. Though you certainly can grind (repeatedly killing the 
 same group of enemies over and over for experience) if you really wanted to, its not really as 
 much fun as gaining experience levels through quests. Though at its heart Warcraft is like other 
 MMOs in that majority of your experience levels are gained through grinding, the developers attempted 
 to disguise this fact by adding in quests. Quests are received from NPC (Non Playable Characters) 
 in Quest Hubs in each of the games Zones. Some quests are only available to players from a 
 specific faction, but the majority of them are open to players of both factions.
  
  Quests have a goal which must be accomplished, typically consisting of Go to this place, find 
 this kind of monster, and kill X amount of them. Others include Go to this place, find this kind 
 of monster, and kill them until you get X amount of this item or Go to this place, find this 
 NPC and talk to him. There are a handful of quests which have unique aspects to them, such as 
 Events which require players to interact and change the environment around them to accomplish 
 goals, but the overwhelming majority of quests are just massive grinds in disguise.
  
  Is this petty? Yes, it really is. But if you can get around the fact that Quests are really just 
 a method of tricking you into grinding, it really does prove to be quite fun as the experience 
 rewards for quests are pretty good, and many of the best equipment you can get while leveling are 
 received through quests. Each quest is gauged by difficulty relative to your experience level, 
 and a color-coding system tells you how hard it is. Grey is a quest you shouldnt even bother with, 
 Green quests will be easy, Yellow quests will be average, Orange quests will be difficult and Red 
 quests you shouldnt even attempt. 
  
  The more experience levels you gain, the more quests your character will become eligible for, the 
 harder the quests will become and the more lucrative the rewards will be. Some quests require a 
 party to complete, and are marked as Elite. Quests which require multiple parties are marked Raid, 
 quests which require you to enter a dungeon are marked Dungeon. It is entirely possible to level 
 all the way to the level cap only doing Quests.
  
  Another complaint many people had about other MMOs is the focus on Group Play. Some games (Final 
 Fantasy XI comes to mind) are regularly ridiculed because the players usually spend more time sitting 
 around waiting for a group to form then actually playing the game. The developers of Warcraft originally 
 claimed that they were going to remove the emphasis from Group Play and offer solo content for 
 players. They sort of have lived up to this promise, but only sort of. Each of the games nine 
 classes are capable of soloing all the way to level 60 with varying degrees of ease. 
  
  But there are several hurdles along the way where grouping speeds things along greatly, and once 
 you hit level 55 or so you are left with two options: One, spend the next few weeks on one long, 
 endless grind (Quests are shockingly scarce after level 55, especially ones you can solo) . Two, 
 spend the next few days in 5-man groups raiding the level 55 dungeons. The game lauds itself as 
 the Casual Mans MMO and constantly sells the point that You can solo the entire time but frankly, 
 it isnt true. Most of the games best equipment at any level can only be obtained through extensive 
 grouping and constant raiding on dungeons (which itself would be considered grinding, another thing 
 the game professes to be rid of) , and the higher you grow in level the more emphasis is placed 
 on forming groups.
  
  Which isnt to say that all of the group play isnt fun - each class has a multitude of roles rather 
 then just being stuck with one job (more on that later) and if you find yourself in a good group 
 the experience is infinitely more enjoyable then any solo work. My point is, the game sells itself 
 as the MMORPG for soloing, and if you buy this game for that point alone then you will find yourself 
 sorely disappointed and frustrated.
  
  Other MMOs usually feature a wide range of classes, but sadly many of these classes had a hard 
 time finding groups since either their job was next-to-useless or simply wasnt as valuable as 
 a job another class could do. Blizzard attempted to defeat this trend by giving each class several 
 different tasks they could do, lending a kind of gray area to many of the classes. In the event 
 a Priest cannot be found, for example, a Druid can stand in as a healer, or in a pinch even a Shaman 
 or Paladin could take the job. Not only does this increase the speed of groups forming, it removes 
 the emphasis on playing a useful class to feel wanted. This gray area in class roles is a double-edged 
 sword, however.
  
  Sometimes classes have so many different jobs (Warlocks, Paladins, Shamans) , or their best role 
 is sometimes so unclear (Druid, Rogue, Hunter) that the player playing them refuses to do the job, 
 and the entire group suffers. For example, you couldnt find a Priest for your group so you found 
 a Druid stand-in. The problem is, the Druid is specced for Feral (more on that later) and is refusing 
 to heal, which was the only reason he was asked to come in the first place. This isnt really a 
 game design problem as it is a community problem, and the appearance of these bad apples isnt 
 nearly as common as people might lead you to believe.
  
  Each of the games nine classes has a multitude of different skills, each of which aids the player 
 or the players group in defeating their enemies. Each class has an ideal job that the player 
 is supposed to complete to contribute to the group, and depending on the player these ideals work 
 with varying degrees of success. First is the Warrior, a real brute force class which is capable 
 of dealing moderate amounts of damage and soaking up lots themselves. While adventuring alone, 
 Warriors use a furious barrage of damaging attacks to defeat their opponents. While in a group, 
 Warriors use humiliation and threats to keep their enemies focused on them, keeping the heat off 
 the rest of the group.
  
  Rogues utilize stealth to get the jump on their opponent, dealing lots of damage to their opponents 
 offset by taking lots of damage themselves. Rogues contribute to a group by opening locked doors 
 and chests and neutralizing certain targets during combat. Mages, meanwhile, add an explosive punch 
 to a group and can distribute free food and water to his allies. Warlocks cast debilitating curses 
 and slowly drain the life out of their enemies, and their demon allies can act as weaker stand-ins 
 for a missing class.
  
  Hunters, meanwhile, send a constant rain of damage to their enemies and distract individual enemies 
 with their pets. Priests heal themselves and their allies, or can deal damage in a pinch. Druids 
 are the jack-of-all-trades classes, able to act as a perfunctory healer, tank or damage dealer 
 as the situation arises. Shamans are a melee spell casting class with some healing ability while, 
 Paladins are a melee healing class with some buffing ability.
  
  Each class has three different Talent Trees which are related to Diablo IIs Skill Trees. By 
 putting Talent Points which are gained with each successive experience level into a Talent Tree, 
 the player can enhance the abilities of his class by small margins. One talent will reduce the 
 summoning time for Demons, while another will increase the critical hit rate of your attacks, while 
 still one more will decrease the cooldowns on your most powerful skills. By pouring enough talents 
 into one tree, called speccing, you can create a unique character with different skills and 
 playing style compared to others of your same class. I put unique in quotations because even though 
 players are encouraged to develop their own talent combinations, the overwhelming majority of players 
 use the exact same talent builds. These are called Cookie Cutter Builds and are a natural consequence 
 of a conformist society.
  
  Each class in the game is available only to specific races of the games two factions, the Alliance 
 and Horde. The Alliance get Humans, Night Elves, Dwarves and Gnomes while the Horde have Orcs, 
 Tauren, Trolls and the Undead. Each faction has their own cities and flightpaths, and each race 
 has unique Racial Talents they can use. Tauren, for example, gain a natural bonus to the Herbalism 
 tradeskill (more on that later) , while Humans can gain a temporary bonus to the Stealth Detection. 
 Unlike Class Talents, Racial Talents are not progressive and remain the same no matter what your 
 level.
  
  Each of the games two continents are divided into fifteen zones, each of which are divided by 
 relative experience level required to quest there and which faction that zone belongs to (more 
 on that later) . Most zones have a quest hub, usually a town or encampment which contains NPCs 
 that offer quests for players to compete. Some zones contain more then one quest hub, each usually 
 associated with one of the two factions and containing guards to prevent players from raiding the 
 town (more on that later) .
  
  The world of Azeroth is huge, which is both a good and a bad thing. There is never a shortage of 
 zones to quest in, but the higher in level you grow the further and further apart these zones become. 
 Even the addition of prohibitively expensive mounts make getting from place to place a long, laborious 
 and sometimes expensive process. Highest level players can usually expect anywhere between ten 
 minutes to a half hour to reach their destination from their factions capital city. Some zones 
 are even so large that just getting around them on foot seems to take a ridiculous amount of time 
 (The Barrens, Stranglethorn Vale and Felwood all come to mind) .
  
  In addition to class and racial talents, there is a third aspect to a players characters which 
 can make him unique to others. That is tradeskills. Each character on a players account can learn 
 up two Professions and three Secondary Skills. Professions range from Blacksmithing, Tailoring 
 and Leatherworking, which let you make your own armor, to more specialized skills like Alchemy. 
 Engineers get to make fun toys which help them in combat, while Enchanters can improve weapons 
 and armor using magical reagents disenchanted from other items. Mining, Skinning and Herbalism 
 lets the player gather reagents used in other tradeskills. 
  
  Secondary Skills dont really improve your character much, since any player can and usually does 
 have them. By far the most useful is First Aid, which lets the player make and apply bandages using 
 cloth looted from enemies. Fishing lets the player fish while Cooking lets the player make food 
 using fish or meat looted from enemies. All Professions and Secondary Skills are ranked in 300 
 skill levels, and more recipes can be learned from NPCs or from enemy drops based on your skill 
 level. There are no restrictions based on class for who can use what tradeskill, but obviously 
 for a Warrior to have Tailoring is pretty silly. 
  
  When it comes to dungeons, Warcraft is at its strongest. Ranging in length from between a half 
 hour to five hours in length (if you already know what youre doing) , each dungeon in the game 
 is instanced. What this means is that when you and your group enter the dungeon through its 
 swirling portal, it creates a private dungeon that only you and your party can interact with. The 
 dungeon will always be the same no matter how many different instances of it you create, but this 
 isnt the point. 
  
  The point of instancing the dungeons is to prevent a problem that was prevalent in many other MMOs. 
 Oftentimes, you and your group would spend hours on end clearing a dungeon, finally reaching your 
 goal. You stop to rest, prepping to take on this last challenge. Youre five seconds from attacking, 
 when from out of nowhere another group appears and steals your kill. They went through the entire 
 dungeon with little or no work because youve already killed everything, and they got to reap the 
 rewards. It was one of the most disheartening and miserable experiences in other MMOs, and thankfully 
 it doesnt exist at all in the World of Warcraft.
  
  The game features a multitude of varied and unique instance dungeons. They range from the ruins 
 of a troll empire, to a castle overwhelmed by werewolves and ghosts. The game has over 20 instance 
 dungeons, each tailored for different kinds of groups and experience levels. The largest chunk 
 of World of Warcrafts endgame takes place in these dungeons, which brings me to my next point.
 
  
  In order to truly succeed in this game, the most important thing a player will need is a good, 
 active and large guild. Personally Im not real thrilled about this. In order to do the games 
 most biggest dungeons with the best equipment, you need to have a large guild with at least forty 
 active members. Many small but active guilds are forced to assimilate into other, larger guilds 
 to accomplish anything. Blizzard has repeatedly promised to include more content for small groups 
 with equipment that can compete with the raid dungeons, but thus far they havent delivered. The 
 last small group content they included was Silithus in 1.8 patch, which ultimately broke down into 
 another reputation grind for items that werent very good and culminated in - you guessed it - 
 a raid boss. Luckily, small guilds can still compete in the PvP Battlegrounds (more on that later) .
 
  
  If you can get yourself into a large, active guild then it can actually turn out to be one of the 
 most rewarding things in the game. Unfortunately, any guild that is large enough to run the 40-man 
 dungeons regularly is bound to have personality clashes within. Needless drama will naturally ensue, 
 which frequently spills out into other guilds or onto the Warcraft forums. Luckily, most servers 
 have multiple Endgame Guilds, and server populations are always on the rise. So at least you have 
 options.
  
  Thus far I have only discussed the PvE (Player versus Environment) aspects of World of Warcraft. 
 Even though this game is largely PvE in nature, there are a number of aspects to it which lend 
 very well to PvP (Players versus Player) . Not without its flaws, the Player versus Player part 
 of the game in nevertheless one of the most promising and enduring parts of the game. Long after 
 the adventures in Molten Core and Blackwing Lair grow tiring, there will still be the thrill of 
 fighting off invading forces in the games many PvP environments.
  
  The first and most important part of PvP is the Honor System. When a player defeats another player 
 of the opposing faction who is within a certain level range, the winning player is awarded a number 
 of Honor Points. Every Tuesday, a players accumulated honor is added together and compared to 
 other players. Players are then organized into 14 different ranks based on how much honor they 
 accumulated and what their rank was the previous week. The higher ones honor rank, the more PvP 
 Rewards they get.
  
  There are several kinds of PvP in World of Warcraft: World PvP, Duels and Battleground PvP. The 
 former mostly takes place on specially designated PvP Servers (more on that later) , but mostly 
 doesnt mean much. For a few months after it was released, World PvP was quite common and was indeed 
 the only way to get a good chunk of real PvP in. But since the release of Battlegrounds, World 
 PvP has all but ceased and has instead been replaced by ganking (more on that later) . 
  
  In its prime, World PvP meant that a player was actively seeking fair and balanced PvP by attacking 
 other players or towns. What would begin as a single Rogue picking fights with a Druid could easily 
 escalate into a zone-wide battle royale. World PvP came to a halt thanks in no small part to Blizzard. 
 They made some radical changes to the games honor system which effectively ended the concept. 
 First, the inclusion of Battlegrounds significantly reduced peoples interest in raiding other 
 towns. Secondly and more importantly, Blizzard made the killing of Civilian NPCs detrimental to 
 a players honor. World PvP still happens, but the raid must be planned well in advance and it 
 usually only happens within guilds.
  
  Duels, on the other hand, are entirely voluntarily. Usually occurring outside the cities of Orgrimmar 
 and Ironforge, a duel is initiated when one player challenges another. After a small countdown, 
 the duel begins and the two players battle until one is defeated. Unlike in normal PvP, duels do 
 not award honor nor does the loser die. The battles also dont really reflect on World or Battleground 
 PvP very well, as both players are aware that they are in a fight and both players are given ample 
 opportunity to prepare beforehand.
  
  Lastly and most significantly is the Battleground PvP. Part instance, part World PvP, Battlegrounds 
 put two teams of each faction against each other to complete goals and earn bonus honor. Warsong 
 Gulch is a standard Capture The Flag mode for ten players. Arathi Basin pits two teams of fifteen 
 against one another, trying to capture resource nodes. The more nodes you have, the faster your 
 resource count rises. The first team to 2000 wins. Lastly is Alterac Valley, which sets two teams 
 of forty players against one another in what is the closest thing World of Warcraft has to being 
 like its RTS counterparts. Completing quests in the battleground will improve your teams NPC 
 units, and attacking the enemy outposts can cripple their ability to send in reinforcements and 
 significantly reduce the number of NPCs on the battlefield.
  
  Battlegrounds were a good idea, but sadly theres a severe problem with them. Like endgame dungeons, 
 there are large guilds on each server who focus almost entirely on running Battlegrounds. Getting 
 matched up against one of these guilds is obviously a painful experience, especially if your group 
 is substandard. And unless you get in on your own PvP guild, chances are your group will be suck. 
 Blizzard initially had a good idea going to make sure that players who couldnt compete with the 
 other faction would at least get something out of it.
  
  In one patch, Blizzard came up with a good idea for Battleground rewards. If the team wins a Battleground, 
 they would receive three Marks of Honor. The losing team would only receive one. Turning in three 
 Marks of Honor to that Battlegrounds quartermaster would award the player an honor and reputation 
 bonus. But Blizzard has recently gotten the idea that persistence against overwhelming odds should 
 not be rewarded. Now if the team gets absolutely spanked, meaning the battle doesnt last more 
 then ten minutes, they dont receive a Mark of Honor. Most of the PvP Guilds the player can get 
 matched up against, especially at level 60, can be so far ahead of the average pick up group that 
 the opposing team can usually win in a few minutes. Getting into a good PvP guild is essential 
 to Battleground success, and since there are ten and fifteen man instances available this is where 
 the small guild really shines.
  
  The World of Warcraft is spread across over 120 different servers. The world is, for the most part, 
 identical on each server, only the players on the server change. The different servers are divided 
 into four different varieties: Normal, PvP, RP and RP-PvP. Normal servers have no special rules 
 in any zone, and a player must be flagged for PvP to be attacked by the opposing faction. RP servers 
 are technically the same as Normal servers, but have a stricter rule set on chat and encourage 
 players to perform, or roleplay, as their characters. PvP Servers automatically flag players for 
 PvP when they enter certain zones, and were formerly the best place to experience World PvP until 
 Battlegrounds completely destroyed that part of the game. RP-PvP Servers are PvP Servers with an 
 RP ruleset.
  
  Each different server has its pros and cons. Normal servers are generally the easiest to level 
 on, but have no impromptu PvP. PvP Servers, originally the king of World PvP, have been reduced 
 largely to gankfests. Ganking is when you are attacked by another player, who usually has a large 
 advantage over you. Ganking is initially fun and a thrill, but it grows tedious quickly and many 
 players (myself included) have grown weary of endless death against overwhelming odds. Resourceful 
 players have even found ways to harass other players on PvP servers - casting Mind Control and 
 throwing enemy players into pools of lava, for example. Unless youre a diehard PvP nut, avoid 
 PvP Servers with a passion. Battlegrounds on Normal servers offer plenty of PvP for the average 
 player.
  
  The games community is really hit-or-miss. With a broad range of maturity, its not uncommon to 
 find yourself in a group with a complete idiot and another player who is sharp as a razor. This 
 is unsurprising; World of Warcraft draws its player base from many MMOs (including Everquest, 
 Dark Age of Camelot, Star Wars Galaxies and Ultima Online just to name a few) , as well as Diablo 
 II, Baldurs Gate and other online RPGs. For many, World of Warcraft is their first MMO and are 
 completely foreign to the basic concepts of the game, including class roles and how much time one 
 has to dedicate to succeed.
  
  Despite the games flaws, it is overall an incredibly enjoyable experience whose longevity depends 
 almost entirely on the community the player gets involved in. The player who spends the entire 
 game alone, unguided and ignoring the majority of the population probably wont enjoy it much, 
 and will eventually reach a dead end at level 60 when they have nothing left to accomplish. Whatever 
 the players preference, be it PvE, PvP, roleplaying or just socializing, how much fun the player 
 has is based almost entirely on the quality of his guild.
  
  With one of the flat-out longest running continuous plotline in video gaming, it's no surprise 
 that the Warcraft franchise has one of the best storylines out there. Though each installment in 
 the series takes liberties with the older games, changing older stories to convenience a new plot 
 twist, it doesn't seem petty. The story only grows better with age. With this considerable inheritance 
 in tow, it's natural that the story in World of Warcraft be splendiferous. But because of the MMO 
 nature of the game, players addicted to previous installments constant plot development may find 
 themselves disappointed by WoW's story.
  
  If you look at it from a reasonable standpoint, however, it actually makes sense. World of Warcraft 
 actually does have as much plot development as previous games. But because this plot development 
 is buried in hundreds of quests spread over months and months of gameplay, it's a little bit harder 
 to appreciate it. Imagine reading the Lord of the Rings, but only reading one sentence a day. This 
 is sort of how the story is delivered in Warcraft: In tiny, insignificant chunks over a great deal 
 of time. Every so often, you get a big chunk which pushes the story further.
  
  World of Warcraft picks up several years after the events in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. In 
 case you missed it, or didn't care to play it, here's how things shaped up at it's end (Spoiler 
 Alert) : Arthas has bonded his soul with the Lich King and rules the Undead Scourge. Sylvanas Windrunner 
 has regained control of her mind, and leads a band of Undead rebels known as the Forsaken (who 
 have allied themselves with the Horde out of convenience more then ideals) . Illidan, who is not 
 dead, has lead his army of Naga and Blood Elves back to Outland and is currently consolidating 
 his power. Lordaeron has been completely decimated by the Undead, and is now ruled by the two warring 
 Undead factions of the Scourge and the Forsaken.
  
  I could go in-depth with the story like I did with the gameplay, but it would triple the size of 
 this review (which is already excessively large) so I won't bother. Every few months Blizzard releases 
 a "Major Content Patch" which typically introduces a new dungeon, and more importantly a new branch 
 of the storyline. Since the game's release residents of the World of Warcraft have unravelled a 
 conspiracy involving the Stormwind Monarchy and the dragon Onyxia, learned the story of the war 
 between the Trolls and the evil god Hakkar, aided in the Argent Dawn in their attack on the Plaguelands, 
 and many more. Most recently was the introduction of Silithus, where players of both factions are 
 combatting the invasion of the Silithids. There are a large number of unfinished plot strings as 
 well, including the tragedy of the Dire Maul and the origin of the Dwarves. If you're really paying 
 attention, then the story in World of Warcraft will keep you engaged for some time. And there is 
 always more to come.
  
  I am of the opinion that the keyboard and mouse is the most efficient video game controller on 
 the planet, even though it is not necessarily the easiest to learn. Therefore any game that contains 
 the ability to completely remap the controls to any key or mouse button will get a 10 out of 10 
 for controls. Guess what World of Warcraft got? The controls are quick and responsive, and even 
 though the game's default User Interface isn't very efficient in terms of space used this is easily 
 remedied by the hundreds upon thousands of player-made AddOns which are available all over the 
 internet.
  
  These AddOns add to the user interface, doing many different things from adding more buttons to 
 the screen, to class specific abilities, to maps, to anything else you can possibly imagine. Since 
 there is an AddOn out there which can do just about anything you want, World of Warcraft has what 
 is probably the gaming world's first completely customizable interface. Since you can do whatever 
 you want with the controls and the interface which control them, World of Warcraft has what is 
 logically and practically speaking one of the best control setups I've ever used.
  
  Though WoW's graphics don't hold up to the graphics in Everquest 2, they are still excellent and 
 get the job done quite well. Besides, when EQ2 was originally released the computer specs didn't 
 even commercially exist to play the game at it's maximum settings (that is my favorite factoid 
 ever) . A combination of style and efficiency, the graphics look good without straining the average 
 computer too much, though you will probably still a want a top-of-the-line computer to run the 
 game with a minimum of lag.
  
  Thanks to Blizzard's brilliant art design team (/hug Samwise) , each area in the game has a very 
 unique style to them. Ironforge, a city built in the heart of a mountain, is staggeringly tall 
 with buildings that stretch from the floor to the impossibly high ceiling. Undercity, meanwhile, 
 is quite clearly a city built into a putrid sewer, and everything is very round. Each area features 
 it's own color pallette which are very different from eachother, so with a little extra playing 
 time you can identify your location just by looking around.
  
  And when it comes to the game's opening CG sequence, I just have one word to sum it up: Wow.
 
  
  I feel a bit strange writing this, but I was disappointed by Warcraft's music. Warcraft II has 
 one of my favorite soundtracks for a video game, and Warcraft's I and III weren't slouches in that 
 department either. In World of Warcraft, however, I barely notice the music when it plays and I 
 don't miss it when it stops. Which isn't to say what's there isn't good. The music that plays on 
 the game's login screen is one that plays randomly in my head quite frequently, but this is probably 
 attributed to how much I hear it more then how good it is. The music is good, it just isn't there 
 much.
  
  Sound, however, is a different story. Though there aren't any real speech bites in the game (aside 
 from some Emotive sound bites which are a nod to the original game's 'annoyed' sound effects) , 
 every spell, weapon and effect in the game has it's own easily identifiable sound. With practice, 
 you develop an ear for it and can easily identify whatever class is in combat nearby, and even 
 what abilities they are using.
  
  I had difficulty putting a numbered score on Warcraft's extras. It technically has no extras to 
 score. So should I give it a 0, a 5, or just disqualify the category? I eventually settled on just 
 disqualifying it, partly out of fanboy bias for the series, and partly because the game has no 
 clearly defined goal to begin with. Depending on how you look at it, the entire game is an Extra.
 
  
  Warcraft technically has no ending; you can keep playing it forever, achieving every goal in the 
 game but never truly "finishing it." For some, this is a great thing. For others, this is a mark 
 against it. But this is one of the defining features of a Massively Multiplayer Online game. The 
 idea is to socialize and interact with other people, not to truly beat the game outright. A clearly 
 defined ending is the hallmark of the single-player RPG (and even then, the idea is becoming less 
 and less prevalent) . If you're looking for a good chunk of game which technically never ends, then 
 Warcraft is right up your alley.
  
  The game's difficulty varies, typically based almost entirely on the competence of your team. Later 
 dungeons in the game actually take equipment into account for difficulty, but the best equipped 
 player in the game will still be worthless if they have no idea how to play their own class. Soloing 
 is no different; how hard a time you have with it, with any class, is almost entirely based on 
 how well you play your class. So if you find yourself getting completely whipped, you should ask 
 yourself two questions: What am I or my teammates doing wrong, and am I the right level? One of 
 these two factors is nearly always the deciding factor in how hard the game is.
  
  Like any MMO, Warcraft's replay value is almost entirely dependent on how you play it. The player 
 who focuses entirely on building characters as quickly as possible, devoting themselves to getting 
 the best equipment possible in the least amount of time, will find themselves bored very quickly. 
 But this is not the point of Warcraft. All MMOs have their roots in the MUDs (Multi-User Dungeons) 
 and MUSHs (Multi-User Shared Hallucinations) of the Internet's infancy. These text-based games 
 were primarily social in nature, with a little D&D inspired RPG thrown in. If you understand that 
 Warcraft is a socializing game and act accordingly, then you will find yourself happy for years 
 to come.
  
  Gameplay: 10 out of 10
  Story: 5 out of 5
  Controls: 10 out of 10
  Graphics: 5 out of 5
  Sound and Music: 4 out of 5
  Extras: Disqualified
  Game Length, Difficulty 
 and Replay Value: 9 out of 10
  Overall Score: 9.5 out of 10
  
  The Good: Warcraft's many classes and a variety of personalities playing it will appeal to a broad 
 range of players. The game has at least one aspect to it which should appeal to almost any player, 
 and with a few exceptions it doesn't slouch off in content in any of these categories.
  The Bad: The community consists of experienced MMO players and MMO first timers, both of whom regularly 
 butt heads and create a tumultuous climate. The game's varying difficulty is dependant largely 
 on how well your group functions as a whole, and just one weak link in the chain can bring the 
 whole group down. Because of the large community consisting of people of all age and maturity levels, 
 inevitably these weak links appear in every group.
  The Ugly: Warcraft doesn't live up to it's claims to be the Soloer's MMO. Though you certainly 
 can level to 60 without once entering a group, and do so easily, once you reach that milestone 
 the only content available to you is group and raid content. The recent Silithus patch was supposed 
 to be redemption to Soloers, but if this was true then Blizzard has an awful sense of humor.
  
  With it's roots buried deeply on just about every MMO released prior to now and a story already 
 deeply entrenched in the stuff of gaming legend, Warcraft is one brilliantly designed game. Despite 
 a few problems pertaining to one's ability to progress without joining a large guild and some class 
 balance issues, Warcraft is easily the best MMO to date. If you can find your niche in the community 
 and commit a few hours daily, World of Warcraft could quite possibly be the only game youll ever 
 play for a decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajykMatt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  When you first boot it up, you have to sit for about an hour waiting for it to patch up, and get 
 all the updates loaded, then the create a character starts, and there isnt enough variety to make 
 this great create a player, your bound to see a twin everyonce in a while. The graphics are extremely 
 lacking, more like a dreamcast or smoothed out PS1. There is alot to do in this game though, but 
 if you dont like having to repair EVERYTHING thats on you al the time, then this will piss you 
 right off. Its cool to fight monsters with others anytime anywhere, with no loading portals or 
 anything, its all open environment. Theres no excuse for the lame graphics though. It is veryconfusing 
 for a begginer, as to where to go, what to do, what everything does, its quite overwhelming, but 
 seems to grow on you the more you play. Overall, this is not as good as Gamespot makes it, I thouht 
 it was going to be awesome, as they rated it to be a 9.5, but definetly isnt worth that score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2887
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  WoW is a great game. I have been playing it for a long time and just doesn't really ever get old. 
 Ive played CoV and i think that its awful compared to this. This game combines the perfect ammount 
 of difficulty with the perfect game play. This game has everything that you would want a mmorpg 
 to have. If your into a great game then play this but if your into flashy looking characters and 
 bad gameplay then play CoV or soemthing else. This game will keep you playing for a long time even 
 if you dont play mmorpgs that much this one will keep you on your computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpglover101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  First off, i cant see how anyone could not like this game...... its possibly the best game ever 
 made. it works even on the horrible computers like mine and gets you totally engrossed in its questing 
 system and all dat. i could play all day long, cept im 13. but everyone in the game still accepts 
 me...... i havent told them my age.... heheheheh........... ITS LIKE THE BEST GAME EVER CREATED 
 WWWWAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYY BETTER THAN RUNESCAPE AND MAPLE STORY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! GO BUY IT ****
 
  
  
  :) IM GONNA GO PLAY IT NOW MAYBE YES, NO YES, NO, YES, NO YES NO YES NO YES NO YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES OF COURSE
  
  those are some of the affects it has on people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  This game rocks and It is more of a better game than I expected. This is one of the best multiplayer 
 games online. Well this game is abit worn off because its style of gameplay is like Everquest 2, 
 Guildwars and so on. The world is huge but one thing they need to fix but probaly some people haven't 
 noticed it. The problem is when i was walking I fell off a water fall by accident but the logs 
 caught me and I couldn't even move or get out so I had to start a new character which really got 
 me angry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a follow up to Warcraft 3, and takes place years after that game. Besides 
 that, the game dosent really have a story. But its never the meaning to see long cutscenes in 
 this type of game. Chance are you allready know World Of Warcraft. Its very popular around the 
 world, and millions of pepole have their account. Of coruse World Of Warcraft isent perfect, its 
 got some bad things, but its a game you shouldent miss. One of the bad things about the game, 
 is that you have to pay a mounthly fee, which for some pepole may seem stupid, cause they have 
 to pay for playing a game, they have gived full price for. On the good side through, that money 
 is used to update the game, with patchs, you may have see here at Gamespot. If they need money 
 to update the game, its strange that Guild Wars, another online game, which is nearly as good 
 as this, run updates without the mounthly fee. After you finally start the game, you choose a server, 
 and here you can create 10 characters. Unlike Final Fantasy 11, you dont pay extra for creating 
 a new character. The character creating is quickly done. You first choose which side you are on. 
 Will you be on the aliiance side, which has Humans, Draws, Gnomes, and Night Elfs, or do you go 
 over to the Horde, which includes Orcs, Trolls, Undead, and Treaurns. Then you select your profession. 
 Do you want to be a Paladin, so yuo can fight and heal your friends, or do you want to be a Hunter, 
 so you can hunt down animals, and get your own pet? There are more professions then these two, 
 of coruse. You cant change your profession after you have created your character, nor can you 
 change the look, and gender on yout character, you its very impordent that you think it through. 
 When you finally begin the game, you enter the world of Azeroth. Azeroth is a very big, and pretty 
 world, filled with villages, large caves, and millions of quests. Everytime you discover you discover 
 a new place, you gain exp, so exploring pays off. Whats good about this game, is that there is 
 no tortuial at start. Insted, everything gets explained as you go. When you start you have one 
 goal. Reach level 60, which is the highest level you can gain, but that will take about 40-100 
 hours. But after that, there is still much to do. You can get into battlegorunds, which pits you 
 agasint horde players. Everytime time you kill a horde, you gain honour, which lets you gain ranks. 
 Besides that, there are millions of diffirent weapons, and equipment to find. Your goal pretty 
 much also includes getting the best weapon overall. So theres much to do. If you have problems 
 with a quest, you can always call a friend. If you play with someone, you like, you can add them 
 to a friend list, so you can always contact them. A good advice is that you start playing with 
 someone you allready know, like i do. One of the other good things is that dying isent the worst 
 thing in this game world. Other games like Final Fantasy 11, and Everquest, have you losing items, 
 money, and exp when you die. Here it just means you are out for a few minutes, and your equipped 
 items, and weapons gets damaged by 10%. The gameplay dosent really have any dull moments, but 
 there are 2 problems, and one bad thing. The problems are, that when you are in a big city, with 
 lots of players like Ironforge, the frame rate runs wild. Then its hard to play. Fortunely its 
 only in citys. The secoand problem, is that sometimes, you are sundelly disconneted from your server, 
 and you cant play for few minutes. It dosent happen offen, but its a problem i would like to 
 see fixed in the expansion pack Burning Crusade. The bad thing here is that its very time consuming 
 game. Hours do fly by in a instince pretty quickley. From you start the game, to you end the game, 
 can feel like 1 hour, but you have really played for 4 hours. Someone even plays 24 hours straight, 
 which has caused some deaths. My advice is that you shouldent get to much caught in the game. 
 This game can ruin your social life. The graphics are nice, but the characters dont look quite. 
 There isent much detail in them, and they look crappy at times. You can also run directly through 
 other players, and enemies, which is wired. The sound is good. There is good effects, and very 
 good music, but if you dont like it, you can always turn off all sound in the game, and hear your 
 own music, like me. The lifesplan is huge. You can play this game for years, and its unlikely 
 that you stick to one character, and create more characters. Overall, World Of Warcraft is a great 
 online game. Its not perfect, but it comes close. Just watch out, that the game dosent grab you 
 so much, that you will spend many hours in a row. Some times you have to take a break. I sometimes 
 take a mouths pause, and so you should you sometimes. But when you play this game, its a great 
 game, and you will be happy that you did buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I'd held out for some time on playing a MMORPG for most of the standard reasons. Couldn't justify 
 spending 50 bux on a game, then plop down another 15-20 for monthly fees. Plus, I hate a-hole kids 
 whose sole purpose is to harass and annoy, killing my chars at inopportune moments. Also, being 
 called "gay" or a "noob" every other minute?... no thanks (previous experiences have been with Battlefield 
 1942, Counterstrike, and Deus Ex) .
  
  After watching a friend, and listen to him rave on and on about WoW... combined with a 29.99$ special 
 at Worst Buy, I finally picked it up. After about fifteen minutes of character creation, chatting 
 with relatively intelligent players, and questing in parties, I was hooked.
  
  Hooked bad.
  
  Sunday night at 2am, I decided that it was time to get to bed so I could go 
 to work the next day (stupid work) .
  
  To date, I've created two characters, hooked up with a number of players, and convinced my friends 
 to throw down the cash.
  
  Highly addictive, highly worth your time!!!
  
  NDNJedi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  its an ok game i like it a little i pay 5$ a month i dont like it so i rented it for 1 month and 
 i think its ok for it to cost 5$ u do much better stuff than the normal warcraft and i dont have 
 much to say to the game but i know the next world of warcraft will be much better than before
 
  
  power up useing weapons though people dont really care if they pay or not i dont care but at least 
 i tryed it. its a free to play it and i mean wow ...... so i say to the game see u not any more 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best PC game ever! You have a PC so why are you reading this review you should be playing 
 the only reason I'm writing this is because my eyes are so sore from my monitor I had to stop playing. 
 This game is amazing.
  
  Gameplay is the best I have seen in a MMO since Everquest with so many quests to do and classes 
 to play as you will not put down this game. This game will literally consume your life and never 
 give it back. You have a girlfriend? Well say good bye to her because after this game you wont 
 have one anymore. 
  
  This is what you have expected from Blizzard since they first released Warcraft 3 and this comes 
 nothing short of brilliant. Landscapes graphics team play and solo play are all wielded together 
 to give you the finest game in all of MMO history!!!! 
  
  So again I ask you why are you reading this! GO NOW BUY NAD PLAY!!! Waste your life away you can 
 thank me later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  PRO: Vast worlds filled with Content!! LOADS of fun playing with your friends. This game does a 
 Great Job with making this game feel more like a game and less of a chore when it comes to quest. 
 HIGHLY addictive gameplay. All classes have their own special ablilities that are actually fun 
 to have. I. E. the Hunter Class allows you to have a pet sidekick, while the Druid Class allows 
 you to transform into a beast. Constant updates in the game making it feel fresh and new.
  
  CONS: I first started playing the game in December of 2004, then I stopped in March of 2005 
 with tons of stability issues and connection problems. Last Month I just hopped Back on and most 
 of the stablility issues are still there. New content bugs will leave the player VERY frustrated. 
 Much like my brother experienced with the Lunar Festival as well as a good portion full of other 
 players. If you choose to play the Horde, then JOIN US TO KILL THE ALLIANCE!!!!!!!! Seems like 
 the Higher level alliance enjoy going into lower level areas and killing NOOBS. Bunch of punks 
 if you ask me!
  
  PLAY DEMO OR BUY: Its $15 a month to play.... and yea its worth it! The game gets much more interesting 
 when you achive higer levels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft takes the classic Warcraft series and turns it into a MMORPG experience.
  
  Gameplay: With races and classes to choose from like the Undead, Tauren, Dwarf, Troll, Orc, 
 Night Elf, and Human and classes like Mage, Priest, Warrior, Shaman, and many more keep this game 
 fresh and fun. You can customize your characters face, skin color, hair, and more. You basic MMORPG 
 elements are here. Do quests to gain exp. Kill monsters to gain exp. Gain exp gain more levels. 
 More levels equals stronger character. However in World of Warcraft you really have a vast land 
 to travel and make your way across. Every element in the gameplay is solid except the PVP. Like 
 Gamespot said, it just doesn't feel complete and it could be improved a lot. But, with new patches 
 coming out every now and then this can be fixed.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in WoW are really well done. Although some would be turned off by the "cartoonish" 
 look it really looks beautiful. There are a lot of colors on the screen. Monsters and characters 
 all look really good just like in the other Warcraft games and stay true to the past games as well.
 
  
  Sound: World of Warcraft does well in the sound department. Everywhere and anywhere there are some 
 sounds going off. Whehter your talking to some town people or fighting monsters or casting spells 
 an array of sounds are popping out left and right.
  
  Value: Well this is where the game gets a little tricky. You must pay about $14.99 a month to play 
 this game. Yes, say it to yourself a couple of times. Add that monthly fee to the purchase of the 
 game and you got a great sum of money your spending on this game. However, you can play this game 
 for years and still be as entertained as the first week you bought it so I guess the game pays 
 for itself. Or thats what most people say anyway.
  
  Conclusion: World of Warcraft is a great game like most people say. However, it does have its flaws. 
 First it takes an eternity to install on your computer. Basically an hour of changing 5 discs. 
 Then you creat your account and download the patch which takes another 30+ minutes. Also in game 
 there are a lot of immature people like you expect in any game. All that aside this is a great 
 game and if your willing to pay the monthly fee you should definately check out World of Warcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  There are pleanty of other reviews talking about the gameplay, graphics, and all that stuff so 
 I'm not going to. I'm going to talk about my experinces with WoW.
  
  Before World of Warcraft I had never played a MMORPG, and only a few RPG's. The game interested 
 me, the monthly bill didn't. I read review after review about how awesome this game was, watched 
 friends play the game, and though I would give it a try. I got hooked, for about a month and a 
 half all I did in my free time was play WoW. I hated the grinding of RPG's but this game doens't 
 really have it unless you feel the need to do it to get some item or something. I got hooked on 
 completing quest after quest, discovering new areas, and the best part, playing with other players. 
 What makes this game so fun is playing with other people. It just totaly changes the gameplay and 
 makes RPG's fun. If you have never played a MMORPG I would have to recomend WoW. I think it's a 
 great game and I'm not a fan or RPG's, in fact I hate most of them. I haven't played the game for 
 over a month now, I had to take a break to get things done and I was getting a little burned out, 
 but I'm sure I'll be back in Azeroth soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackRainDL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Blizzard created the number one game to Buy if you own a PC they also made the number one reason 
 the buy a computer also this game is amazing they worked hard and really do hope the expansion 
 makes WoW even better i hope they can blow away me and others once again with World of Warcraft 
 Burning Crusade i hope it makes the game even more highley addictive then it is now Please blizzard 
 dont be like other company and screw up expansions they they usually do and also work on making 
 Starcraft RTS in 3-D like you did with Warcraft III but WoW is the best game i have ever played 
 in my lifetime thank you blizzard and BAWLS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacall133
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ever, I mean it. World of Warcraft gives you millions of choices in everything. 
 You can be one of six races. I recommend the Night Elves although you might disagree. You start 
 out in a village full of your own find but as you progress through the game you'll begin to inter-grade 
 with other races. Even thought the aim of the game is to get really strong you can do other stuff 
 too. Like instead of wearing something for armor you can dress up and look hot. Once two humans 
 payed a friend of mine to wed them in the game. So in short buy this game or you'll miss out on 
 an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanold
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game is great for people who are starting to play MMo's i think it is actually pretty basic 
 in controlls. The quests in the beggining are fun and easy. Plus its better than Final Fantasy 
 Online because you can create as much characters as you want plus when you kill an enemy you can 
 check their bodys for useful stuff. In this game the classes are cool you can be a paladin a rouge 
 and other classses. In FFXI you have to do a really long quest to be what you want but in WOW you 
 can just pick. If you dont like this game than you are weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Warcraft series since the first installment. But I always hoped that Blizzard 
 would make a game where you commanded one orc, or elf, or knight, and not a whole army of them. 
 Well, Blizzard came through for me. World of Warcraft is not only the best Warcraft game yet, it's 
 the best massively multiplayer online role playing game ever made. The greatest thing about this 
 world Blizzard has created is the fact that it is so huge and there is not a single load time. 
 The world is vast and so beautiful it is really stunning. Another great thing about this game is 
 that it never really ends. Of course, the first goal is to reach level 60, but the game doesn't 
 end once you do. The graphics in this game are really incredible considering the huge world. The 
 sound effects are great and everything sounds just the way it should. Of course this game never 
 grows old because you never run out of things to do. It never gets dull. There are so many things 
 to do in this game it would be impossible to cover them all. So, I guess all that there is left 
 to say is that WoW is the very best MMORPG ever and you really have no reason not to get it. Unless 
 you're poor, because you do have to pay $15 a month, which sucks, but it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emoslayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an awesome, awesome game. I'm not a fanboy of Blizzard, and I don't have much 
 experience in MMORPG's, but I know a great game when I see (or play) one.
  
  Firstly, there is the huge range of characters to be. You can customly create your character, from 
 gender, to facial features, to the race, and also the class. This ensures that every character 
 looks different. This also reaches into the main game, where you can choose different clothes, 
 weapons and abilities. You can even transform into an animal!
  
  Then there is the sound. All the creatures and animals sound just like you'd imagine, and the wind 
 whistles through your ears as in real life. Going into a cave? You'll hear the dripping of water 
 and the hisses of insects. You might even hear the scuttling of a giant spider!!! OMG SP1D3R!!! 
 Sorry.
  
  And then there's the graphics. They may not be perfect, but for a game with 5 million people playing 
 online, you can't expect everything. Everything including the scenery and characters are realistic, 
 with shadow and lighting effects adding to the realism.
  
  And the community is great too. There is always someone to talk to, and run around with. Everyone 
 can help you and is there when you have a problem. I've made many friends, as well!
  
  Overall, WoW is a great game. Don't underestimate it, it's powerfully addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryptor_comp
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  If you like PvP, solo content and very competitive atmosphere then you will really like this assuming 
 that the cartoony graphics is for you. The player base for WoW has a very low average age, so more 
 mature players will likely find that very frustrating ( and I mean *very* frustrating ) . WoW is 
 pretty much flawless to be honest, it's just that it is not the type of a game that appeals to 
 everyone. One of the other problems I had with it after playing it since release is that all of 
 the end game content requires insanely large groups, groups so large that it's completely out of 
 the reach of casual players. There is tons of grinding in WoW, you will find yourself grinding 
 most of the time. So, if you like pvp and competition atmosphere in your games then this will likely 
 be for you, if not i suggest you try Dungeons and Dragons Online stormreach ( also featured on 
 gamespot ) . Personally, after trying the beta of DDO for 2 days i quit WoW and pre-ordered DDO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  You might say to yourself?... when am i gonna get the newpaper?.. or when im i gonna do my homework?.. 
 or when im gonna take the trash out?.. or when im i gonna do the dishes? or when im gonna tell my 
 boss what i feel? but does that matter anymore after you got this game?........ OF COURSE NOT!!... because 
 after you get The World of Warcraft.. nothing would matter except.. your life and your game.. if you 
 got this problem.. then youve defientely got Warcraft fever... and that can be a problem... why you 
 ask?..... CAUSE THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This is once again another great collection made my Blizzard
  Entertainment. Well known for STARCRAFT, 
 DIABLO, and ofcourse WARCRAFT.... The World of Warcraft is an enormous on line mulitiplayer game.... As 
 you know from the Warcraft story or understanding... you have the option to pick from different 
 races... Ranging from Noble Humans.... NightElf... Orcs.. the Undead.. and many more.... everything from 
 designing your own characters... you know  much more.. you 
 can go online and battle dozen of player from all over the world... make clans.. make friends.. make 
  go crazy..
  
  The Graphics are ok... the sound is not bad... but my GOD is there a lot to do on line in The World 
 of Warcraft.... the only down side really.. is paying each month for World of Warcraft online... but 
 hey.. if you wanna play it... it does come with a price! DARN
  
  Anyway i can really give any positive or negative comments about this games... because.. its extremely 
 addictive... and great.. so good... it really can be dangerous.... lol but it a great mulitplayer game!!!!! 
 YEEEOOWWW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BHEvanH
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an amazing game that you must play in order to fully experience. The gameplay 
 is utterly amazing with what seems like thousands of quests to do. With the many of  
 to choose from, this game could be played for YEARS. It offers much to do and is highly, highly 
 addictive. This game is basically never ending and with expansions soon to come out, millions of 
 more things will be unlocked. This game us utterly amazing. w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w 
 w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w 
 w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w 
 w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w 
 w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w w0w 
  And like i said before.. very, VERY addictive.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutux1x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best mmo's made to date. It offers everything for casual gamers to those 
 hardcore gamers who just want everything. With it comming out with new patches usually every month 
 or so, with tons of updates and balance fixes, its a good game to pass some time of your life... Yes 
 I said life this game can take you into a different world, and trust me, it is that addictive. 
 I played this game for a while when it first came out, with its just great graphics that fit the 
 Warcraft theme so perfectly. The gameplays is just fun, tons of stuff to do form instances to just 
 having fun at the Auction House, to even just soloing some creatures yourself. To get to level 
 60 is a good goal to make from trying to do it in 2 weeks to 2 months, whatever pace you go, will 
 you have fun doing it. This is easily a great game, but it does have some fall-backs, like when 
 doing an instance for about the 10th time to just get the item and to lose a roll, but don't like 
 that little thing detour you from one of the greatest games ever. The people of the game are usually 
 pretty friendly making the community a great place usually, but it did lack some support with lag 
 issues, but most are cleared up by now. So if you haven't played this game and need to take some 
 time off your hands, just give it a try, and if you get to level 20 and didn't have fun, you'd 
 be one of the first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatkid63636
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks!! it is highly addictive and is like no other. The graphics are crystal clear and 
 the sound adds to the effect. The early levels can get a bit boring but the end game is absolulty 
 worth the effort. Each server and faction has its own ecconomy, players can choose to trade one 
 on one, or put their goods up for auction on the auction house. The game also includes an extensive 
 questing/leveling system, where everytime you kill something of hand in a quest you receive experience 
 points, get a certaion amount of experience points (xp) and your character while gain the next 
 level, making him stronger and unlocking new abilties.
  
  To wrap up, this is (in my opinion) the second greatest game of all time, second only to the Zelda 
 games on Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirgooch
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  the gamer itself is a litttle worn out same style as everquest but its still a great game because 
 it has somthinbg over other mmos the ability to level by yourself in other games yoiu relied on 
 other players eq guild wars eq2 and so on and so fourth but in this one its different you can not 
 only grouo by yoiurleft but with others as well so your encouraged to group with others b/c its 
 faster but your not obligated to plus the fact that its so deep in the race class field like most 
 mmorpgs but the amazing thing here is that theres no best class sure some people thing rogues are 
 too powerful or shamans but shamans are good on pvp not pve which is 80 percent of the game also 
 the pvp is a little flawd but once agian moos have never been about pvp so why is it there anyway 
 there are also wars and such like 80 vs 80 type events but you don't even need to be on a pvp server 
 for that all you have to do is attack a haurd and a pvp flag is dropped on their head which is 
 fun b/c you can woop them and be on your way the ai in the game is a little flawed this actually 
 is a problem some monsters might start twitching and it looks fake and cheap and somtimes gaurds 
 won't attack monsters or enemy facts when they are supposed to the whole games has flaws but not 
 flaws that btake away from the wqhole experience PLUS the fact there is no loading times between 
 long distances only oversees 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nedoq
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this I was like "oohhh, this is the sequel to warcraft + its 3-D , it must 
 be good since gamespot, gamespy and other game reviews said its 
  a 9 - 9.9 / 10"
  
  So there i went and bought it expecting a good gaming, it did entertain me meeting people , forming 
 guilds , adventuring the immense world of warcraft then I started thinking about what I was doing..
 
  
  Hmm.. im spending about 6 or more hours a day on a game that has no real storyline, fighting it 
 out for loot ( after lvl 40, where most of the epic weapons come along everybody fights it out 
 for epics or superior class items) and im spending $15 a month.
  
  I think the people who have rated WoW things above 8/10 haven't really thought in depth about this 
 game because thats where the bad points of the game lie, instead people only rate it on the good 
 side of the game..
  
  Here are some bad points....
  
  1. Immense Lag in either Ogrrimmar and Ironforge ( Im talking about 1-2 minutes of lag when flying 
 into the cities, its even worse entering the cities by foot where i get my fps down to 10 or so 
 it does ease up, i have 2mbps connection and 256mb video card, 512 mb ram) . At times servers where 
 held and people where qeueing up to get into the server.
  
  2. No storyline 
  
  3. Repetitive
  
  4. Time consuming - A 10 man raid like Scholomance or Stratholme took 1.5 
 hours minimum (that is if we had good groups which is hard if your not in a good helping guild 
 cause there's alot of newbs that are frustrating) to 3 hours maximum. And then it turns out you 
 didnt get any loot at all just a few silvers - so then thats 1.5 -3 hours wasted cause you didnt 
 get the item you wanted. Instances like molten core will either be so long you get bored or you 
 fall to sleep.
  
  5. Costly - Boy!, does every blizzard worker have a mansion made of gold? i thought they were making 
 enough money as it is from its popularity ( they say the monthly fee is for technical support :S 
 )
  
  6. Other Users - There were some friendly people but then there were imbeciles trying to be funny 
 - person locks door to scarlet monastery ( instance) , person chases you wherever you go and moves 
 his char into you and dances, obessed people - if you are a rogue ( benifit greatly from daggers 
 ) and another rogue rolls on the dagger which is dropped from a monster which the dagger you have 
 equipped, you accidently roll or purposely win it they go all angry and do everything to annoy 
 you , e. g tell rumors that your guild is bad, message you annoyingly ( i know theres the ignore 
 system , but i want to play a game feeling in a relaxed enviroment.
  
  At the end its all about who has the best items FULLSTOP
  
  When you finish a quest you get 
 items, when you get gold you buy new items, its all the same.
  
  This game had sooo much potential, all it needed was a story line and to make it less repetitive
 
  
  Conclusion - If you buy this game be sure to be entertained till level 60 after that you are on 
 your on, one very important thing all games need is the endurance. How long will it last till it 
 gets boring, as of course ALL games get boring..." just hoooow looooooong?".... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashuea
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that the RP is degrading (it is the fate of all games) it is still an excellent 
 roleplaying community intact, the gameplay is great and graphics is excellent and didnt even hurt 
 my old video card. I can not wait to see what the expasion is like. The only complaint i have is 
 the learning curve, otherwise two thumbs up. Way up.
  
  100 words? Eh alright
  
  My advice is to start hunting weaker monsters untill lv5 before doing any quest, makes things easier. 
 And if you ever play the alliance, beware of horde shamans. They are nasty. Other than all that, 
 just have alot of fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal949
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  From the very minute you start to play the massive world of Azeroth sucks you into it. There are 
 eight different races to chose from:
  HORDE
  Tauren: A bipedal bull. (moo cow)
  Undead: Dead people that are.... alive?
  Orc: You are stupid if I have to explain this to you.
 
  Troll: Skinny creatures with tusks.
  ALLIANCE
  Human: You are one.
  Night Elf: Purple elves.
  Dwarf: Short, fat, and drunk all the time.
  Gnome: Small and obsessed 
 with gadgets.
  
  Not only are there eight different races but also eight different classes two of which are only 
 available to horde or alliance:
  
  Rogue: Can turn invisible and great at dealing damage fast.
  Shaman: The all around class. (Horde 
 Only)
  Druid: Tree-huggers that use nature to thier advantage.
  Warlock: Evil wizards.
  Mage: The long range magic using class. Great at dealing damage.
  Warrior: The big bad ones.
 
  Paladin: Like a warrior but can heal. (Alliance Only)
  Priest: Heals friendly members.
  
  With so many different things to chose from you really can not go wrong. This is a great game 
 for casual gamers and obsessed MMO fans alike. If I didnt have a social life I would play WoW whenever 
 I could.
  
  If you buy this game check me out. Im on the Burning Legion server and my name is Magimaster. I 
 will help any newbs who come my way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4GOD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the most impressive game from Blizzard to date. Beening a long-time Blizzard 
 fan, WoW was a big set, not for me but for the makers. Making the Number 1 hit RTS into a RPG, 
 and making even sweeter by making it a MMO!!! *drool*
  
  Creating a character is as easy as 1-2-3! and your in to the biggest rollercoaster of your life.
 
  
  Human, Night Elves, Gnomes and Dwarfs make up the Alliance, while Orc, Undead, Trolls and Tauren 
 make up the Horde.
  
  Each race having there own special skills have 4 or more classes to chose from. Each faction having 
 8 classes overall.
  
  With Battlegrounds and huge Instances for raids. WoW has alot to do adter reaching the level cap 
 of 60, Meet people from around the world, start a guild, party up or solo. WoW will keep u playing 
 long after you finish leveling.
  
  WoW is pure gold 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgbuddy123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been wanting to play this for a long time. so i go to a friends house t o play it. I had 
 a great time. It was a great Idea t o not delevel when you die. all you have to do is sit out and 
 revive your self. the only problem that i had was I found the game t obe a tad bit confusing. I 
 wish they would mark on the mini map where you were supposed to go. It would have made the game 
 alot less confusing for me. but all and all I thought this was a great game and i had a really 
 good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOSEMF98
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  love it. everything abut it, the mages ,druids nught elves best game out there till burning crusade 
 i give WoW a 1000 rating :) I have a lvl56 orc warlock on hellscream if you want to talk to me 
 Just Crie Badangel (thats my name) and ill be there. i also have a human mage lvl 60 on Zul'gin 
 his name is firemaster, and a lvl49 Night elve druid his name is deciver. also anyboday who doesnot 
 like this games sucks you must have really bad taste in games. another thing thing just beacuse 
 i play or any other person plays that game doesnt mean wer geeks alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  With a game of this scope and magnitude it can be hard to write a concise review of the entire 
 game. Having only played a few races and classes I feel I wont be able to cover every aspect of 
 the game, but from what Ive experienced through my adventures through Azeroth, the conclusions 
 will remain the same: This is by far one of the great video game accomplishments in the history 
 of Interactive Media.
  
  On December 25, 2004 I received W. O. W as a gift from my brother. We both installed the game and 
 decided to choose Human Paladins as our race and class. After the long install, and downloading 
 the necessary patches, we entered Northshire Valley in Elwyn Forest. We both were simply blown 
 away. I never played Everquest, and had no experience with an MMORGP and I was definitely skeptical, 
 but if any company could pull off a game like this, it would be Blizzard.
  
  Theres something to be said about a game as complex as this, being so easy to just pick up and 
 use. Everything just seemed to be perfectly placed. Whether it be the quest menu, character info, 
 the way you receive quest: s everything was just placed perfectly.
  
  While the graphics may come off as a bit cartoonish, they never fail to inspire. The character 
 models look fantastic, the monsters look great, and the casting of spells really looks magnificent. 
 I think one of the greatest pleasures of the game is when you are traveling through a new territory 
 and while running, you pan the camera around to see the entire lay of the land. Its quite simply 
 breathtaking, and it definitely makes you proud of the fact that you play video games, and that 
 you are fortunate enough to enjoy such a great experience. My first wow moment in W. O. W was when 
 my level five Paladin first entered Stormwind Keep. The enormity of the gates and the city itself 
 just blew me away. I dont know anyone who upon first entering Stormwind City didnt feel chills 
 as the soundtrack kicked in, and you gazed upon the keep. It was by far one of the more cool experiences 
 I ever had in a video game.
  
  The only problem I have with Warcraft, and its a minor issue is the sense of repetition within 
 the game. It seems from level 1 on you basically come across the same types of quest. Kill X number 
 of these things, and pick up Y number of these items. Dont get me wrong, I enjoy it, and I love 
 the back-story that goes along with such quests, but it does get repetitive. The fact that it doesnt 
 keep you from continuing your adventures, speaks volumes for the game designers.
  
  So in conclusion, this game has been available for well over a year and while I took a long hiatus 
 from play, Im thrilled to be back. Blizzard has knocked one out of the park again, and the sheer 
 depth of this game can keep you experiencing new and exciting quests for years to come. Thank you 
 Blizzard!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegster101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  When i first picked up this game, i expected the best. I had read all the review, got feedback 
 form my friends, they all said it was aweosme, and let me tell you, they werent wrong. This is 
 by far the best MMORPG i have ever played. I have played many from this genre and none have imersed 
 me in a fantasy world as well as world of warcraft. The minute you start, you cant stop, this is 
 also one of the most addicting games ive ever played. Im not a hardcore gamer but this game had 
 me playing 20+ hours a week. The fantasy world blizzard ahs created is amazing. the evironments 
 you quest in are fantastic with rich detail. The graphics are not platform defining, but they work 
 really well for this game. the sound is really solid and the game is worth the 20$ a month to pay 
 it, no question. Anyone who wants to pick up a new game, this is the game to buy, defiinity earned 
 its game of the eyar title. to this day blizzard has never let us down, and they outdid themselves 
 on this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venusivy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is one of the most highly develped games I have ever played. The designers 
 took effort to think about everything. The UI is great, the controls are great, the customizability 
 is great; it works great! Additionally, Blizzard is constantly adding new content and does their 
 best to address any and all bugs that appear as quickly as they can.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are gorgeous, but are already starting to show their age. Check the screens 
 to get a good idea.
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing, perfect even. The audio track is just right for the atmosphere and 
 the sound effects are well done. The voice acting (effects really) is good enough and sparse enough 
 not to be annoying.
  
  Value: World of Warcraft is an expensive game that adds several new components to online gaming 
 and refines others components that have been around for a while. It eventually still boiled down 
 to grinding though. Grind grind grind grind grind. While there are more things than usual to keep 
 you busy, it does eventually still come down to the grind.
  
  Beef: The lag in World of Warcraft can be abyssmal at times. This is a server-end issue, but I 
 have a lot of patience for that seeing as Blizzard currently has over 3 million active customers. 
 All my other beef lies with the players; there is more than usual racial slurs, homophobic slurs 
 and just general insults in chat. There is also more than usual poor players that aggro many mobs 
 or do not play team well. 
  
  Overall, Blizzard has set a new higher standard for MMORPGs, but they haven't redefined them. Good 
 game, worth the play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock_city
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft could of been a great game, but it has some big issues that really ruined the 
 experience for me.
  
  The great thing about WOW is it's world. It's a huge, beautiful world with a good community thats 
 fun to explore with no load times (except for when you cross to another continent) . And you can 
 explore so much cause you are not restricted to a path which really makes the world come alive. 
 There's just so much, ferries and zeppelins, mailboxes, inns, you can swim around even fish. The 
 other great things are the cities, the auction house and the amount of weapons and armor.
  
  Now the bad. My biggest problem with this game is that there is no story whatsoever. I need 
 a reason to kill monsters for hours and hours, and exp or new items are not enough. And the problem 
 with no story is that I found myself wandering mindlessly around the world. You can go anywhere 
 you want which is cool, but there's no sense of direction, and there's nothing really important 
 for you to do, nothing that if you do successfully, it will make you feel like you have made a 
 difference in the world. Now im not saying Guild Wars is perfect, it had it's problems, but in 
 it there was a story, there was a sense of direction, there was a reason to kill monsters, there 
 was a reason to progress, and you even kinda felt like you made a difference, like you accomplished 
 something. 
  
  Another bad thing are the quests. Almost all of them are just terrible. There either go kill x 
 number of something, go collect y number of things or bring something to someone. At first the 
 quests are not too bad but after a little while they become extremely boring.
  
  The fighting is also boring, repetitive and annoying. You shoot a monster with a ranged weapon, 
 monster runs towards you, you attack monster, monster dies, you sit and recover, then repeat. The 
 annoying thing is that you can usually only handle fighting one monster at a time, so when another 
 monster starts attacking you have to run away because the two monsters are too much, and a lot 
 of the time they kill you.
  
  Finally the game has a bit too much grinding, which is very, very boring and the monthly fees suck 
 because all the new content they add is just for level 60 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer4455
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  it gets much better wene you reach lvl 20 and around there lower thene that its pretty boreing 
 cause to weak to nothing like have some fun but gets much more btter at higher lvls. If you can 
 play a game heaps thene world of warcraft would be a good one to pick .But it can get pretty boreing 
 because you have nothing to do and if you explore new terrirotory big chance youll come across 
 a enermy and they kill you so if your on a normal server dont flag your self. But if you are not 
 gonna play much dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because my friends said it was great and because I am the biggest Warcraft 3 
 and Starcraft fan I know. So I saved up and shelled out $50. But it didn't end there. Oh no. I 
 had to pay $15 a month or buy a gamecard for $30 to get 2 months. I grumbled, I swore, I saved 
 up some more, and finally bought a game card since I'm too young to have a credit card and my father 
 doesn't think it is safe to have money charged to his credit card every month.
  
  But this review isn't about me saving up $90 just to play a game that is mediocre at best. No, 
 this is about the game itself.
  
  The gameplay is solid, but I expected more from a great company such as Blizzard. There is no since 
 of immersion, and the quest and other tasks are just too repetitive to be fun.
  
  The graphics are like a flashback to the bad old days of '98. Army Men has better graphics than 
 this crap.
  
  The sound is the best part of the game, it is completely unlike every other aspect. The music is 
 great and the gunshots, sword clangs, etc. sound quite authentic.
  
  Overall, Blizzard has failed at making an online multiplayer game. WarCraft is a great game franchise 
 yet they soiled it. Go back to making RTS games, Blizzard. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomatoey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Even though I can't help but agree that one won't amount to anything by playing physically... but 
 damn it I will amount to something virtually and kick everyone's ass... take that Karl Marx. Although 
 parents get entirely fed up with the constant playing and such, at least you aren't listening to 
 RAP or braiding your leg hair and flesh. Even though my holy mother claims that by me playing war 
 craft is participating in witchcraft, I think that it is just modeled from J. R. R. Tolkien's masterpieces 
 which are teaching Christianity. So to anyone who reads this and knows all about the whole holy 
 and spell-casting bit... contact me. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowAegis
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Well here's my World of Warcraft Review
  
  Well i started playing World of warcraft since i came out, it was very fun to begin with and alot 
 of adventures with other players alot of quest so you can get to level 60 max level until Burning 
 Crusade come's out.
  
  So from 1-60 is great fun alot of stuff to do and learning basicaly i call level 1-60 with all 
 these quest Tutorial.
  
  Once you level 60 "here's the fun or boring part"
  
  There's alot of stuff to do or not alot of stuff to do
  
  I was a level 60 paladin so other 
 people might have diffrent views
  
  When i was 60 it was very boring instances like Molten core, blackwing lair all boring every week 
 until reset not much to do it's just boring and even the battlegrounds there boring since The Horde 
 is overpowered "VERY!" not alot of story at the end it's just like running in a fog and can't see 
 or find anything just not alot to do.
  
  But that depends on if Blizzard has update the game im sure they have.
  
  My idea's on how 
 to not get bored at the end
  
  Be Horde
  Be a Shaman
  Find a great guild
  Get a good reputation
  Play good
  Make Friends
  Play some Roleplay
  
  that's my ideas 
 .
  
  I hope i have not put your mind of the game just wanted to tell at least some proof what its like 
 in the end, just hope burning crusade is better.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey_man
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 
  
  If you are going to pay monthly for a game it might aswell be a good game. This game is good visually 
 but that is pretty much it. The game engine is poor, the community's are poor. It seems as though 
 its a powerpoint presentation instead of a game.
  
  If you want a trully great MMRPG then get Ultima Online. Recent versions arent nearly as good as 
 the first few years of the game but you can play it for free on an unoficial server. Its not visually 
 great but it has amazing combat mode and the commerce and community is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy787970
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:   
 
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!  
 COOL COOOL COOL COOOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL COOL HI HI HI HI G
  G
  G
  G
  G G G G G G G G G G G G DS DF DFC TGB THB YBT R B GFB DGFB DGF BGF B YTHG HG N COOL COOL COOL  
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doughnuts
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best thing to come to life in the gameing world ever. To start, you get to pick 
 a character of 8 races from to "teams". Then, you can choose what you specailze in such as Fighter, 
 Healer, Or Magic User, and MORE! Then you are released in this amazing, awsome, and semmless world. 
 The landscapes are great and just exploring is one of the best parts of the game. There is at least 
 100 hours of just exploring, but its not a bad thing! The quests are so much fun, and for the hard 
 one, just getting a group togeather to help is fun. The chat system is done perfectly, and this 
 in this game, everyone is so nice. You just ask someone to help you on something, and if they need 
 to do that too, they will! its great. If you are tierd of questing, then you can hang out near/in 
 cities and work on making/selling or auctioning items from shops, other people, or that you made 
 yourself. There is so much more i could say about this game, but it would take to long. Buy this 
 game now, the monthly fee is TOTALY worth it. Ya, its kinda annoying, but its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  All i can say for WoW is, WOW! Thhis game ain't to shabby... i bought Guild Wars and thought that 
 game was great, but just a tad bit boring as i had no one to play with and all the people i played 
 with were slowly being drawn into WoW. After many hours of screaming and crying about how i dont 
 want to pay monthly i gave in. It's pretty much like a cartoony version of Guild Wars with better 
 replay value and gameplay. It take forever to get good stuff in this game and theres no stupid 
 lvl 20 cap (stupidest move on Guild Wars behalf) . 60 is better but still not great by the way im 
 moving through the game ill have like 5 lvl 60's by 2007! Graphics cell shaded yes, but look at 
 Windwaker! Sound eh... great-good a lot of repetitive voices and sounds, but new ones come up every 
 once in a while. Gameplay not to far in it but seems great so far! The only way someone will like 
 this game is to get a bunch of freinds on from like 7 to whenever and just keep playing until you 
 think your good enough to take on raids and matches... Blizzard possibly the strangest company 
 that will ever grace this earth... how many low rated games of theirs are out there? i cant remeber 
 any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahsanthekiller
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  In general, if you like online RPGs, you'll like this game. If you like killing
  things, you'll love this game. The depth of this game cannot even be attempted
  to be covered 
 even in brief in less than a few hundred paragraphs. If you can
  think of it, odds are it is in this game in some form, or is planned to be
  included in future 
 patches. Yes, game content is non static and is updated quite frequently.
  If you've never played an online RPG before, you'll be surprised to see the
  crazy amount of 
 abbreviations, terms, and crazy lingo strewn across the many
  channels of WoW. While most of the following can be found in the game manual and/or on the WoW 
 community site.
  The way you act while playing the game can have a huge influence on your
  character, not to mention everyone else. As with all MMORPGs, since you are almost always playing 
 with other people - either directly or indirectly, you
  should learn some basic forms of online etiquette. This is especially true if
  you party frequently 
 or plan to (which is almost required at higher levels) . 
  While you can get away with being an ass for a while, most players would agree that eventually 
 it will catch up to you at endgame, and you won't be able to progress with your character to the 
 extent that others will. 
  while its the best game with both graphics + sound + gameplay and don't forget its multiplayer 
 ; ) - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadkandy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Yep. I tried to resist playing this game. I always thought that paying each month to play a game 
 was stupid... but the problem is, this game is so addictive, you'll want more. Got one class to 
 60? Which one is next?
  
  Whichever level you are at, there are plenty of things to be doing. Quests, upping your skills, 
 PvPing, whatever! Unfortunately, it IS worth paying every month, even though, I must say, sometimes 
 it's frustrating to see that Blizzard doesn't fix bugs fast, or fix certain problems fast. And 
 we're paying for a service that sometimes lacks.
  
  I did try to resist playing/trying this game, but once I started, I couldn't stop. And this game 
 continues on being fun, even after level 60.
  
  Another great thing about WoW, is that you can choose what kind of server you want to be on. Don't 
 like PvP? Don't have to PvP then! You can choose from either a PvP, PvE, RP or RPPvP server. So 
 everything is for YOU to choose.
  
  So, if you have money to spend every month, it's well worth it, in my opinion. Get to WoW NOW! 
 Happy hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nidgamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft players and RPG players could both enjoy this game. Asside from the payment (prepayed 
 cards are an alternative to the anxietyassociated with charging it to a credit card) this game 
 could not be any better with currently existing technology. In other words, no one should be expecting 
 FEAR graphics Jade Empire' speed, or NWN customizability, however they should be expecting a good 
 time and a slight addiction from this game. Dungions are fun, game mechanics are well crafted and 
 expecialy balanced and so is the sence of comradery. (being a roge, I always feel guilty i cant 
 tip the generous casters: through out the game people will cast buffs randomly when in range, you 
 will get use to it and (hopefully) return the favor if possible however this is only my experence 
 as an allience character.) combat is exciting and not just some auto attack/sip on your drink/sit 
 back and watch type of game. character customizability is exprecive for every class and only the 
 only thing I first cringed at is the fact that i couldnt combign class atributes. another problem 
 is the professions, Its ok but i would like it if food was at least half as usefull as potions 
 at lower levels. ALMOST FORGOT I PLAYED IT FOR MACINTOSH, i've seen it on other PCs and cant tell 
 the difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJay25
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft or (WoW) for short is one of those great rpg games that have you hooked within 
 10 minutes of play. It's for this reason you should seek out addiction therapy now in advance.
 
  
  First things first, the gameplay, graphics and sound/music are some of the best you'll see and 
 hear in an online rpg, even at todays standards this holds it's head up high, and so it should. 
 It really does deserve it as some of the effects and art work are stunning. The ingame music should 
 and probably does have its own soundtrack CD and the ingame sound effects have been some of the 
 best Ive heard.
  
  Gameplay straight from the start has you wanting more even as your dinner gets cold in front of 
 you, there you are sitting and tapping away at your keyboard. Although it must be said that most 
 of the quests and tasks are very repetitive and sometimes frustrating you still find yourself glued 
 to your monitor wondering where the last 5 hours have gone. Everything ingame is based on real 
 time and quite frequently you find yourself waiting 3-4 minutes for the next boat to get across 
 to the other side of Azeroth. The main time eater though is your character learning curve, it may 
 take 30-60 minutes to learn how the game works but it will take a fair few months to truly master 
 your class/race. 
  
  Some of the ingame features are quite clever. The auction houses have real time bidding meaning 
 if you pay to have an item up for 8 hours it really is up for 8 hours. The shear size of the map 
 in WoW is just nuts and will take you a few days of solid walking to uncover most of it, it really 
 is as big as they come although trips from each city or town is as easy as jumping on a huge bird. 
 The character leveling system to be honest needs to be looked at, as it takes quite a long time 
 to feel as though all the hours you have put in are paying off, and many find themselves bored 
 by about level 30-40 with the level cap being 60. On the contrary though there is a hell of a lot 
 to do in WoW and it's very hard not to write a 10-15 page review covering everything Ive seen 
 and done ingame. From solo play to group huntings there will always be something for you to do, 
 even if it's sticking around just to get that all important sword or raid that dungeon you've had 
 your eye on.
  
  Not much can be said though about the servers. The European servers are quite bad at times and 
 one would have thought that with the huge amount of funds blizzard make they would be the best 
 servers in the world. This is not the case, which is a sad fact and sometimes brings an outstanding 
 game to its knees.
  
  All in all World Of Warcraft had me tied to my PC for 6 months and in that time I missed some fantastic 
 game releases, but looking back I enjoyed every minute of play time I had inside Azeroth and still 
 enjoy the odd few hours online now, catching up with friends and guild gossip. If anyone ever asks 
 me is it really worth the monthly fee I say yes it is and you'd be a fool not to at least try it 
 for a month.
  
  -AJay- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I've been on World of Warcraft for quite sometime now. It is not a very challenging game, very 
 nice on the eyes though. The worlds is massive. There is not so much stuff to do, but so many places 
 to go. It is very hard to find yourself getting in a group when playing. Even though Eve Online 
 is the best MMORPG out there, WoW is just... ok. And since there is over 2 million people playing 
 you would think that it would be hard finding someong to group with and kick a little Horde butt, 
 but it is. Or you can run off solo questing or just exploring. The game is great but the players 
 are not the best. Alot of 7-13 yr olds running around starting groups then leaving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheart20j
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a year before I finally quit. It's VERY addicting and a lot of fun until 
 you hit the last level. The endgame for this game is boring in my opinion. You have the choice 
 of the boring repetative grind for new gear or PVP (which is fun) ... only problem is on the average 
 server you'll end up waiting hours for a pvp game to start just to have it end in 10 minutes.
 
  
  The soloable quests are what makes W. o. W such a fun addictive game game IMO, only problem is they 
 start to run out the closer you get to 60. : ( 
  
  I got my first character to 60 in 7 weeks, and my seconed in 5... It's really fast and easy to 
 hit level 60 in W. O. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkc4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I have played this for well over a year now and still find tons of stuff to do. The classes are 
 very equal and the game difficulty fits anyone. The early levels are pretty easy, but if you want 
 to do the big dungeons, it will take skill and effort on your part. A guild is not necessary but 
 does make it much easier to find places to raid. The pvp is going well, but could use a slight 
 facelift. They have made the classes so even that it is fun to see how you stack up against other 
 classes in pvp. 
  
  Probably the best game I have ever played, and the replay value is overwhelming. Plus, tons will 
 be added this summer when the expansion comes out:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is one of the best and most immersive MMO's out on the market and should be taken 
 for consideration as a must-buy for all players new to any MMO game. It is one of my personal favorites. 
 The death system (although very tiring) is the most no-risk things I have seen and I personally 
 enjoy not losing experience when I die from a very hard fight. The rate that you get money is very 
 even to how much the armor and weapons cost for your level which is very convenient. To sum this 
 up, buy the game, use the 30 day trial, and trust me you will want to give them the info to continue. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft or WoW is the finest and most thrilling MMORPG ever made, I've never seen anything 
 like it. The value of the game is the best I've ever seen; the graphics is probably the best you 
 can get in a MMORPG, the sounds, the game play and of course the battle between good and evil; 
 which is Horde and Alliance.
  
  I like the graphics because its smooth and allot of models, the world is the biggest ive ever seen 
 and takes days and days to discover. This game unlike Everquest this game has a standard equips 
 which prevent ebay sellers and other sellers on the Internet to sell good weapons and armors etc. 
 on the internet.
  The sound is marvelous, they have sounds for each and every trick you do. The emotes come into 
 the sounds to you can emote all cinda things like how you feel or what you want to do and so on.
 
  
  There are 60 levels in the game and each and every one of them gets tougher and tougher to get, 
 witch makes the game play only more fun. After you have reached the 60 levels you will start getting 
 loots/drops wich gives you better armor/damage and there are some classes of drops wich are 
  
  Gray items/ the most un-rare drops
  White items/ wich will come the second of unrare drops
 
  Green items/ wich are uncommon
  Blue items/ they are rare
  Purple items/ they are with the rarest drops and are called epic
  Legendery/ those are the rarest 
 drops
  
  So as you can maybe see, i give this game a good grade and i strongly recomend it, I hope this 
 review was helpful thank you, Lingermania.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: o0pIumM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Take it from a long time Everquest player, this is the MMORPG to beat right now. 
  
  It's difficult to know where to start, maybe it was the immediate immersion into an alternate reality, 
 small details that never existed in other MMORPG's before it, the random bird or insect buzzing 
 by, or the lush foliage. Perhaps it was the intuitive interface design, I'm not so naive to think 
 they came up with the UI design on their own, but they took the best bits of pieces from their 
 predecessors and put together an excellent design, so excellent in fact, that the user can create 
 their own, or download one of thousands of interface enhancements to make the game even more robust 
 than it already is. On the other hand, it could have been the ease of which the new player can 
 learn how to play each class, or maybe the built in game map, quest log, the trade skill system 
 (you mean I can actually make useful armor, like right away!) . It could also have been the immediate 
 sense that there is some known lore behind the events taking place currently, there is a long back-story 
 dating back to the original Warcraft RTS games that makes it seem all that much more 'real', as 
 opposed to contrived for the sake of the creation of the game. For once the game was built around 
 a story that already existed, not the other way around.
  
  There were some from the EQ community that said, this is just like all the other supposed EQ killers 
 that had come before it, they said , its 'too easy', well its not too easy, its just easy enough 
 to have fun and not have to spend all your waking moments at the keyboard to get decent items, 
 or complete a quest. The game even rewards you for not being on line, you can store up 'rested' 
 time, when in this rested state you get a huge experience bonus.
  
  And dont get me started on new content! In the first year we've seen at least 4 new instances, 
 granted for the higher levels, but still new content nonetheless. The Battlegrounds PvP system, 
 which is some of the most intense fun you will ever have. And most recently a buildup to a world 
 changing event that every player on every server can have a hand in starting, that will open yet 
 another new instance.
  
  In a nutshell, Blizzard managed to create an excellent game that for once, caters to the Power 
 Gamer, the Casual Gamer, and everyone in-between. Regardless of the naysayers, sure there have 
 been bugs, what game of this magnitude doesnt have a few bugs, sure there are some servers that 
 are overcrowded, just don't join a full or high pop server if you start today, you dont need to 
 have a high population to find people to group with, trust me.
  
  If you're an old school MMOer looking for something new, or a total newbie to MMO's this game has 
 something for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwestmaster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  iv only been playing for a short time (manly because my crappy comp keeps frezzing mid load screen 
 *sniff*) but frome what iv seen so far this is a game that will keep me hooked for a long time. 
 the graphicks are vary crisp and vived and the sound is sweet i love how your chars make sounds 
 when they do the emotes all of the other mmos iv played dont have that kind of care put into them. 
 not to menchen the pvp combat and the frendly player base. i cant wate to get further into this 
 game and frome what iv seen so far im in for one heak of a ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezeppelin62
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay so heres the lowdown ive had this game for a long time now, and im pretty into it actually 
 im playing right now. But the graphics style i just love. And the music is great and fits each 
 region perfectly. The best thing about I think is though, how many people play the game its actually 
 over 5 Million players around the world! Another aspect to think about is that it is soooo addictive 
 I play this game for hours on end. There is endless amount of quests and with the new patches every 
 couple weeks or so it just adds more to the game. It has great interfacing and its easy to learn 
 and use. The only bad thing about World Of Warcraft is that the price of the game. It is $50 to 
 buy then $15 a month. If you want a cheap alternative I would say go with Guild Wars. But I think 
 World Of Warcraft Is definitely worth the money. I love it. Overall World Of Warcraft Is a fabulous 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calypso409
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I have played a load of MMORPGs because they are my favorite type of game. Some of the games I 
 have played include: Asheron's Call, Asheron's Call: Dark Majesty, Asheron's Call 2, Ultima Online, 
 Everquest, Everquest 2, Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided, Horizons: Empires of Istaria, Anarchy 
 Online, Planetside (if you include it in the category) , Dark Age of Camelot, Guild Wars.. thats 
 all i can think of right now. Anyway World of Warcraft is by far the best one yet! I will warn 
 you, if you buy this game and play it, plan on living in your computer chair! VERY ADDICTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDevo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I have been playing it for the last week and 1/2 and i have already got to 
 17th level. THere is nothing to say but this game is bad @$$. I love it, and i think that if you 
 like ANY kind of game at all, you will love this game. THe grafics are supurb, i would have to 
 say about the only bad thing about this game is that it is so imence that when you get into the 
 big cities there is some lag do to all the people in one place at one time on the servers. I counted 
 at one time over 300+ people in one area while i was playing. whats cooler than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is just right and it's not hard like other online PC games ( ( if you know what i mean 
 ) ) ... you can learn the game so fast and and you can get the high lvl normally and and the game 
 won't stop , it will take to a whole new world when you get a higher lvl ... and also it's funny 
 and cool you will laugh alot while you are playing and you can go and fight with your friends and 
 fight other friends not only NPC's or monsters you will have to make alot of plans if you wanna 
 win ... so in the last words in this review i'm gonna say belive me if you didn't play the game 
 then please go and buy the game it's totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vejita2128
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of MMO's and a lot of them, while amusing for awhile tend to become rather tiresome 
 and boring. This one is no exception. I think the game gets most of its merit just by name recognition 
 alone, Blizzard being one of the best video game companies there is. (Downhill from WC3 in my opinion 
 though)
  Gameplay: 6/10
  The gameplay isnt half bad, its a bit more active than most MMO's where you are required to just 
 stand there and watch your character auto-strike. Although once you reach the 30's the game really 
 starts to drag on. The instances the game offers are easily the most boring events of my lifetime. 
 
  Expect to go through a 3 hour instance just so that you can get a good item. They offer little 
 in the way of interesting experiences like say... the instances of City of Heroes.
  One crowning achievement of the gameplay though is the PvP, I found it very fun, even when I was 
 totally bored of the rest of the game. You can always count on that.
  In the end, the gameplay will boil down to any other fantasy MMO out there. Lackluster at best.
 
  Graphics: 5/10
  I never liked the graphics of this game. They reminded me like I was playing WC3 only zoomed in. 
 Given the technology at the time, I think they could of come up with a lot better and finer graphics. 
 However, graphics dont make the game for me but I couldnt rate it high anyways. The facial animations 
 on characters were sure on though. 
  Sound: 8/10
  The game had some nice ambience music to it. Also, many characters held the same classic Blizzard 
 voices we've all come to know and love. You can even click on characters many times and get the 
 same irritated responses as you would if you kept clicking on your units in WC3 or SC. Some of 
 the battle sounds are very lacking though. 
  Controls: 10/10
  Game is easy as hell to control. Nice customizable interfaces as well.
  Story: 3/10
  The quests 
 arent interesting to complete and they dont yield very interesting stories either. Expect to do 
 them out of neccessity and not because you want to. 
  I guess thats it. Its not a terrible game, its not even a bad game. But its definetely not a GOOD 
 game either. Not worth the 15 dollars a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot9183
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Hands down this must be the best MMORPG I have ever had the pleasure playing. If you can get a 
 copy then activate it immediatly! Only problem is, is that you will find yourself to begin playing 
 at 10PM and check the clock and alas it is 5PM the next day and you didn't go to work! Either way 
 this is 20x better than Guild Wars and Dungeon Seige (not really a MMO) and is an amazing game. 
 The soundtrack is absolutely gorgeous! Price is good. Great matter of fact because for $15 a month 
 you get a game that in my opinion is worth $100 per month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueConsegui
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me explain this game for you:
  
  Walk for 15 minutes to find somebody with a quest. Walk 10 minutes to find the area to do the quest. 
 Get killed. As a spirit, walk 10 more minutes to get back to your corpse. Revive, perhaps getting 
 killed again. Complete quest. Walk 20 minutes back to the person who gave you the quest. Gain some 
 experience, and another quest. Repeat.
  
  Sounds exciting, huh? Well, to tell the truth, it is. 
  
  Whether its the knowledge of playing 
 a MMORPG with a couple hundred thousand other players, or the beautiful environment, World of Warcraft 
 is an in-depth and addicting game. 
  
  The formula may get old, but that won't stop you from finishing this wonderful game. Around level 
 20, the game gets a lot more exciting, as you can enter some dungeons where the real fun shows 
 up. You can also enter battlegrounds for your specific level range, which is a high-speed game 
 of CTF with players from both the Horde and Alliance killing one another.
  
  At level 40, you can purchase a mount to help you get places faster. Don't think that goal won't 
 take a while to achieve, either. Be prepared to spend a good 500 hours + on this one. Yeah.
  
  No matter what kind of gamer you are, WoW has something for you. There's real-time battles, 
 memorable characters, and a thousand different kinds of enemies. And this place is big. Really 
 big. To start with, there's 90 some realms to choose from. Then there's 2 continents in each realm, 
 each with 20 regions. You could spend a short amount of time in any one of these regions, and an 
 ungodly amount in others (i. e. the Barrens) . Big.
  
  An fun, addicting, and immersive game awaits in World of Warcraft. It's well worth the initial 
 50 dollars and the ensuing $15 a month. The entire family will want to play this one.
  
  "War is upon us" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoct3rnal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  this game is a bit better than SWG... this game dosnt have that great graphics ether, and the character 
 creation isnt as good as SWG's, and i just dont like how all the races have the same hight. BUT! 
 this game is just really fun for a while. some player classes can KILL others easily in PVP. If 
 you want to but SWG, WoW, MxO, or just any thing would say u might want to get this. MxO's missions 
 are all exacly the same, and in SWG is hard to fing missions after certain lvl's , in WoW missions 
 ar all over the place.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunnyGirl45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome only thing i dont like is the lvl 60 lvl cap. but it takes a pretty long time 
 to get to lvl 60 and once you get there what to do? Why start a new char on a different class or 
 just duel and help ur friends . but even if you have played all the races have you tried all the 
 classes? It will take a little while to find your favorite race/class i recomend for the new player 
 using a undead/warrior or dwarf/warrior. Feeling lonely? Join a guild. many guilds accept newbs 
 and will help them lvl up and anything! just ask! most people are nice and will be willing to help 
 (just dont beg for free things) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simoleon2078
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  If you havve never playes an MMO ever then start with the game that was wanted in all MMO fans 
 dreams, a massive environmental landscape to travel and your own unique character you make to travel 
 it with.
  
  If you dont already know or haven't read the review or heared of WoW at all its an RPG now if that 
 sunk your spirits by not likeing RPGs dont fret no matter who you are you WILL love WoW to its 
 full extent even if your not used to its gameplay, after installing WoW you will have to make an 
 account to pay around 10 pounds/dollars a month or you have a good friend that has the game already 
 to give you the month free trial, after the complicated stuff your ready to make a character which 
 consists a variety of races and classes for example paladin, mage, warrior, rouge etc and races like 
 human, orc, Night elf etc. when you play theres a small hints and tips to help you paly but everything 
 generally comes together and you feel like your a pro already, now next comes the combat which 
 starts very early in the game and if your tired of the slow turned based combat that most RPGs 
 have its all in real time like a action adventure game and when you lvl up theres is no difficult 
 choice of what to upgrade you get 1 point more of all attributes like armor, intellect, spirit 
 etc but till you get to lvl 10 you have talents to split you and make your player unique and special 
 to all others finding some glitches in the game when it first came out there will be patches that 
 come out regulary to improve gameplay classes and so on, the lvl limit is 60 but we are informed 
 that an expansion will come out with the limit of 70 but believe my this game will last for ages 
 and you cant spend a day without thinking about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghettochild18
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  frankly, you could ask anyone and they would agree that instead of world of warcraft, blizzard 
 should have made something along the lines of "universe of starcraft". that being said, i find 
 the war craft world and stories extremely boring. 
  
  im very dissapointed with the anime graphics and the low polygon count, along with bad textures. 
 
  
  The game is .. grind to lvl 60. get loot and get the most uber items ever. be invincible. 
  
 
  now what do you do? well it seems like the best thing to do now is write reviews on guildwars 
 saying it sucks because the level cap is 20. all the meanwhile guildwars players are busy with 
 updates from arena net and constant competitive fast paced and skill based dueling that leaves 
 world of warcraft in the dust. 
  
  While youre waiting for an update for world of warcraft (which will inevitably be delayed, knowing 
 blizzard) you are getting fined each month 15 bucks! thats a half a tank of gas now adays. at least 
 youll be saving gas money by not leaving the house, due to being pressured to play world of warcraft 
 to get your moneys worth. 
  
  Im not saying its a bad game. its just not as good as it may seem as first. its nothing new, its 
 just the same as everything else, blizzard didnt do much to improve or revolutionize the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  I played Guild Wars first and thought that was exceptional, but this is BETTER!!
  
  First the interaction with players throughout the game works so much more than leaving you alone 
 within your own world as Guild Wars does. The detail in every respect is fantastic and continually 
 grows as quests and new regions are added on an ever increasing scale.
  
  Loading times are at an absolute minimum, and new lands render seemlessly into each other. Theres 
 no twiddling fingers waiting for regions to load.
  
  I can't praise this game enough! They have got this covered, but they should have with over 4 million 
 players at 8.99 a month. Was a bit pissed at the thought of paying this monthly fee, but now think 
 it's worth every penny.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darep
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Because you have probably read all the usual junk about the graphics, th e lore and environment, 
 I won't be talking about those.
  
  World of Warcraft is said to be the first MMORPG that got every aspect of MMORPG right. I definitely 
 think so too, except for one part. Further development.
  
  I've been playing World of Warcraft since the US open beta and I can tell you, it's still a good 
 game. I even played in the European closed and open/final betas. After the betas were done, the 
 game "went retail" and of course I bought it.
  
  The retail release was a disappointment for me. I read the manual on my way to home from the game 
 store and got really excited about the new features. The honor system, new instances etc. But when 
 I got home, installed the game and got my first kill... My face was a big frown. There was no honor 
 system. No new instance. Everything was still the way it was in beta. This made me lose interest 
 towards the game and made me stop playing for 4 months.
  
  After 4 months, I re-installed the game and started playing with some of my friends who had bought 
 the game. And this time, the honor system, new instances, all those things I had read about in 
 the manual January were there and the game got interesting again. Now, with the 1.9 patch, even 
 more content has been added to the game and PvP is great! Wish only the servers stayed un-laggy 
 and online.
  
  The game is great, true. The developers however seem a little lazy. Maybe Blizzard underestimated 
 the potential of the game and was struck on the head by the overwhelming community. Most of the 
 servers are full and a bunch of them offline at least every two months :P
  
  Plus, balancing the game in every aspect is a challenging job and Blizzard has done a decent job. 
 Not superb, but very decent. Otherwise WoW truly is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy31315
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  OK this is the best MMO out there imo. Amazing features and run by a good company (blizzard) . This 
 game has something for everyone weather it be questing, the professions, fighting in battlegrounds, 
 or just doing something stupid with friends like fishing. This game is simpy fun to play. Levels 
 go by fast especially at lvls 20-. Your always looking forward to your new move or spell or talent. 
 Trading is run brilliantly with multipul auctionhouses in both Horde and Alliance terriroty. PvP 
 is good to with contested territories (u can attack in those) and your own factions territory (can't 
 be attacked less u attack first) This game is just a joy to play so if your tired of singleplayer 
 games u can beat in a couple weeks, give this a try. With 10 toons a server letting you try out 
 all the different classes this gamne could literally take you years to do EVERYTHING. But with 
 the constant additions and the upcomming patches, this game is gonan be around along time. Only 
 problems i have with it is the lagg so stay away from high pop servers.... O the graphics are amazing 
 if you can appreciate that cartoon like feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendOfStern
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think that I was going to like WoW when my friend gave me a trial cd-key. I had looked 
 at pictures that weren't very inspiring, and my expectations for the game were pretty low. Those 
 expectations were shattered the minute I started my character. There he was, running around, using 
 spells, questing, and interacting with other people. I became immediately hooked on the game, no 
 question about it. I suggest that if you want to try this game, see if you know someone who bought 
 the game and has a trial cd-key that they can give you. Either that, or see if you can start a 
 new character on your friend's account at their house to get the feel of the game. It will definately 
 be worth the time you spend getting adjusted to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jazperson
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awesome. The best PC game for me.
  
  When it comes to graphics, sounds and gameplay, Blizzard is the best. They have captured my wants 
 and needs on gaming. I've spent almost 10-20 hours per day playing this game. I made friends with 
 others from around the world and enjoyed a lot of team work and leadership. What I like most with 
 this game is their 40man RAID instance. It's really cool how 40 players manage to get along with 
 each other and obtain a successful mission. Epic items too are the most precious items aside from 
 orange items. You will really do your best to get one, although it's freakin' hard to get an epic 
 item. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkduds_1167
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  In World of Warcraft. See the world of Azeroth like never before, exploring expansive 3D environments 
 that range from mountains, to deserts, to forests and more. 
  You can create a custom character from one of the many classes and races in the Warcraft universe 
 such as Humans, Night Elves, Orcs, Tauren, and Dwarves. Online multiplayer capabilities allow for 
 tons of players to quest together. The gameplay varies from month to month as new missions and 
 items are constantly updated, adding to the countless hours of adventuring.
  The big appeal of World of Warcraft is that at its heart, it's a game -- no more, no less. Unlike 
 most previous MMOs, World of Warcraft doesn't pretend to be an "online experience" or a "virtual" 
 anything. It's a place where people can come to have fun and do interesting things for as much 
 time as they have to spare. Superficially, of course, World of Warcraft resembles other games that 
 have preceded it in the genre. Players create a virtual avatar, choosing their race, class, and 
 appearance and which side of the global conflict between the Horde and the Alliance they'd like 
 to fight on. Once they enter the game, they can take on quests, fight monsters, explore dungeons, 
 craft items, join guilds, raid enemy towns, duel and fight with other players and band together 
 to take on really tough creatures. If you are the kind of gamer that likes playing online, this 
 game is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4letawurd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was a little skeptical. It was my first time stepping into the Warcraft 
 universe. After playing it, my whole world changed. I knew that I had just become part of gaming 
 history. World of Warcraft has to be one of the best games on the new century.
  
  Being able to create and customize your own character is what really makes this game shine. From 
 8 diffrent player races and 7 (Im not sure exactly) to choose from, this game provides alot (and 
 I mean ALOT) of replay value. The classes are also what makes this game what it is. The mages, 
 the warlock's and the warrior's all have their own unique abilities on which to thrash on enemies 
 - or on other player's.
  
  That's right - other player's. This game's PVP system is almost perfect (Other than the Honor system 
 - bleh :P) The two factions (Horde and Alliance) can battle it out either on the battlefield, or 
 in the middle of the blazing hot barren's.
  
  Now I know what your thinking "OMGZ IM GONNA GET GANKED SO MUCH!" Well my friend, if PVP isnt for 
 you, you can just head onto one of the other 3 server's. Have you been loving the Warcraft series, 
 and always wanted to be part of it? Then the RP realm's are for you. Be warned, though, not everyone 
 roleplay's, and anything as simple from not putting your word's in parenthesis to notify other's 
 that your OOC (Out of character) in front of the wrong people can get you reported. 
  
  The Normal realm's are for people who just naturally want to play the game. Still want to PVP, 
 but not be flagged everytime you go into contested territory? No problem! Just type /pvp or join 
 the battlegrounds.
  
  And finally, the RPPVP realm's. This is a mix between the RP elitist and the PVP noob's. Even though 
 it's main point is for RP'ers who wish to join a PVP realm, you wont always find the RP contact 
 your looking for.
  
  That about sum's it up - i'll leave the rest for you to find out for yourself. Now go on, adventurer, 
 it's time to explore the land of Azeroth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilPigeon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Heh, this is a fantastic game to be blunt but also is very in depth, which in some ways makes it 
 as good as it is. I fyou have a decent PC there's no reason why you shouldn't get this. That's 
 my only beef with this game, the minimum pc "goodness" that it says on its box may not be too much 
 but if ou use the minimum i think you might vomit. if you have less than around 700 or so ram then 
 i'd suggest you build it up a tad and defineately look into a decent video card. Which don't run 
 "too" high. The new ones have a 256 ram on the cards but I'm running a semi-dated 128 ram one and 
 I'm more than content. It might be because I got 1gig of ram with the game. In my case it takes 
 a long time to level up but i s'pose that's the fun. Sometimes I don't feel like reading the quests 
 and only read the objectives because the quests get a trifle tiresome. The customization feature 
 are pretty mediocre. Once you pickyour looks..... you've PICKED your looks. Is it too much to ask 
 for a barbershop, and on occasion it gets to me that most everyone looks like a big rainbow because 
 if you get equipment that's better than the ones you currently have then the odds are you're gonna 
 put it on. The thing it is it rarely matches the rest of your stuff. I vote on a armor dying shop 
 or somethin'. Oh, and one other thing I was the dummy to pick a druid as my main character but 
 the thing is.... I like druids and all...... but they kinda (kinda=horribly) get killed by the other 
 ones. They didn't make druids very good for killing the other players. But they can be very useful 
 sometimes, more than often I end up doing some tiype od druid abilities to rescue my group. Yeah.... that's 
 my review............ BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkinc9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I got this game almost right after it came out so not a full year but man what a game. I tried 
 playing the Dwarf first. A hunter to be more precise. I played this char for almost three weeks 
 before I tried the humans and so on. I had a little trouble playing on one of the servers the other 
 people on it just pissed me off so I switched to I think Goliath I cant check right now because 
 I'm on Dial up. When I switched things got a whole lot better I made friends which I highly recommend 
 its the most fun. After playing the Alliance for quite a while I tried the hord o man they rocked 
 but I always went back to my Dwarf Palli. I recommend this game to anyone who wants to go to another 
 world and make friends. I wish I could play now Im working in the mountains of CA and they dont 
 have DSL AHHH. Well I know it wasnt much of a review but I liked the game so should everyone else 
 in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamboo42
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  from wat i have seen, there are many ppl complaining abt the frame-rate, freezes, and random errors. 
 thats not the game, its YOU!! i have two computers so therefore i can look on both sides of the 
 argument. on my pc it works great. havent experienced ANY frame rate issues, freezing, or random 
 error messages. on my dads computer it works a bit differently. the frame rate is not as good and 
 when i enter a highly populated city it can freeze for maybe 5 seconds from time to time. SO, dont 
 be stupid and blame the frame rate on the game cuz its not the game. Other than that this is the 
 best rpg out today. after playing guild wars this is a great step up bcs it has similar gameplay 
 yet it has sooo much more to offer in terms of skills, areas, characters, quests, and customisation. 
 so i recommed this game to all ppl who enjoy rpgs, especially playing wt ur friends. ppl complain 
 abt the monthly payments too but, comon. u spend more money turning the lights on and off. and 
 if u truly like this game then u wont mind paying 12 dollars a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKnight90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  I've played some MMOs over the years and I have hated every single one I've played with a passion. 
 But loving WarCraftIII I had to give this one a go, it is simply put, the BEST RPG I have ever 
 played. The game play is smooth and simple, the game looks great, it is very noob friendly, and 
 best of all it's warcraft. It's easy, and highly addictive. You can play between two teams, eight 
 races and a wide range of different classes. The only bad thing is that it can get kinda boring.
 
  The game is well worth the monthly fee and is a must have for any RPG lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewcruicksha
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has to be the best game ever made, the graphics are so smooth and the game-play 
 is so addictive. I was one of those people that said I will never pay monthly for a game "what 
 a con", but to my amazement I cant keep off it . It has been a year and i'am still on it. So if 
 your looking for a great on-line game I recommend this You wont be disappointed. But i must say 
 if you have a partner and they dont like playing these types of games like mine you may need to 
 soften them up and make sure they have something to keep them entertained as they will become warcraft 
 widows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twister2k33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said. The game itself is a blast to play and easily the 
 best MMORPG out there but wouldn't recommend this to anyone. The support is horrible and the game 
 performance is even worse. Expect long ques to play, horrible lag spikes during gameplay, random 
 disconnects and error messages. I have played them all and this is by far the worst performing 
 mmorpg to date. You can also expect long waits for a GM if you need one.. and you will.
  If Blizzard would fix the network and other technical issues with this game it would be by far 
 the best overall MMORPG ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The game loses it's lustre after 2 years of playing, but as far as in-world interaction, animation, 
 immersion, this game still is a winner. I wrote a scathing review in January of 2006, and this 
 game has added much since then. WoW is NOT the same game it was when it was created in 2004.
  
  My only beef is the crafting system, which, compared to most games, is mediocre, but the world 
 is diverse. The graphics are a little late 1990's, and cartoonish, but the immersion is excellent, 
 as is the soundtrack. The graphical smoothness, and physics model is pretty good, in fact, better 
 than most other MMO's out there. 
  
  It's still king. No game has the complexity, content, and fan base that WoW has, and they're going 
 to keep it for a few years yet. The developers of new games need to know where the bar's been raised, 
 and try to supercede it. None have done this yet. I'll keep playing WoW 'til Turbine gets it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtdheHoxha
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has been selling so much in the stores and it's a great game. You play with others 
 in team and its a worth buying game. The money is worth it but the only problem is the gamecard 
 where you have to buy one every first or second month. The game is better then Zelda and it never 
 end's. There's always somebody playing with you and it's always something to do there. You can 
 turn to a pet and you can own a pet, you can fly, take the tram (the train) , you can get jobs and 
 trade things. There's always something new to do, and if you get bored with quests, you can join 
 a horde-fight. This game deserved a 10.0 already when it got released. 
  You just can't stop playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StUnNeR_H2K
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I hesitated in purchasing this game due to the fact that I was just finished with college when 
 it was released and I was focused on getting my career started rather than play video games all 
 the time. Im glad I did that. Otherwise I would still be at home playing this at my parents house 
 rather than having a full-time job living on my own. When I did finally decide to purchase the 
 game I cause a massive domino effect with all my close friends. Many of them that hadnt even played 
 video games ever in there life started to play again becoming just addicted to the game as I was. 
 Now Ive played other Blizzard games before (Diablo, StartCraft, WarCraft III) and all of them were 
 high quality games, so had complete trust that Blizzard had and was going to deliver again with 
 its first MMORPG. I think I have owned the game for a little over a week and have played it pretty 
 much not stop with no desire to stop. Logging in over 48 hours + of play time in just 7 days. I 
 thought my Halo days were long, WoW has just destroyed thoughs. The game brings so much depth to 
 each and every character/race that you get the feeling you are actually apart of the actual World. 
 Along with some really nice graphics and quests that will keep you busy for probably months maybe 
 years WoW is probably going to go down as the Best Game Ever. Its well worth the monthly fees to 
 play online. Just remember how much you spend to go to the three or four movies you see every month... 
 That only entertains your for maybe 10-12 hours at most, but WoW can give you hour after hour of 
 entertainment, along with time well spent with other fellow gaming friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianthe12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  omfg this is the one of the best game ever. diablo 2 is also amazing and starcraft are thebest 
 games in the world!!!!!! dont get fuking tricked by all those noobs who cant even play rpg. ya 
 u need some lots of time. but all rpgs need a lot of time. the game is very confusing i admit. 
 but this game will make u so addicted. so becareful. jeesus i cant fuking play this cas it cost 
 20$ per month. but if u can afford it. omfg play this fuking game and u will never ever need to 
 buy another game. this game in fact that ur cahracter dont get erased after not play8nig for fuking 
 1 year. so play this game. but it is tooooooooooooooooooooooooo goood...... no other games like 
 halo 2, or half life 2 is nothing compared to world of warcraft. **** all the people who fuking 
 play those boring shits are fuked up nooob. dont play like those halo 2 shits. fuk. paly this game 
 and u will never ever ahve to buy another one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExileAegis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, heretofor referred to as WoW, Warcrack, my anti-job, or any other word with 
 a capital W that doesn't start a sentence, although sometimes will. Of any MMORPG game that I have 
 played, World of Warcraft has been the most well structured and balanced game overall. If you listen 
 to the forum flamers, you'll see people whining about any given class, there are even a number 
 of videos devoted to the pain that rogues cause. Either way, there is a place and point to any 
 class.
  
  Sidenote: I'm a carebear. From a PvE perspective this is especially true. But then again, when 
 you're competing against somebody and lose, isn't it natural to whine, a whole bunch.
  
  The environments of Warcrack are well-developed, with a vast mythology to draw and expand upon, 
 WoW gives you a feeling that yes Virginia, there is a storyline. There are strands for each of 
 the races, each of the zones, and some strange over-arching storyline that seems to well, coalesce 
 for most of the upper-level raid dungeons.
  
  Dugeons, everywhere, add a reason to group while the game unlike so many other MMORPGs, there is 
 soloable content throughout the whole game, including the level 60 areas, although "elite" mobs 
 are much harder to solo at equal level.
  
  There is music, sound effects, and ambient noises that are well made - but this is where I found 
 the game lacking. I turned off most of my sound in favor of my own music after I got to my first 
 alt. The music is good, but honestly, I log so many hours on this game it'd be ridiculous to stay 
 in tune with it unless... well I loved it.
  
  The game gives a large amount of variable difficulty, with a forgiving learning curve. And then 
 you get to the harder dungeons and you find that things look impossible at first. But there are 
 strategies to be figured out.
  
  And the most succinct part of my review: pretty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenhourtox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for a few months now, all the time wondering if this game was going to 
 be worth 15 dollars a month. So after many hours of play I have decided, YES! 
  
  This is a great MMO, most likely the best out there but still it can seem to lack in places with 
 the storie line, enemies (There are tons of them but they are all the same races with different 
 looks) , items. 
  
  The story feels just like it is thrown together, if you can even follow it. I would recommend getting 
 into the side quests before diving into the main so you have some fun before the fall. The problem 
 with the enemies is, as I stated before, to many looks and not enough monsters. Also the items 
 are a problem. Sure there are alot of them but customizing is hard because of the lack of low level 
 items. Blizzard may add more high end items but there is never an update to get in some new armor 
 and weapons for the low levels out there, which there are indefenitly more of.
  
  Ohhh but wait, I cannot forget the little problem WoW has with attacking. You can be a mile away 
 from an enemy and they can still hit you! What is that? Sure it makes it fair but it is so stupid! 
 I know this little feature can ruin my time in play, expecialy when PvPing. Rouges are the gayest 
 thing ever When PvPing because they can exploit this little trick VERY easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of those people who does not spend every waking minute playing games, you will find 
 World of Warcraft hard to get into. I disliked this game because for one the controls are a pain 
 in the rear and there is too much to learn and master, and second of all you have to spend a lot 
 of time learning and playing the game, yet you are forking out a ton of money to play this game. 
 Its 60 bucks here in Canada just for the game with a 1 month subscription for free but then its 
 another 60 bucks for a years subscription, its a joke. Overall the game is interesting and has 
 potential, if they didnt try to cram so many freaking controls into your keyboard, it should just 
 be easy enough to set all the controls to a control stick without any problems. The graphics were 
 great and there is a ton to do in the game but it takes too long to master the controls, even I 
 didnt get everything learned before I quit. Everquest is still a better MMORPG by a long shot IMO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondodogoof
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game in the beginning. Everything was exciting, the action was fast paced, the content 
 wonderful. THen... I got to forty... time grew on... I got bored. Raids can last 4 hours, and it's 
 very possible that you get nothing. I'm a priest, during raids I just keep my fingers on the flash 
 heal and DoT heal buttons and watch the health bars. Boring. So I kept playing even though I was 
 getting bored, I looked at the "uber" gear, I wanted it sooo bad. Then, I was getting my not even 
 class specific set and I grew bored. Before I even got to the "uber" gear I was bored. And I began 
 to think, Why am I doing this? So I can get uber gear so that I can get even more uber gear? What 
 am I going to gain? I'm not having fun. That's it, near the end it wasn't fun. The devs lost the 
 inspiration to give the game depth. No player housing, no real world change, no gain in fighting 
 other faction. Not much to do besides Raid. Welcome to World of RaidCraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I find this game very overrated but I still love it. I hate most of the game but seriously, the 
 features that I love just make it so much better. There's a ton of things I love about this game 
 and a ton of things I hate. So I'm just going to break this down easily.
  
  Things I Love:
  I love the whole Warcraft series and this is just putting you as an individual 
 unit running around a big world. I love the character designs and the environments. The game has 
 a lot of cool things with the battlegrounds and crap. I also like the items you get.
  
  Things I Hate:
  The world is big, but should a huge world. Compared to most MMORPG games, this 
 game is really small with a big monthy fee. I think personally mommy and daddy shouldn't give their 
 credit cards to their stupid little kids. The people on the game make it unenjoyable most of the 
 time. Their biggest thing is getting your account banned. The lag still isn't fixed. Tons of networking 
 issues. Level cap of 60... and then with the expansion, to lvl 70. Whoopie. The game has no balance 
 even after patch 1.9. The rogues are a bunch of cheating.... youknowwhats. You can't fight from 
 your mounts. The first ever in-game spam. You can't be a freakin' ogre.
  
  Bottom line, lower the cost per month. We pay per month because you're suppose to do something 
 for the gamers, not something for your wallet. Then again, this game is fun and worth checking 
 out. (This was a positive review, trust me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koroua
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Since it was out i would have given it a 9.5 but with all the patches and improvements i can easily 
 say that its value has overall more then doubled, with such features as battlegrounds and honor 
 system. 
  
  And it appears easy at firsthand because u start easy with nothing much to master, but in true 
 the more u play the more complicated it gets.
  
  In my opinion slaughering players in masses is what a game should do, nd everyone can have a unique 
 playing style. 
  
  But of course what can i say? i never expected less.... ITS BLIZZARD, BLIZZARD PWNS ALL, their 
 only negative side effect is the postponed releases which i can understand because they wanna make 
 their games even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMackin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is probably the greatest PC game ever made. This is an RPG that never stops. 
 You make your own character and build him or her up to lvl 60, but with a new expansion coming 
 out you can get up to lvl 70. Every character is different so no one will be the same. Make sure 
 you have a good computer so the game dosnt slow down cause you'll always need to keep up. I highly 
 recommend this game to everyone who likes games, go out and get it now cause in some places it 
 cheaper then $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jday249
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I play this game a ton and anyone should try to play this game and I can almost guarentee you will 
 like it. The monthly fees are worth the game. I've been playing for about a month and i love it. 
 I've played so many other massive online games and this one is the best I have played so far. The 
 world is huge and seems like a never ending game. The gameplay and the way it is set up is outstanding. 
 So many other games have tried to take what WOW does and use it in the new games. It doesn't work 
 and those games are not as near fun as WOW is. Anyone will have a blast playing this. This is a 
 masterpeice and will go down as one of the best massive online roleplaying games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  In World of Warcraft you create a character and log into a server and play with MANY people hence 
 the genre title Massively Multiplayer online RPG. However, in the beginning you will find that 
 its required to level up if you want to continue to your adventures. The problem is how repetitive 
 it is leveling up. I personally found my self killing the same thing several times.
  
  The quests required to advance in the game and level up were terrible, many consisted of, Kill 
 10-100 of these, travel to *ENTER HARD TO PRONOUNCE TOWN NAME HERE* Often you will find your self 
 doing one quest and running to the same town more then 5 times for one quest.
  
  World of Warcraft does however stay true to the warcraft world. All the warcraft races, and locations 
 are present. The monthly fee seems a bit unncessary especially for all the people who do play the 
 game. I could respect a subscription fee of 10$ but 15 seems a bit over pricy. After playing the 
 game, i felt like i got scammed into how much time and money i put into the game.
  
  The game is easy to get used too, it has all the basic commands needed to navigate the vast land, 
 just not the substance.
  
  The graphics are nothing amazing, it does what it needs to do but is shy compared to other mmorpgs 
 like guild wars.
  
  The music is fine, and the sound affects as well, it brigns the warcraft feeling to the game.
 
  
  In the end, the game is not worth the 50 dollars and 15 dollars monthly. If the price of the game 
 was lowered and the subscription fee was lowered, i would consider buying it, but other then that, 
 it feels like a scam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azcn2503
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty much the same all the way through. Get EverQuest 2, it offers much more.
  
  The graphics aren't what they're made out to be. The gameplay is a hack and slash all the way through. 
 The quests get annoying. There can be no heroes. Player vs Player is boring.
  
  However, the user interface is nice, old systems can run it, and it sounds ok.
  
  This is all 
 I have to say, I'm just saying this line to meet the 100 word requirement for reviews. And again. 
 And again. And again. Again... Get EverQuest 2 instead; it looks better, plays better, and offers 
 much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the best warcraft created; check this out:
  
  *You can purchase weapons, amor and do quest for your live and up level to unlock more stuff and 
 be more tounghess (of course, duhh!)
  
  * The inmense map to explore is the best thing of this game, perhaps needed a lot of months to 
 explore, imagine the bigger.
  
  I also comment a important detail of this game, maybe makes bored when you got a higher level because 
 you don't have nothing to do... almost.
  
  But requires a lot of time to beat it and constantly the game is parched for new levels.
  
 
  *the graphics are excelent and the movements are perfect so i recommend to buy this game but there 
 are a server that not needs to pay. enter in google ad search for servidor WOW Venezuela, perhaps 
 you'll find it at seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winter121
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The class system is very well put together. You choose a class when you create your character, 
 and as you level you can learn new skills from your class trainer. These skills are extremely varied 
 from one class to another, and blizzard have made sure that each class has some very cool skills 
 to utilize. You also get to purchase talents as you level, which helps you to enhance your skills 
 and differentiate your character from others of the same class and race. In addition, each race 
 also gets fixed racial traits from the beginning (such as increased dodge change for elves etc.) .
 
  
  PvP still needs some work, but there is a strong foundation for Blizzard to build upon after release, 
 which is exactly what they plan on doing with battlegrounds. The two sides of Alliance (Good) 
 and Horde (Evil) form the basis for PvP. There are two types of server regular and PvP. Both have 
 the ability for player vs. player, but only on the PvP server can you potentially be attacked while 
 questing (though only in enemy, or contested territories) .
  
  I only tried trade skills at a very basic level, but they seemed very well implemented with both 
 gathering professions (such as mining, fishing, skinning etc.) and production professions (such 
 as smithing, tailoring etc.) . Also there are service professions such as enchanting and first aid. 
 Any character can take 2 primary professions such as those mentioned, and an unlimited number of 
 what are called secondary professions such as cooking and fishing.
  
  I must say this is the only MMORPG I have played where I have had so much fun playing the game, 
 that I forgot all about leveling. I truly felt drawn into a world of fantasy and adventure.
  
  Blizzard have injected the RPG back into the MMORPG genre and spiced it up with creativity 
 and great gameplay. They have kept of the best parts of the existing genre and made the other parts 
 even better. With ambitious plans for the future, from a developer we can trust to do the right 
 thing, this game will only get better and better.
  
  I for one cant wait to step back into the World of Warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aesoprockdjx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Before World of Warcraft i had never played a MMORPG. I took a chance based on reviews I read about 
 it and now I play non-stop. At first I wasnt impressed with them somewhat cartoon look, but after 
 awhile I began to really appreciate the graphics. The world of Azeroth is beautiful and looks amazing 
 every where you go. Not to mention it is huge. This game has so much for you to do that you'll 
 be satisfied with it for a long time. Before this game I had never played a blizzard game. But 
 now they are the only games I play. This game is one of if not the best game I have ever played, 
 and with the newest patches and the expansion coming this year, there will be tons more for people 
 to do. Whether your a fan om MMORPGs or not Im almost positive you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incarn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This games is amzing, sure you have to pay, but the money is given back to you in extra content, 
 more players, upgrades, fast servers ect.
  
  I have been playing this and have found the players to be kind, helpful, caring and generally, good 
 sports. This is not one of those hard to understand- confusion games with one of those impossibly 
 interfaces... but the game is simple to use, yet hard to master.
  
  , Humans, Night Elves, Gnomes, Dwarfs and the new race in the Expansion. These races are the group 
 The Alliance.
  
  The Horde Consists of The Magical Blood Elves, The Orcs, The Undead, The Trolls.
  
  Afteryou 
 pick your race you pic a class.
  
  There are nine classes Mage, Hunter, Warlock, Warrior, Shaman, Paladan, Druid, Priest, Rogue.
 
  
  Each Class comes with character speicization, called Talents, There Are 3 talent trees for each. 
 you gain talent points as you lvl up and use them here to upgrade, and Customize characters.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The good
  
  1 - Performance: The first thing I noticed about WoW is how well it installed on my system. The 
 graphics are more cartoonish than realistic and the environments while looking very good are not 
 all that detailed and graphic intense (not for todays hardware) . There were no bugs during install 
 or during game play really accept the usual in-game bugs that every mmorpg will have.
  
  2 - Graphics: While the graphics were not cutting edge or at all stunning they were very well done. 
 The art direction of WoW gets solid points. You are never at any point impressed by what you see 
 but you are very much happy with it. The environments feel right which is a huge plus.
  
  3 - Quests: There are enough quests in this game to keep any gamer occupied for years. WoW combines 
 the best of what UO, EQ, DAoC, AC, Meridian, you name it and made an MMORPG gamers dream system. 
 There is very little innovation in their quest system but innovation wasn't their target it was 
 clearly deploying a quest system that was user friendly and they delivered.
  
  4 - Character customization: There are plenty of character races and classes to choose from as 
 well as enough models to make your typical gamer happy. Over a period of time you can customize 
 your characters look in detail enough to make this a positive aspect to the game.
  
  5 - Economy: The economy is almost entirely player driven. You're not going to find your next upgrade 
 at an NPC vendor. WoW's use of the Auction House is very good and an interesting twist on the Bazaar 
 in Everquest's Luclin expansion.
  
  6 - Map: The size of the game world is very nice. WoW offers you enough space and variety of environments 
 to make you feel apart of a real gaming world and not just a section of it.
  
  7 - PvP: Until Guild Wars went live WoW offered the best in PvP in the MMORPG world. Since the 
 old school days of UO have gone and went there haven't been a real fun PvP experience since WoW. 
 The contested zones on PvP servers revitalized this gamers love of mmorpg pvp something that was 
 lost a long time ago with games that couldn't produce in that area. Beginner level players might 
 get owned early and novice players will probably find the pvp just right. If you're really into 
 pvp you might find WoW a bit easy after a while and redundant. But they offer the battle grounds 
 which are a lot like guild wars pvp areas.
  
  8 - Instances: There are enough instances to make everyone happy in this game. They did a great 
 job here.
  
  9 - Story: WoW has a great story with great races in it. WoW offers a truly fun time going through 
 all the races main cities and seeing the unique characteristics of each. I mean you can walk into 
 Undercity (the undead city) and find a fight club or mad scientists torturing humans with chemicals 
 and magic in order to get their revenge. I mean come on that's classic.
  
  The bad
  
  1 - XP Grind: Still exists in todays mmorpg's and wow is no different. WoW's xp grind is quite 
 punishing especially if you're not a player who's been around since the beginning. The grind can 
 be quite the deterrent for gamers.
  
  2 - Monthly cost: Cost for WoW is high. They do a great job but the cost is a bit too much for 
 me. No MMORPG I think is worth more than $9.99 US.
  
  3 - Lack of innovation: WoW doesn't do anything that I haven't seen before. The winning aspect 
 of WoW is that it takes the best of the mmorpg's and combines them into one. I'd like to have seen 
 more innovation in the gameplay and functionality of the game.
  
  The Ugly
  
  1 - Patches: WoW uses Blizzard's peer to peer file sharing server which is slow as a 1200bps modem! 
 I am sure they have an agreement with FilePlanet so that Blizzard continues to use that horrible 
 user-unfriendly method updating their users with patches so that users pay FilePlanet to get them 
 faster.
  
  Overall
  
  The positives in World of Warcraft far outweigh the negatives. If you're an MMORPG fan and you 
 LIKE the XP grind WoW is for you. It is truly a great MMORPG and possibly the best ever made. You 
 have to credit those who came before WoW for WoW clearly got the bulk of its ideas from them (no 
 shame in that) . If you've played EQ, DAoC, SWG, whatever mmorpg you want to mention and you don't 
 like the XP grind then stay away from WoW and head to Guild Wars. If I had played WoW before EQ 
 I'd still be playing WoW but I did most everything you'll find in WoW in EQ.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Blizzard Company is well-known for making some the the best games of our time. They have made 
 Warcraft, Starcraft, Diablo, and this game. They even had some guys go and make Guild Wars which 
 got the Editor's Choice award. This game offered me a new look at MMO's. As a gamer, I looked for 
 weeks 'till I found a good MMO that would suit me. I found this game and bought it when it first 
 came out. It was great and I played it for hours. the gameplay was non-stop and the character selection 
 was awesome. I played it for about 3 months when I decided it was just too much cash and dropped 
 it. I still like to see it every now and then but it just is too much. I love this game and it 
 should be put in the game Hall of Fame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercufles
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Ive been with this games for very long time, everytime i try every morpg some were bad and some 
 were rememberble, and world of warcraft wich is it ? Well i can say for sure that its a great game, 
 a lot of locations and they look great. There are instances where you can go with a party the great 
 things you can get great stuff out there and there are even a story there, the first time i went 
 in the deadmines i only wanted more and more. The graphix are great nice and colorfoul like most 
 warcraft games. Sound is also fantastic every location has his sound. Gameplay is also the best 
 i ever see in morpg. There are tons of quests to do. And places to visit. The only flaw of this 
 game i can think of i miss that thing is that lot is playing it i miss the friendships i can make 
 with games like everquest, everquest 2. With other type of games like this people help you gladly 
 that is one thing i miss in wow but maybe now its been there a long time things had change. But 
 as the rest if you never played this kinda game and you want to try it well go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc_diGital
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Daily lives.... some people have them, and well.... some people choose to miss lunch, or dinner with 
 the family for a simple reason. World of Warcraft. This game has now become one of the best selling 
 games ever, with over 5 million subscribers, you cant get much better than this. 
  
  Last week i went to a place that holds a special spot in my heart, eb games. After much deliberation, 
 i decided to pick up world of warcraft for the first time. As long as i can remember, i have never 
 been so obsessive about a game since Goldeneye. At long last i finally have a great game that mixes 
 wonderful graphics (although they may look cheesy, they follow the Warcraft tradition) , amazing 
 gameplay, and tremendous soundtracks. 
  
  Now hang on, this is NOT a perfect game. There were some minor flaws. 
  Beggining the game can 
 be a little tedious until you hit level 20, due to lack of content. Some people in this game deserve 
 to be shot because they are just THAT stupid. And finding a group for ANYTHING is almost impossible 
 if you are not in a guild (a group of people that join together and have a name that goes a tabard, 
 a piece of cloth that covers your armor) .
  
  all in all, not a flawless expierience, but still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Reaper007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is most likely the greatest MMO game that has hit the face of the earth. This game has a huge 
 amount of hype, but this time the hype is right, as millions of players have already immersed themselves 
 into the universe of The World of Warcraft.
  
  World of Warcraft delivers some of the best MMO gameplay to date. This game has consumed hundreds 
 of hours of my life into its addictive world. This game is very fun and would satisfy just about 
 any gamer or non-gamer due to its unique MMO style. The game difficulty is right for just about 
 any one that is interested in this game. Hardcore gamers on the other hand might find this game 
 much to easy. The graphics are good compared to the other MMO games on the market but in general 
 the graphics are not all that impressive. The graphics lack compared to many of the titles today. 
 The graphics are simple but they are one of the best for MMORPG's. The sound quality is also quite 
 mediocre. Just about all the sounds found in the game are simple and repetitive The overall value 
 for the game is fantastic. The game delivers hours of fun. Prepare to lose many hours of your life 
 to this addictive game. This game is worth buying, but have your credit card handy for its $15/ 
 month charge.
  
  In conclusion, World of Warcraft is the best MMORPG so far and has many things to look forward 
 to such as upcoming expansions and new friends to make. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarqueSky
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is like a circle, it just keeps going round and round collecting loot, upgrading loot, 
 getting the next loot thats released with the next patch. But, I guess people enjoy putting 8+ 
 hours a day on this. Me, it just is not worth the time. At first you'll get caught up and think 
 what your playing for means something. It just kind of makes you laugh when you look back and see 
 that all you were playing for, basically is to show off your gear/weapon, oh and you can go do 
 some fake pvp, no reward there. Hopefully those of you that play now will look back at this and 
 see what a waste 8+ hours a day everyday is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thespyhunter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  So I buy WoW, because one of my friends had it and I wanted to play with him. Needless to say, 
 this didn't fly with my fiancee, who was outraged over the fact that I was going to spend our "wedding 
 money" each month to play a video game. My response was this -- "Just try it. Make a character. You'll 
 see."
  
  My fiancee is not a gamer. She's not anti-gaming, she's just  But 
 either way, she doesn't play that often, so she says no at first. After about two weeks of constant 
 badgering, she finally gives in and makes a character on the game. 
  
  This is the best thing that has happened to me.
  
  I can't get her off the PC, and I'm loving 
 it. She'll make special trips to my dorm just to play. She'll stay over until 3 or 4 in the morning, 
 only leaving when I have to go to bed. She plays it non-stop.
  
  So it is for WoW. Now granted, I'm not that big of an MMO guy to begin with -- I'm more action and 
 RTS. However, the great thing about WoW is that it makes the geeky moments understandable. If you 
 don't want to become totally absorbed in the game, that's great -- the quest system is fun, easy, 
 and totally well done. The weapon and armor systems are easy to understand and fun to get into. 
 Conversely, if you're totally absorbed in the game, there are enough nooks and crannies to the 
 basic gameplay to allow that. But the best thing that I can say about the game is that it makes 
 adventuring fun. What's over those mountains? What fate lies beyond those hills? Let's find out. 
 
  
  It doesn't matter if you've never played an MMO, or if you've played all of them. The fact is, 
 WoW is a must-play, period. But don't venture on to the PvP servers -- my fiancee will kick your 
 ***. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Znuhtz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard's "World of Warcraft" is the 800-lb.-gorilla of the MMORPG genre, combining all of the 
 best things about other MMO's with many of their own twists to create a completely immersive environment 
 that has the very real potential to suck your life away. Anyone who appreciates fantasy settings, 
 online gaming, using a keyboard and mouse, or breathing oxygen owes it to themselves to at least 
 check this game out. People with a pre-existing relationship with MMORPG's will likely find that 
 after a couple of days with WoW, returning to your previous game is just not an option. World of 
 Warcraft pushes the limits of what you know to be an MMORPG in both subtle and not-so-subtle ways, 
 delivering a unique and beautiful game with enough similarities to other classics of the genre 
 to feel like an old friend from the word go. 
  
  Getting into the World of Warcraft is incredibly simple, as their 5-million-person subscriber base 
 would suggest. You simply install the game, create an account, choose your method of payment, and 
 you're ready to go. Sound too good to be true? For once, it isn't. Expect no hitches in your installation, 
 as the game is optimized to run on everything from the newest and most-imposing of supercomputers 
 to the most bare-bones laptop you can find. Expect no hindrance in creating an account, as this 
 time around Blizzard has taken a page from phone and internet companies and allowed you to pay 
 via Gametime Cards. Yes, thats right, you don't need a credit card to play this game. Whether you're 
 a 13-year-old who'd prefer to hide his MMO gaming from his folks, or a paranoid conspiracy theorist 
 who'd prefer not to use his government name whenever possible, Gametime Cards allow anyone to play. 
 
  
  Creating a character is the first step towards jumping into WoW, and while it is technically easy, 
 aesthetically it can be a difficult choice. Gamers are split down the middle between Alliance and 
 Horde, something anyone familiar with Blizzard's previous Warcraft games should be familiar with. 
 This choice affects more than just the look and feel of your character, it is a fundamental gameplay 
 decision that determines where in Azeroth you start, who you're allied with, and most importantly, 
 who you'll be facing in PvP, or "player verus player" combat. More on that later.
  
  Each faction has 4 races. The Alliance has humans, dwarves, night elves, and gnomes. The Horde 
 has orcs, trolls, undead, and tauren. These races affect more than the size and look of your characters 
 on-screen animation, each race has its own unique abilities that may or may not lend themselves 
 better to any given character class, though the bonuses aren't pronounced enough to make any race 
 unable to play a certain class. 
  
  There are 9 playable classes in the World of Warcraft, with some restrictions. For instance, the 
 Alliance have paladin's while the Horde does not. The Horde can play a shaman while the Alliance 
 can not. Only night elves and tauren can play druids. Tauren can not play rogues. However, each 
 side has something for everyone, and each class is powerful enough in its own right that there 
 is no "wrong" decision. Every race and class has something to offer that the others do not, so 
 the choice has more to do with personal preference than your eventual prowess in the game. 
  
  The graphics of WoW are the first thing that will grab you from the moment you hit the "Enter 
 World" button, and they never let go. The beautiful scenery, rich textures, unique, immersive environments 
 and fluid animation go a long way towards losing you in this new world, as everything looks cohesive, 
 colorful, and above all, original. Fans of Blizzard's previous Warcraft games will find themselves 
 in a familiar world, just from a different perspective. While the format of the other Warcraft's 
 didn't allow you to properly explore Azeroth, WoW lets you explore every square inch of it in incredible 
 detail. From the highest mountain peaks to the deepest of ocean floors, every inch of this world 
 is explorable, and none of it is wasted. Explore to your heart's content. 
  
  The music and sound of World and Warcraft are also incredibly well done. A large variety of sound 
 effects convey all manner of actions and ambience, while the music is always perfectly suited for 
 the enviroment. For example, while the human and dwarven cities have a boisterous orchestral soundtrack, 
 replete with joyous bursts of horns and celebratory male choral vocals, the night elven areas have 
 a more subdued, haunting quality, which fits the landscape to a tee. Tauren area's have a sound 
 which could be considered Native American, with flute melodies melding perfectly with the teepees 
 and grasslands of the Tauren home. The feeling you get when you first enter an ogre mound is compounded 
 a hundred-fold when their soundtrack of pounding drums and horns slowly filters in. Blizzard went 
 to incredible lengths to make every song and sound fit just right. 
  
  The gameplay of WoW is almost perfect. Movement is handled in a variety of ways, making it an easy 
 jump for those used to point-and-click Diablo-style games as well as those used to hardcore FPS 
 games. Everything is customizable, actions can be bound to certain keys, your skills can all be 
 aligned in action bars, making them as simple to activate as pressing the number 1. Interaction 
 with NPCs and monsters is simple, with mouse button 1 simply highlighting and selecting them, and 
 mouse button 2 either attacking or speaking to them, depending on the circumstances. Tips that 
 come up the first time you play the game will explain everything you need to know in great detail, 
 leaving you with no room to say "but I didn't know". The game throws you right into your first 
 quests straight away, but everything has a perfect learning curve, allowing you to get familiar 
 with the game before it throws anything too difficult at you. If you're still uncertain about something, 
 the helpful player community will be more than happy to assist you in most cases. You can reach 
 out to these fellow gamers via the chat interface, which is also quite easy to master. 
  
  Combat and interaction with the environment in this game feels much more like an action game than 
 your typical MMORPG. You can move and jump around whilst in combat, though depending on your proximity 
 to your enemy and the type of weapon you wield, you may be too far away to do damage, or too close 
 to use a certain type of weapon. These types of decisions and on-the-fly changes to your gameplay 
 make the games combat system about more than the typical mindless button-clicking you may be used 
 to from MMOs. 
  
  If you're not focused on combat, the game has a fantastic and deep profession system, spanning 
 everything from skinning to herbalism to mining to cooking and first aid. However, these professions 
 have limitations based on your character's level, and you still must level up through the traditional 
 means (combat) , to use the highest levels of these professions, so at the moment being an artisan 
 blacksmith with no warrior skills, or anything of the like, isn't possible. 
  
  The actual game world of WoW is immense. Walking across each continent would take hours. Luckily, 
 there are many ways to transport yourself across the globe without having to do it all by foot. 
 The Alliance has ships for those continent-to-continent trips, while the Horde has zeppelins. Both 
 the Alliance and Horde have their own form of flying mounts, such as gryphons and giant bats, to 
 take them around within each continent. The ships and zeppelins are free, but the flying mounts 
 will cost you a small fee, proportionate to the distance you're traveling. 
  
  The size isn't the only impressive thing about this world. The cohesiveness is also amazing. You 
 will walk from one area to the next without feeling like you just jumped from Antarctica to Miami 
 Beach. Each region has its own geography that blends seamlessly into the next, with no load times, 
 load screens, or anything of the sort. 
  
  The way the territories of this world are divided has a significant impact on gameplay, particularly 
 if you decide to play on a PvP server, the most popular of the four types of servers. PvP stands 
 for player-versus-player combat, and in this case means Alliance vs. Horde. There are three types 
 of territories in the World of Warcraft; Alliance, Horde, and Contested. Each of the factions starts 
 the game in their own territory, and doesn't naturally venture out of it until around level 20, 
 after which the player is generally assumed to be familiar with the game. In your own territory, 
 the opposing faction can not attack you, but you can attack them, after which you are flagged and 
 they can attack you back. This means that you can still defend your home city from the Alliance 
 or Horde, but if their level is too high, you can choose to simply watch, or do nothing at all. 
 Large-scale world PvP with sieging and defense of whole cities has not yet been properly implemented, 
 but Blizzard has said that they do have plans for this in the future. It's still possible to attack 
 a city, but in its current state its neither easy nor a viable option due to the ramifications 
 to your Honor rank. At the moment your best bet for PvP is heavily Contested areas and the Battlegrounds, 
 of which there are three at the time of writing. Contested areas provide you with unorganized PvP, 
 where the level of players doesn't matter and the numbers can conceivably go as high as the server 
 can handle, while battlegrounds are a very controlled environment, keeping the players confined 
 to one map (which are enormous, for the record) and within 10 levels of eachother. Battlegrounds 
 could be likened to arena modes in other games, most commonly of the FPS variety. There are capture 
 the flag and control-the-nodes gameplay modes, not uncommon in FPS games but relatively new to 
 swords-and-sorcerers type of games, and they translate to this genre very well. 
  
  The pricing of the game is very competitive, and its value can be immeasurable. For around $50 
 USD you receive the game and one month of free playing time. After the first month you can extend 
 your account via credit card or gametime card at the sum of approximately $15/month. It may sound 
 like a lot to someone unaccustomed to this style of gaming, but to people familiar with the genre, 
 you will feel like Blizzard is doing you a favor by letting you pay them. 
  
  In summation, this game really has to be played to be believed, and the hype, for once, is 100% 
 true. If you have a computer and any interest in this type of game whatsoever, this is the one 
 you should try. It sets the bar incredibly high for all future iterations, and it is an absolute 
 joy to play, to see, and to listen to. Worth every penny. 
  
  -LP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply stunning. The graphics are amazing, the sound and music is wonderful and the 
 gameplay is fantastic. The game takes online playing to the next level. With over one-million people 
 playing, the game sure does run smoothly and great. But if you aren't willing to sit in front of 
 a computer screen without power to leave, then this is no game you can handle. It is so addictive 
 and fun that if you had a choice, you wouldn't stop playing. But the best part about the game is 
 that THE GAME NEVER ENDS! How excellent is that? Always able to get new quests, new weapons and 
 meet new people, this game is definitely the best online game of all time. Whenever you want, you 
 can go slaughter the opossing team or just go kill animals. A game that lets you make the story, 
 lets you choose the characters you play with and one that is so great in many ways, is by far the 
 best PC game. Once you start, you cannot stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handofpapa
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars vs. World of Warcraft.
  
  Okay, there are many thoughtful reviews of both of these games, so I won't repeat here... I am 
 just focusing on a comparison between the two. Argubly they are different enough to be two different 
 kinds of games, but I think they're close enough. I am a fan of Guild Wars. A HUGE fan, in fact. 
 However, after months of hard playing, I'm a bit fatigued and ready for some substantial new content. 
 I decided to try World of Warcraft for a change.
  
  1. Combat: The GW skill system is very engaging for combat. Battles are always exciting with many 
 choices to make on the fly (if you're exploring more sophisticated combos, etc.) . It feels fluid 
 and real-time. I find WoW combat to be kind of dull. It's slower and feels turn-based by comparison 
 - I always feel like I'm directing a little cartoon character to fight, rather than getting caught 
 up in the action like I'm the one facing the foe. 
  
  Winner: Guild Wars
  
  2. Weapons/Armor/Items: GW has beautiful armor and weapons, but the variation is limited compared 
 to WoW. There are many look-a-like characters wandering around due to the inability to customize 
 armor (other than picking which set you want and dying it a color.) Mixing dyes for new colors 
 is a nice touch, but there's still not enough ability to truly personalize an appearance. WoW has 
 a great crafting system - very complex. The variation is tremendous and makes for a very creative 
 experience in personalizing a character. A snapshot of a GW character is much more satisfying than 
 a WoW character, but one character looks too much like the others in its class. 
  
  Winner: WoW due to crafting
  
  3. Graphics: Hands down, GW visuals stomp WoW into the ground. 
 There is no comparison in my opinion. The GW world and characters are believable. WoW characters 
 look like cartoons on someone's geometry notebook. Sorry. 
  
  Winner: GW!!!!!
  
  4. MMORPG experience: GW is massively multiplayer only in town's and outposts, and most gameplay 
 is in "instance" areas. WoW is mostly a true persistent world with some instances. Persistent world 
 makes the experience more realistic, less like a video game. There's nothing like running across 
 another human player when you're in some obscure area - very cool. In GW you never encounter another 
 random human except in towns/outposts. You then have to gather a party and enter an instance experience. 
 
  
  Winner: WoW
  
  5. Cost: GW has no monthly fee. WoW is $15/mo. I played GW for about 7 hard months for $45. If 
 I did the same with WoW it would have cost about $135, and it goes up from there if I continue. 
 Maybe GW could stand to provide more content, but the world is already huge and they did release 
 a signicant new area/items with no charge! They do regularly perform smaller updates as well. 
 
  
  Winner: GW 
  
  6. Pace: Both games keep you close to accomplishing something - i. e. severe addiction. However, 
 GW offers up quicker progress. GW lets you instantly "teleport" to any town or outpost that you 
 have previously visited just by using the world map. WoW has a variation of this in the form of 
 the ability to zip to whatever you have designated as your home, and quicker transports like griffons. 
 The WoW system is more like real life - sometimes you gotta get in the car and drive 10 hours to 
 get somewhere. But this is one part of real life I don't personally need in my gaming experience. 
 I think GW made a good choice to sacrifice this piece of realism to keep things moving. In GW I 
 can play over a lunch break and really accomplish something. In Wow it seems it takes several hours 
 to get anything done at all. (By the way, I was supposed to be playing WoW for my lunch break, 
 but I'm writing this review instead because when I tried to log on it started downloading a huge 
 update at a miserable crawl - only 17MB downloaded in over an hour on DSL, and the total is 76MB... looks 
 like I'm not getting to play at all today. Hope that's not what it will be like regularly..) 
 
  
  Winner: GW
  
  7. PvP: GW is designed with PvP in mind and everyone has equal access to it (unlike WoW where your 
 server choice locks a character into a certain PvP scheme.) While I don't play much PvP, GW has 
 a great pickup system and very active guilds. I can't speak for WoW yet, but the ability to meet 
 and fight other human players out in the wild sounds very fun - not possible in GW.
  
  Winner: not enough info yet.
  
  There are other ways to evaluate these games, but these are 
 the areas most important to me. As you may have guessed, I put Guild Wars over WoW. If Guild Wars 
 II adds a sophisticated crafting system and areas that are persistent worlds, they will have a 
 total masterpiece (*squeals like schoolgirl*) . WoW needs to find strategies to quicken the gameplay 
 and make combat for exciting, and they need a major graphics overhaul to hang with even last year's 
 titles, not to mention titles due out in 2006 (eg. Age of Conan screens make WoW look dismally 
 primitive.)
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abu7adid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG game i play it all the time and its my best everything rox in it..... 
 i play espesially a horde [Tauren] . =D, you can learn liring a horse work as a hunter work as a 
 minor to collect gold and cooper from mines across the WoW and lots of friends and raid on anyone! 
 :D yes the best game in world, It comes out that the game is soo perfect and ha anything nasty 
 in it! like bandits you can be one with your friends to strip the heros out of their clothes! and 
 be a hunter to kill the mighty beasts! to sell their hornes and their parts... I can't say alot 
 if i say about the game in everything in it i won't finish now i will take months to make a review 
 about it so unfortunatly no one can be told what WoW is about..... You have to see it for yourself! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _meteora_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Well this is my first review, and its only fair to do it on the best game I have ever played to 
 set my standard. 
  
  When I first entered this world, I wasn't totally blown away with the graphics or the things I 
 could do. I was blown away by the size of the game itself. For it to look this good and be able 
 to do the things it can do just amazed me. For example, the diversity of the races. Four races 
 each side, and 4-6 classes for each race. And not to mention the features available to customize 
 your character at the beginning. I spent more time creating characters than actually playing the 
 game. 
  
  I like how there is a lot to sidetrack you from the game itself. Now the main object is to complete 
 the quests and level up. But Blizzard has intertwined so much more into the game that takes you 
 away from the game. Like professions. You may find yourself mining all the time so you can make 
 armour for yourself or to sell. Or end up fishing in a small lake for food for your pet or yourself. 
 There is a lot going on in this game. 
  
  This game also holds your interest longer than any other game. You can finish most games within 
 a week, but WoW takes forever. Even when you reach the desired capped level of 60. There is still 
 more to do. There are quests to be completed, epic sets to buy and find, and of course, MC to finish.
 
  
  Now that I have mentioned most of the pro's, it's now time to mention the con's. 
  
  First of all, the monthly cost, its small, but can seem off putting to some. Now I'm in NZ so it 
 costs around $22.00 a month for me, but thats on a credit card. game cards cost about $35.00. So 
 the cost can get overbearing for some who don't have a credit card (like me, I use my parents) , 
 or for people who struggle to come up with the money. They fork out $100 for this game, and then 
 find out the have to pay in access a monthly cost to it to keep playing. So this can lose a lot 
 of good players from the game.
  
  Next, the lag issues. WoW seems to experience a lot of lag problems. I was playing on the famed 
 Blackrock server, and that was overpopulated so there was a lot of lagging for me and made it difficult 
 to play. So i switched to a low populated server, Moonrunner. But in a couple of months, lag problems 
 started to occur, and even server crashes. Now for a game you pay to play each month, you wouldn't 
 expect so much lag to be encountered (and just so you know, I'm on a decent machine and have an 
 adsl connection) . 
  
  And finally, the amount of people that play the game. Blackrock was heavily overpopulated, so I 
 switched. I then went to one of the new Oceanic servers (being in NZ) , and that was overpopulated 
 very quickly. Then I went to Moonrunnner, and that became populated quite fast in a couple of months. 
 You can't win. Blizzard should issue an account limit on servers so no-one will have to wait upwards 
 of 80 mins to play WoW. 
  
  But in all fairness, Blizzard has made a top notch game with only internet problems. The game itself 
 has hardly nothing wrong with it. And when encountered with a problem, Blizzard will issue warnings, 
 apologies and fix the server problem within the hour. And they also hold weekly maintenances. But 
 I myself would like to be able to avoid all lag problems altogether. But nothing is perfect in 
 this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwhyn
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  The game breathes the atmosphere you had in de previous warcraft titles very well. The bright colors 
 and sound effects make the world of Azeroth come alive.. if only...
  players would ever roleplay. Too few people on the servers know what roleplaying is. In roleplaying 
 you play a role, the character you created comes alive through his actions and his dialogue. Too 
 many times i've seen mindless zombie players hacking and slashing away. Too many times I got invited 
 to groups of complete strangers, who just wanted me in the group because of my characters level. 
 
  Too many times I've heard characters speak in internet slang.
  
  I've tried often to encourage a bit of roleplaying by simply letting my character introduce himself 
 to another character and striking up conversation. The response is usually the same.
  "y I know yur name dude, its above your head." --  sigh..
  
  There are luckily some people 
 who do actually play their characters pretty well, but they are too few. 
  So if you like roleplaying try another title, like Neverwinter nights.
  
  Then theres the powerbalancing 
 system. As you advance in levels you're kinda encouraged to go to more tougher zones with much 
 more powerful creatures. So whats the point; in comparison you're just as weak as you was when 
 you we're level 1. Wouldn't it be great if each zone housed its own weak and tough opponents, hence 
 you can explore the world by sneaking around and if you decide to take on that huge dragon, you 
 would have to team up and enter that damned cave together. You're too much pinned to zones and 
 its only possible to visit other territories if you level up quickly.
  
  In conclusion.
  It could have been so much more in my opinion, if only there were gamemasters who would encourage 
 roleplaying a bit, or any other way for that matter.
  If they would turn around the powerbalance it coul be great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golden_Nova
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  As many others have said, this game can be extremely enjoyable from levels 1-59. There's plenty 
 of content, an abundance of quests, and, most importantly, the game as a whole is quite fresh and 
 inspiring. Once you hit 60, however, the game grows utterly stagnant and repetitive.
  The first thing you do is run instances to get better gear. Drop rates are generally awful, so 
 you end up running the same instances several times (10 or more, on average) to get your first 
 'tier' of equipment for your class. The first time, said instances are enjoyable (unless your group 
 is no good) , but by the 5th or so time, you'll be counting the minutes until it's over. 
  So, after you get your first tier of equipment, you join a raiding guild, which is basically the 
 exact same process all over again, just in different dungeons. The catch: you have to do so in 
 a group with 39 random other people, most of whom you probably do not know at all, yet must group 
 with them, for it is the only of attaining character progression in the game after hitting the 
 maximum level. Since it's a group of 40 characters, chances are you will be running the instance 
 several more times (starting guilds run raiding instances around 3 nights per week, 4 hours per 
 night, and never stop scheduling them) than the instances you did for your first tier of equipment. 
 And, trust me, this gets old real fast. These instances provide little to no challenge, and the 
 little challenge they do provide are in trusting your random teammates do not doze off while playing 
 their characters. 
  So, after you get your second tier of equipment, what's left? Third tier, of course. Exact same 
 thing, all over again. Fun.
  Other than raiding and instances, there's also battlegrounds and very limited level 60 content. 
 The thing is, both of these rely on the 'reputation' system. Basically, you grind out reputation 
 points, and once you reach certain levels (from a total of only 4 positive levels above Neutral) , 
 you get items. Again, it's repetitive, dull, and pointless.
  In the end, you have a game that is completely based on 'loot' to achieve character progression. 
 The problem is, the process to acquire new loot ALWAYS comes in the form of tedious monotony, be 
 it in instances, battlegrounds, or otherwise. Other than getting new 'loot', there is absolutely 
 NOTHING fun to do in this game. Sure, you can fish or cook (more grinds, by the way,) but chances 
 are there will be very little occasions where you are honestly able to say "I am having fun."
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_gamespot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  It took over 600 hours of game play to raise my character from level 1 to 60. I could have done 
 it in much less time, but played the bulk of my time with another player. That means we split the 
 experience of killing a baddie between us thus taking that much more time to achieve the end goal.
 
  
  For my friend, a priest, the game suddenly opened up for him at level 60. He is a valued commodity 
 because he can keep others alive as they accomplish their goals. But for me, a hunter, my value 
 is simply killing stuff and, on my server, hunters are as plentiful as trees in the forest. They 
 are not well understood even though they typically have Damage Per Second (DPS) equal to or exceeding 
 a mage or rogue. A hunter is actually a difficult character to play in a group, because your pet 
 has a mind of its own. That means you have to keep an eye on it while you battle and sometimes 
 you just get overwhelmed and that leads to group wipes.
  
  In my opinion, the game offers little for level 60's to do. There are three options. (1) Get engaged 
 in Player vs. Player activities. (2) Try and find a group of people that will let you do end-of-game 
 instances. (3) Help other players to get to level 60, so that they can question what's next too.
 
  
  PvP involves basic and unchanging strategy and a kill or be killed attitude. The benefit of PvP 
 is that when you die, the cost to repair your weapons and armor is virtually nil, in comparison 
 to regular death where your stuff suffers a 10% durability hit. For my hunter that adds up to about 
 80 silver per death to get it all fixed up. There is more challenge in killing another character 
 controlled by another player (rather an AI) but PvP scenarios don't have adventure ... it's just 
 a kill fest.
  
  End-of-Game instances. Once the challenge of figuring out how to defeat the bosses in the instances 
 is gone, the instances are cookie-cutter in general. But the fundamental problem is, you're not 
 likely the person who gets to decide the strategy. You're part of a team and a small group of more 
 experienced instance players gets to decide the strategy. This is very different from other game 
 instances where you can generally be the leader.
  
  Helping other players. For me that's the most appealing, but I'm stuck in a hunter body, and other 
 players either don't like hunters or don't see us much as helpers.
  
  I did build a priest to level 40+, but what I really need is more dynamic content (an area to explore 
 than is several orders of magnitude larger than Azeroth) . One where there is a lot of exploration 
 involved, and less fighting. I've been to just about every major center in the game, even swam 
 along some of the coast lines, and although I haven't seen every square foot, I've seen enough 
 to know where I need to go for too many of the quests. For me, the desire to get more Gear and 
 Loot cannot be the only motivating factors, but I realize that for many people this is exactly 
 what drives them.
  
  As a result, this game remains on my highly recommended list when describing it to friends and 
 family. There are many aspects that would make the game appealing to a lot of different people. 
 I may find it challenging to do things past sixty, but that doesn't mean you won't ... so take 
 this review into consideration if you are playing or thinking of doing so, so you don't fall into 
 the same trap I did.
  
  The only regret I have is playing the game when I should be doing more important things in the 
 real world, but in terms of value I've spent about 1/3 of my annual gaming budget as a result of 
 playing this game, because I've had so much fun with it. No need to buy other games if this is 
 keeping me entertained.
  
  Although I have canceled my subscription, I do look forward to the expansion pack to see if there 
 is enough content improvements for me to warrant renewal of my account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This Game is really fun and addicting.... Ok i bought the game then installed (it takes some time 
 to install) butonce iplayed it i really didnt like it cause when u start out u dont have really 
 any spells or cool armor so then i played for like 30-45MINUTES then i got addicted because you 
 start doin quests gettin spells and money and buyin armor and weapons and groupin wit people and 
 stuff.
  The games interface is really easy to learn because its so straight up. The game is pretty easy 
 to learn you might only have trouble picking a proffesion to be like skinner, leather worker, miner 
 , black smith , ECT...
  But over all the game is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  World of WarCraft is the new king of MMORPG's. EverQuest had this throne for awhile, Dark age of 
 Camelot took over for a short period until World of WarCraft arrived.
  
  With a wooping 5 million playerbase, this really will feel like a living world because of the huge 
 amount of real players in this game.
  
  The interface is extremly simple, but can be expanded greatly with usercreated add-ons.
  
  
 The animation is smooth, pretty graphics with alot of spirit. Really has alot of the Warcraft feeling 
 in it, and ofcouse thats how it should be.
  
  Huge world with hardly any loading times, also makes you think you are in a big world with no "zones" 
 like in EverQuest 1 & 2, wich was zone hell.
  
  Great game, good for MMORPG beginners.
  
  However, the lack of classes (only 5, 1 unique for team) and the lack of the endgame besides 
 spending 9 hours in a dungon and not winning the uber sword of hell can make the game get quite 
 boring after a while.
  
  However the first time gamer for this game will have a good ride for sure, but for me i have the 
 feeling "been there, done that"
  
  I simply dont have any desire to spend alot of time to raid a dungeon over and over again to get 
 that special item. It may be fun for a few times but not many times, and if you want good items 
 in this game, you will need to spend alot of time raiding dungeons.
  
  THis game can greatly improve with future expansions for sure, however the upcoming expansion dosnt 
 seem to be the case, only adding 2 new races and no new classes.
  
  Still a rock solid game, and will be the king of MMORPG's for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildDog_00
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW is a good game, but not without its problems. True, its uses Pay-to-play to cover costs and 
 everything, but they are also recieving millions of dollars in advertising, especially on major 
 TV spots and programs. Also, WoW has so many people on their servers because of massive worldwide 
 distribution of the game, in markets where other games are still working out the kinks. the pay 
 to play issue can be argued both pro and con, Guild Wars and other MMORPG games come to mind that 
 are free to play. Also, since WoW is growing faster than Blizzard can compensate for, they have 
 the highest number of problems. The Sony Rootkits are allowing hackers to bypass the Warden anti-cheating 
 program and really exploit the games holes, while other mmorpg games have had rootkit scanning 
 anticheat programs since launch. Until Blizzard corrects many of their fundamental flaws they have, 
 it cant be the great game everyone claims it to be, only good, but it is far far from a bad mmorpg. 
 Also, lets not forgot about all the crimes and incidents with people and WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maceman216
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  As I said this game is so addicting and fun..... I'm speechless! All I have to say is I'm playing 
 the 14 day trial and can't wait to get the acually game. Its just so fun its so addictive and the 
 graphics are amazing... this is a game to drop out of school for (I'm thinkin about doing that.... lol..... jk) . 
 A must have anyone hwo plays any type of video game will like this game!!! The game is simple to 
 get into everything is exdplain as you start to play as a n00bi3..... simply mouth dropping. The 
 only downside is of all MMORPGs is the 15$ a mounth... but heck its awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankz54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best online game ever! Better than Ever quest, Guild Wars anythign bring it! World 
 Of Warcraft is so much fun and Blizzard also puts up updates to keep it that way. You must get 
 it! Is worth spending the money a month just to play the game. Create a player just how you want 
 to, ride mounts, make friends, have fun! It also not that hard at all, i find it easy, if you put 
 time in to it you will reach the Max lvl in about 4 Month like i did its not that hard and you 
 will get the hang of it in no time at all! Join a guild in which they will help you out and teach 
 you many things. So if you want to have a Good Time Playing a fun game no matter what each you 
 are you will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_L_O_T_H
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game, I was excited to see how new and cool everything looked from previews. 
 It "looked" new and innovative. It's not. The game is a lot like everything available except for 
 City of Heroes just because it isn't a fantasy based world. You fight with the same type of weapons. 
 You have the same type of armor as other fantasy role players before this game. The game takes 
 only the ability to touch keys on your keyboard to get decent at it. There just isn't any challenge 
 in the game, it only takes up your time to get great weapons, great armor, and other great things.
 
  
  However, Blizzard has done the best of anybody at creating a game of this genre. A significant 
 reason is that it captures the world and places seen in the Warcraft series perfectly. If you played 
 the Warcraft games and remember the story, then you can notice things from the strategy series. 
 Another reason the game is great is mainly because so many people play it and it is very easy to 
 find a group for certain quests. Also, there are numerous items in the auction houses due to the 
 amount of people that play. The graphics are great for a simple reason. A high-end computer can 
 make this game look great, and they still made it to where low-end computers can also play this 
 on their system. The music and the environment noises are fantastic. The music puts you in the 
 mood for adventuring. 
  
  It seems pretty obvious that Guild Wars and World of Warcraft are now the top two online roleplaying 
 games at the moment. Mainly because Guild Wars did something new and different, while World of 
 Warcraft made a past system of gameplay better than ever before.
  
  The only problem I have with mmorpg's is that a lot of their customers have played older games 
 of the same genre. Anyway, I have recently noticed that they got used to crappy games over time. 
 Then, as they stook only with these types of games, the value and core gameplay slowly gets better. 
 So, I have realized that (and this is my right to an opinion) mmorpg's don't become great, they 
 just look that way because they are compared to awful games from the past. Therefore, you don't 
 have to make a great mmorpg you just have to make it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredk
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I played Wow for 8 months and I am so disappointed in Blizzard once again. At first the game was 
 fun and great ,until they started to change the game. The Lagg in this game makes you a hair away 
 of slamming your computer. The problem is not your computer though. Its there overloaded pvp server. 
 I have lagged out of Battlegrounds for a full minute straight. On any other game on my comp (online 
 ) I have no lagg problems. How would you like to wait in a que for a server you started on 8 months 
 ago? Well plan on that if you buy this game. Instead of giving this game review two thumbs down, 
 I give this game the finger .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perfect47
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  So you want to be a might warrior, sure !
  Want to be a kick ass mage, sure !
  This game changes with what you want. I have been playing this for some time and its always what 
 you want when you want it. This is by far one if not the best MMORPGs out there. There is always 
 new places to find and fight on. Everyone with new kinds of scenery and enemies. I have been playing 
 RPGs and MMORPGs for years but this is one of the most enjoyable there is. You get right into 
 fighting the minute you connect and from that moment on you will fight for whats good, or whats 
 bad.
  
  The Graphics are on the cartoony side yes, but it gives the game an atmosphere that is hard to 
 match by other games. You dont need to grind either, you always have something to do. Wither its 
 delivering something, killing something or simply discovering new places.
  
  I cant do anything but to recommend this game to everyone that loves MMOs and RPGs on the whole. 
 And if you liked the Warcraft series then you will love World Of Warcraft but even a person who 
 has never played them will still be drawn in into the world of Warcraft.
  
  My recommendation is to try it atleast. God knows there is alot of places where you can get the 
 free trail on the net.
  
  Now i think im gonna go play some more.
  
  Hope to see you in Ironforge someday.
  
  // Fred 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  In World of Warcraft, you create your alter ego by choosing from a variety of colorful races and 
 powerful classes, and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling in Azeroth, the fantasy 
 setting featured in Blizzard's Warcraft real-time strategy games. Fans of those games (especially 
 Warcraft III and its expansion pack) will spot tons of references here, and they will be impressed 
 at how faithfully World of Warcraft translates so many of Warcraft's little details and even some 
 of the finer points of its gameplay into such a seemingly different style of game. Meanwhile, fans 
 of other online role-playing games will be impressed at the sheer breadth and volume of content 
 on display in World of Warcraft, whose setting seamlessly connects a bunch of wildly different-looking 
 types of places and somehow makes them appear as if they all belong as parts of a whole. 
  
  World of Warcraft is superficially similar to numerous other games that came before it, and 
 it clearly draws inspiration from some of them. The fundamentals are all here, such as fighting 
 dangerous creatures (optionally including other players) , exploring the countryside either alone 
 or in the company of other players, undertaking various quests, gaining experience levels and new 
 abilities, and acquiring powerful items. However, directly comparing World of Warcraft with any 
 of its predecessors would be almost like pitting a professional sports club against a school team. 
 With all due respect to the other online role-playing games out there, World of Warcraft is in 
 a league of its own. The game clearly benefits from not being the first of its kind, as the design 
 issues that plagued previous online role-playing games are handled extremely well in World of Warcraft. 
 In addition, the game's own subtle innovations turn out to have a dramatic impact on the flow of 
 the action from minute to minute, hour to hour, day to day, and beyond. So the particulars of the 
 game's design -- along with its incredibly vast, beautiful, majestic world -- translate into a one-of-a-kind 
 experience that seems fresh and original in its own right. 
  
  Fortunately, the game is very approachable. World of Warcraft is a complex game whose complexity 
 is carefully disguised by a simple, highly legible, uncluttered interface and an impressive 3D 
 graphics engine, which delivers high performance on a wide range of systems while not skimping 
 on pure flash. The game's interface is so slick and easy to learn and understand, and the gameplay 
 itself is so quickly intuitive, that there isn't even a tutorial to wade through; there are just 
 some helpful, optional pop-up tool tips, as well as an excellent printed reference manual that 
 goes into specific detail about most of the various aspects of play. It's also important to point 
 out that World of Warcraft runs fast and smooth. You can go from your desktop to being in-game 
 in just seconds, and it's virtually just one great, big, seamless world. Loading times are as rare 
 as they are brief. They only crop up when traveling across the game's enormous continents or entering 
 some specific higher-level zones that are instanced for each player group, which guarantees you 
 a fresh challenge. 
  
  So World of Warcraft is painless to get into -- with the possible exception of you needing a credit 
 card or prepaid game card to create an account, as well as initially deciding on which sort of 
 character to play, since so many of the options seem like they could be interesting. And it turns 
 out they are. So why not try them all? The game lets you create multiple characters on the dozens 
 of different available "realms," each of which is a unique instance of the gameworld that is capable 
 of hosting thousands of simultaneous players. Some of the realms cater to role-playing fans that 
 prefer to play in character the whole time, while other realms are custom-tailored for player-versus-player 
 action. Regardless, World of Warcraft's realms are nicely (if not densely) populated already, and 
 the unfortunate issues with login and lag that plagued the game when it first launched were mostly 
 taken care of in a matter of days. The game just has a solid feel to it that's uncharacteristic 
 of the genre, and for an online RPG, World of Warcraft is surprisingly responsive. Actually, no 
 qualifications are necessary: World of Warcraft boasts the tight control and polished presentation 
 that's desirable in any kind of game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero1pilot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Blizzard did it again! World Of Warcraft is another addition to the organizations great games collection. 
 It's a clean cut action MMORPG. You don't have to read through the 200 page manual to figure anything 
 out. 150 of the 200 pages is the games story. Something for us to read while we're on a bus ;) . 
 
  
  It's so smooth, if you meet minimum requirements you're OKAY... but you're not GREAT. There's no 
 load time at all because the game basically installs itself entirely onto your computer. 5-10 gigs 
 you need of free space. 
  
  The graphics and interface are brilliantly designed and every map has its own form of unique-ness. 
 When you go from one area to another, you KNOW you're in a new area. You'll never see repeated 
 scenary in another area.
  
  The down side to it is that theres so much to do and so little toolbars for you to do it =/. Blizzard's 
 made it so you can easily create your own mods to fix this or download them. There's a keybinding 
 and macro system which helps A LOT.
  
  All in all. 15 dollars a month is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanjames54
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to lie, this game is one of the games of the decade. The scope of this game just 
 wows you (pun intended) . Even for the 50 $ price tag of the software, let alone the 15$ a month 
 charge to play this game, WOW still gives you way more value then other games that cost less; you 
 could easily lose 400 hours of your life into this game. The graphics aren't too good, but their 
 decent and the sound design is flawed, with not alot of different music, and most of it not too 
 memorable (I just listen to my iPod when I play this game) . But, the sheer depth of the content 
 makes this game a must-buy. Plus, if you've played Warcraft games in the past, you will reconize 
 characters and areas from previous games. If you can get past the money issue, then this game is 
 a good way to waste your life away. This game is an instant classic, and in my opinion, one of 
 the best games of the year. Have fun in all of your adventures in Azeroth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the coolest i have ever played you can do almost anything, sooooo much better 
 thatn guild wars, aside from the fact that you have to pay monthly for this, but who cares if you 
 have this game you must be either rich very lucky or are just mooching off of your friend to play 
 it... but back to the review, this game was (simply put) F. U. N. Full of (O not included) Unbelievable 
 Nonsense. The slow down is etremely bad for those of you who dont have very fast computers, and 
 you cant stay online very long without and upgrade, but the best thing about his game is that ppl 
 are signing on every 10 seconds, almost literally. There are always new people to talk to and to 
 join groups and guilds with.... if you have a computer that you think can hadle this game, and 
 you have the 15 bucks a month to play it, go pick it up, otherwise, just go play it at your friends 
 house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  hmmm......... what shout i say about this game ??? i think something that its totally awesome it 
 kicks ass and its better than the other online-games some of course good but the WOW (short version 
 of the game title World Of Warcraft !!!) it is in a different class DUDE!!!!!!!!!!! + sides are 
 = its totally addictive. - sides are = it cost a mothly fee but thank god it isint much money. 
 :: if you are a fan of warcraft you will lovet if you arent a online player you will loved and 
 the price it is a small price tho pay for a good GAME =) .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  War of Warcraft has gotten to much crefit, Why I believe because it's differnet and its from Blizzard. 
 Blizzard has always made good games and I played them alot also. But WoW is different. It starts 
 off Ok character cration isnt all that unique very simple thats all. Comparing it with other on-lime 
 mmorpg's I guess it could be at the top. Not much of a selection anyway in my opinion. There's 
 no real game at the High end. It's repetitive and boring. Just like the others. You race to the 
 top or you take your time but none the less its gets boring real fast. Spawning in this game is 
 an Issue, it may not be for some but I do hear gripes about it, particularly in the Instances.
 
  
  I have been playing this game since Dec last year and have 2 60 lvl characters. As you begin to 
 lvl its getts harder where you forced to group, here is where a casual gamer can left behind. Granted 
 the concept of getting bonus is nice but what advantage is it when you do these quest where most 
 of the ones you really need to get anywhere are instanced related?
  
  The game world gets rather small once you hit lvl 60 then it gets to be pvp or grinding for faction 
 for countless of hours killing the same npc's over and over. Its easy to get burnt out after so 
 much of it it nothing new of hack and slash diifferent a different game world : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detailedghost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft (WOW) is a game for hardcore massive multiplayer, players. It has everything 
 the Diablo series had, weapons, magic, and rare items, and also includes extras like jobs. But 
 the most exciting aspect of the game is the sense of accomplishment after a long time of play. 
 This is definitly a jewel in the gaming world, and its highly-anticipated expansion pack too. The 
 only problems with it, too much money, and takes to much time. This is a game for players who have 
 alot of time on their hands and money to waste, but lightweights (can't play a game for long periods 
 of time) hold off on this one. 4 those light-weights who want the same experience, try Elder Scrolls 
 4: Oblivion (PC, Xbox 360) , when it comes out if u don't want to spend much time. WoW is a role-playing, 
 massive-multiplayer game for those who need to feed their growing hunger for Diablo (which a remake 
 has been announced) or city of Heroes/Villans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun when i got it.
  
  Probably because of the ease of leveling up, unlike FFXI you dont need a MASSIVE party to hit the 
 level 60 cap.
  
  Also making money i found was a breeze, i just farmed alot of monsters and found what was the best 
 sellers in the Auction Houses and sold them for lots of Gold.
  
  The items were very cool too, i had quite alot of Rare stuff including i remember this cape i was 
 dead proud of, it gave me like +15 defence and 150 armour point i think?
  
  The dungeons were ALSO excellent and just the whole general landscape and travelling about on horseback 
 was fun.
  
  Battles were surprisngly excellent too, even though there was a slight frame rate drop but not 
 much.
  
  The whole community was amazing, yea you get the odd psycho but other than that it was excellent, 
 not anti-social like that of Neocron (which i played for one and half years) .
  
  The fun however was cut short when i hit level 60.... after i hit level 60 i literally scowered 
 the place for things i could get and to be honest it was too much time to invest for things you 
 wont use that much anyhow.
  
  So in other words its fun till you hit level 60.... then expect a MASSIVE downward slump in gameplay... yes 
 i had done all the massive dungeons the game had to offer but it didn't leave in kind of satisfying 
 aspect after you completed them.
  
  Generally though i would recommend people play it, and maybe if you could integrate into the community 
 and keep the game alive through that, then you will enjoy this game for a LONG long long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_DW
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  so you will be addictive to this game when you play it... you will meet with perfect online game, 
 just play and see. It has better graphics than other online games best atmosphere in there, playing 
 is too funny .... you will always want to be more stronger than others and this is incredible funny. 
 I see it play it and can't give up it now... so In my opinion this is the best online game I ever 
 seen:) 
  but actuall words aren't enough for this game you must really play it... more and more you shouldn't 
 read these all you should feel it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAwesome2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is probably the best MMO-RPG out on the market. With its awesome profession system 
 and its edgy talent point customization, this game has the edge over almost all its competitors 
 by those points alone. The game world is huge and beautiful, and with a whole new continent coming 
 out on the soon-to-be released expansion pack, I don't think that the world is getting any smaller. 
 
  The game play to this game is awesome and quick. It isn't a turn-based RPG, which some people hate. 
 It is totally up to you on where to move and also what attacks to do while fighting. With the Rogue 
 class in the game, moving while fighting is probably one of the most used and needed skills.
  
  But not all the aspects of this game are good. The reviewers who said that this game is overrated, 
 are correct. You will hear people talk about this game as if it has no flaws, no imperfections. 
 Wrong. The biggest flaw in the game is this: It gets really boring. I have had very many times 
 when I turned on the game to play, and shut the game down 5 minutes later. Their is no cure for 
 this, some parts of the game will always bore. 
  
  Also, this game seems as if it has no storyline, other than the 1-2 minute introduction into each 
 class. You just run around completing missions to what end? So that you can have a higher level 
 character than your friend?
  
  If you spend 50 dollars on this game, it is worth it. But the monthly fees are altogether not. 
 You spend 30 dollars for every two months of gameplay. If you want to play the game, then you have 
 no choice in the matter. That is a ridiculous amount, especially when the person doesn't have alot 
 of time to play the game. They will not feel like they are getting their money's worth.
  
  All the bad things out of the way, this game is genuinely great. All the parts of the game that 
 are boring will pass soon after they start. And the parts of the game that are fun, are just that. 
 They made the character customization on every detail nearly perfect.
  
  If you want to play this game, then you better turn that Blockbuster game pass over to your friend, 
 you won't be needing it. This game is a huge time consumer, and it is very highly addictive. You 
 may even find yourself calling in sick to your work, or faking sick at your school to play it.
 
  
  This game is, hands down, fun. Some parts are frustrating, some parts are boring, but those parts 
 of the game that are fun far outweigh those. Is this game worth it? Yes. Especially when you have 
 friends that come over and play all the time, so you make them pay for the 30 dollar, two month 
 pre paid game cards. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnd2006
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft is a continue for Blizzard Jewel "Warcraft series"
  a stunning game that can drag you out of your life and put you inside Azeroth
  world so you can 
 feel like it is your real world and your proud race that you must defend to death.....
  inside the game there are every thing epic adventure... meeting with a new friends
  making your 
 own glory You can gather your allies and attack the enemy
  and defend your teriatories
  every thing you imagined and loved,,,,,,,
  Blizzard Guys thanks for this awesome game
  i think 
 everyone can play this game it is far beyond the classic games itself
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_fanatic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  wow is really cool u really dont need a tutorial so its a fun and addicting game but once u play 
 say goodbye social life  i hope u liked my 
 review i hope some of you agree well bye fello gamers and wow players see u online ok buh bi for 
 now ttyl. not enough freakin words the rest ok the words will be ok ok! okok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok kook ok ko ok ko ok ko ok ko ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok pok ok ok ok 
 s s s das df asfda sfd asf as f as f as fgas f as f qa sf asf a f as f as fas f AE f DSAg sa dffg 
 asf gafds g sd g sdg sdf g sd g fgds fg df g sdf g sd gasd g s dg sd g fh gd hg f h hnj hfj gh 
 kd ghk gh kd gd dgg hk hgd gdh g dgh ghg k d ghj dgh kj gh dg hj ndgh j dh jgdh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTYG
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Kill, get stuff, repeat. Thats the cycle of World of Warcraft, I swear I thought WoW was the greatest 
 game ever created at one point in time, but after a LONG, LONG, while I realized its just a 2 step 
 cycle. Kill, then get/buy stuff. Almost all the quests go by this rule, kill x amount of this and/or 
 obtain x amount of this object. Once you realize what you're doing all the time it seems stupid.
 
  
  STEPS OF WOW
  1. KILL
  a. Do quests
  b. Kil NPCs
  c. Go to a mediocre dungeon and kill some more! Hooray!
  2. Use the money you obtained doing the 
 first steps and buy items from the auction house.
  
  More substeps: 
  
  Enjoy horrible cartoon virtual environments. (I dont understand how some people think the graphics 
 are great, yes, I am a fan of the cell shading look in games and artistic graphics and all that 
 jazz, but WAKE UP these graphics are HORRIBLE) 
  
  Start a group, and kill with the group!
  
  Start professions that get more boring as they go 
 along becoming increasingly difficult with each level, to the point of where you dont want to do 
 it anymore! 
  
  Talk to ever-mature players of WoW, heres a sample of a conversation (stereotypical of course)
 
  
  dude 1: hay dude 2 ur a noob
  dude 2: don cal me a noob you noob
  dude 1: stfu u noob
  dude 2. no u stfu
  dude 1: no u
  dude 2: no u
  dude 1: u a noob cuz 
 i am sooooooooo much betta than u! i gots SUPA 1337 armor [in a video game] yo.
  
  Immaturities of WoW players include sexism and racism. Not all players are bad though. Some are 
 kind and generous as far as video games go.
  
  As a result of killing stuff, you guessed it, you level. Im beginning to hate leveling in RPGs 
 because it can get EXTREMELY boring. I dont know how some of you nerds can stand getting to level 
 60 in WoW. I keep on making characters because I get bored with my other character because its 
 to hard to level. Anyway, when you get to level 40 you can buy a mount that lets you travel faster 
 that costs a hell of a lot of money and is not even worth it. And theres the occasional quest that 
 rewards you with a new object. Yes WoW is addicting as all hell but as soon as your mind can comprehend 
 this simple 2 step program embedded in WoW you will begin to feel stupid that you are shelling 
 out 15 dollars a month AND days of your life for something as simple and crappy as this. There's 
 is just NO POINT to this game!
  
  I could easily make this review much longer on all the mediocre aspects of this game but it's nearly 
 12 and I am tired.... go away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorSW
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  PC Gaming is a shining gold today because of online multiplayer games. World of Warcraft is definitely 
 the game we're looking for. World of Warcraft is spectacularly different from other MMORPGs. WoW 
 is an excellent work done by Blizzard Entertainment. World of Warcraft is a game in the famous 
 Warcraft universe. So it could be familiar to many of us who have played the Warcraft series. World 
 of Warcraft scores great musics. Some are beautiful, and some are grand. The sound in the game 
 could seem real to us. Graphics are quite good. It doesn't look real, but it is satisfactory to 
 gamers. World of Warcraft does not bore people easily. WoW is easy to learn, but hard to master 
 it, according to a WoW developer. WoW has a lot of features. You can choose 8 races and 9 classes. 
 You can choose the facial features. Dungeons and quests are fantastic and fun. Those features of 
 World of Warcraft lure us to this grand world. The game is one MMORPG, but it's a special one. 
 World of Warcraft made its success throughout the world. However, there are some problems. Well, 
 it's the customer service. Many people are not satisfactory of the service by Blizzard Entertainment 
 or the Publisher Vivendi Universal. That's quite striking because customer service is very important 
 in MMORPGs. Despite that, World of Warcraft is a marvelous game. Blizzard again surprised us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  As a newcomer to WoW, I was concerned about being thrust into servers with many high-level players 
 and no beginners like me; boy was I wrong. Blizzard made the great decision to open up newer servers 
 that put everyone in the same boat, and allow beginners to find people their own level to work 
 and adventure with. I had no problem finding groups for difficult missions and finding a great 
 guild of helpful and mature players. 
  Overall, it's very easy to get into WoW, even with little MMORPG experience, and no background 
 information about the game world. I had never played any of the Warcraft games and I have only 
 played on one MMORPG before WoW. The combat is fast-paced, but not overwhelming, with a good balance 
 between action and tactics. There are tons of missions and quests to do that are all very well 
 written and with funny plots and subplots within those. 
  The graphics and sound are both of excellent quality. While some may not like the style of the 
 graphics, I think they balance perfectly to bring to life a great virtual world. The outdoor environments 
 are lush in forests and barren in deserts or wastelands creating a memorable visual experience. 
 Likewise, the cities are very well designed with thoughtful layouts and cool nooks and crannies 
 hidden away from the main avenues.
  There's not too much bad about this game. I can only assume that eventually the "end-game" will 
 be reached and I will have to decide to start another character or continue to pursue high-level 
 content. I'm not sure how this will affect playability, but that time is still probably at least 
 50-100 hours away.
  I wholeheartedly recommend this game to anyone who is considering purchasing WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afruz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is a Brilliant Game! 
  Once you get your hands of this GAME! You wont even goo anywhere, cuz itss the Greatest, I didnt 
 even eat or go to the toilet, i mean i do go to the toilet but iii dont wanna miss anything Lol.
 
  When the first time i bought this game and start installing it and stuff, i went straight to play 
 and lots of other players were there too. They were very Friendly and help me with my Quest and 
 all that.
  Overall its brilliant. 
  People who have Internet/Broadband buy this game cuz its great and its soo much much! Girls and 
 Boys can even play this. :)
  Have a Great time playing it. 
  PS: its on SALE now. Goo Get it, Before its back to the old price. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyaputen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  I, personally enjoy this game, it does indeed deserve the title of top MMORPG, but only if you're 
 willing to work fo it. To truly enjoy WoW in all of it's glory, you have to work to get to that 
 dungeon, you have to work to mine that copper because your engineering skill is lower than a paladin's 
 DPS, you have to work to show everyone that you're riding a 900g White Kodo while they're still 
 plodding along on their mechanical chickens, WoW is what you make it, it can be rubbish, and the 
 crappiest game you've ever played, or it can be an amazing world, full of plots and twists just 
 around the bend, waiting to be explored. So make your choice; do you wanna be the wimpy little 
 lvl 12 priest still getting bossed around by NPCs? Or are you gonna be the mighty lvl 60 Warrior, 
 proudly leading his entire guild behind him in an epic battle that will be recorded in the annals 
 of gaming history forever. Also, don't think badly of all youths, and certainly don't think badly 
 of all players, some of them really just want to enjoy themselves in the world that they have created 
 and tailored to fit snugly. Mmmm, cozy, just in time for the holidays. :9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmstevens3000
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  The pitch of the game is you are put into the world and may join the hordes or the alliance. You 
 must then build your levels through quests and then perhaps attack the other team of players, Oh 
 and what is also claimed to be a place to make friends and to form relationships.
  
  The game can be found almost everywhere, hyped temendously it often hogs displays and is commonly 
 seen in game/ gamestation etc
  
  Graphics
  What I must say is that the game is beautiful, much work has been put into making each of the character 
 models unique with huge customizable options available, and bright colours used to pull the casual 
 gamer in. The world is filled with lush landscapes and textures but of course it cant compare to 
 single player games such as Morrowind due to it been ran off servers where millions are logging 
 on.
  
  Gameplay
  As I outlined before, the aim of the game is to build levels through quests which may to collect 
 an item or suchlike. The main Experience points are found in visiting areas repeatability kill 
 monsters which respawn regularly. This is where the game falls down for me, it has a lack of depth 
 and the constant leveling. Boredom soon sets in and you wish you were playing something which would 
 require some thought.
  
  There are more "Powergame" methods on the game, trade skills, such as alchemy, tailoring and cooking 
 are example of what your character can learn which your character can learn allow you to make items 
 which are to be sold for gold. Of course they are undervalued and you get more for selling the 
 resources. This has led to players harvesting all they can find and selling them. 
  
  You could be drawn in to play more due to the number of races and , classes available. This expands 
 the life of the game somewhat but again it gets tedious.
  
  Dwarves, Gnomes, Humans, Night Elves, Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Undead
  Druid Hunter Mage Paladin 
 Priest Rogue Shaman Warlock Warrior 
  
  World of Warcraft claims to be a Rpg game but I have seen no roleplaying in the time I was there. 
 All I came across were ignorant people who ran around killing people chanting "Owned u noob" And 
 if any roleplay was ever attempted to occur? You received insults, indifference, or people wondering 
 what you are on about. While I was there I despised the fact how people talked about levels and 
 RL matters and was a huge reason as to why I quit the game.
  
  Overall I find the game shallow with no substance, and even with its graphics, you don't get to 
 enjoy them due to the lag.
  And with it being 8 pounds a month and 30 - 35 pounds to purchase the software? 
  I'd have to 
 give it a thumbs down. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdaweasel
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This review originally appeared on www. cjdaweasel. com as part of the series "Curse of the MMOs". 
 
  
  World of Warcraft is an MMO designed for just one thing: Taking your money, and lowering your IQ. 
 Okay, that's two things. See? I'm getting stupider by the minute. No matter what you're doing in 
 WOW you're going to be constantly pelted with requests to do things that you don't want to do. 
 If FFXI was about complete jerks with 15 dollars a month of disposable income and an internet connection, 
 then WOW is about a secret government project to make everyone who plays it as mature as the plot 
 to a Power Rangers episode. It's working.
  
  My Story Begins
  
  I started off playing as a female Night Elf. Anyone who has played the game already knows where 
 this is going, so feel free to skip on to the next section. Everyone else, read on.
  
  I spent most of my time denying requests to remove my clothes and dance. Which, if you have any 
 life outside of videogames you will realize that this is not only a waste of time, but kind of 
 sick. One person even went so far as to follow me all the way across one of the continents demanding 
 that I remove my clothes, and even offered me a few silver if I did. I finally gave in and that's 
 the story of how I bought my first set of Druidic robes. THE END.
  
  I wish. I figured that the higher I rose in level, the more this kind of thing would taper off, 
 so I did my quests, built up an ignore list of pervs, and continued on with my pretend life. It 
 seems though, that I just traded one type of harassment for another. One day, I s*** you not, someone 
 requested that I have sex with their character. Naturally I turned them down, because I have a 
 girlfriend, and that is kind of like cheating, even though there's no real sex involved, and its 
 not me doing it anyway. Of course this is all just rationalization for the fact that having sex 
 in a game is probably the saddest thing I can think of this side of Beanie Baby collecting. I can 
 only determine that WOW breeds polygon molesters. They're freaking everywhere.
  
  Stay Away From Me
  
  The worst thing about partying with anyone on WOW is that you have to 
 put up with people who try to make their characters do things that they're not supposed to do. 
 I'm all for customizing characters, but a Rogue (think Thief) is NOT a healer. I don't care how 
 many Goblin Jumper Cables (an item that revives a fallen character) you have, or how high your 
 First Aid skill is, you are not "TeH HeelR!!1!" You are "TeH imbecile!" If WOW were a benefits 
 package then Druids, Paladins, and Priests would be Full Coverage, and a Rogue with Cables and 
 First Aid would be an HMO. A bad HMO. There is at least one of these people in every Town, and 
 usually two in any decent guild.
  
  If you're not in a guild, prepare to be harassed until you join one. Once you're in a Guild, prepared 
 to be harassed by duel requests. Actually, just prepare to be harassed. Everyone seemed to want 
 to fight my Healing Druid. Why the heck would you want to fight me? What am I going to do? Heal 
 you to death? That would be like a Tank Battalion challenging a MASH unit to some War-games.
  
  How To Take A Game Too Seriously
  
  WOW also has different types of servers, such as PVP 
 (Player vs. Player) , Normal (ummm... Normal) , and RP (Roll Playing) . My favorite is RP. These people 
 take the game far too seriously, but since its an RP server, they don't feel so bad about it.
 
  
  More often than not, in an RP server, you are greeted by someone in the following fashion "I am 
 Cabados of Stormwind, warrior of our King". No. You are Greg of Ohio, maker of Slushies. You can't 
 really blame them though. It's far more interesting to be 'Cabados, the warrior of Stormwind" than 
 "Greg, Manager of 711". 
  
  But to all the Gregs out there, listen to me. When we're having our imaginary characters fight 
 a pretend dragon in a fantasy world, it is NOT the time to RP. I highly doubt that in Feudal times, 
 if they were fighting a Dragon they would have used a phrase like "Tis a fine fireball hurtling 
 towards you me lady. Would you care to step out of the way?". More than likely they would have 
 said something along the lines of "Get out of the way! F***ING FIREBAAAAALLL!!".
  
  Where are people getting some of these accents and language from? In any given sentence from any 
 Greg, there's usually a bit of Olde English, a few modern English words, Scottish word or two, 
 or some French mixed in. You don't sound like a Medieval warrior, you sound like some backwoods 
 British retard. Take an Olde English literature class, then try to play along. As it stands, there's 
 not a single European from any century that would have a f***ing clue what you're saying.
  
  AC: 30% If they're not pestering you to take off your clothes, then they're harassing you to 
 duel them. If they're not doing either of those, then they're either trying to get you to join 
 their guild, or get you to quit your guild and join theirs. There are of course, some that are 
 just plain a******s.
  
  LLA: 70%-80% No one in Wow could type a complete sentence if they were reading out of the manual 
 and they received electrical shocks to their groin every time they hit a wrong key. I think that 
 this is partly due to the fact that almost everyone who plays WOW is 13. 
  
  LSR: "Creepy Uncle Jim" The only reason to play WOW for longer than a month is if you like hanging 
 around little kids. There's only three types of people that like to hang out with children: Other 
 children, serial killers, and child molesters. If you're over 16 and you haven't killed anyone, 
 then my advice to you would be to stay the h*** away.
  
  My Character: I played a female Night Elf primarily, among many others. My favorite race were the 
 Jamaican Trolls. Being a Troll is about as close as most people will ever come to being cool.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  By the time you've played WOW enough to get your character to a level that isn't laughable, you've 
 effectively dropped two years off your maturity. To compensate you'll try to talk like your from 
 the 1300s, but you'll just end up sounding like you learned European English from reading Fantasy 
 novels. I want to leave you with this thought: If you are not part of a class that is designed 
 to fill a certain role in a party, please don't try, and whatever you do, don't talk like you're 
 from Feudal Times. You'll just make yourself look like a fool, and even the Gregs will laugh at 
 you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: microsoft4life
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for an adventure, you've got one with World Of Warcraft. This game brings a lot 
 of diversity to what you can do. You can do Player Versus Player (PVP) , Player Versus Environment 
 (PVE) or you can just go looking around the huge world and act as if you were the character which 
 is roleplaying (RP) . Their are two factions the Alliance which consists of the Humans, Night Elfs, 
 Dwarfs, and those pesky gnomes. On the other faction called "The Horde" their are also four races 
 which are the Orcs, Undead, Tauren, and Trolls. Also their are a ton of unique classes you can 
 be such as a  and a Priest. This is a level 
 based game you go from level 1-60 based on experience points. You get these experience points by 
 questing, and killing monsters. When you get to be a high level theirs still much fun to do such 
 as running instances, Battlegrounds, and just plain whatever you want. Theirs also a mailing system 
 so you can send gifts, or just a letter. Then theirs the auction house system which lets you put 
 items up for sale or buy items that are for sale (kind of like ebay) . I highly suggest at least 
 you give this game a shot, its worth the time and you can just kick back relax and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenmuron666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  I, the dedicated console player, wanted to know what World of Warcraft is all about. I heard so 
 many stories that I wanted to try for myself. BIG MISTAKE! ;) I didnt touch my console ever since. 
 Even the 360 is standing there. Im really addicted and play several hours per day and in the weekends 
 all-night. Yeahits driving my girlfriend insane.
  
  When I installed the game (five cds!) and downloaded the update, I was ready for some pc-gaming.
 
  The great thing about WoW is when you start playing along the way theyll explain everything to 
 you. So you dont have to read a manual. The time it takes to feel familiar with the controls doesnt 
 take long and before you know you already finished a couple of quests and gained some levels. From 
 here the addiction steps in and wont let go.
  
  The worlds in WoW are beautiful and very big. Sometimes it takes some time to get to your destination, 
 but in such a beautiful world you love to walk around. Starting from level 40 you can buy a mount 
 which takes you faster to a destination. And believe me, level 40 comes quick.
  
  The only bad thing, besides losing your social live, is that its difficult to get into the battlegrounds.
 
  In the battleground you can fight against the alliance or horde, depends on which side youre 
 fighting, and gain honor points. With these honor points you get a rank and with this rank you 
 can buy all sorts of special things.
  
  All I can say try it out, but dont blame me when you loose your social live ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok, since the release of this stupid MMORPG, WoW has been everywhere. Why it has, totally eludes 
 me...
  
  Yes, while I do not actually own this game, I (fortuneately) downloaded the 14 day trial so I didn't 
 actually waste a penny on this game. Something that may have biased me against this game is my 
 hatred of all Warcraft games of any form. I do not like any and all Warcraft games, as the stories 
 all seem so stupid and boring as well as totally uninteresting to me.
  
  The graphics, are cartoonish. While some say that it's the style of Warcraft, It looks plain ugly. 
 There are many much better looking MMORPGs out there. The sound, is average, but nothing really 
 special. The gameplay, is what I fail to understand. I understand how to do it, yes, I don't see 
 why so many people see it as innovative. It's the same thing as all other MMORPGs: Kill stuff, 
 Get Money, Get Better Stuff, Do Quests, Get Money, Get Better Stuff, and just rinse and repeat 
 until you are the highest level and you can own any and everybody. Nothing bad about it, but nothing 
 new here...
  
  The value here, as with most MMORPGs (with the exception of Guild Wars) is bad. If I am going to 
 pay $15 a month for a game, it better be fun, and this game, didn't seem fun at all. I personally 
 would not recommend this game to anyone, but I suppose if you really love Warcraft games you'd 
 like it. Personally, I'll take GW, SWG, or EQ, any day to this crapfest. Blizzard has failed to 
 make anything decent since the early 90's, and as so, I guess I'll never buy any games they make 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaN3y
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  DAMN!!!! this game deserves everything, not only is it an RPG its a new experience RPG. before 
 this game i would have said final fantasy VII is the best game ive ever played, now come on you 
 cannot F**K with FF7. that game was absoloutly off the chains, and my love for that is still there 
 from release date.... but WoW is just the game, nothing much else to say, i have alot of fun watching 
 my mates play it, and if u have fun watching think of the fun you will have playing? straight up 
 this game is not 10.0 its 20.0 if not higher, you cannot F**K with alot of RPG's because RPG fans 
 we all know we get seriously hooked into the story of most RPG's lol. FF10, FF9, FF8 and so on, 
 not only just the FF series, but enough of that...... ive read some stupid comments, someone saying 
 it killed there bro. hmmmm not saying hes dead or not but its his fault simple as. finished that 
 rant lol...... yea back to WoW. just to words to RPG players................ GET IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordtossZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  If you havent bought this game yet, please do me a favor and go buy it right now, specialy if you 
 are a Warcraft or Blizzard fan.
  The highest point of this game is that its highly addicting. You wont stop playing. I have been 
 playing since it releases, about 1 year, and i play every day for hours. There is no end to this 
 game. You get to lvl60, what else is there to do? You say to urself.... nothing? You are wrong there 
 are a million more things you can do like get better gear (go to MC/BWL and stuff which are instances 
 or dungeons where u get the gear) . Or you can go PvP (player vs player) in which you go to a battle 
 ground (sort of a instance) and battle it out. Or you can go bid on items in the auction house, 
 o farm money for your epic mount, or go in a raid into Iron Forge or Orggrimar (the other side's 
 main sities) and try to take over theyr city (which i dont think has ever been done) . If you have 
 done all of this with that one character... well go make another one get him to lvl60 and do all 
 this all over again! And trust me starting all over in a new class is not boring, in fact it might 
 even be more fun than ur first experience because u know where to go and you will level up faster.
 
  The graphics are awsome, but compared to some of the games out now i guess are not all that perfect. 
 
  The world is HUGE and you will never get bored.
  
  One of the best games i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteserver7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  You know that time when you see a squirrel climbing in the trees and it just falls, well thats 
 the sensation that WOW gets you. Its rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly rly 
 rly rly greet 
  
  
  Johnny got a new set of spoons
  
  pce out man 
  
  man i hav 2 write 100 words so here it goes, Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel 
 Squirrel MUSHROOM MUSHROOM MUSHROOM MUSHROOM MUSHROOM Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel Squirrel
 
  
  dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog 
 dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog dog 
  
  yo u no wudda a kuvasz is? 
  
  its the wicked sick nastyest dog u've eva cn
  
  SERIOUSLY tho u gotta check it out now
  
 
  pce out man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Like any other MMO out there and does only very little better. No, mostly it just does what other 
 MMOs do wrong aswell.
  
  Repetitive; (You grind 10 lvl, move to the next area, goto grind;)
  Everyone looks the same;
 
  Blah blah etc. (just read mmo-reviews)
  
  Notice that you deal and take always the same percentage of dmg. It has no economy, and crafting 
 is waste of time. Go for alchemy as every other serious player would, and you will be fine.
  
  Reviews about it's PvP content beeing great lack of substance, since this game isn't balanced. 
 So be prepared to be ganked.
  
  Basicly its a chat-room, don't believe this game has any kind of skill to it.
  That's it for 
 the gameplay.
  
  Technically it's not good neither, be prepared to patch it 20 times after installing the retail.
 
  
  It's too bad that Gamespot jumped on the Hype-Train this game produced.
  I cancelled my Subscription for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game features a highly open ended world where players can do anything they want. They begin 
 by customizing a character from a specific race and class. 
  World of Warcrafts best feature is that the game does not require top of the line system hardrive. 
 The game runs perfectly with my average PC and therefore, is is very popular to everybody, not 
 just the gurus with pimped out computers.
  The gameplay has kept me playing for the past year now, and it continues to whip out surprises 
 and new content that makes me grin from cheek to cheek.
  World of Warcraft is definately worth the investments, even with its $13-$15 a month price tag. 
 It's a masterpiece that all other MMORPGs should be based off of.
  Congratulations (once again) Blizzard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan5288
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Though alittle costly (monthly payments via credit card or game card) this game is a revolutionary 
 masterpiece that will set the scale for games all-together. I would spend all night playing this 
 game. I dedicated more time to this game than school, family, girlfriend. After this game i am 
 officially a nerd. If you want a game that will totally ruin your social life bye this game. But 
 still yet it is well worth it. **** all haters to WoW. **** queer dick sucking **** mucas eaters. 
 **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I had to update this. while the below is still true - be warned the down times and support for 
 this game are a disaster. You can be garenteed hours of lost time per month which is painful when 
 you have to fork out monthly money. As I writes this, the server has been down for 12 hours. - 
 3rd time this month.
  
  World of Warcraft is all that is it cracked up to be in gameplay. Truly an immersive game with 
 so much to see and do - it would keep you busy for months. Everyone has already mentioned its many 
 positive facotrs, and they do make the game well worth playing.
  
  However, it gets a lowered score due in a small part to its average (at best) graphics, but more 
 due to the tech problems with this game.
  Crashes and down servers are what I experienced regularly. Unlike Guild Wars which auto places 
 you on a server - you pick and stay on one server. If it goes down you are out of luck, unless 
 you want to start witha whole new character. It would be one thing if this was based on my system 
 - but typoically this seems to be a server issue with Blizzard.
  
  I am not alone in these tech problems - take a look at the Blizzard boards.
  
  Overall quite 
 an impressive game as you can see from the reviews here - but Blizzard needs to work on there server 
 farm a bit to make this a top notch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistpunkh2o
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is pure, beautiful, entertaining and as well designed of a game as you will ever 
 find. From the time you start, the game does not lose you. Rich with brilliant Warcraft lore, Blizzard 
 delivers quest after quest of entertaining story, excitement, fun and companionship. If you enjoy 
 a game where you can have as much fun talking with several people as you can playing the game, 
 WoW does even more for you. I don't know how many nights I find myself signing on to level and 
 instead just enjoying some intelligent conversation with online friends. When it comes down to 
 it, Blizzard's art holds up against any game out there. The beautiful scenes combined with an amazing 
 story, great gameplay, a user friendlly interface and a very easy to use combat system make this 
 game the best game that I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:31 am PT
Review:  Don't buy this game if you want to have a social life. The game is gonna suck you up and you WILL 
 lose your girlfriend. I stopped playing this game becaus i was to hooked to it. The only thing 
 i could talk about was this game. 
  
  So after a stopping for a month or 2 a friend of mine celebrated his birthday. All my best friends 
 where talking about the game. Almost the whole night i hardly changed a worth to them. Luckely 
 there where also a view other people who didn't share the WoW interest.
  
  It's just insane how a game can inflict so mutch damage to your social life. I was hooked befor 
 to other games but WoW is just pure evil. So if you don't have a social life and you don't want 
 one either, go play this game and you will love it. Option nr. 2 is, find friends/girlfriends that 
 also like WoW and get sucked in together. But be prepaired, if a girl comes to you in the disco 
 don't offer her your eppic sword you found yesterday in Blackrock spire, just offer her a drink 
 and tell her about some cool things you did 3 years ago (Befor you where playing WoW) .
  
  This game is to addictive, YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3lly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Best played on private servers because you don't have to pay for the services.
  
  Its better than guild wars because you dont have to buy it because you can just download it from 
 the intraweb.
  
  I like to play as ORCs because they are mean and scary looking.
  
  When you die u turn into a ghost. SPOOKY!
  
  And when you get enough experience points you 
 can level up.
  
  Its the only MMORPG that pwns j00 because its made by Blizzard the best Game Developers in the 
 World.
  
  Honestly who needs a life when you have World of Warcraft.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  GOD DAMN IT LEEROY!
  
  ITS NOT MY FAULT!
  
  AT LEAST I HAVE CHICKEN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CovertChris
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that takes you down to earth, the earth of Warcraft. This game is worth 
 the money and time, although you do need a nice computer. I say that if you have the computer, 
 you need the game. You can be the Horde or the Alliance. There are many classes, and 4 races to 
 choose from on both sides, so there is plenty to choose from. I think this is a definite must! I 
 think that everyone should have this game, and that they should play it all the time, even if it 
 means skipping school or your job. ( not literally ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wowisawsome
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  You must play this game it is the best game i ever played if you haven't, played it yet you must 
 if you don't you will be missing everything i bet most of the people that are reading this have 
 played but for those who haven't im gonna say one last time PLAY!!!!!! 
  
  now to tell a bit about Wow (world of warcraft) rate now Santa is there you can make gingerbread 
 cookies turn into a Christmas gnome ( any alliance race) you can even throw snowballs 
  
  now a bit of the stuff you can do all the time you can learn two professions ( named in game guide) 
 be different races alliance are: human, gnome, dwarf, night elf the horde are: undead, tarren, troll, orc 
 
  
  and the classes are warrior warlock mage rogue priest hunter ( can use guns and bows from start) 
 druid paladin and shaman, ( paladin priest and shaman, can heal) for more info please check the 
 game guide under cheats 
  
  thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is known all over the world as the best MMORPG. I would agree with that statement. 
 I have had it since Christmas of 2005. Honestly though, I wouldnt have gotten it had my friends 
 not been playing it first. Below is brief summaries of the major parts of the game. Graphics - 
 Don't complain about the graphics, because with huge environments and internet lag, you would need 
 a helluva computer to get it running smoothly. Weapons, spells and so on are richly detailed and 
 the game has its own unique look to it, straight out of a storybook tale like Lord of the Rings 
 or something. Details are crisp but the settings should have had more intense choices for the higher 
 end computers.
  
  Sound - Music is heroic and/or captivating and sound effects are well timed and matched. Thats 
 all I can say about that.
  
  Gameplay - User friendly interface and everything is placed perfectly for clickage (I think I made 
 a new word there) . There is the ability bar on the bottom right. Then misc buttons in the middle. 
 Then bags and a keyring on the bottom right. You have your radar in the top right and all your 
 character and party pictures on the top left. Abilites respond well and character movement is often 
 satisfying. And poppin major amush crits on Ally enemies never gets old (Yeah I'm a Horde) . Everything 
 is simple and easy to figure out.
  
  General - The questing is well done and if you get into the correct frame of mind you will have 
 fun leveling. Good gear is only gotten by knowing the right people and being in a good guild. Just 
 hope your on a good realm. I recommend Bronzebeard. It takes a long time to hit 60 but when you 
 do you can start raiding places like Molton Core and Blackwing Lair for phat lewt. What it comes 
 down to is that if you play it right and have actual cool friends with you to play with, it is 
 fun. Whether you like it or not is entirely based on whether you have a life you wanna hibernate 
 or you have people who are willing to show ya the ropes. And it can become addictive if you learn 
 how to actually play, so watch out O_o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  As of version 1.9, World of Warcraft has come a long way. A lot of new features have been introduced 
 since the game was released in late 2004. New dungeons, a Player vs. Player honor system, battlegrounds, 
 and several neat world events.
  
  The good: World of Warcraft is a very solo friendly game. Every character class can level up to 
 60 by themselves, though they should group together for tougher quests such as those located in 
 dungeons. In groups, there are no "useless" classes. Each class has a purpose, such as healing, 
 doing damage, taking damage, and supporting the group with various abilities. 
  
  The PvP (player vs. player) system now has a purpose beyond just slaughtering each other. Every 
 time you kill a player of the opposing faction that is within your level range you get honor points. 
 These honor points are tallied up every week and calculated into rank. Each of the 14 ranks, with 
 military names, has various rewards you can purchase in the form of equipment that will further 
 help you in PvP combat.
  The best way to earn honor points is to enter one of the three battlegrounds. The first battleground, 
 Warsong Gulch, pitches 10 Horde players against 10 Alliance players in a game of capture the flag. 
 The second, Arathi Basin, is all about controlling resource points. The team that gets 3000 points 
 first wins. The third, Alterac Valley is an all out war against the opposing team with 40 players 
 on each side with the goal of destroying the enemy's base and killing their commander.
  
  The bad: PvP servers have the problem of ganking, where high level players will go out of their 
 way to kill low level players who stand no chance against them. This is probably why some people 
 perfer Player vs. Environment (PVE) servers where players go into PVP combat when they want to. 
 
  A piece of advice to those starting on a PVP server: avoid Hillsbrad Foothills! It is a source 
 of constant skirmishes and ganking between both factions.
  
  Another problem is that when you get to level 60, most of your dungeon options are 40-player raid 
 instances which take a long time to go through. If this timesink doesn't appeal to you, then you 
 should focus on the few top level dungeons that have a group limit of 5 to 10 players. Either that 
 or focus on gaining rank status in PvP combat via the battlegrounds.
  
  The only other problem isn't the game, but the servers they are hosted on. Many servers are queued 
 up in the evenings and weekends, forcing you to wait in line. Not only that, a few of the servers 
 have massive amounts of lag from time to time. Fortunately, Blizzard is going to upgrade all the 
 servers in April this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsconnection
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  MINI REVIEW
  
  The Good
  World of Warcraft is probably one of the best games ever made. In today's game reviews, that statement 
 is so oversaturated it almost lost it's meaning. In Wow's case, I can't think of any other way 
 to describe the experience. The ability to freely explore the massive environments, study different 
 professions, and depth at character building, you cant help but be overwhelmed by the different 
 ways to play this game. It's replayablity is endless and you actually feel like your apart of this 
 huge ever-changing world.
  
  The interactions with other players in World of Warcraft is bar none the best multiplayer experience 
 out there. The option to advance in the game solo, in groups, or in raids is just an outstanding 
 adventure every time. Blizzard seems to have nailed down every little detail from difficulty to 
 equipment combinations to transportation so that the entire game is held in a balance. No matter 
 who you are, you can always find a way to enjoy this game. Its simple to learn, easy to understand, 
 and follows a very simple formula to allow you to come and go when you please. You can put as much 
 or as little time into this game as you want and still find that feeling of satisfaction. 
  
  The Bad
  This game has got to be one of the most addictive games ever created. It's been 
 designed that way to keep the player paying the monthly subscription to play this game. At an average 
 price of $15 per month, the game is not a cheap way to have fun. The good thing is the subscription 
 is worth every penny and can be canceled at any time and started up again at a later date. It's 
 safe to say that the only real problems with the game is not its in-game mechanics, but rather 
 its rather expensive price tag and very long installation time. Updating all patches in a fresh 
 install can take over an hour. 
  
  Everything seems to flow close to perfection in this game so its very hard to point out any unforgivable 
 flaws. As far as in-game content, its hard to ask for improvements on anything because its perfected 
 just the way it is. The game runs on low-end machines (by today's standards) at a pretty smooth 
 rate and there are no load times at all. You might encounter some lag in this game but its few 
 and far between. Some area's in World of Warcraft are lagged down to the point where some connections 
 my actually disconnect. But even that is rare. Considering how huge this game is there is really 
 nothing more I found wrong with this game.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  No matter who you are or what type of games you like, you should defiantly try out World of Warcraft. 
 Words can't describe how well this game has been crafted. If you only have time for one game in 
 your life, World of Warcraft is it.... if you can afford the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is nearly perfect. If u want good solid MMORPG, here is your thing.
  
  Only things that need to be enhanced are:
  
  1. More PvsP content. I dont want to wait for 8 
 hours to get into massive war. (Personally i dont enjoy small zoned PvsP) Also, there are not enogh 
 reward of winning the war. weather u lost or win, all u gonna get is PvsP point.
  
  2. Few of the musics and the effects are bit annoying and some of the armor design and colors are 
 not my style:)
  
  3. Limited high lv content, other than getting into a raid group and kill something. :p At lv50, 
 pretty much u need to get into group more than 5 everytime and everytime u need nearly perfect 
 group (tankers, healers, Damage dealers, area d. dealers... ect) even with 5 ppl group. While u are 
 getting groups pretty much, u will be sitting in a area and spamming "LFG" in certain area. (main 
 reason why i dont play anymore ;) )
  
  4. Need more content for causual users. If u can play alot, there are very limited things u can 
 do:)
  
  5. User Agreement. They (Blizzard) can get into your computer and take every information. :p. Well 
 i think it is not a bad idea but least they can let the person know after/b4 taking info.
  
  Still it is best MMORPG i ever experiece:)
  
  OMG I LOVE FREEFALL!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  I am very picky when it comes to online games. If something is not right, like it is repetitive, 
 or it is boring, then I lose interst, and fast. Well WoW isn't the same as them. The only game 
 that had my attention like WoW was FFXI, and I quit playing because it took so long to do anything. 
 I'm not going to list off all the games I have tried (obviously) So let me give my reasons as to 
 why I give WoW such a high score.
  
  Graphics: To me graphics, in any game are not as important as other things. Sure, they help make 
 a game, but I can play text games with music just fine and have a really good time. WoW's graphics 
 may not be state-of-the art, but they are impressive. The graphics do seem slightly (And I mean 
 slightly) dated, but the animations of the characters are the best I have seen yet in an online 
 game. They look like a midieval style game should look.
  
  Sound: Sound and music are big time needs to me in games. If there is no sound, I turn my own music 
 on (which, even if there is sound, I do sometimes because it is repetitive and redundant) but that 
 isn't the case here, the ambient sounds, the music, it pulls you into the world. 
  
  Gameplay: This game is easy to get in and play which is a good thing for any game. One online game 
 I played had a really difficult interface, and I spent about an hour working out how the thing 
 worked. With this game I knew the interface and how it worked within five minutes.
  
  Final word: This game is a reccomendation for anyone who likes MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOHBOY_87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft basicly thats enough said right there for any warcraft and MMO fan out there, 
 this game is one of the bests as side from any other MMO this one has all the featuers you could 
 want, PvP, PvE, Groups, Raids, Instances you name it. the release of this game as seriously opend 
 up a new era of gaming, and this game will not disapoint in this writers opinion great sounds great 
 game play and fairly decent grapgics not the worst but also not the best perfect for that gamer 
 that dosent have the high end machine to run it on and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rookemax
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  It has been my experience that girlfriends love to play this too. Mine does not but I'm trying 
 but 3 of my friends have their girlfriends addicted to WoW. That on top of the fact that the game 
 is one of the most beautiful games I have seen and the constantly add amazing features just makes 
 it a must own. If you are still not convinced or played the game and stopped then read about the 
 upcoming expansion pack and you will have to play or start playing again. So rush out and get a 
 copy because you will NEVER regret it.
  
  HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Why am i not suprised that this got higher than a 9.0.. Warcraft has a
  a very good past of games.. Very few have failed but most of them 
  have just grown.... This game 
 is spectacular!! Probably the best RPG ever.
  You choose either the Alliance or Horde and you do Noble quests, Fight
  Dangerous Monsters, and 
 make friends. There are certain classes like
  a Mage, Warlock, Paladin, and Druid. there are many more and each one has
  its one specail powers... the 
 best thing about this game is that it never ends!
  Upgates are give to the game every month so you have unlimited fun...
  This game is ultimatly 
 the best game around and (WHAT A SURPRISE!) a 
  Expansion is coming out for this game next year so keep your eye out for it.
  
  
  
  Peace 
 out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok now I spent about 5 months on this game. During that time I did very much enjoy myself. The 
 only problem is it could of hae a much better game. A few examples.
  
  -By level 25 you basically learn all the moves your going to use. WoW insists whenever u level 
 instead of giving u new moves u simply get to upgrade your old ones. 
  
  -You get afew spells after 25 but they are like every 5 or 10 levels. 
  
  -Alot of the dungeons 
 have the same exact layout.
  
  -Some of the classes are obviously get alot better then others, and in PvP some will just flat 
 out rape others in Battle Grounds. 
  
  Those are just a few of my peteeves with this game. Now if this is out dated Im sorry. I played 
 this last year its been about four months since I played it, and felt like writing a review on 
 it now lol. id assume most of this info is still accurate seeing how they had yet to fix this after 
 the game had been out for several months before I picked it up. "Though the game isnt that bad, 
 its far from perfect trust me." I myself enjoy City of Villains alot more. Just a week that I got 
 to play my friends copy, had me saying it was better then WoW. I cant wait to get my own copy of 
 CoV in a few days. Unless your a very big WarCraft fan like I was I dont see why you would wanna 
 buy this game. Instead get CoV or Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripy-time
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is the BEST. Enormous world with rich a very pretty graphics. The only down side is that 
 you have to pay each month and some of the textures look a little 2D to me. All the character races 
 have there own story (You have to play the Warcraft stratigey game) and diffrent classes to chose 
 from. There are the  and priest. Each have there own 
 special abillities. The world is the main highlight here. There are to diffrent big pices of land 
 and eack area had its own lvling system. There are also instances in the game which were never 
 in any RPG berfore. Instances are all over the world and makes other people make there own party's 
 and go finish boss after boss. The instances range from lvl 13-60. Anyway there is so much stuff 
 packed in here you will never be able to finish it all. RPG fan this is a must have. I gave a rating 
 9.7! by the way I have a 60 preist and he is on the realm destromath and is name is {Jackpaperdig} 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenaltom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has been compared to Guild Wars by a number of people trying to work out which 
 one is better. Read on to find out which one I think you should get.
  
  Gameplay: Like Guild Wars, the gameplay works very well and is very simple and easy to learn. There 
 are tons of spells and skills to learn so there's plaenty of fun to be had here. However the community 
 dosen't seem to be as friendly, I have numerously been told by other players to ****** off. If 
 you don't like being offended, stay away from some people in this game.
  
  Graphics: The game looks stunning however to be honest I don't think it looks quite as nice as 
 Guild Wars. You may think I'm being byass towards Guild Wars but I have both games so don't complain.
 
  
  Sound: The musical score is very nice and the voiceover work is solid and most of the characters, 
 creatures and spell effects sound like they should. 
  
  Value: There is tons to do in this game but after a few months it starts to become really expensive 
 which is one of the reasons I stopped playing it. Also after you reach high levels and start feeling 
 unbeatable it starts to tire.
  
  Overall as you can see from the two scores I prefer Guild Wars and think that it is probably the 
 better game. If you haven't read my review of Guild Wars yet, go to the following link: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/guildwars/reader_review. html? id=221767 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  What a wonderful world...
  
  We at GR like our games like we like our women: humongous and violent. Sometimes we can be tempted 
 by the petite, minimalist Japanese types, like Katamari Damacy, and there's nothing like a good 
 romp through a sturdy adventure game, like Sly 2: Band of Thieves. But our hearts truly belong 
 to the ladies so large we almost get lost in their virtual folds. Pardon the imagery.
  
  We've had many relationships over the years, but our newest mistress takes the cake. Delivered 
 by the imaginative minds at Blizzard Entertainment from the lore of the previous Warcraft titles, 
 World of Warcraft is just about the best MMORPG we have ever played. With two alliances covering 
 eight races, nine classes, twelve trade skills and three different types of servers, an intuitive 
 interface and a surprising amount of depth and end-game content, World of Warcraft has something 
 for everybody who owns a PC and likes online role-playing.
  
  You enter Warcraft's world after the biggest cataclysm in 10,000 years. In that time, demons and 
 undead waged a campaign of death and destruction until an unlikely alliance of all the mortal races 
 drove them to the Outlands. The Horde, which includes the newly autonomous Orcs, cunning Trolls, 
 noble Tauren, and scheming Undead, is bound under the notion of a new beginning, although each 
 of its races has its own agenda. The Alliance, comprised of the displaced Gnomes, stalwart Dwarves, 
 battle-ravaged Humans, and mysterious Night-Elves, seek to reclaim what was lost.
  
  The type of server you choose determines the intensity of the conflict between the two sides. On 
 the Normal and Role-Play servers, there's no Player vs. Player combat, so the Undead are only in 
 direct conflict with one group of humans known as the Scarlet Crusade, all of whom are NPCs. On 
 PvP servers, however, it's open war between the Horde and the Alliance as each side seeks to conquer 
 the other's holdings. Fortunately, you can create ten characters on any and all of World of Warcraft's 
 sixty-something servers (a whopping six hundred or so characters, by the way) , so you're free to 
 experience both schemes.
  
  Once you pick a server, you're off to create your character. World of Warcraft's character creator 
 isn't deep or terribly detailed. You can alter the sex, race, hair, facial hair, and skin of your 
 character, but not height, weight, or posture. Instead of playing as an extremely overweight gnome 
 mage (as had initially been our intent) , we made a sexy Night Elf Druid named Bonkerbabe. Though 
 your character's appearance isn't very customizable, the models themselves look very good thanks 
 to an ongoing bug that causes characters to appear mostly naked in the character selection window. 
 Blizzard swears this is an accident, but Bonkerbabe's chest, complete with advanced physics, suggests 
 otherwise.
  
  The race you choose will grant specific traits as well as determine your starting location. If 
 you choose to play as the Elves, you'll begin your game in an enchanted forest and all of your 
 quests will revolve around restoring balance to nature and healing environmental wounds caused 
 by the Scourge and Burning Legion. In turn, if you choose the Undead, your primary concern will 
 be cultivating and sewing a plague among the members of the Scarlet Crusade.
  
  The racial benefits are handy in that they provide some nice utilities for each race, not to mention 
 clear advantages in certain classes. Dwarves are naturally superior riflemen, making them obvious 
 candidates for the Hunter class. The Undead, on the other hand, can cannibalize fallen undead and 
 humanoid corpses after battles if they need to regain health. This means that every undead class 
 can easily heal right on the battlefield by feasting on the flesh of fallen foes, which greatly 
 shortens the downtime between battles.
  
  Instead of giving players tons of classes to choose from, Blizzard included a fairly small selection 
 and made each class impressively strong and useful in its own right. Take mages: they're the strongest 
 spell-casters in the game, but they also have some excellent crowd-control abilities and some awesome 
 utilities, such as the ability to conjure their own food and water for replenishing health and 
 mana. They're potent on their own and make great damage dealers for any group. The same goes for 
 every class; each is fun to play solo or in a group.
  
  Once you reach level 10, you'll gain access to talents. These work like skill trees, and each class 
 has three different branches to follow. As a Druid, Bonkerbabe enjoys Balance, Feral Combat, and 
 Restoration talent lines. Since the Balance line covers her utility spells and offensive magic 
 and Bonkerbabe intends to become a ruthless player-killer, I put most of my points there to make 
 her offensive spells hit harder and to eventually unlock a really powerful storm-summoning spell. 
 However, if she had wanted to be a more efficient healer, she could have focused on Restoration, 
 or Feral Combat if she wanted to primarily play in Cat or Bear form. In this sense, the talent 
 lines add more customization options
  
  Of course, you don't start out at level 10. You always begin in a small village or camp filled 
 with NPCs. There's no tutorial, although you can turn on hint windows, which wait at the bottom 
 of your screen in the form of little exclamation points for you to click on and read at your discretion.
 
  
  While you are welcome to jump right in and start whacking away at enemies as soon as the game begins, 
 you should probably start talking to NPCs and getting quests. Quest NPC's are easy to identify 
 thanks to the bright-yellow exclamation points that hang over their heads. You simply walk up to 
 one, right click, read the description of the quest, accept or decline and you're ready to go. 
 Every description is stored verbatim in your quest journal, along with an abstract and the reward 
 you will receive upon completion of the quest.
  
  Taking a cue from the Homeland Security people, World of Warcraft is color-coded for your safety. 
 Gray and green quests are easy, yellow are manageable, orange are tough and red nearly impossible 
 to handle alone. This color code usually corresponds to the monsters you'll encounter throughout 
 the course of the quest, which also share the same color-coding scheme depending on your level 
 and theirs. You'll definitely know what you're in for.
  
  There are also elite quests, which usually take place in instanced dungeons. When you or your group 
 enter an instanced dungeon, you'll step through a portal and a version of that dungeon will be 
 created just for you and your group. Any other groups that step through the portal will have their 
 own versions of the dungeon created, so you won't ever have to compete with other groups or wait 
 for particular monsters to appear because some other group got to 'em first.
  
  Aside from elites, nearly every quest can be completed by a single player, so you'll never have 
 to sit around and wait for a group if you don't want to. One of the best things about World of 
 Warcraft is the fact that the entire game can be played through quests; you'll never have to just 
 go out into the field and kill monsters for hours to gain levels. Since your character can take 
 on up to twenty quests at once and the quests themselves vary greatly in difficulty and time required 
 to complete, you'll always have something to do, whether you have five hours to play or just thirty 
 minutes.
  
  World of Warcraft is easy to play alone, but it's also remarkably easy to play in groups thanks 
 to the quest sharing system. Players no longer have to hunt for groups that are doing the same 
 quests or sift through their lists to find one they have in common with a group. You can simply 
 join a group and take on whatever quest they're doing as long as you're in the right level range 
 and have completed any prerequisites. This system makes jumping on and playing much easier, and 
 gives players an excellent incentive to group up.
  
  As you make your way in the world, you can also pick up trade skills. These fall into three categories: 
 collection, production, and secondary. Bonkerbabe learned herbalism, a collection skill, which 
 granted her the ability to find herbs. Any nearby herbs show up as little yellow dots on her mini-map, 
 so in the course of questing she can pick any she comes upon, or, if she feels like a break from 
 questing, she could just go pick flowers for a while.
  
  Since Bonkerbabe also learned alchemy, a production skill, she can use the flowers she picked to 
 make various potions. Collection and production skills are almost always centered on certain types 
 of items; one is used to collect the items, and the other makes the items into some new, useable 
 product. The trade skills are extremely easy to get into, fun to explore, and represent another 
 entertaining way to spend time in World of Warcraft.
  
  If stalking player-controlled prey suits your fancy and you selected a PvP server, you can venture 
 into contested zones or enemy territory to start trouble with other players. Don't worry, though 
 - most beginner areas (up to about level 20) are considered green zones, which means you don't 
 have to worry about high-level enemy players coming out of nowhere and n00b hammering you while 
 you kill rabbits and baby bears.
  
  Yellow zones are contested, which means members of opposing factions can attack each other on sight, 
 regardless of level. This is where the bulk of the PvP takes place, which means you will routinely 
 get killed by bands of opposing players here. This isn't as bad as it sounds thanks to World of 
 Warcraft's light stance on death. When you die, be it at the hands of another player or the claws 
 of a monster, your un-lootable body stays where it fell while your spirit is transported to a neaby 
 graveyard. From there, you may either resurrect and take a large hit to your equipment's durability, 
 or run back to your body and resurrect for minimal equipment damage. You never lose experience, 
 so you'll never feel like an hour or two have been wasted thanks to an untimely demise.
  
  The combat found in World of Warcraft is nothing new. You run up to an enemy, press attack, and 
 then press other buttons for special attacks, spells, and various other techniques. The same goes 
 for PvP combat, except that certain passive qualities such as blocking, dodging, and spell resistance 
 are evened out. In theory, a level 10 player should be able to land a shot on a level 40. It would 
 be a weak one, but if several level 10s got together, they might be able to take a level 40 out, 
 whereas no amount of level 10 monsters could ever hope to land a single blow against a level 40 
 player.
  
  One of World of Warcraft's most pleasing qualities is the way it appeals to every type of online 
 RPGer. There's enough depth and rich lore here to satisfy hardcore role-players, great class balance 
 for the PvPers, and a system that's so streamlined and intuitive that even novice online RPGers 
 will have no trouble jumping right in.
  
  Thanks to the innovative Rest system, World of Warcraft is equally playable by those who spend 
 thirty hours a week ramping up their mage and those who can only play occasionally. Whenever you 
 log off, you begin to accumulate rest. When rested, you gain twice as much experience from killing 
 monsters as a non-rested player. The idea is, if you play every day you'll gain experience at a 
 normal rate and progress just fine, but if you only get to play one or two days a week, you'll 
 definitely make some good progress and be satisfied with the play time you got in, because you 
 will have easily gained one or two levels. The system is great because it doesn't penalize anybody, 
 yet still manages to provide an incentive to people who can't play all the time.
  
  Good luck not playing all the time, though, because World of Warcraft looks incredible. The land 
 is lush and well-detailed in Blizzard's exaggerated fashion. While World of Warcraft doesn't look 
 as realistic as Everquest II, its consistent artistic design and attention to detail actually make 
 for a more immersive world. Everything runs smoothly, whether you're seeing it all from the back 
 of a gryphon or from the inside of a dank, atmospheric dungeon. The game's considerable ambience 
 and character is enhanced by a tastefully understated score that picks up along with the action, 
 great voice-acting, and a plethora of excellent, ambient sounds.
  
  World of Warcraft is not a revolutionary game in that it doesn't offer anything truly innovative 
 to the RPG scene. Blizzard has basically taken Everquest, enveloped it in their Warcraft mythos, 
 and improved it in a million minor ways. With its army of minor improvements and thoughtful touches, 
 Blizzard has blessed all MMORPGers with the genre's finest, most polished title to date. Whether 
 you enjoy hardcore role-playing, shameless griefing or something in the middle, you will find what 
 you're looking for in this brave, new world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerskill
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  NAH!!
  
  Overrated, overpriced and a waste of time. This game lags creativity, after you get to level 60 
 thats it make a new account because boredom will strike you like an iron fist. 
  
  Whats wrong with the cost, $15 a month, come on! Whats wrong with the graphics they are so bad 
 for the cost of the game. 
  
  Most of the time you spent hours forming a party which is full of newbs who will quit on you half 
 way in the quest. And lets say you do finish the quest, when your ready to pick up the items you 
 will wish you where dead since there is no way you can get the item when your party is so big to 
 share with you. 
  
  The game is full of rude little children who have nothing better to do but insult you and others 
 for no reason.
  
  I dont recommend you spent money on this game which crashes almost everyday. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imsocool666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is the best online game ever and i cant wait until WoW: Burning crusade comes 
 but now WoW has beautiful graphics and the game is very hard and its cool the lvl system 1-60 and 
 the XP system and the sounds are good and the effects and the music and the value is good and you 
 can do nearly everything you can play as Human Dwarf and many more :) love him just love him Blizzard 
 did a good job. you can go to battlegrounds and instances or just wannabe funny guy or something 
 u rule and its your world. :)
  
  Blizzard and 
  gamespot rocks 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  A mix of crack, killing and nerds like me this is the most amazingly life like world ever created. 
 With Christmas specials Halloween an easter specials the world feels like it is breathing. You 
 have to get a high level to get into it but have no doubt what ever race class faction you are 
 you are going to have fun. 
  The action is something that really has not been seen in an mmorpg it is more actiony than turnbased 
 like the former ruler of the genre Evercrack. Guilds are fun and raid are awesome but the best 
 thing option this game gives you are the battle zones . If you love games like Ever crack and Star 
 Wars galaxies get his game it will turn your world up side down and make you a fat because you 
 love to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simi600
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft a game which i have played sicne its intial release is a game with allot of unique 
 charm, people say the graphics are blocky and carttonish well this is inkeeping with what the warcraft 
 games are like however these cartoon style graphics still present very good visuals on certain 
 higher level area of the game.
  
  there is a very lage but not overwhelming amount of proffetions and classes to choose from each 
 one totally unique in its own right and very well balanced in power against the other classes in 
 the game, each class has there own specific job to fill in group based combat so at higher level 
 group combat a wide varity of people is needed to kill the extremly overpowering raid bosses in 
 the game. 
  
  world of wacraft is centred around its name, you have to fight, there is no way around it at all 
 you must do quests and kill things if you hope to get anywhere in the game, even the trade skills 
 which are placed aside from your base combat proffetion can only be advanced if you are a certain 
 level.
  
  combat is the central point to warcraft but luckly enough it is also its strongest aspect with 
 an almost action game like feel to it, this is not your typical online hit him over the head and 
 hope he dies first combat there is allot of skill involed especial in pvp (player vs player) . Pvp 
 is a massive part of wacraft and it is executed better than any of it competators with unique battlegrounds 
 to fight on and many rewards for increasing through the games pvp ranks private corperal sergant 
 etc.
  
  it is not all good in wacraft as some may have you belief though, the main issues with the game 
 lie with its patheticly low amount of 3d models, meaning that you will find many people that look 
 the same or identical to your character, weapons and armor repeat models as well, for instance 
 a high level sword may look exactly the same as a low level sword the only differance being its 
 damage and bounses and also the sounds in warcraft can seem repetative such as the sound made when 
 your character eats and drinks ( all the differant food boil down to the same iteam model, a loaf 
 a bread wetehr it be a steak or a pie) .
  
  also with the massive influx of players the servers have become quite unstable and overcrowded, 
 this problem is said to be addressed soon but it can never really be solved unless people leave, 
 this lag has become so bad in one of the centres of commerce in the game, ironforge that players 
 have started calling it by the name which has been made for it "lagforge".
  
  and finally the main thing which makes and breaks warcraft at the same time, for an MMORPG world 
 of warcraft is possibly the msot linear MMO out there which appeals to some and is hated by others, 
 a player upon creation will follow the same basic pattern regaurdless of you race and starting 
 area this makes the game very approachable and not voerwhelming but this linear feel can become 
 tiresome after you have run through it a few times. It is tradition for MMOs to be a never ending 
 game where tehre is allways somthing you can do but in world of wacraft once a player has hit the 
 final level of 60 they basicly have a choice of gathering countless thousands of kills in pvp to 
 get betetr armor and weapons or running certain instances again and again and again until the right 
 iteam drops for them. this is basicly jsut trying to make your character strong and it is a sad 
 attempt at end game content with there being no special reward at the end that a player can go 
 for EG: jedi in SWG.
  
  IN conclution world of warcraft is a fantastic game all in all but has its own kinks and bugs that 
 are very few compared to other MMOs , but in the end world of warcraft may leave you with a feeling 
 of smallness and loss of immertion in the game due to its total lack of player housing and repition 
 of 3d models. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctigre
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  The good: The world is huge. The graphics excel (if you don't agree, you better get a better graphics 
 card and turn up the detail) . The sound is superb (music is awesome and the environmental affects 
 rock!) . Game-play is intuitive and learning the basics of getting around and what to do comes fairly 
 quickly. The game has depth and you cannot learn all that is the World of Warcraft universe in 
 a day. Or six months.
  
  The bad: It's addictive. If you have a life, you soon will not (unless you are one of the few that 
 can enjoy the game in moderation) . The online community mirrors the real world community: this 
 means that you will have to search for players whom you will enjoy playing alongside. Not everyone 
 is helpful or friendly in WoW. But there will be those rare ones whom you will treasure as online 
 friends. You just have to find them. Money is also an issue. In the real world you will have paid 
 $50 bucks for the game then pay an additional $15 smackers a month for the experience that is WoW 
 (but you soon become an addicted WoW whore and the paltry amount paid ceases to matter) . In the 
 game world, you will also be concerned about money - which at times will be tedious to collect 
 to purchase items and/or services within the game to facilitate your character growth. Though basic 
 game-play is easy and intuitive, learning the online culture of WoW is not. You will have to undergo 
 the task of finding an experienced ally who will nurse you through the infancy of your gameplay.
 
  
  My final analysis: Doesn't the rating I gave say it all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OptimusPrime10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  If there were one word to describe WOW (World of Warcraft) it would be revolutionary. On many levels 
 WOW innovates and well revolutionizes the genre of MMORPG's. Blizzard has always been on top of 
 the game world creating titles such as the Diablo series, Starcraft series, and of course the Warcraft 
 series. 
  World of Warcraft however many people can argue is their best work yet as it has many fantastic 
 traits to offer. Right of the bat the presentation is great, a clean organized box complete with 
 guide, 10 day guest pass, product catalogue, and the 4 game discs. After loading the game and getting 
 setup (gamertag and payment) the first thing that catches your attention is the inviting and neat 
 interface which is very bold and beautiful. There is virtually no load times and no tutorial which 
 is quite all right because the learning curve is roughly only 5 minutes. As you begin to explore 
 the lands of Azeroth, Kalimdor, Lordaeron, and Khaz Modan it comes clear this is a HUGE world filled 
 with tons of other people. The art direction WOW took is absolutely amazing, fun and inviting everything 
 a game needs. Environnments look amazingly realistic. Just about everywhere you go you will be 
 amazed by how diverse and plain cool everything looks.
  Like the graphics everywhere you go the sound changes according to the theme of the area you are 
 in. Most music is intense orchestra or soothing melodies. Weapons sound great, like the clanging 
 of a sword to the summon of a spell. Once you've jumped into the game and have gotten acclimated 
 the gameplay really catches your attention. It is absolutely flawless and revolutionary. Like most 
 MMOS it is real time. However what is different is unlike most MMORPG's to gain experience you 
 dont have to just go kill people get experience and get the occasional quest. In WOW your quest 
 log is always filled and always completely different quest. Another cool thing is you can have 
 different professions such as skinner, botanist, miner, etc. By having a job and completing objectives 
 your employer gives you, you gain experience. Revolutionary, exciting, and amazing are just a few 
 words that describe the amazing World of Warcraft. Give it a try. You owe it to yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is Definatly the greatest MMORPG this year, and is worth while to any who wants 
 to get into the magic and wonder of the Warcraft series. The graphics (if played on a medium res) 
 look great, the sound although good can get a bit reptitive and annoying, but still it's a good 
 game!
  
  The thing i really base a MMORPG on is how someone can get individuality, where you don't come 
 across someone who looks exactly like you, and well my friends this achieves it fully. The great 
 selection of weapons and armour can really give your character a good look.
  
  This game is something everyone one should look into, but the idea of the monthly fee can throw 
 you off. I say that as soon as you get the money to get this game, then you should do so immediately!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  The funny thing about this game is that I told my friends, if World of Warcraft EVER came out with 
 an MMORPG, I'd be the top 100 people to first log in.... Ok, it took me awhile to get it... with 
 just moving from NJ to Florida. But hey, I was at least in the first 1,000,000,000.
  
  World of Warcraft, or WoW as it's acronynm, is everything that older games of this Gerne did good. 
 Great storyline, great gameplay. Let me get a little more into it. 
  
  The storyline changes between the race/class combination. Example: Your a human paladin? Then you'll 
 see they're side of the human's struggle in this world of Azthoth. However, if your a human Warlock. 
 Then thats the story there that you'll see. Not to mention it also changes with the race too. If 
 your a Dwarf Paladin, different version almost all together. To be honest, I haven't seen a good 
 MMOPRG since the "Evil" Erudites of Everquest.... until now.
  
  The Original WoW gives you 8 races and about 8 classes and 2 factions. The factions, Alliance and 
 Horde are basicly at the brink of war. Each faction has 4 races out of the 8 I mention ealier. 
 Alliance has human, dwarf, night elf, and gnomes while Horde has Orc, Undead (also know as Forsaken) , 
 troll..... and a humaniod bull race that name escapes me right now. 
  
  They're also many different serves to play on for those who like Role playing, PvP or just wanna 
 play without the worry of the other faction coming to get you. 
  
  WoW has the classes that you'd expect from this game. Warrior, Priest (not to be confused with 
 a cleric.... they're is a difference) , Wizard, Warlock, Rogue, Hunter, just to name a few.
  
  This game also gives to employment besides your classes. Jobs such as tailoring, Mining, Blacksmithing, 
 Enchanting, to name a few. 
  
  They're is so much to do in this game, its almost damn near crazy. I could go on and on about this. 
 But for a better review, check out Gamespot's Review..... cause they get paid to do this, I don't 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jen-the-Samurai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  WoW is an incredible game! What amazes me most of off is its incredible variety of missions. Games 
 like The Matrix Online get extremely repetitive because you're doing the same things over and over 
 again. Yes, there are essentially missions where you're killing enemies, or running something from 
 one place to another, but because the enemies are all so varies and unique, and so are the areas 
 that you visit, it never feels like you're really doing the same thing twice. In addition, some 
 missions actually involve thinking and puzzle-solving, so it's not all combat-oriented.
  
  Speaking of the areas visited ---what a BEAUTIFUL game! There are SO many places to explore. The 
 graphics are wonderful!
  
  This is most definitely a game that can be enjoyed by many kinds of gamers. The races and classes 
 are all interesting and fun to play in their own right, and you can create many characters and 
 try them all out! There are also two giant factions of the "bad" and "good" guys, and you get to 
 choose between them as well.
  
  Every dollar spent on this game is worth it! It is an experience that all should seek out. Don't 
 be frustrated if you don't know what to do as you're learning the game. Ask questions, and play 
 the game to understand its mechanics. The strategy guide is helpful, and there is a great site 
 at www. thottbot. com that I recommend if you get stuck on a mission. Play this game, you won't regret 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan123Fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  You may think it's like of weird, cause I've only played it for about 10 hours, but i've read the 
 info about WoW for almost 2 years ( cause I can't get it yet )
  and I think Blizzard has done a much better job than anyone else. It's got great features, gameplay 
 and RPG fell, ( I said 'RPG fell' cause some rpg just can't give out the felling ) it is just great. 
 And if you played Warcraft 2 or 3, it's more fun, because Warcraft 2 and 3 has a continuing story 
 line, and when you play WoW, it just fells like your playing Warcraft 4... just better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X504
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  WoW!!!! pun intended... The game has been out for a little over a year now and there has been so 
 many changes. Upcoming 1.9 adds a huge new 40 man raiding instance. There has been so many changes 
 and things added in to the game i don't know how i played it at the beginning. With so many options 
 on how you want to play your character its a masterpiece... something to play for years to come. 
 i have been playing since Beta and have two level 60's a undead warlock and a orc warrior, both 
 on the same server. i am in a large guild very freindly player group we raid every week and all 
 in all just have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise1819
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I won't slam this game to bad just because I don't like it. But, playing wow is like going to a 
 Chucky Cheese party where all the kids were given crack at the door. So, if you like little kid 
 chat and teenage fight rooms ---then by all means buy wow. If not then I suggest trying another 
 game.
  
  1. Graphics - Looks like the Flintstones or something from Willy Wonka ( I keep waiting for the 
 Oompa Loompas to jump out and start singing while roamng) .
  
  2. Sound - Good seem to fit the game and fighting sounds are also not to bad.
  
  3. Game play 
 - Group play is very chaotic and with the amount of players in each zone its hard to tell whats 
 going on. You usually get lost from group unless your in a instance. 
  
  4. Community - OMG i don't know where to start. I did meet a few really nice people just to find 
 they never logged again. Joined a guild with over 300 members ---2 weeks later only 4 were logged. 
 And the general chat is so bad I just ended up turning it off all the time. 
  
  Well thats about it. I am sure a lot of people enjoy this game and if you do thats great. Just 
 not for me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  Well there's only one thing to say about this game. Best Game Ever Made (other than the zelda series 
 of course) . If you like games, you like world of warcraft. If you especially like RPG's this will 
 be in your top3 favorite games of all time. There isn't one thing thisgame left out that has to 
 do with the gaming experience. You are basically one character of your own class and race running 
 around in this huge world doing quests and lving up. The cinemtaics are incredible and the graphics 
 to tis game period will take a pretty good cpu to handle. You would be a retard not to buy this 
 amazing masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kael_blood_elfe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  this game is the best online ive ever played!!!! the graphics, to start off, are pretty good but 
 not as good as they can be. the gameplay is spectacular, the quest are just plain fun (well most 
 of them) and its almost impossible 2 find an other player that looks the exact same way as u!! 
 unlike (D2) .
  i would recomend this game to anyone, no matter wat age or wat liking of this game.
  
  the 
 only problem, the fee. thast the only thing that stopped me from getting the game last year. hopefully 
 they will eventually remove it, but it doesnt seem like its gonna happen to soon.
  
  this game rocks!! u have 2 play it even no matter wat ( yo make it so that u dont have 2 pay, i 
 say a thing that said 10 day trial on the site, try 2 find it and see if u like it)
  
  
  have fun
  kael_blood_elfe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigE319
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, World of Warcraft is amazing. The graphics, the huge immersive world, the amount of 
 multiplayer action, its unbeleivable. When I started this game, I had no idea the amount of work 
 that was required. It takes quite a while to level up, and killing beasts and completing the same 
 type of quest over and over can become a little repetative. The best part of this game is the group 
 raids and instances. By far the most fun I had in the game was in an instance. 
  
  The real bummer about this is that it costs around 30 dollars every two months to play, and around 
 the 8 month, I really didnt think it was worth it. I spent way to much time playing it as it was, 
 and to go another 3 months would have ruined my social life. So, in the end, I quit as a level 
 40 Dwarf Warrior, but the time spent was incredible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickly12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  So, you think "World of Warcraft" is the best mmorpg ever huh? You think that no game could ever 
 top or beat this godly game. Well, you are probably right. It's pretty awesome, and I've only played 
 at my friend's house. I would never buy it though, mainly because of the online fee, the fact that 
 this friend and I are rivals, and that the female characters look like men. I'm sure that you would 
 all go out and buy it right now if it weren't for the fact that you are too lazy to get into a 
 car and push a pedal.
  Let's consider the good aspects of this game then:
  -Many races and classes for a distinct character
  -Mounts to help you go faster because it takes 
 forever to go somewhere
  -Guilds to help you out in instances
  -Pets for the added oomph (sp?) you need
  -All the skills out, no having to choose which ones 
 to keep out (Like in GW)
  -Up to level 60 for never-ending fun
  -Horde vs. Alliance never ending war
  -That's all I got, I'm not an expert on WoW, so don't kill 
 me
  
  Bad aspects
  -Monthly fee
  -Cartoon-ish bad graphics
  -When you die you must run back to your corpse
  -It takes forever to go anywhere
  -Camping 
 on bodies
  - Level 60 so you become addicted and never sleep because you must reach level 60
  -1 gold is 
 a considerable amount of money
  - Retarded looking armor
  -Some classes have an extreme advantage over others so it is unbalanced
  
  I play Guild Wars, 
 or at least I used to until I quit a month ago, and I like it a lot better, plus no monthly fee, 
 which I need because I don't have a job. It's up to you to decide whether or not to buy WoW, and 
 if you have the cash to spare, I would recommend it, but know what you are getting yourself into.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elidan1012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay is just too much (in a positive way) . You have so much to do and I think it's a never 
 ending game. You can almost do what you want. You can make clothes, all kinds of armor, robots, 
 weapons, potions and so on. Off course the fighting part is the biggest (well, for me it is) , but 
 if you get tired of running around beating the crap out og horsemen, you can just start to gather 
 some herbs if your in that mood. Back to the fighting, never seen anything like it in a MMO-RPG, 
 sometimes it can look a little awkward, but compared to other games its' nothing. Personal I think 
 the game really starts at level 60. Now you can get to dungeons with up to 40 players at the same 
 time (no word for that experience) , or of you don't have the time, you can just go to a smaller 
 one with up to 5-10 players. Then/If you get your first lvl 60 your far from the end of the game. 
 Like i've written above you can do lots of things, but these things can get boring for a time. 
 No problem, because you only know 1 race and class so why not try some others? What i'm trying 
 to say is that the risk of getting tired of this game is below 5%, you will never run out of options.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  I think the graphic is perfect for this sort of game. The only reason I didn't gave it 10/10, is 
 that the graphic is not realistic, but still amazing. It has this cartoon look, and it can be hard 
 to see the beauty of it in the beginning, but after playing awhile you will "accept" it, and after 
 a couple of days, maybe weeks/months, you will love it like your own mom :-) .
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound track is so b-e-a-utiful and hardly to do better, but it's not perfect.
 
  For example when your flying with the games transport system, Griffins, Wyvens and Bats, you can 
 just listen to the music while studding your fantastic surroundings. Effects after a hit with weapon/magic 
 is also professional. Sounds like in love with the game? kind of, but don't mind. The reason I 
 didn't gave this 10/10 is that I don't think a sound track for a game can be done perfect, this 
 is close to.. but it missed the last train, so 9/10 from me.
  
  Value 10/10
  Not much to write here, because the reason is all written above. A never ending game if you ask 
 me, what a value?
  
  Get it, or you might regret it....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamister989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  I started playing WoW after playing Final Fantasy XI for little over a year. I liked Final Fantasy 
 in a sense that everyone had a real senes of individuality. when i was a lv 73 paladin i didnt 
 see many others like me, its much harder to get to high levels in final fantasy xi. going to college 
 puts me with less time to play and WoW was my best choice.
  WoW includes a fast paced action packed mmorpg based on team work like in most mmo's but there 
 is also the option to solo. most things are improvements from final fantasy on the whole but i 
 miss the sense of individuality! there are thousands of level 60 in WoW, and i just liked the nostalgia, 
 the royalty of being a high level in ffxi. this characteristic is not in WoW at all. but other 
 then that and missing playing ffxi this game is great! play it all the time. 
  thats just me few cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalpoisoned
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for a few months, then playing a couple other MMO's, it just seemed that 
 they were too unrefined and unpolished. The character models look and move pretty good (you'll 
 see night elves dancing a lot...) . The environments don't have the sharpest graphics, but the styles 
 used in WoW are unique and each give you a sense of adventure. Casting spells and using melee combat 
 is fluid, with no limitations of how many skills/spells you can use at one time. The skill tree 
 is solid, and there are many different ways for each class to build themselves. Once you get to 
 level 60 however there is a lack of leveling or advancing yourself in any way, though you will 
 want to level up more than one character. AI is about the same as every other MMO, the npc runs 
 at you, hits you, and then may run when low on life. I had a big problem with the log in server, 
 and the regular servers seemed to come down at least once a week (not counting maintenance times) . 
 There are a good bit of bugs in this game still, seeing as it hasn't been out all that long. Not 
 having to zone into new areas very often is nice, and is usually lag free if you aren't in a city. 
 When you are in a city like Ironforge, you're most likely going to get choppy, with only the best 
 computers out there maintaining a steady framerate. Overall it's the best massive multiplayer game 
 out there, and seems "dreadfully exhilirating" if you're used to older online games. I just wish 
 that they had done more with high level skills so that i didn't lose all that much interest when 
 i got there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMoses
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:59 pm PT
Review:  WoW is one great MMORPG! One of the only things I'd change about the game is the sound, some of 
 the music could be a lot better, and it sounds as if Blizzard got a bit lazy and recycled as many 
 sounds as it could through spells. However, its also important to realize that WoW is in no way 
 unique, it simply is the pinnacle of current MMOPRGs. The learning curve is really impossible to 
 plot, because just about the entire game you're learning new things. It will probably take you 
 10 minutes to get used to the controls, but you won't really learn how you're class works until 
 you hit level 35 or so and start doing Scarlet Monastery, learning about other classes is quite 
 another story! You'll have a great time with this game, its definatly worth the $50 software price+$15 
 monthly fee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord3102
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I started my journey into world of warcraft about two weeks back. As i entered the world of Azeroth 
 i was amazed, amazed at how fun this game is, the superior graphics and the awsome sounds. The thing 
 i like most about World of Warcraft is that you feel like you're in the game. You feel like you're 
 traveling from one region to another, battling monsters and doing all sorts of quests. Plus, since 
 WoW is an MMORPG, there's something new always being added, so you wont get bored.
  
  The graphics are just awesome, Blizzard has done a great job with the artwork in the game. You 
 won't see better imaginary cities like Stormiwind and Irongforge in any other game. They've added 
 good sounds to go along with the atmoshphere of the different regions. Instead of leveling up by 
 killing monsters, you can choose to do various quests worth more experience points and money. You 
 can work as a blacksmith, mine, cook, be a leatherworker, etc. or you can just kill monsters and 
 do quests.
  
  People who think WoW is boring, must be pretty boring themseves, or not like rpgs, and by the way 
 a tip: if you dont like rpgs, then don't write a review on them. World of Warcraft isn't like one 
 of those classic game boy rpgs like Zelda or pokemon, that get boring after you beat the whole 
 game. WoW can go on forever, or atleast for a long time, until the next edition of the Warcraft 
 series comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foggle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because my friends said it was great and because I am the biggest Warcraft 3 
 and Starcraft fan I know. So I saved up and shelled out $50. But it didn't end there. Oh no. I 
 had to pay $15 a month or buy a gamecard for $30 to get 2 months. I grumbled, I swore, I saved 
 up some more, and finally bought a game card since I'm too young to have a credit card and my father 
 doesn't think it is safe to have money charged to his credit card every month.
  
  But this review isn't about me saving up $90 just to play a game that is mediocre at best. No, 
 this is about the game itself.
  
  The gameplay is solid, but I expected more from a great company such as Blizzard. There is no since 
 of immersion, and the quest and other tasks are just too repetitive to be fun.
  
  The graphics are like a flashback to the bad old days of '98. Army Men has better graphics than 
 this crap.
  
  The sound is the best part of the game, it is completely unlike every other aspect. The music is 
 great and the gunshots, sword clangs, etc. sound quite authentic.
  
  Overall, Blizzard has failed at making an online multiplayer game. WarCraft is a great game franchise 
 yet they soiled it. Go back to making RTS games, Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jwave001
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone, I am a World of Warcraft Online Addict in Recover, 5 months clean this christmas. 
 After sinking about 8 days game time over the course of 7 months, I have come to the inevitable 
 conclusion that most sane people come to: This has to stop. Well, it was less of an overwhelming 
 need to quit, but the gameplay itself was starting to get repetitive, and my grades were suffering 
 from it. This game is very, VERY addictive, especially if you have a few friends who play too. 
 That was my whole reason for getting in really. As alluring as the graphics were (which are very 
 good for online game quality I might add) and the overall feel (which too was superb: music, sounds, 
 and overall VERY easy gameplay) the real issue at the time was the cost (50 bucks AND the additional 
 monthly fees (which in the end, pay for themselves with the amount of time you actually spend on 
 the game) , but that the you really need to make sure that your responsibilities are all out of 
 the way with this game. You can loose yourself in it VERY easily.
  
  In retrospect, this wasnt a total loss. There were plenty of good times, and some good friends 
 made. Though I had pretty much jeopardized my highschool senior year/transition to college (and 
 ended up in a college I hate) , but I'm glad that I got a chance to get in on this worldly acclaimed 
 game.
  
  Oh, and I think im going back... Damn you Blizzard! There goes my social life for the next few 
 months... and grades.... what can I say? Daddy needs his medicine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erny_200001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  this is the type of game that you just have to have dont back out becuse of the price its wourth 
 it . the game has the best maping that you'll find there constenly makeing modes and updates so 
 youll never get bord with it . there are many races to pick there are many other versions of it 
 too like warcraft 1,2, and,3 there all clasics that youll simplly love one of my new faveriot thing 
 is th pvp houner ranckins thie game really grows on you if you know what i mean also dont miss 
 the new exepanshion set the burnig crusade iam really exesited about it see you next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoman1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a game that will get many people to fail school lose there job and alsothere family 
 will be destroyed because of how addicitng this gmae can be to certain people. IF you have a family 
 this is not a good game to get becuase of what it can do to them becuase of the amount of houres 
 that you will be on the computer becuase of this game. This is a new generation MMORPG because of 
 the variety and the new gameplay. A good games for All action game fans and anyone looking for a 
 good times. The only thing that you have to worry about is the payment per month and it will cost 
 you after you spend even more money on the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hypes1234
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  I used to be the one laughing at those playin EQ and makin a life outta it. That came crumbling 
 down the moment i brough World of Warcraft. I slid into my chair and my g/f had to check to see 
 if i was alive 4 days later. There is so much content within the game that it woulod literaly take 
 7+ days just to explore the ares you can go into w/o getting killed. If anyone likes MMORPGs and 
 also likes medival living and riding across plains and hills and cliffs and mountains the go no 
 furhter, you havce chosen the best game bt far for you. In my 1st week of buying it spent 21days 
 18hrs logged. 
  !!!!!!!!!! GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gin_maiden
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  im a big warcraft fan and when i played this game, i was totally letdown. i don't know what blizzard 
 was thinking when they made this game. seriously, you go in the same area 100 times for different 
 missions. after the key people of blizaard left, all the blizzard games sucked. no one should pay 
 15bucks a month to play this game. also, i found that the community in this game were made out 
 of little kids always complaining
  if your looking for a better game, get guild wars which has no monthly fees and better graphics 
 and gameplay, bigger map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDunn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. I would recommend it for anyone who loves RPG, or MMO games, and especially 
 to people who love a mix of both. This game allows you many customization options when making your 
 character to make it unique, such as different races, classes, professions, talents, appearance, 
 etc. There are eight playable races- Human, Night Elf, Dwarf, and Gnome for Alliance, and Orc, 
 Troll, Tauren, and Undead for Horde. These two different factions, Horde and Alliance, are at war, 
 and once you start to get to higher levels in the game (the current maximum level is 60) , you will 
 definitely witness that first hand. Although, if you do not want to participate in PvP (Player 
 versus Player) play, you can also make your character (s) on a Role-Playing server, where you only 
 fight against computer controlled NPCs and monsters. As far as classes go, there are 9- 1. Warrior- 
 strong melee fighter, with high health and abilities that allow him/her to last long in a fight 
 and be more and more effective the longer he/she fights, 2. Rogue- agile, thief-like melee fighter, 
 can steal and stealth (equivalent to being invisible) , deals high damage, but usually have low 
 health 3. Hunter- ranged weapons fighter attuned to nature, can make beasts into pets, 4. Priest- 
 holy magic user, specialized in healing, and also capable of "shadow" magic, 5. Mage- your standard, 
 all-around, high-damage fireball tossing, teleporting wizard (no healing) , 6. Warlock- wielder 
 of dark magic, usually the kind of things that drain from and enemy or do high amounts of damage 
 over time, can summon demons to fight for them, 7. Druid- nature magic wielder who can transform 
 into animals, 8. Paladin- a cross between a priest and a warrior, strong warrior with holy magic 
 (only available to alliance) , and 9. Shaman- tribal elemental magic wielder, and strong fighter, 
 can use totems. Now with only 9 classes, you might wonder how it might be boring if everyone of 
 the same class is exactly the same, well that's were talents come in- from level 10 on, every time 
 you level up, you get a talent point, which you can spend to get more abilities, in which you can 
 make your own, unique decisions. There are also professions, which allow you to take raw materials 
 that you get from killing animals, skinning them, mining, or finding herbs, to craft useful items, 
 such as armor, weapons, potions, and many other things. Once in the game, you will find that the 
 game is quest-based, in which you are assigned a mission by a quest giver, such as killing some 
 monsters or obtaining certain items, and when you complete the quest, you get a reward, and extra 
 experience. Maybe this would seem boring after a while, but if you do get bored with it, you can 
 always just go out and kill monsters on your own for money and experience. All in all, this game 
 is really incredibly awesome. It does have some bugs every once in a while, and maybe there is 
 something about it that you dislike, but Blizzard seems to have taken much into account when trying 
 to keep their customers happy and are constantly coming out with more patches to expand the content 
 and gameplay, and fix bugs and glitches. The only problems with this game, are the monthly fees, 
 and that it's so great, with such good graphics and such a gigantic world, that if you don't have 
 a good internet connection or 512 RAM or more, playing this game would require a lot of patience 
 because you would lag so much that your framerate would be about 1 per minute at times (no exaggeration) , 
 and there would some things that you couldn't do at all, like fight in the battlegrounds, but once 
 you're out in the wilderness fighting monsters, it's not too bad. It's just in the towns and especially 
 in the big cities like Ironforge and Orgrimmar where there are a lot of people, where you get a 
 lot of lag. Also, with such a huge world, you would also lag when travelling a long distance with 
 flight paths, boats, and zepplins too. So, I probably wouldn't really recommend this game to someone 
 with RAM below 512 and especially not to someone with only dial-up, unless you have a lot of patience 
 or are extremely committed to the game. I am living proof that it can be done, because my computer 
 currently only has 256 RAM, and I got a character to level 50, but it took a really long time and 
 it can be really frustrating. But besides the whole lagging issue, this really is a great game, 
 and I would recommend it to anyone who loves video games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft combines the elements from past and current MMORPGS into one application, the 
 game isnt hard to learn nor does it take a degree in education to learn how to play. The best of 
 WoW is the fact that there is tons of quests and tons of places to explore, now with the best graphics 
 you will be able to see the world of Azeroth with full detail and the amazement beauty. The game 
 has been changed via patches which adds more to the content not to mention the transformation of 
 how the character classes play out. The plus is that for all that you get there is no rush to get 
 to the max level 60, you take your time and pace. The expansion pack will add further world exploration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  Alliance versus Horde.
  The only thing I want to say, is that PLEASE STOP CALLING HORDE THE EVIL FREAKS.
  
  1) Gameplay
 
  Unlike other MMO-RPG, WoW provides not only leveling and farming equipments (sure they include these: P) , 
 you can choose your way to be a profession with max skilled, and even an adventure to discover 
 the whole WoW! of course also the point of interest around the map. what? sounds boring and lonely? 
 YOU CAN PVP! of course the most popular way, go to a battleground and have an epic campaign. if you 
 feel that it is unreal, you can group up with your guild mates or friends and RAID A TOWN OR EVEN 
 THE ENEMY"S CAPITAL CITY!
  
  2) Graphics
  you think Linage II looks like half-life 2? then WoW looks like FEAR!
  No doubt that the models 
 of armor, weapons are cool. All players you will encounter have their own appearance.... you'll hardly 
 find anyone looks like the same. Some people said that the Horde races look SUCKS, but well no one 
 cares...... you can still see a lot of female players walk around ( I mean real female) . At last, 
 something which can't be missed is your non-player enemies. You'll encounter a 200 feet tall black 
 flight in the game, and they spit hellish flame on you.... what does it looks like? a MOVIE! if you 
 don't believe, just look at the screenshot in Game Spot. If this game is released a few years ago, 
 no doubt that NO ONE would believe this is an ONLINE game.
  
  3) Audio
  No doubt the best of all online games. How can words shows audio?
  Play WoW now to enjoy.
  
 
  4) misc.
  What I have to mention is UI. Blizzard let every player have their own modification of User Interface, 
 which you can make you UI looks different and cool..... and the most important, makes your battle 
 more convenient.
  
  5) Prize
  Im' not gonna mention this because talking about prize will screw my whole essay :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanna99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:17 am PT
Review:  When i can't play it because im with my family or friends i can't wait until i get home so i can 
 play. Time doesn't exist when I play..... forget to eat and sleep. *lol* My friends think i'm crazy 
 and if I have played alot and going away I can see thinks and the first thing that I thinking is 
 for example "a lake... there can i get fish and sell or make potion". Sometime I say it and my friends 
 asking me what i'm taking about. 
  
  There is one problem right now and that is that I have started a relationship and I can't play 
 when I visiting her. The visiting is over the weekend when the most people are playing. She sleeps 
 on the morning with is good for me but that is time that I could have played WoW. But she come's 
 first!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HybridRebirth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft really did surprise me. It was the first MMO i had played and i was having mixed 
 feelings about it, but the second i started the game, i was hooked. Blizzard really outdid themselves 
 on this game, the lore connects to every class and character, and it basically feels like your 
 in a world of your own. The 2 factions, Horde and Alliance are both very different and very similar. 
 It almost feels like your playing 2 different games when you switch between factions. The PvP combat 
 in this game is truly amazing, the battlegrounds and the honor system provide a great way for veteran 
 and new players alike to get into PvP combat. When both factions collide, it truly is an awesome 
 sight to see. The leveling in WoW is fast-paced for casual gamers who can't really play for hours 
 to level like in other MMO's. The game is also extreamally addictive and the classes are well built 
 and actually support their roles. 
  
  The $15 a month isn't so bad, and is definatly worth it. The epic journy you will experience in 
 WoW by exploring the multiple areas and by doing the vast ammount of dungeons is amazing. A lot 
 of the item's in the game have amazing looks and fit the characters nicely, the classes of the 
 game have very nice abilities as well. What i really like about the game is it's unique talent 
 point system. Basically the talent point system goes as follows, at level 10 and beyond you will 
 gain 1 talent point per level, you will have 3 talent trees in which to put your talents into. 
 The talent point system allowes you to become specifically what kind of that class you want to 
 be, making you different than the rest. This game is a must buy and i suggest veterans and new 
 players alike to try this game out, it is definatly worth it.
  
  ~HybridRebirth~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comedyman
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i bought this gaming remembering the beta thinking the game was not bad. Boy was I dissapointed. 
 This game really blows hard if you are a serious MMORPG fan like me who does not take mediocracy 
 in a MMORPG as ok. This game is intended mainly for casual gamers which is good. Since games like 
 EQ1, EQ2, and DAOC arent. But i have to say in the 4 months i played WoW it really did dissapoint 
 me. The graphics are good if you are running a low-mid end system but really, they arent that great. 
 The sound is pretty good but nothing to get excited about. The game is incredibaly easy to level 
 in. I enjoy level grinding, it provides more satisfaction when you level. Obviously alot of people 
 like this game (4+million subscribers) which is ok. But it isnt for people who want to play 4 or 
 more hours a day on a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eMyst
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  A perfect 10. Yes indeed. Is there any other game out there so elusive, so non-linear, so grand 
 as World of Warcraft? I've played a lot of MMORPG's, Everquest, and Guild Wars being the two foremost 
 I can remember. None came close to when I first step foot into this game as an awesome white-haired, 
 maroonish, Night Elf. Druid, might I add. 
  
  The first thing I did when I got into the game was take a look around me at the scenery, truly 
 wonderful, it is as if it were real life. You could spend all your time leveling up to the cap 
 just to be able to explore the vastness embedded in that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It good very very very good ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! 111! ! !!!! ! !!!!!!!! ! 
 ! !!! ! ! 1! !1 1 !! !! ! 11 !! 11 ! ! !! ! ! ! 11 1 !! 1!!! 111 11 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1 1 ! !1!!! ! 
 ! !!! ! but monthly fees bad very bad the only reason i wrote all that is so i waste space ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! 11 1 !! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mAxxemus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is a very fun, top-notched game:
  
  I know that you will have many, many alternatives because being how the game is rock, paper, scissors 
 there is always a class that is better than you, or is supposed to be
  
  One minute you'll be loving the warrior, the next you will be loving the priest.
  
  I have 
 a 60 human warrior, 60 Night Elf Druid, 60 undead mage, 45 Night Elf warrior, and 41 paladin
  
  Those are just my higher level alts, I also have 10-30 alts with all the other classes
  
 
  So it is very hard to FINALLY find what you really love, but for some people it's easy, it just 
 depends on the kind of person you are.
  
  High end is very fun -- some instances can get pretty boring when you are trying to get a piece 
 of gear and it just never drops, so you repeatedly do it again and again. When something amazing 
 drops and you don't win, obviously is a drag.
  
  PVP: very fun --- My 60 war and druid are on Mal'Ganis which is outnumbered by the horde (very 
 rare) so it is pretty hard to pvp being as how pvp is VERY GROUPED base. Horde, undoubtedly end 
 up winning for a lot of matches like AV, smaller scale battles like AB and WSG are pretty balanced. 
 
  
  --  PVP is very addicting because the treasures at higher levels are to drool over, unless you 
 already have your epics from instances.
  
  All in all, A very fun, addicting game
  
  Just try to find the class you really love and stick with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysonMico
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  look i got the game and its amazing i dont think ive enjoyed an mmorpg as much as this it beats 
 all others.. tho i wish the char. maker was a bit better and the armor was a tad bit cooler like 
 ffxi ... but other then that its near perfect .. the fighting is amazing and enjoyable doesnt get 
 old.. plus who doesnt like being undead and saying funny ass shyt .... well obviously i enjoy and 
 im pretty sure ... 99percent other people will like it to.. and the world is amazing.. better then 
 anything ive seen... lol plus its fun gettin drunk on the game.. and its insane how big massive 
 wars can happen in pvp .. its non stop action and suspence .. look out.. a troll might eat ur pretty 
 little face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an awesome MMO, with great graphics. Some people might say the graphics are 
 not good, and cartoony, but that is what gives WoW its magic, its art style. 
  
  Unfortunately, this game is a little too easy. Once you get up to the top, you will find that there 
 is not much end game content. It has been over a year, and still no expansion. It doesn't seem 
 like Blizzard is adding enough content as it should, when there are problems. The community also 
 makes an MMO what it is, and there are many players in this game that come off as being immature 
 little 1st graders. I'm sorry, but it's true. Look at the general chat, and it looks like a 1st 
 grade classroom. This game has so many players, but a lack of a real community. There is no real 
 reason to care about your group, when there is hardly any death penalty. 
  
  WoW is a great MMO, but the community really lacks, and that's a shame. Also, you will find yourself 
 at level 60 way too quickly. Blizzard needs to add more content, and fast. The only game that has 
 less of a community is GW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d1sturb3d_0n3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RPG Online game out there, I've played alot of RPG games but this one beats 
 them all. Its soooo long and so big that you will never get bored. Theres even new patches that 
 adds new stuff to the game. So if never gets old. This game gets highly addictive im not saying 
 its a bad thing because im a major Halo, WOW player if I didnt have a life, these 2 games would 
 be my life. When you first start to play the game for the first time its hard to understand what 
 you are doing and what the concept of the game is, but after a while of messing around with controls 
 you learn what your doing and what to do. It only took me about 10 minutes to play the game because 
 my friends play this game all the time, and now im hooked on this game soooo much. This is one 
 of the best games out there, it is my second favorite game after Halo 2. They made this game so 
 realistic, the graphics are sooo good and they are the best I've ever seen. I gave this game a 
 10/10 because its that good of a game not because I grade easy, but because its just that good 
 Gameplay is fun, graphics are the best, Sound is on. If you want a good RPG Online game I would 
 pick this one. because you haven't seen nothing until you have played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercat2142
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing... down right amazing, there is nothing about it that is really not worth liking, 
 it is pretty good 100%. People should really take a look at this game and give it a shot, you get 
 addicted quickly, i was hooked atg level 2 and am now a lvl 60human mage on Frostmane... come visit 
 hehe, the game has so many things to do that there really is no end to what you can do in the game, 
 i am currently working extra hard to get my epic mount which is very expensive. Blizzard has outdone 
 themselves on this one, people would always talk about how much blizzard online games would get 
 hacked all the time, not with WoW, there is a weekly maint. keeping the servers hack free and cheaters 
 beware people in-game will not like hacks/cheats very much and you will be found out very quickly. 
 Never have i had this much fun playing an online game, well since Diablo 2 LoD.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentryoptic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been an MMORPG basher... however on my honor i have found the one that has completely changed 
 my view on the whole genre. First off the art direction is amazing fun and inviting, even the horde 
 look freindly. Game play in one word is revolutionary, its not always a beat em up gain experience........ 
 experience, its very diverse and a great game for a casual or serious gamer. Whats cool is if u 
 get bored (highly unlikely) and u don't want to play, if you are gone for a long period of time 
 say 2 weeks the server automatically increases your character's experience thus keeping you a strong 
 character and when you get back to palying you can play as if you never left. And sound is fantastic, 
 with an ambiance according to the theme of the general area you are in. Basically with cool graphics, 
 fantastic gameplay, and a great music direction this is a thriple thret game that will not be dissapointing. 
 Fantastic and a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  To make things clear i normally dont like rpg games, and iv never played this game before but i 
 no enough about it to say a few things about it! This game is clearly unlike any rpg game iv herd 
 of or seen. iv read alot about the gameplay and watched alot of footage and this game looks superbe. The 
 graphcs and enviorement is amazing and verry well done. id have to say besides resident evil 4 and 
 san andreas this game comes in second place 
  of best games, I duno what anyone else has to say but thats my opinion.
  i also read that this 
 game is verry long ,wich is guud to, the loading time is also extremely short like most pc games 
 to. i also like the fact of how many different people and races u can play as, The thing i like most 
 about this game 
  is that most people say this game is more of an action game than an rpg. So overall this game looks 
 fantasic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chyer
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Game is very good to begin with, but for some reason at lvl 60 it goes downhill fast if you don't 
 have many hours to play a day. It was promoted to be casual play friendly only not past 59. They 
 force you to group in 40 man raids to further your character along then. Can't do that and have 
 a life. PvP started out well but as of now has gone the way of the past lvl 59 play.
  But if you don't mind doing the same thing over and over past 60 the game is fun, most are nice 
 folks that play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornykorn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Dude,,,,
  I have never been a big game player. But my brother in law started playing this game and it totally 
 interested me.. Now I can say I AM HOOKED.... WoW is awsome.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodForgiveUs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  A journey through the deep woods of Tristfall, perhaps a quick jog through the Barrens. Wherever 
 you go, there you are. World of Warcraft (WoW) provides each gamer with the ability to create a 
 completely unique character, enter a world where over 3.5 million people spend, frankly, the majority 
 of their time, and battle, search, create, destroy anything that they wish. The idea behind WoW 
 at first seemed sketchy to many people, but upon release there was no denying that WoW was an ingenius 
 game idea, and it left many Animation and Game Companies wonder, "Why didn't we think of this." 
 Overall, this game reaches out and literally pulls you into the game by your throat, there is no 
 denying that World of Warcraft blows away all competion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  Here is the online role-playing game you should play, no matter who you are?
  
  he Good: Huge, beautiful, seamless world; high streamlined and conducive to short or long play 
 sessions; exciting, action-packed combat; elegant, easy-to-use interface; excellent music and sound.
 
  The Bad: Some stability issues immediately following launch; player-versus-player elements not 
 complete. 
  
  
  Though massively multiplayer online role-playing games have been around for years, it has taken 
 this long for the genre's breakthrough hit to finally emerge. Here is the online role-playing game 
 you should play, no matter who you are. This is because World of Warcraft brings out all the best 
 aspects of this style of gaming, if not many of the best aspects of gaming in general. It also 
 features many of the specific characteristics that have made Blizzard Entertainment's previous 
 games so entertaining, memorable, long-lasting, and successful. Of course, the company's past track 
 record did not guarantee that World of Warcraft could have turned out this well. Such high quality 
 simply cannot be expected, nor should it be missed.
  
  World of Warcraft is amazing in many ways, but above all, it's a really fun game.
  
  In World 
 of Warcraft, you create your alter ego by choosing from a variety of colorful races and powerful 
 classes, and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling in Azeroth, the fantasy setting featured 
 in Blizzard's Warcraft real-time strategy games. Fans of those games (especially Warcraft III and 
 its expansion pack) will spot tons of references here, and they will be impressed at how faithfully 
 World of Warcraft translates so many of Warcraft's little details and even some of the finer points 
 of its gameplay into such a seemingly different style of game. Meanwhile, fans of other online 
 role-playing games will be impressed at the sheer breadth and volume of content on display in World 
 of Warcraft, whose setting seamlessly connects a bunch of wildly different-looking types of places 
 and somehow makes them appear as if they all belong as parts of a whole.
  
  World of Warcraft is superficially similar to numerous other games that came before it, and it 
 clearly draws inspiration from some of them. The fundamentals are all here, such as fighting dangerous 
 creatures (optionally including other players) , exploring the countryside either alone or in the 
 company of other players, undertaking various quests, gaining experience levels and new abilities, 
 and acquiring powerful items. However, directly comparing World of Warcraft with any of its predecessors 
 would be almost like pitting a professional sports club against a school team. With all due respect 
 to the other online role-playing games out there, World of Warcraft is in a league of its own. 
 The game clearly benefits from not being the first of its kind, as the design issues that plagued 
 previous online role-playing games are handled extremely well in World of Warcraft. In addition, 
 the game's own subtle innovations turn out to have a dramatic impact on the flow of the action 
 from minute to minute, hour to hour, day to day, and beyond. So the particulars of the game's design -- along 
 with its incredibly vast, beautiful, majestic world -- translate into a one-of-a-kind experience 
 that seems fresh and original in its own right.
  
  Fortunately, the game is very approachable. World of Warcraft is a complex game whose complexity 
 is carefully disguised by a simple, highly legible, uncluttered interface and an impressive 3D 
 graphics engine, which delivers high performance on a wide range of systems while not skimping 
 on pure flash. The game's interface is so slick and easy to learn and understand, and the gameplay 
 itself is so quickly intuitive, that there isn't even a tutorial to wade through; there are just 
 some helpful, optional pop-up tool tips, as well as an excellent printed reference manual that 
 goes into specific detail about most of the various aspects of play. It's also important to point 
 out that World of Warcraft runs fast and smooth. You can go from your desktop to being in-game 
 in just seconds, and it's virtually just one great, big, seamless world. Loading times are as rare 
 as they are brief. They only crop up when traveling across the game's enormous continents or entering 
 some specific higher-level zones that are instanced for each player group, which guarantees you 
 a fresh challenge.
  
  So World of Warcraft is painless to get into -- with the possible exception of you needing a credit 
 card or prepaid game card to create an account, as well as initially deciding on which sort of 
 character to play, since so many of the options seem like they could be interesting. And it turns 
 out they are. So why not try them all? The game lets you create multiple characters on the dozens 
 of different available "realms," each of which is a unique instance of the gameworld that is capable 
 of hosting thousands of simultaneous players. Some of the realms cater to role-playing fans that 
 prefer to play in character the whole time, while other realms are custom-tailored for player-versus-player 
 action. Regardless, World of Warcraft's realms are nicely (if not densely) populated already, and 
 the unfortunate issues with login and lag that plagued the game when it first launched were mostly 
 taken care of in a matter of days. The game just has a solid feel to it that's uncharacteristic 
 of the genre, and for an online RPG, World of Warcraft is surprisingly responsive. Actually, no 
 qualifications are necessary: World of Warcraft boasts the tight control and polished presentation 
 that's desirable in any kind of game.
  
  The imaginative world of Azeroth is already teeming with players.
  
  After countless hours 
 spent playing, the great first impression doesn't wear off. This style of gaming is notorious for 
 being a time sink and for effectively forcing players to engage in repetitive, monotonous gameplay 
 for hours on end in order to make progress. But in contrast, World of Warcraft will keep throwing 
 variety at you, and the combat system at the heart of it features fast, visceral, action-packed 
 battles that are fun and intense, whether you're fighting alone or in a group. Furthermore, World 
 of Warcraft finally achieves that long-sought-after goal of many massively multiplayer games, which 
 is to make the player feel rewarded regardless of how much time he or she invests in a single sitting.
 
  
  This is due to several key reasons. For one, World of Warcraft has a nice, brisk pace to it, and 
 the fast-loading, seamless world obviously has a lot to do with this. But, in addition, recovery 
 times between battles are minimal, as even those characters without healing spells can still easily 
 recover from their wounds by using bandages, eating a quick meal, or just from natural healing. 
 The battles themselves are quick, too, and they scale nicely so that higher-level encounters don't 
 just seem to drag on. Yet the pacing of the combat seems to strike a perfect balance, because it's 
 not so hectic that those unaccustomed to fast-paced action games will feel overwhelmed. You can 
 also look forward to facing some fairly intelligent foes that will do such things as flee when 
 injured, tag-team with their comrades, and use some dastardly special abilities against you.
  
  
  Much of World of Warcraft is structured around questing, so there's always something to 
 do or somewhere to go, even if you don't have a lot of time. Whenever you enter a major new location 
 for the first time, you'll feel almost overwhelmed by the number of quests available, which you'll 
 be able to clearly spot since quest-giving characters helpfully stand there with a big, noticeable 
 exclamation mark over their heads. Luckily, the game's more-than-a-thousand quests are made quite 
 manageable by only being offered to you when you're qualified to complete them, and you can have 
 no more than 20 quests pending at a time. So you'll eventually be forced to pick and choose, but 
 this is for the best. The quests will always be there waiting for you until you accomplish them.
 
  
  Questing in World of Warcraft helps lend a sense of purpose to all your hunting and exploring.
 
  
  Though you may venture out into the wilderness and spend hours hunting monsters for the sake of 
 it if you so choose, you'll always be able to undertake quests that help give a bit more meaning 
 and context to your actions, flesh out the game's interesting fiction, and, perhaps most importantly, 
 frequently yield useful items and a good chunk of money and experience for your trouble. Some quests 
 are highly involved, multipart affairs that naturally entice you to broaden your horizons and venture 
 forth into previously unexplored territory. Other quests challenge you to venture deep into enemy 
 territory. It's here where grouping with other players seems most natural, because it gives you 
 an edge in battle and because some quests can seem a bit too popular for their own good. This is 
 maybe one of the only apparent design issues in the game: Sometimes you'll effectively have to 
 wait your turn for a certain enemy or quest object to respawn, while at other times, foes will 
 keep spawning in so quickly that you'll barely have a moment to catch your breath. Both types of 
 cases can seem a bit silly, but since the underlying action and exploration is so good, "a bit 
 silly" is about as bad as it gets. Other rough edges, such as monster "corpses," which occasionally 
 can be seen standing upright and looking very much alive, could probably be counted on one hand. 
 For what it's worth, we also encountered a few specific, minor issues with a few quests, though 
 none of this really affected our progress or enjoyment of the game, and as with any online RPG, 
 it's all subject to improvement.
  
  Though the world of the game is very large, you can still effectively travel on foot, taking in 
 the often breathtaking sights of Azeroth in between key points (you even earn some experience just 
 for setting foot in new territory for the first time) . As you explore, you'll also discover a variety 
 of means of rapid transit. For instance, you'll be able to quickly and conveniently cover large 
 distances by flying on the backs of gryphons, wyverns, and more, which can ferry you from point 
 to point for a small fee. But before you can begin zooming about through the skies, you'll need 
 to reach each destination by foot, which means there's definitely going to be a lot of legwork. 
 Luckily, the sights and sounds of Azeroth, the network of roads and road signs in the relatively 
 civilized areas, and the presence of a very helpful onscreen minimap as well as a full map, collaborate 
 to make the simple act of running from point to point surprisingly pleasurable. It also helps that 
 you can simply run away from most aggressive foes, as they'll lose interest in you and go back 
 to their business if you keep moving.
  
  Of course, player death is inevitable in a game such as this, but it's here where one of World 
 of Warcraft's most unlikely innovations rears its head: Death in this game really is nothing to 
 get bent out of shape about, so when you get killed, don't worry. Previous games of this type have 
 made it a point of penalizing the player upon death (death should be very bad, right?) , such as 
 by inflicting an increasingly steep experience point penalty, directly resulting in a sense of 
 failure and wasted time. More-recent online RPGs have doled out more-lenient penalties in the interest 
 of appealing to more players, but World of Warcraft all but eliminates the sense of penalty altogether -- which 
 turns out to be a great thing. Here, death mostly just puts you out of the action for a bit, which 
 is undesirable enough as it is. You automatically respawn as a ghost (or a wisp in the case of 
 the night elf race) at the nearest graveyard, and you can usually double back pretty quickly to 
 where you fell; alternatively, a healer-type character can resurrect you, or you can choose to 
 come back to life at the graveyard (although you'll be weakened for a while if you do this) . When 
 you die, your items' durability will also degrade slightly, though this isn't permanent in the 
 long run or harmful in the short run. You'll simply need to pay to get them repaired by certain 
 types of non-player characters before their durability ratings drop to zero and they're rendered 
 useless. In all, the game's death penalty feels just right, in that it's consequential without 
 being frustrating.
  
  Another of the game's subtle but important design innovations is there to benefit those who can't 
 necessarily commit to making World of Warcraft a huge part of everyday life (as much as it can 
 threaten to do so) . The way it works is that whenever you're not playing the game, your character 
 is considered to be in a rest state. When you return to a well-rested character, you'll temporarily 
 accrue double the experience points you'd normally earn by defeating monsters, and the more time 
 you spend between play sessions, the longer you'll enjoy the experience bonus when you resume play. 
 The result isn't a system that penalizes hardcore players because they are still going to advance 
 much faster than those who can't spare as much time. It mostly just gives everyone else a little 
 incentive to keep coming back and to not feel bad about taking several days off from the game. 
 You'll get a nice tailwind as you try to catch up to your friends who kept playing during the time 
 that you took off.
  
  Even if you can't commit to playing World of Warcraft for hours at a time, the game can still provide 
 an entertaining and rewarding experience.
  
  These types of smart design choices would mean little if the actual act of playing as one of World 
 of Warcraft's various combinations of races and classes wasn't enjoyable in and of itself. Fortunately, 
 you pretty much can't go wrong with whichever type of character you opt for. There aren't an exhaustive 
 number of races and classes here, but there's still plenty to choose from: eight different races 
 and nine different classes, though not every class is available to every race. In contrast to some 
 other such games, each of the classes feels very well developed. That is, there's no real sense 
 of "class envy" in World of Warcraft (except maybe in player-versus-player combat) . In most other 
 online RPGs, many players invariably feel like they made a mistake in their choice of character 
 class after a while, and they become acutely aware of their character's limitations and other characters' 
 apparent strengths. Of course, those other characters have significant limitations of their own. 
 In World of Warcraft, though, every class seems like the "best" choice. Each character class feels 
 powerful and self-reliant from the get-go. No matter which type of character you choose to play, 
 from a warrior to a mage, you'll be able to hold your own against the game's variety of monsters 
 while also contributing significantly to a group of players.
  
  
  Each of the character classes is quite deep. The hunter and the warlock are ranged attack specialists 
 who get to fight alongside pets that can help deal damage and distract foes. The warrior, rogue, 
 and paladin are multitalented fighters, capable of drawing their enemies' wrath from their more-fragile, 
 magic-using allies, and temporarily bolstering their own abilities while crippling their opponents. 
 The priest, shaman, and mage learn a variety of different spells that make them quite a bit more 
 versatile than what's conventional. And the druid can learn to shape-shift into different animal 
 forms, so it's kind of like a hybrid of many of the other classes. The classes feel pretty distinct 
 right from the start, though they start to get really interesting at the 10th level when each one 
 gets a signature ability of some sort. But it's not like you need to trudge through a bunch of 
 experience levels waiting for the game to entertain you. From the get-go, even as you encounter 
 lots of new quests and areas to explore, you'll also find tons of new equipment and gain lots of 
 new or improved abilities.
  
  The fighting can be fast and intense, and it offers plenty of depth and variety.
  
  The benefit 
 of having a limited selection of character classes to choose from is that each one gets to be viable 
 and interesting. The potential problem of this, though, is that you can end up with a gameworld 
 populated by a whole bunch of cookie-cutter characters. Fortunately, the good variety of different 
 character appearances and equipment help to keep things diverse from a superficial standpoint, 
 and the presence of the talent and profession systems keep things diverse from a gameplay standpoint, 
 too. Talents come into play starting at the 10th level, and they let you marginally improve your 
 character's core abilities. This is represented by a multitiered character skill tree much like 
 that of Blizzard's own Diablo II. You get a talent point each time you level up, and certain, more-significant 
 talents become unlocked once you spend enough points completing their prerequisites. Whereas the 
 new abilities you gain from leveling up tend to be instantly gratifying, the talent system is more 
 about planning and differentiating your character over the long haul, and it works great in this 
 regard. Since you can see all the potential talents available to your character, it can be fun 
 to plan out how you'll be spending your next 40 or 50 levels' worth of points (even though it'll 
 probably take you months to actually accomplish that plan) . And should you ever decide you made 
 a mistake, it's possible to reset your talent points and redistribute them.
  
  Meanwhile, the game's profession system is a way for characters to lead productive lives outside 
 of all the ugly, dirty business of questing and fighting. Professions mainly fall into two categories: 
 gathering and production skills. You may have two professions at a time, and if you wish to be 
 self-sufficient, then you'll opt for an obvious combination of one of each. For instance, a combination 
 of skinning and leatherworking lets you claim valuable resources from slain beasts and then turn 
 those resources into sturdy equipment. Or a combination of herbalism and alchemy will let you find 
 and collect precious plants out in the field, and then brew them into a variety of useful potions. 
 Blacksmithing, engineering, and cooking are some of the other options, and it's possible to mix 
 and match professions however you wish. Regardless of what you decide, the goods you gather or 
 make will be in demand. If they're not immediately useful to you or your friends, you can auction 
 them off to the highest bidder, which you can do by going through one of the game's auction houses 
 located in some of the biggest metropolitan areas. World of Warcraft's profession system is streamlined 
 and easy to get into, much like the rest of the game. More importantly, it lets you quickly make 
 useful things or some good money. Incidentally, one great way to put your handmade goods into the 
 right hands is via the in-game postal service, which lets you send items as well as messages to 
 other players even when they're offline. Part of Azeroth's charm is that, despite the predominantly 
 medieval flavor, it features these types of relatively modern accoutrements.
  
  Another one of World of Warcraft's great successes is how it makes your choice of character race 
 have a noticeable impact on the gameplay. Like any online RPG, the game lets you choose from a 
 variety of dramatically different-looking types of characters, from the hulking orcs to the limber 
 night elves. But unlike most games of this type, the difference between the characters cuts below 
 the surface. For one thing, each race has certain unique traits, like the tauren having a war stomp 
 ability, which can stun their attackers for a while, and the burly dwarves being naturally more 
 skilled with rifles than other races. Certain classes also have slightly different abilities depending 
 on the race. But what really distinguishes the races is that, depending on your choice, your allegiance 
 and starting location will change -- and the variations here can be pretty extreme.
  
  There's a wide variety of different races and classes available.
  
  The eight races comprise 
 two opposing factions: the alliance, consisting of humans, dwarves, night elves, and gnomes; and 
 the horde, consisting of orcs, trolls, the tauren, and the undead (the latter of which are "forsaken," 
 and not friendly with your regular old-fashioned, mindless undead) . The game takes place in the 
 wake of the events of Warcraft III and its expansion pack, and it explains that the conflict between 
 these factions is ideological in nature, instead of being just a pure good-versus-evil thing. Regardless, 
 members of one faction generally won't be well received by the opposing side; they'll sooner be 
 attacked on sight. So your allegiance determines who your enemies are as well as which half of 
 the world you'll be spending much more time in, at least at first.
  
  There are six completely different starting points (the dwarves and gnomes, and the orcs and trolls, 
 share residence) , as well as six corresponding major cities (whose guards helpfully provide directions 
 to points of interest should you need them) , plus countless little towns, outposts, towers, caves, 
 shrines, and so forth. Depending on your starting point, you'll get to undertake different quests, 
 face different monsters, explore different territory, and so on. There are class-specific quests, 
 too, so if you stick with a single character in World of Warcraft, you won't nearly see the breadth 
 of the game's content (although you'll still get to see an awful lot) . Even though the questing 
 is roughly equivalent regardless of the race you choose, you'll definitely get a different sort 
 of experience with each one. Nevertheless, in the simplest of terms, most of the quests either 
 charge you with killing some stuff or transporting something somewhere, and all the quests descriptions 
 are written out, so be prepared for a fair bit of reading. Of course, your choice of race and gender 
 also superficially affects your in-game personality. In a nice touch, each race and gender combination 
 has a variety of different verbal quips as well as its own little dance. Blizzard has always done 
 a good job of imbuing its characters with personality, and it succeeds at this once again in World 
 of Warcraft.
  
  
  As mentioned, player-versus-player combat is available in World of Warcraft. In the vast majority 
 of realms, it's purely consensual. For example, at any point, two characters may choose to engage 
 in a nonlethal duel. But there's also some full-on gang-style warfare to partake in if you so choose. 
 There are certain higher-level fringe territories in Azeroth that are considered neutral or contested, 
 and it's here where the alliance and the horde may attack each other. In PvP realms, these attacks 
 may happen indiscriminately, much to your chagrin if you're just minding your own business and 
 questing alone. Your choice of realm is obviously important, but fundamentally, the PvP combat 
 is fun and exciting like the rest of the combat. Each character class' versatility can really come 
 into play when you're faced with a squad of player-controlled foes.
  
  Player-versus-player combat pits the alliance against the horde. It's fun already, but it has lots 
 more potential.
  
  However, the fullest potential of the game's PvP elements has yet to be realized. The idea is that 
 those who engage in PvP competition will earn honor points, which can be redeemed for certain benefits 
 and bonuses, while those who just go around bullying low-level players may earn dishonor, resulting 
 in penalties that ought to discourage such behavior. Furthermore, special battleground zones expressly 
 suited for large-scale PvP competition will give further incentive for you to square off against 
 the opposing faction. This all sounds great, but it's not prevalent in the game immediately postlaunch. 
 It's apparent that World of Warcraft is a player-versus-environment game first and foremost, but 
 the building blocks are there to make it a very interesting competitive game as well. In addition 
 to taking on some epic encounters (suitable for massive raiding parties comprising dozens of players) 
 and the ability to purchase and ride a variety of fast-moving mounts, the PvP combat is presumably 
 what will keep many players coming back after they've already invested the hundreds of hours necessary 
 to max out their character's experience.
  
  No small part of the pleasure of playing World of Warcraft comes from admiring its richly detailed, 
 visually inspired gameworld. The game sports its own cohesive, highly stylized look that's influenced 
 by comic book art and anime, so it's far less "vanilla" than the look of most games and therefore 
 likely to polarize players. Most of these players will probably think World of Warcraft looks fantastic, 
 while a few of them might not like these characters' exaggerated features and animations, perhaps 
 because they don't look realistic. At any rate, from an artistic standpoint, it's hard to deny 
 that World of Warcraft is impressive. Not only is the game filled with tons of imaginative characters 
 and creatures, but the topography of the world itself seems vibrant, larger than life, and incredible 
 in scope, yet somehow believable because the art direction is so consistent.
  
  You'll spot some excellent little details as you play, such as birds fluttering high up in the 
 sky or squirrels and rabbits skittering about or skeletons of slain friends and foes dotting the 
 landscape in the aftermath of a PvP skirmish. The various weather effects are also outstanding. 
 In a great touch, the game takes place in real time, so if you play at night, it'll be nighttime 
 in Azeroth too (and Azeroth is quite a sight to behold regardless of the time of day) . But the 
 best part about the game's visual presentation is how everything blends together: how one distinctive-looking 
 area can somehow subtly transition into a new type of terrain that looks completely different, 
 and how indoor and outdoor environments are seamlessly integrated. And again, what the game lacks 
 in polygon counts -- many of the character models look great, but aren't incredibly detailed -- it 
 more than makes up for in artistry and pure performance.
  
  The outstanding presentation makes the world of Azeroth seem alive.
  
  World of Warcraft also 
 sounds uncharacteristically excellent for an online RPG. Subtle ambient effects work wonderfully 
 in concert with the visuals, making the world seem that much more alive. Excellent audio cues highlight 
 key moments, such as when you level up, when a friend of yours comes online, or when you accept 
 or accomplish a quest. Beautifully composed symphonic music punctuates your travels, perfectly 
 synchronizing with the sense of wonder you will likely experience as you set foot into the game's 
 different, colorful regions. The music truly is outstanding, but by default it plays rather softly, 
 mostly just for an extra bit of ambience. Meanwhile, Warcraft III fans will feel right at home 
 during battles, which feature many of the same hard-hitting effects, as well as plenty of new ones. 
 The game even makes great use of stereo effects as well as other audio tricks, resulting in clear 
 and resonant echoes within cavernlike environments, in audio distortion when exploring or fighting 
 underwater, and in other such things. World of Warcraft also makes good use of speech, both for 
 player characters' occasional outbursts and also for all non-player characters, who'll verbally 
 greet you, which helps evoke their personalities. Many of the enemies you'll face also make some 
 rather memorable noises when you manage to draw their wrath.
  
  The worst thing about World of Warcraft is that you can't just play it all the time. After all, 
 chances are if you start, you'll never want to stop. Again, though, part of what makes this game 
 so remarkable is it doesn't assume that all you have to do in your busy life is play this one game, 
 and so it delivers a high-quality experience regardless of how much or how little time you're able 
 to invest. Paradoxically, then, it can become the last game you'd need to play for weeks, months... who 
 knows? The point is, World of Warcraft features an overall level of quality that's typically reserved 
 for the best offline games, which have always had a leg up on online games in their ability to 
 present tightly-woven, story-driven settings. But World of Warcraft achieves this in the context 
 of a massive, evolving world populated by thousands of other players who you may choose to interact 
 with, which makes the proceedings seem that much more meaningful. This is a stunning achievement 
 that will make you feel privileged to be a game player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikkhuet
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  This game is not good. 
  The graphic looks like it is inspired from an old Super Mario or something.
  The gameplay could 
 have been good, if it had some physics and better graphics. And they should have dropped the magic. 
 And the fighting should be more exciting and variable. The game looks like its for children from 
 3- 5 years old! I do not see why ppl actually like this game. 
  When I played it the first time I thought it was a great game because of the high ratings ive seen 
 everywhere, but take my word: THIS GAME SUCKS!!!
  Don't buy it, trust me. I would rather advice you to buy a good game, like Half life 2, FEAR or 
 Call of duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tribble
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll skip the topics the other reviewers cover in favor of some things they didn't. Namely, the 
 lackluster way in which Blizzard runs their game. First off, the GMs (people who work for Blizzard 
 and are there to help with player issues in-game and whatnot) , are with very few exceptions, completely 
 worthless. They not only never listen to what the user is saying, but often do not even bother 
 to respond to them or their concerns. This can be especially frustrating if you've been waiting 
 to talk to a GM for 2+ hours. They typically have either no solution, or the wrong solutions to 
 a problem. They not only seem unable to help, but UNWILLING to help. They also do not care about 
 "ninja looting", which is where players basically steal bind-on-pickup loot that they don't need 
 out from under other players, typically after a very rough big boss fight in a dungeon/instance. 
 Since blizzard doesn't provide a programmed-in solution to this, it's very annoying that there's 
 no recourse whatsoever by means of getting a GM involved. Other than the GM issues (which I could 
 go on about ad infinitum, there's a long list of other issues. One can look at the technical support 
 forums for WoW and see many unresolved issues that have been lurking about for some time (including 
 a rather nasty bug with certain ATI Radeon cards that should be an easy fix, and they've even claimed 
 a fix was forthcoming, but that was many months ago and there has been no further status given) , 
 without much assurance that they will be dealt with. Meanwhile, blizzard continues to add tons 
 of content and "fixes" while turning a blind eye to some of these blemishes that have doubtless 
 cause many people to leave the game or suffer through things like frequent gpu crashes just to 
 get their WoW fix. Another problem is the endgame. Once you get to 60, and want to do high-level 
 dungeons, new problems arise. You see, most all of the high-level dungeons require 20-person OR 
 MORE raid groups to complete, with many dungeons requiring nothing less than 40-person raids to 
 do. Now, due in large part to the people who tend to populate this game, this can be a horrendously 
 arduous thing to undertake. There really should be more options for smaller raids and single groups 
 (5 players) at level 60. I don't see how someone can be expected to be a "casual player" once they 
 reach 60, even though blizzard claims WoW is well suited to both the casual and hardcore players. 
 There's a lot more to say about the faults this game has, but I'll stop here. The truth is I like 
 this game, and will probably continue to play it, but I wanted to counterbalance some of the "this 
 is the most perfect game ever" reviews that gamespot users have posted. It definitely can be frustrating... 
 often times because of the other players in the game (there are a lot of jerks and children playing 
 WoW... and jerks especially on the horde side) , and frequently because of blizzard itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft... if you don't know the story by now, where have you been!? If you don't know what it 
 is, I strongly suggest you pick up a Warcraft game (I recommend Warcraft 3 and expansion) and play 
 it - I almost guarantee you'll love it! It is extremely immersive and highly addictive... but I 
 digress.
  
  World of Warcraft (WoW) is a Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game (MMORPG) set in the 
 world of Azeroth, and based on the Warcraft storylines. Much like any RPG you choose a race, gender, 
 class, and then begin playing. Unlike other MMORPGs, WoW includes an intuitive quest-based leveling 
 system, so it gives you a good break from the normal 'grind' of regular RPGs, where you spend hours 
 killing monsters in order to progress through the game.
  
  The quests are usually very easy, and usually require things like "Go to point X, kill Y number 
 of mobs, and return to quest giver Z and get experience." However, there are some 'Elite' quests 
 that require you to group with at least one other person, or wait until you are a few levels higher 
 in order to complete it, as 'Elite' mobs are much harder than normal ones. Overall the quest-based 
 system allows for easy leveling, and you'll find yourself progressing through the level very rapidly... until 
 about level 35 or 40. 
  
  I call, along with many others, the levels between 40 and 55 "the wall," because that's what it 
 feels like. These levels are much harder to progress through, but I'm not exactly sure why. I suppose 
 it's because quests are harder to come by, but it may just be the feeling that at level 40 you 
 are only halfway to 60 (experience wise) and you've already spent 8 days in game leveling up that 
 far. However, the game still keeps its fun-factor as you can run many different instances, explore 
 other towns, or just do some good ol' PVP in battlegrounds, or raids against other cities.
  
  Battlegrounds (BG) is my favorite part of the game... if you are lucky enough to A) Get a team, 
 and B) Have a decent team. When you go into BG you get put into a queue until there are enough 
 people for your particluar BG choice (There is Capture the Flag, an Assault-like game, and a game 
 where you try to control various points on the map for points, like King of the Hill) . All of these 
 are team games, which means you have to wait for a certain amount of people for each alliance to 
 join. This can sometimes take a very long time or a very short time, depending on what server you 
 are on, and sometimes what alliance you joined, Horde or Alliance. However, when you get inside 
 they are very fun to partake in.
  
  Graphics look amazing, if you're into the cartoony-type graphics. I myself am, so I find that these 
 graphics look very good, however, there are those that would prefer the more "real" graphics such 
 as those shown in EQ2. If you like it, you'll love it, if you dislike them, you'll hate it.
  
  What I don't like:
  1) At level 60, there's not much to do - you can PVP, but after enough 
 bad teams, I've been turned off from BG for the time being, or you can go into instances to get 
 better armor, which rarely drops, and if it does, there's a chance you will be outrolled by another 
 player and have to run the entire instance (usually lasting 2hours+) and hope for it to drop again.
 
  
  2) On PVP servers there is usually very little honor - high level players will kill and camp you 
 just because they can, so if you choose a PVP server, get used to watching high level players camp 
 your corpse... because it will happen a lot.
  
  3) Because this game is based on Warcraft, is very easy to get into, and looks "cartoonish," there 
 are many little kids on the game, some of which can be extremely annoying. Of course, there are 
 also "1337" gamers who think they're better then everyone, but that's in every game.
  
  If those 3 things don't turn you off, you should DEFINATELY go out and buy this game. It is fun, 
 easy to get into, and it has a great value (I have over 1000 hours and I still play a fair amount) . 
 It's definately one of the best, if not the best, MMORPGs ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:54 am PT
Review:  These are the my faqs that I came up with about World of warcraft hope you enjoy
  
  MMOs are a strange beast. They are designed to make you play as much as possible, yet addictiveness 
 does not always equal fun. In the field of pyschology, there are several kinds of rewards systems, 
 and the one that seems to be the most successful is the random reward introduced at a random time. 
 Sometimes you click the button, and nothing happens. Sometimes you click and get the food pellet. 
 It's this mechanism that fuels the slots in Vegas, and when you walk away empty, as is statistically 
 inevitable over a long enough stretch of time, you tell yourself that the overall value was the 
 experience itself, since you come away with nothing tangible. MMOs take away your time and they 
 never deliver a discreet conclusion. 
  
  I played a ton of Dark Age of Camelot shortly after it launched, and I find myself reminded of 
 it negatively every day that I play World of Warcraft. To discuss the differences in favor of WoW 
 would be an article in itself, but I'll try to keep to the main points. 
  First, let's talk about The Grind. In a traditional persistent online RPG, you advance your character 
 by killing an endless string of monsters, and by doing "FedEx" quests where you get some money 
 and/or experience points by delivering an arbitrary item from Point A to Point B. As your character 
 advances, his or her progress begins to slow. It takes longer and longer to get to the next level, 
 because you need more and more experience points each time, yet the experience returned from monsters 
 and deliveries does not scale accordingly. Yet you feel compelled to continue because at Level 
 X you get a really cool spell or other ability that's supposed to make the game more "fun." 
  
  The second part of the grind is "downtime," the amount of time it takes to recover from each 
 monster (or "mob") encounter. When I played DAOC, it typically took every ounce of my resources 
 to defeat an enemy that would give me respectable experience. Then I would sit down and wait while 
 my energy bars slowly refilled. Then you'd have to wait awhile for the next batch of monsters to 
 spawn again, and you'd typically be competing against other players and "camping" this same spot 
 all day long. 
  
  Now, imagine an MMO where your experience is a string of quests where you're rewarded with a cool 
 item, recipe, or a decent amount of pocket money. A game where the grind is virtually eliminated -- a 
 game where downtime is relatively nonexistent, where enemies respawn rapidly and dynamically according 
 to how many players are in the local area; where you can use a healing spell, or bandage yourself, 
 or eat some food, or all three, before diving right back in again. Your character's death doesn't 
 result in the loss of many hours of experience points, or one of your items, or any money (although 
 there is item decay, so whatever you have equipped currently takes a 10% durability hit) . When 
 you die, you resurrect as a ghost who moves quickly, runs on water, and cannot be harmed on its 
 way back to its body. You can also have a player resurrect you in a matter of moments, even after 
 you have entered ghost form. This is a game that understands Fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsaltWeapon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I am a serious PC Gamer and i Have 3 level 60 characters on this game the highest you can get in 
 WOW.
  The game is Awsome at lower LvL's one of the best games ever... you will so engrossed you will never 
 sleep, lose your job, wife will Divorce you ,. and a bulldozer wont pull you away from your computer 
 ... this game will go down in history as one of the best games ever... BUT -- at higher LvL's the games 
 is so boring there is nothing left to do but the same things over and over ..
  But dont let that discourage you If you dont playthis game for at least a day ,.. you havnt LIVED 
 ! playing video games is like a dog eating the same ol dog food everyday one week it's purina dog 
 food and the next week it's Alpo THEN your owner throws you a STEAK .. World of Warcraft is that 
 STEAK !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonnyhe2002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  The best mmorpg this year, It put other rpgs th shame. Only one word to discribe this is "SUPERB". 
 
  Gorgeous, Is the graphics. It may not have the best technical stats of competitors, but it fits 
 the game and the universe of Warcraft perfectly. I look at EQII and tell myself that in a few years 
 it could look really nice. WoW has relatively low system requirements, and yet, I can't imagine 
 how they could improve beyond what it already is. It looks like the World or Warcraft should look. 
 You can't get any better than that.
  The sound is also a perfection. I would rate the sound a 9/10 because it is so crisp and moving. I 
 played other MMOs but this one, the sound really makes it immerging.
  The gameplay is great. I've been playing this game for a year or two . I'm just is addicted to 
 it, i play it with any free time i have. And when i bet the game i'll definately replay it over 
 and over and over. But now i'm just concern about leveling up. 
  If you love MMORPGs then pick this one up, If you hate MMORPGs then you should still pick this one 
 up. All in all this game will last you and me till the next warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklink_killer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  This is the best online game i have ever played its better than any other. I played FFXI and Guild 
 wars but none of them are as good as WoW. In WoW you can do anything and never you are gonna get 
 bored . The only bad thing of it is that if you ply it one time you cant stop . It is gonna gonna 
 take all your time because you cannot only playe 1 or 2 hours a day . You are gonna lose friends 
 and much time so if you dont have a life buy this game if you have a social life dont played it 
 . I leave the game because of this i get to 60 and played like for 2 o 3 months more and stop because 
 i was getting bad grades in school and all of that . Like i said you play this game but im warning 
 you this game is tooo addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smallman1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is a game where you create a character of one of 8 races split into two factions. 
 The Horde and the Alliance. In the horde are the races: Orcs, Trolls, Undead, Tauren. And in the 
 Alliance: Humans, Gnomes, Night Elves and Dwarves. You then enter the world of warcraft in you're 
 starting area, on lvl 1. The game is baced on you doing quests and killing monsters for xp that 
 will lvl you up. The highest lvl is currently lvl 60 but will go up later. This is because this 
 game is based on the Internet meaning you will need internet to play, but this is not a down side 
 as that means the game updated to keep it fresh. The actual world of warcraft is simply HUGE and 
 has almost no loading times. There is so much to do as well, take up professions and make, armour, 
 weapons, machines, clothes AND food to help you through the game. The only downside is you have 
 to pay &pound;8.99 a month to play...................... BUT it's definitely worth it. There is 
 so much depth and wonderful surprises in World of Warcraft there is simply too much to type. This 
 Massive Multiplayer Online RPG you owe it to yourself to try as you, i'm sure, you will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggy920
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Look mmorpgs are getting quite dumb because theres always because theres a credit card required. 
 Whats with the fees. There is no point with giving your credit card to Blizzard. If you want a 
 game that has exploreable world pick world of warcraft. If you want a fun game with no fees I'd 
 say pick Guild Wars. World of Warcraft beats this other game called Star Wars Galaxies (Only because 
 of game play!) Don't buy World of Warcraft. I nevered like a mmorpg because its always a god damn 
 fee. Its really disapointing I just hope someday theres no more money in this world.
  
  
  
  
  
  !ZiggyWorld! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compnerd3018
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a pretty good MMO, but it has alot of downers to it. the things about it i dont like are 
 for one the graphis. i dont like the cartoonsih graphis in the game, tha armor looks huge and some 
 of the NPG'g hav crazy colors that make it even worse (purple/orange/green raptors, and many more) . 
 another thing i dont like is how easy the game is. u lvl up and do some quests, maybe a little 
 PvP but that about it. another thing in the PvP is i never even ONCE got into a fair fight with 
 the horde, it was always them many lvlv above me, or many lvls below me. but it has its good points 
 also. it was fun for a while and had cool things to see in teh game. i would recomend it for a 
 beginner or intermedeite MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboystd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) is probably one of the greatest games I have ever played. You can keep 
 on playing this game for hours and hours and hours without stopping. There is just so much to do. 
 You can raid instances, fight in the battlegrounds, you can make yourself some nice weapons and 
 armor, or you can just chill out and go fishing. This game has it all.
  
  You can play as 2 factions, the Horde or the Alliance. If you choose the Horde, you can play as 
 Trolls, Orcs, Undead, or Taurens. If you choose the Alliance, you can play as Humans, Night Elves, 
 Dwarves, or Gnomes. And your choices don't stop there. From there, depending on what race you chose, 
 you can be a Hunter, Priest, Mage, Warlock, Rogue, Warrior, Paladin (Alliance only) or Shaman (Horde 
 only) . You get to customize your character's face, eyes, and when you start the game, your character's 
 talents. The games graphics are also very good, and the gameplay will never bore you.
  
  World of Warcraft is a very solid game. But the only problem is if you do not have 512 RAM, then 
 the lag is your worst enemy. If your computer has 256 RAM, the main cities are just lagtastic! 
 So with that much RAM, try to make sure that you don't stay to long in major cities or log off 
 in major cities because you might not be able to get back on for a while.
  
  World of Warcraft can possibly be one of the greatest games ever made. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The major problems are: 1. security - the online hackers are as easy to find as trees in the word 
 of warcraft, the security settings are powerful but fairly easy to get around, I was hacked within 
 10 minutes of being onine. 2. lag - overloading your CPU may be a problem unless you just got a 
 PC, you will lag, other people will lag and you may even freeze, although not a problem that can 
 be easily fixed, its a huge problem when it coes to really enjoying the game to its full potential."
 
  
  You were "hacked within 10 minutes"? Your CPU may get overloaded "unless you just got a PC"? Honestly, 
 and forgive my candor... why bother posting a review if you have no idea what in god's name you're 
 talking about? Even if I translate what you've said into English, it's completely inaccurate. It's 
 false and misleading.
  
  Anyway... let's talk about photo-realism in games and when it's important. It belongs in racing 
 games, sports games, certain first person shooters -- absolutely. But honestly, what would be the 
 point of playing the art form of video games if there was strictly one goal: To achieve photo-realism? 
 That's right, it would be pointless. Better to obsess over live action films, perhaps. I digress; 
 Warcraft's art style has always been 'cartoonish' and in World of Warcraft it lends the game one 
 of the most cohesive presentations of any game in the genre.
  
  MMO players once complained about the experience grind. World of Warcraft gives you motivation 
 and rewards you at every step. The goals are clear and the quest interface is well conceived. The 
 quest writing is good, the lore is rich and completely in line with a post-Frozen Throne plot progression, 
 and the quests are fun. Ultimately, your experience gain has constant motivation and within that 
 system (for Warcraft fans especially) the narrative is enjoyable.
  
  This is a great, big seamless world. Crank up the anisotropic filtering in game, and dial your 
 video card's anti-aliasing up. I defy anyone to deny the wonderfully consistent art design on display 
 and the must-have-in-this-genre zoneless environment transitions. There's tons of content and gameplay 
 here for solo, group, and guilded players. They've implemented an excellent and intuitive UI for 
 any situation. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabears0974
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the cream of the crop of all MMOs. The gameplay is great grinding for levels and 
 skinning Plainstriders has never felt so good and questing in Azeroth is miraculous. For a warning 
 beware of the Barrens chat since it is by far the worst in the game. The graphics are good but 
 kind of cartoonish if you ask me but its a great game. The orchestrated soundtrack is superb compared 
 to some others. Value is ok its a 50 dollar game plus 15 dollars a month but it is well worth it. 
 Well its an overall must buy. Possibly the best MMORPG ever created! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clooterous
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  I have been playing World Of Warcraft for 3 months now. It was mad fun for the first month, then 
 only to find the gameplay completely boring and repetitive. Ill admit the graphics are stunning, 
 and the sound effects are amazing. The worst part of this game is the monthly fee. $15 dollars 
 a month... that is insane for a game that gets boring after the first month. I recently canceled 
 my subscription due to the high fees. It is a waste of money. The most I would pay for this game 
 would be $5 a month. 
  The second worse part of this game is the PvP system. If you are beginning WoW, you will get knocked 
 around by the lifeless immature level 60's of this game. 
  In the end I would suggest this game to someone with a lot of extra cash because this game will 
 eat away at your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  It is sure that world of warcraft is among the very best game. It has a very good looking environment 
 and the gameplay is smooth. it is a very cool game. somewhat like diablo 2 but in a third person 
 view style. it has very large map and the learning time of the game is less than one hour. for 
 the first time i played it, i knew that this game would surely be number one on gamespot ranking....
 
  try it out and you will see for yourself that this game is not only a mere game, it has something 
 special that makes it unique. and the multiplayer is even better than i have thought .so don't 
 miss a great game like this one and be prepared for the future version of that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_beautiful_lie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game, really fun but then you get to end-game and it's all 40 man raid instances for 
 the sole purpose of getting better gear to get to the next 40 man instance. The game loses all 
 purpose except for the sake of continuing the game once you get to a certain point. Great game, 
 but the actual reason to stay in game kinda fades away.
  
  PvP system isn't based on skill but more who has 10 hours a day to PvP grind. If you're into that 
 though it's really good.
  
  Definitely worth buying. Lot of fun, good community but it just seems to trickle off and become 
 playing for the sake of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelentlessFury
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game will simply just consume your time. Looking for a way to escape the real world? Well 
 then this is the way to go. When you first play the game you will realize that this is not your 
 ordinary mmo.
  
  There is countless quests to complete from the very beginning to the very end. Level 1-60 You have 
 it.
  
  I currently have a level 53 Paladin, so i do have quite a taste for this game. Yes as you get to 
 a higher level it does become harder to level up, But leveling is not all the game is about. Some 
 People just play the game to have a guild to chat with. The longer you play the more connected 
 you will get to the game. Unless of course you go the other way.
  But all in all this game is a must pick up for any type of gamer. That is if you like rpg's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerberusdest
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Those of us who have been gamers long enough to witness the creation of some great titles like 
 Half Life, Starcraft, and Diablo, know that these games have shaped the industry, setting the standards 
 for game-making. 
  
  World of Warcraft, another masterful creation from Blizzard, sets the long-need standard for MMORPGs, 
 blending art, riveting story, and a massive living world occupied by millions of other players 
 into one of the most immersive games in history.
  
  Every aspect of the game, from the characters, environments, to the music and story, is perfect 
 in the utmost sense. As you make progress in the game, you will constantly be startled by the incredible 
 detail that the creators of this game have catered to. Every moment of this game, whether you've 
 found your first herb, have gotten your first hero class item, or have made your first trip to 
 Molten Core, is full of excitement, and will keep you craving for more.
  
  No explanation for the system or the features of this game is needed. All you need is one single 
 day in Azeroth, and I guarantee you, you will be absorbed in a world that is every single bit as 
 real as life. Do you think that's too vague? You want to know what to expect?; Expect everything, 
 and more. This game is beyond your wildest imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danaman117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is the beast game I have ever played without a doubt! I would never rate a game 10, but this 
 one I had to. It doesnt have heavy graphics requirements (so it can be played on older computers 
 800 mhz and up) with a 32 meg video car with T&L, and if your pc doesnt have that then you seriously 
 need to get a new PC. lol.
  
  They do this and still manage to make the graphics great in the game, expecially considering how 
 big these worlds are, I cant even begin to tell you how huge this game is, Theres a city called 
 stormwind that is so huge itself! I get lost in it all the time.
  
  The game was kinda frustrating at first as it will be for anybody, but you will quickly find yourself 
 having new experiences with other people all accross the world and the feeling that you get is 
 that this game is just like a never ending movie.
  
  The sound will have you humming warcraft tunes at work, i hope im not the only one that does... Theres 
 a free two week trial and your credit card WILL NOT be billed, also when you buy the game you get 
 a free month, after that your credit card would be billed unless, you bought a card, wich then 
 you just input your card number and bam your all good. basicly the credit card deals there only 
 if you would perfer to use it over the time cards at the stores.
  
  This games not all about fighting, its very much on the lines of the sims also, when you find yourself 
 fishing with a buddy, or even getting drunk with a buddy (yes you can get drunk in the game) theres 
 all diffrent kinds of emotes you can make your character do wich are jestures, and voice commands 
 also to make your character talk in the game and say one of several voice commands such as flirt. 
 yep you can flirt it up with the chicks/or the dudes on this game and if your luckey you just might 
 get a hot naked chcik giving you a lap dance! and im not lieing either. 
  
  Wanna see for yourself go get the game now well it has a 30 dollar rebate for x-mas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenspall
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Azeroth, here you will kill easy opponents which require no tactics using the same combination 
 of moves, complete repetative quests, learn tradeskills in a day, have conversations with idiots 
 and in general not be challenged at any stage.
  
  After returning home after purchasing my copy of World of Warcraft, I was eager to get amoungst 
 the action, so i quickly rushed upstairs, popped my disc in its drive, and got going in what is 
 believed to be an epic adventure...
  
  The games initial cut scene is nice, but its nothing out of the ordinary for a game to have a classy 
 initial FMV, I then arrive at the Create Character screen, always the caster, i go for the ever 
 powerful mage, being male, I automatically pick a human male mage, seeing as how a bodybuilders-6-pack 
 toned muscular body dosn't suit my weak and feeble mage, I attempt to make him a bit well, weaker 
 looking, I can't.. Okay I'll just make him a bit shorter, I can't...
  
  I have to choose a female mage if I'm not to look utterly idiotic (a 6'7 man with a ripped anatomy 
 wielding a wooden staff and cloth robes.. yeah i thought as much.) 
  
  The end product, i look exactly like every other female in azeroth, and no Blizzard stupid "Gimmicks" 
 such as ear rings and nose studs isn't individuality.
  
  Putting the lack of character designs behind me, i head into my adventure, and I learnt the game 
 almost immediatly, the game is very intuitive and the user-interface is very good, and nobody can 
 have any complaints against it.
  
  After about 5 minutes of fidling around with my camaera, I'm ready to start my adventure, and I 
 quickly started a quest which involved killing wolves, i happily jogged back to my quest NPC, and 
 after recieveing my award, was handed another quest, in which i had to kill yet more wolves, i 
 returned my quest after knocking the stuffing out of more of my canine adversaries, i then had 
 to kill goblins, and then kill them again for another pointless purpose, I was begining to see 
 a pattern.
  
  You see, WoW dosn't get rid of grinding in the slightest, it simply makes it worse, now instead 
 of simply killing your opponent for exp, you have to kill him, grab whats needed for your quest 
 NPC, run all the way back to him/her and be told to kill them again. This is more frustrating then 
 simply killing the enemy over and over, lets face it, in all MMORPG's in the forseeable future, 
 grinding is going to be a part of it, what developers need to do, is make combat fun so grinding 
 seems less of a struggle.
  
  After repeating this process till level 60, I was now ready to really enjoy the game, no luck im 
 afraid, heres what you can do at level 60 -
  
  PvP - While the PvP looks interesting, its all based on a very old game, call rock, scissors and 
 paper, you see a certain class beats another class, heres a formula to explains WoW's PvP in its 
 current state -
  
  Class A   Class B   Class D   Class A
  
  Skill Isn't a factor, surely the idea of all multiplayer games, is the more skilled player wins, 
 not in WoW, if there of a certain class which happens to be extremely good against your picked 
 class, they will beat you, no contest. 
  
  Raids - 40 man raids in which, you spend 5-10 hours per week, killing relatively simple bosses, 
 for epic drops, in which there are another 4-8 people competing for, it takes months to complete 
 a set, and by the time you do, theres a new set out
  
  Community - The worst community ever without doubt, the easy gameplay seems to attract Idiots and 
 the socialy inadequate, dont expect many convorsations with people unless it involves the phrase 
 "OmfG!!1 J0o teh SuX, I'm TeH Pro g4m3r" I personally feel the fact you can solo to 60 with ease 
 and rarely interact with other gamers, leaves teh community with a huge void.
  
  Discusing Builds - "lol, our builds exactly the same because one build is significantly better 
 than the others, remember?" awesome dicusssion
  
  Okay thats pretty much the gameplay, now lets take a look at the following
  
  Graphics - Having 
 the lowest polygon count ever in a 3d MMORPG (yes including EQ1) shows, character armour looks 
 pixelated and blurry, metalic armour dosn't reflect light and generally looks dull, even on maximum 
 settings. Enviroments look average, with no lighting/shade/water engines though, it all seems a 
 bit dead and dated, though without doubt the cartoon like appearence of the world is certinaly 
 eye catching at first.
  
  Sound - BG Music is poor trying to achieve a sense of adventure, which it fails to do, Effects 
 are excellent though, from the chirping of birds to the sound of glasses rattling in the taverns, 
 everywhere has an atmosphere to it, the combat sounds are good as well, though they don't jump 
 out at you
  
  Value - Being one of the most expensive MORPG's out there, costing $15.00/8.99 a month plus the 
 initial cost of the box set, its certainly a game to try round a mates before you splash out.
 
  
  Servers - U. S servers are from what i hear, well run, however EU servers are constantly lagging 
 (I forget the amount of times raids were called off due to excessive lag) there are sometimes down 
 for 10+ hours, with customer support providing no information as to why this is, and in general 
 ringing customer support is a waste of time, you spend 30 minutes talking to a machine to get through 
 to a "specialist" who hangs up when he can't help you...
  
  Thanks for reading my review, and please Gamespot, before you rate any MMORPG so highly, play it 
 past level 10, all your videos seem to be of the starting locations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3xKrAzY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I once said I would never pay for a game that I have to pay a monthly Fee, just to play it. I stand 
 corrected, a buddy of mine passed me his trial version and that was all she wrote. Since then I 
 have turned on approx 15 other friends & Co workers onto WoW and we enjoy playing this matser piece. 
 I could go into great detail about this game, and type a novel about WoW, what I will focus on 
 here will is a couple of the key feature's about WoW that I feel is a huge PLUS. I have alot of 
 other games that may have had bugs and you would see the complaints in forums and so on, and the 
 game maker "MAY" come out with one patch and thats it. Blizzard really tries to take care of the 
 subscribers' thoughts and request, so the game is always changing and new perks and patchs are 
 always coming out. The players opinions makes a huge different. If there's somthing that games 
 lacks and us players want it changed or corrected. Bingo-Bango if may be done in the near future. 
 Anyways this games gets a high score from me and I would recommend it to anybody. Don't take my 
 word for it! download and see if you buy it.
  
  P. S OH yea the in game Auctions house is the sweet, you can spend a hour or so and would't even 
 realize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiseGAMEreaper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  i purchased world of warcraft some time ago (if u add me my w. o. w name is torn117) i think the 
 graphics are superb and the gameplay is amazing. 
  it is probably the best MMORPG in the world, it does cost quite a bit but its well worth it. the 
 game itself is around 30 the first 3 months are fre wich is good and then u must pay a monthly 
 fee. there are many skills to build on 
  like  there absoloutlry loads to do. 
 there was a recent update to world of warcraft the lvl cap is now 70 which is good for higher players, 
 1 new race which are blood elves, and many new places to explore. if you like rpgs this is the 
 game to get . i give w. o. w 9.5/10 hope you like my review =]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMammoth731
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first venture into the MMOPRG line of games. Allow me to say that Blizzard did 
 not disappoint.
  
  This game is a very solid all around game. In it's early stages it struggled a little bit, with 
 bugs and server instability. But, now, it is very stable and continues to add more great instances 
 and Battlegrounds which make PvP an absolute blast.
  
  First off, The gameplay is relatively simple to figure out. The interface, now improved with added 
 bars, is one that should not need any Modification, unless you are really picky. The spell/ability 
 choice is great for the many classes which the game contains. The system used to make your character 
 your own and to give him/her that extra boost is amazing (The talent system) . Plenty of monsters 
 and quests and beasts to slay with a very friendly "death is only temporary" outlook. The latter 
 instances and quests in the game begin to be very intricate and difficult and sometimes require 
 upwards of 40 people to do. Great gameplay all around.
  
  Secondly, the graphics are all you could expect. Great graphics which are very fun to look at. 
 The environment and models of the characters and enemies are very well done. The only complaint 
 I have is that there are not enough models to choose from for your character. Many times you can 
 end up looking exactly like the person next to you.
  
  Third, The sound, which was a very well done, orchestrated, soundtrack. It was good enough that 
 I never needed to have any music on or anything, I just listened to the game. Some of the songs 
 get a little old, but overall it is a nice score.
  
  Value is good, thats all I can say. For 15 bucks a month its quite the punch in the pocketbook. 
 However, I beleive it is worth every penny. It is a game that is continually changing and is a 
 immersive and beautiful game. Well worth the cash.
  
  So, overall. If you want a game which can keep your beast-slaying, monster killing, dungeon trekking, 
 and PvP action senses up. This is the game for you. Keep those games coming Blizzard... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  World of WarCraft came as a surprise to me, the number of companies now creating MMORPGs is almost 
 sickening from a creative point of view but Blizzard Entertainment as managed to pull off their 
 magic yet again, and in the process has made the MMORPG genre as successful as the FPS and RTS 
 genres.
  Getting into the game is easy, the interface is simple to grasp and can be heavily modified to 
 suit your personal tastes, the click interface action is very similar to just about any RPG or 
 Third-Perspective shooter.
  Graphically, the game has been accused of looking rather comical, with the pure fantasy art direction 
 as opposed to a grittier look of say Everquest 2, but this is how the WarCraft world has been turning 
 since WarCraft 3 was released, a fantasy, bright, colourful setting and it pulls this off very 
 well in the pure 3D realm.
  The music gets repetitive fast, I find myself turning it off and listening to soft house and dance 
 music, honestly the music in WoW can - and will - put you to sleep. Sound is pretty standard, nothing 
 really all that flash.
  Since it is a MMORPG it basically never has an end game, and when you do hit the point of having 
 300/300 in all 5 professions, including cooking, fishing and first aid, you have your epic mount 
 and tier 2 gear, you can simply create another character - there are 8 races and over half a dozen 
 classes to choose from as well as many more professions. Not only that but Blizzard is in the habit 
 of creating free addons every couple of months, including new dungeons such as the newly released 
 Blackwing Lair - a huge 40-man dungeon, and the soon-to-be-released Ahn'Qiraj 20-man and 40-man 
 dungeons the game has provided no less then 70-100 extra hours of pure dungeon enjoyment and no 
 less then 200 hours of item hunting - for free - since its release.
  This game is the MMO to end all MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctrig
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft offers up something we've never seen done in the MMO world before. The world 
 is different, every place you go looks different from the last place you were at. One of the things 
 that really starts getting on my nerves with the older MMOs I grew up on is that you could be running 
 a path you've run 100 times befor, stop, look around and have no idea where you are because every 
 tree, every rock, every building looks exactly the same on a flat plane called landscape. Then 
 you would spend the next billion hours just trying to find a good hunting spot that isn't already 
 over-run with people. This is all fixed in WoW really helping to bring the fun back into MMOs, 
 allowing you to truly play how you wish, with or without a party, hunting, crafting, fishing, money 
 making, play your own way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpetro0818
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This has to be, by far the most outstanding game I have ever play. The have incorperated evey aspect 
 of what is needed, except one. I CANT CHANGE MY COLORS!!! If you could customize your appearence 
 a little more, than it would be flawless. Your facial features are a little boring too...... All 
 in all this game is well worth your buck. I have put who knows how many hours into a horde char 
 and now am playing the alliance. It is like an brand new game again. New area's to explore, new 
 quests. Best ever. Must buy for anyone who enjoys medieval type games with swords and magic. Can't 
 wait for the expansion, more new things to explore and find. Not to mention higher lev cap. Great 
 PvP too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philip1191
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i was nearly put off by the monthly fees but i decided to give the game 
 a try as it had got a great review. I am so unbelievably glad i did it is without a doubt the best 
 game of all time. The gameplay is excellent there is a lot of depth to it. The slightly cartoony 
 graphics suit the game very well and the sound is great. As for value, although it does cost a 
 fair bit to play it is definately worth it. I find it actually saves you money in a way because 
 you don't need to buy any other games for at least 6 months and even then you would still come 
 back and play it after finishing your other game. 
  One thing i think is amazing about the game is how you keep on discovering new and cool things 
 about it. You would start a new character then when you get to level 10 you unlock talents, a cool 
 way to improve and customize your character and a while after that i discovered the battlegrounds 
 which are great. (In the battlegrounds you fight againest members of the oppsing faction to gain 
 honor and rank) Then even if it does start to lose its appeal (which is highly unlikely) there is 
 always something new to get (such as a mount at level 40) . When i told my friends about this game 
 two of them said they would never get it as it cost too much a month but then one of them played 
 it and then had to buy a new PC just to play it and the other became so addicted when he played 
 it at his friend's house he refuses to do anything else and cannot stop talking about it.
  Even if you do not like RPG's in general give this game a try the only bad point of this game is 
 the cost which is not even that big a deal and you can always share an account with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DnStalker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Blizzard's "World of Warcraft" was one of 2005's most anticipated games. And, so far, it's been 
 living up to the hype.
  The game starts off as a seemingly basic faction based MMO, which two rival factions and four races 
 in each faction;
  The Alliance that consists of the Noble Humans, Hearty Dwarves, Intriguing Gnomes and Mysterious 
 Nightelves.
  The Horde that consists of the Proud Orcs, Shamanistic Trolls, Nomadic Tauren and the Gruesome 
 Forsaken.
  The game play is simple enough to start with, players must fulfill quests often involved around 
 killing monsters, gathering items or talking to other peoples. The game is deceptively simple, 
 however as your character progresses the game becomes more challenging, with quests requiring you 
 to join other players to vanquish foes and battle your way through "instanced" dungeons with all 
 players striving toward the same inevitable goal;
  To get to level 60 and items of an Epic status.
  Somewhere between starting off and nearing the 
 end game, players are introduced to the Player VS Player element of the game, running around certain 
 areas of the world you'll run into players of the opposing faction who may or may not attack and 
 kill you. PvP is a style of the game that players must get used to (on the player vs player realms, 
 anyway) and often newer players have a problem adjusting to the agressiveness of the opposing faction's 
 players.
  Blizzard incorporated closed off PvP battles to the game, where players of similar levels may group 
 up and fight an opposing team of equal strength in objective based games to gain more "honour".
 
  The "Honour" system is a way of rewarding PvPers with equipment and items that can often tip the 
 scales of battle in the favour of whatever faction is using them.
  For players that aren't interested in the PvP side of the game there is enough content to keep 
 you pleased and Blizzard are constantly releasing large patches to add more content and tweak the 
 gameplay for the better.
  However, World of Warcraft seems more biased towards the more hardcore players who have plenty 
 of time to invest into it and the casual players may struggle at the end-game level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazmondo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  What can i say that has'nt already been said.
  This game is amazing from start to finish (not that there is one) .
  Get it today and lose touch 
 with the rest of your life :)
  
  Im still waiting for the divorce papers to come through.
  
  Playability is legenday as you 
 stalk the gameplay world hunting, questing a slaying.
  Graphics are mindblowingly awesome as each zone seamlessly joins the next one without a hint slowdown 
 and very minimal loading screens.
  To say how impressive the game engine is , i run this on my laptop using a wireless router and 
 still get great results.
  
  To sum it up If you have a few years of sparetime this is the game for you as once you start you 
 just wont be able to put it down.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer1217
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has for some time now been the best MMO on the market. Most people will not argue 
 with this adn WoW offers a unique and fun experience to players of all ages.
  
  While this is a great game it does have its problems. Expect to put in days of playing time to 
 reach the level cap and days more getting your endgame item set. This game does not cater too well 
 to casual gamers and you are kind of forced to group endgame in order to make your character powerful 
 at all. 
  
  The players in this game can be very annoying also. While there are some nice people out there, 
 you will spend half of your time getting yelled at by people that think they are better than you. 
 The word "noob" is horrendously overused in this game and expect to be called it A LOT. I highly 
 suggest that you get in a good guild right from level 1.
  
  All this being said, WoW is a great game and i truly am addicted. There is just so much content 
 and you will always have fun exploring, adventuring and forming relationships with others in this 
 amazing fantasy world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saikokitten
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  I have spent more time on this game in the last year than any other. The graphics are very good 
 (for an MMO) , the game is very accessible to people who are new to MMORPGs, and has a lot of strengths.
 
  
  Picking up missions and completing them is very easy, the menus and interaction are very easy to 
 get the hang of, and you shouldn't have to spend too much time sitting around wondering what to 
 do (at first) , especially with handy guides and sites on the internet to help you through everything 
 (such as ThottBot) . At first, you will find yourself spending a lot of time on this game, levelling 
 your character, doing instances, playing with friends and later guildmembers. There is an awful 
 lot to do and you will spend a lot of time just exploring the world. It can be a lot of fun. 
 
  
  Having said that, the time you spend on this game will sour. Once you hit level 60, there is less 
 and less you can do, particularly on your own, you will spend a lot of time in high level instances. 
 After a while, this can become more of a chore than fun, and you find yourself working two jobs. 
 One in the real world, and one in Azeroth. You have to be online at a certain time so you and your 
 guild can do instance runs, you have to work harder to get the gear you need, it becomes less and 
 less fun at this stage and more like work. There is little endgame content to keep you busy, and 
 what is there, becomes a chore after a while. Repeating the same instances again and again, or 
 fighting in the same PVP instances again and again, to improve your gear, so you can continue this 
 cycle.
  
  I would highly recommend WoW to any gamer, as long as you have the time to play this game. If you 
 find yourself bored at lvl60, quit! Don't spend all your time finding something to do, just move 
 on to another game. Remember that WoW is just another game and when it stops being fun, there's 
 no reason to continue playing it if you're not enjoying it! It's not a job and you're not getting 
 paid for it, don't fall into the trap that others do when they feel like they have an obligation 
 towards the game or feel like they should keep playing. I have come across a lot of people that 
 continue playing and working hard at the game, and they are stressing themselves out and not enjoying 
 the time they spend in the game. 
  
  Some may still be enjoying the endgame content that is available, and it is true that Blizzard 
 are always adding more with patches, but for me personally, my time with WoW has ended. It was 
 great while it lasted, and I would definitely recommend it despite it's flaws, it is very good 
 value for money considering the huge amount of time I spent on it. Just don't expect an awful lot 
 of longevity, enjoy it while it's fun, because when it's fun, it's great :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsten
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  this has to be the best online game there is nothing wrong at all u will waste meany meany hours 
 of your life playing it works great on most computers there is just so much to do and it keep u 
 coming back for more and more and more! 
  theres is only one down side u have 2 pay 4 it
  still the raids the battles the life the guilds is all great 
  if u like any type of online game 
 u will love this or if u just like rpgs u will love it or just a loner who needs 2 talk 2 meany 
 meany ppl
  u really feel like u r a small part of a huge war that has been going on for meany meany years 
 what i found cool was that the other army eg the horde will attack your citys and u can do the 
 same 2 them i may not be the best player but no matter how crap u r you will still kick ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  I know there's supposed to be a rest feature in this game, where you log out while in an inn, and 
 if you don't play your character for a day, you get double experience so you can catch up for your 
 lost day (Blizzards way of allowing for Casual Gamers to stay on par) . 
  
  I haven't seen it yet. 
  
  I've never played an MMORPG, and can't stop playing. 
  
  Technically 
 the graphics aren't super-realistic. But what they are is superbly animated, colorful, and creative. 
 They keep you coming back cause they're not bland. 
  
  Sounds are amazing, and the background music professionally orchestrated. 
  
  Gameplay is fast 
 and furious. Quests are super easy to find. There's a Bank (for long-term storage of items) , Stables, 
 Inns, and Auction House, Public and Private Transportation. This world is so fleshed out, I seem 
 to be losing myself in it. 
  
  I am Human Mage Charles of Laughing Skull. 
  
  I am Undead Rogue Desmurd of Azgalor. 
  
  One of the most ambitious games I've ever seen, and 
 polished to a spitting shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  I promise everyone on this website that if you like mmorpgs this is the game to get. Even though 
 you must pay a monthly fee the game is awesome. I have been playing for one year and I still haven't 
 run out of things to do on the game. Rumor has it that there is over 50,000 hours of play on the 
 game. There are many different character choices to make and two different factions to play for. 
 There is a massive quantity of items to be found and jobs to persue. I give this game a ten if 
 I could an eleven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: night-wolf145
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  PERFECT, Is All I Can Say, Great Graphics, Gamplay, Controls, Everything!!!!! Thats All I'll Say, 
 I Recommend Buying It!, One Problem Tho, The Price To Subcribe Kinda High. But He If You Desperate 
 Get it!
  
  Anyways My Favorite Game YET!, I Loved Warcraft 3 But This Tops It!!
  
  Its A Fun Game, I've Met So Many People On It, And Alot Of My Friends Play It To.
  
  If Like 
 This I Also Recommend, Guild Wars, Warcraft 3, Diablo 2, All Good (And Free) . I Love Them All,
 
  
  They Could Have Made The Level Cap Higher Instead Of 60, But Since They Have Expansions Coming 
 Out Its Alright The Next Expansion Shall Raise The Level Cap To 70. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terradestroyer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, i have played many RPG's and several MMORPG's including FFXI, Asheron's call 1&2 and I have 
 tested out Everquest II and no game comes close to what World of warcraft offers. First of all 
 the world is amazing and seamless as you travel from one area to the other, the decor easily blends. 
 The community is one of the most dedicated i have ever seen and for warcraft fans, the world is 
 full of hidden lore waiting to be discovered. I had been anticipating this game since beginning 
 of production, as a die hard fan of warcraft and its incredible storyline, i just couldnt wait 
 to let go of my army and take control of one character so that i could jump into Azeroth and explore 
 its wonderous history and beauty. So strap your self to your chair, say goodbye to social life for 
 the next few months and give a warm welcome to Azeroth as it will be your home for the coming months 
 as you immerse yourself in the greatest fantasy MMO ever created. Thanks blizzard
  
  Gameplay
  Ok this isnt Everquest... world of warcraft is good for all players. its the MMORPG 
 for dummy's, it starts out quite easy so that anyone can pic it up and start playing. The end game 
 is were it becomes a challenge, with epic encounters like Onyxia... or so it was epic, now leave 
 place to Nefarion. The PVP system is always fun too, depending on your likings you can hunt down 
 horde or alliance, depending on your faction or join a battleground and wage war against enemy 
 factions.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok the graphics arent geared towards realism... but they sure are great to look at, as for sceneries 
 in world of warcraft... you won't see alot of games with such breathtaking areas.
  
  Sound:
  Ok, the soundtrack is great, as you enter the halls of Ironforge for teh first time or 
 any other area the music just takes you away... but gets old after some time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltblazer01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  When i saw that Blizzard published new mmo rpg i instantly had to check it out.
  Game is super and it has so many features. It is easy to play and is not very expensive. Only 100 
 kn one month in my country. Game has two alliances horde and alliance. In horde are: trolls, orcs... 
 In alliance are: humans, elves, gnomes and dwarfs. When i started playing i chosed human, warrior. I 
 played the game 200 hours at least and i barely stopped, its addictive. In time i write this review 
 an expansion in being made. it will have two new races. For horde Blood Elves, and for Alliance 
 ?. They still dont know which will it be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_God
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game off a Family Relative of mine who had being playing it since launch. 
 i never took to much notice of it until he let me borrow it and give it a test. I wish he didn't 
 I am now what you would call a WOW addict as soon as he let me on there I didnt get off for atleast 
 4 hours. the gameplay and environments and player visuals are just breathtaking. there is infinite 
 fun in this game and with the announcement of an expansion pack its just goin to blow you away. 
 just the standard versions is enough. this game is definitly worth the monthly fees. and its going 
 to last a very very long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalPhoenix009
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Do not believe some of the other bad user reviews on this site. Going in, yes, it is a bit of a 
 grind. And in some mid-games sequences get boring. But if you have the least bit of patience to 
 get to the higher levels, and become part of a huge and focused community, then you will almost 
 never stop playing this game. And if you don't have that kind of patience? Well, we don't want 
 you anyway.
  
  The PvE system is immersive, with a good variety of quests and dungeons to keep you interested 
 for a long time to come. The classes are diverse and are each fun to play. Be assured that if you 
 get to the lvl cap of 60 with a warrior, fgoing back and playing as a rogue will be completly different.
 
  
  And if you have anything of a desire for PvP, look no further. This game not only rewards alot 
 of skill, but it's fun, too. The BG system works well in offering a new and more objective-based 
 look on PvP which is a welcome change from other PvP systems. Each class counters others, but it 
 never feels like Rock-Paper-Scissors either.
  
  Overall, if you're looking to escape from the normal and unchanging grind that is other MMO's, 
 then WoW is what you want-and need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtleteen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is truely amazing in all aspects. The graphics are wonderful, the people are 
 friendly (usually...) The NPC's are packed with quests to do, there are loads of dungeons for all 
 levels out there... It's one of the best MMORPG's. There's just one problem..
  The price tag. = (.
  Twenty bucks a month! =O
  *dies*
  Therefore, it's one of the more... expensive 
 RPG's out there. It puts a hole in your pocket money, but the game is worth it. With those graphics, 
 characters, quests, monsters....*boggles*
  
  The main issue with this game is the downtime. Sometimes, the game will be down all day... and you're 
 still paying for that downtime. = (
  
  But yesh. Becides that downtime and the price tag, the game is totally awesome. There are eight 
 races (with rumours flying about that there will be more) and various classes, such as Mage, Druid, 
 Warrior, Paladin, Shaman, and Priest. Some heal, some are great tanks, some just plain own. The 
 community is wonderful as well. Exept for the odd ninja looter, you'll find yourself making several 
 friends on WoW. 
  
  So yesh. WoW is amazing. Exept for the price tag. That's amazing in it's own, special way. =D. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulgraveman
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  From what i had read, World of Warcraft was supposed to be one of the greatest games of all time 
 that anyone would enjoy. I'm the kind of person that enjoys all genres of games so i though id 
 try a MMORPG. WOW seemed like my best bet so i bought it.
  
  When I started playing i was completely impressed by the seemingly amaing environments and huge 
 world. The game play was also very fun.
  However, everything got old very quickly. i realized that the environments were very well done 
 but the overall graphics were awful! Also, all the so called "Quests" that were supposed to advance 
 the story of the game were all exactly the same. Kill X number of monsters OR retrieve X number 
 of items. the gamespot review was WAY to generous towards this game is it doesn't even have a story, 
 it does a horrible job of making you feel important or like a hero, that is why i now prefer Guild 
 Wars!!
  
  The setting is Incredible but the developersneed to do a better job of making the game feel more 
 like an EPIC adventure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft was one of my least anticipated games to come out this year even though it was 
 produced by the beloved Blizzard company which has brought us so many classics before. Though when 
 I recived it as a gift from family during holiday, I thought "whoop de doo, i'll play the friggen 
 game to humor him (received it from my brother) ", and I have been eternally greatfull ever since. 
 WoW (World of Warcraft) is a MMORPG that play less like an MMORPG and more like a real time game. 
 You may play as two factions, either the valiant Alliance or the foreboding Horde. Each faction 
 has its own unique set of races from the pondering Gnomes to the Voodoo like Trolls. The gameplay 
 is unique and addictive. Both factions have classes both shared and few faction specific only classes 
 which of all are each equally diverse with there ups and downs and usefullness to other players. 
 Priests may heal other players while warriors take all the damage, you know, basic RPG stuff. But 
 how the game play works is.. well... I cant put my finger on why this is much better then the regular 
 RPG. The graphics may not be "revolutionaly", but there very decent and at times are very facinating 
 in how certain spells and environments are so artistic and fun to watch. The environments are some 
 of the best ive seen in how a world so gargantually colossal (it make GTA: San Andreas look like 
 a public bathroom) and yet keep the environments fresh and all equally interesting. The sound affects 
 are a little drab in how basic fighting and animal sounds. But the music is top notch in how each 
 and every area is perfectly set with its own melody . Like when you enter the gates of the Great 
 Stormwind City and you hear an Epic Orchestral peice that follows you through the city, or when 
 you stumble into the vast Elwynn Forest and you hear soothing adventureous music on when you enter 
 the dreaded lava pits of the Burning Stepps and you hear an unwelcoming fiery peice that rattles 
 you in the darkened depps of the area. Its all good and as you can tell I enjoyed it. The game 
 also has several little things that make it fun, like the Mail system or the Griffions you use 
 for transportation. My favorite feature is that when you die, nothing bad happens, no XP det or 
 armor loss infact, the game has a rest system that if you log off in a friendly place u can gain 
 a form of grinding that allows you to grind much more eaisly so you can catch up with a friend 
 or what not. The game isn't a push over either, if you dont cooperate in a dungeon you are going 
 to die. This is an al out great game and anyone with enough time on there hands should give it 
 a shot. I wish I had more time to write this but I want to go play WoW. Sorry for any misspells 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arseonist
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Oh World of Warcraft, why do you torture me so. Going into the game, I thought it would be pure, 
 unadulterated joy, as many have led me to beleive. After creating my first character, things were 
 going just fine! The graphics were sparkly, to say the least, and I had no problems connecting 
 to the server. Then I talked to my first NPC, who told me that, in order for me start out on my 
 grand adventure, I had to go kill 10 wolves. 
  "Sure!", said I, awaiting the numerous, more enjoyable quests awaiting me after this one. I went 
 and killed the poor wolves, and returned to the NPC. Much to my suprise, he then ordered me to 
 bring him numerous wolf paws. Guess what animal wolf paws are gathered from! Basically, the game 
 continues at this pace for a great while. And while some say that "oh, it'll get better at higher 
 levels, just you wait and see", the only bonus at higher levels seems to be that, well, your enemies 
 do more damage, and they seem meaner. 
  So basically, you are paying $15 of your hard earned dollars playing a game in which you.. work 
 for computer controlled NPCs. If that appeals to you, hey, Blizzard needs more money, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctownsoldier09
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the biggest game in 2005, and I must be missing what is so great about this 
 game. World of Warcraft starts slow, but after you've played multiple hours it begins to get better 
 as you continue to build up your custom designed character. World of Warcraft is a great game that 
 PC RPG fans should definitely try out. However, WoW after many hours turns into a continuous grind 
 and you don't have much freedom. The graphics are a bit glitchy but the sound is crystal clear. 
 I'm not a big fan of the $15 monthly fee, but rabid RPG fanboys would willingly pay $30 monthly 
 to play this game. If you love MMORPG's then definitely buy WoW, if not, I suggest you try it before 
 you buy it, seeing as you may be highly disappointed like I was. WoW has been shelved for months 
 in my case, but many people have been playing constantly from the date it hit stores. If you're 
 looking for a mass multiplayer online game, I'd go with Diablo 2 or Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne 
 over WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramzimaher
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the best game I have ever played in my life, and I've played alot of games. 
 When I started out I didnt think much of it, I though it would be like any game and would last 
 for about 20-30 hours. Well I made a few characters to see which I liked the best and it seemed 
 that the mage's high DPS appealed to me, so I continued to play with him untill I reached an obsticale.... LAG.....
 
  It made me hate the game I dont know why I had it only that it is the enemy of every online gamer, 
 I looked further into the case and realized that it was NOT blizzard's fault, it was my ISP so 
 I contacted them, they appologized and said that they did what they could, yet I still had that 
 damned lag.
  I proceeded to uninstall the game and stopped playing for a month or two, well i felt bad about 
 the game that i didnt spend as long as i wanted to, so I reinstalled tha game and to my amazement 
 the latencey was down to 40ms, I couldnt be happier, but i didnt want to play as my mage. I made 
 a dwarf paladin, and played and played and played.
  The game was amazing, i play it till this day.... there is so much to do that i dont think it is 
 possible to get bored, the fighting can get a bit boring unless you form a raid group kill someone 
 like Onyxia for a change, then there is the auction house which i spent countless hours buying 
 low and selling high, thats the only way to make over 1000 gold to get your epic, the graphics 
 suit the game but it does not challenge many computers, but guess thats how blizzard wanted it 
 (so that as many people are able to play this game) . The touches to lighting are nice though.. but 
 why no shadows?
  The sound is awsome, when you fly into Stormwind, when you kill a group of monsters, or when you 
 just open up the auction house window, its great.
  The value does not need explaining, hundreds of hours are needed in order to get the maximum from 
 this game, about 40 days of semi casual gameplay to get to lvl 60 (thats more than 2000 hours of 
 playing) .
  This game is the best game i have played ever... its better than Ocarina of Time, Final Fantasy 
 VII and X. IT IS THE BEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tavyhome
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  This game is simply SUPERB.
  I think this is the Warcraft was meant to be when Blizzard made it back in the 90's. This game 
 is awesome. It is indeed a WORLD.... THE WORLD OF WARCRAFT.
  Of course there are some problems, like long log on time on full realms and long time to wait when 
 they release a patch. But if you pass this phase then you almost forget these problems....
  Many people don't like World Of Warcraft because the monthly fee.
  I'm total disagree with them. 
 I like and will pay the monthly fee. I have played other free MMORPG and they don't have so much 
 content as WoW.
  And new content on the way, and the HIGH TECH SUPPORT they offer... 
  Like GameSpot said: YOU MUST PLAY THIS GAME NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE. If you are a Warcraft fan the 
 better....
  Yet another INSTANT CLASSIC FROM THE ONE AND ONLY:
  
  ------------------------------------------ BLIZZARD ---------------------------------------------
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Even though I was a diehard, Warcraft fan, but the price of a monthly game, something I'd never 
 done, kept me from playing for awhile. Finally, after almost a year I broke down and bought it. 
 WOOOOWWW!! This game is awesome and worth any monthly price. Unlimited quests, tons of people online 
 playing constantly, role-playing or PvP, beautiful creatures, weapons, and everything. The world 
 is gigantic/HUGE/Immense!! Different factions to choose from, races, clases, various professions, 
 and entire market economy, mail, auction houses, spells, dragons, what else could you ask for. 
 
  
  Be Warned!!: If you have a social life this game is not for you! The game and immersive world are 
 so highly addictive that you will find many straight hours go by seemingly in a second. I can't 
 say enough about this game. Perfect for any age and incredibly immersive in an intricate, complex 
 world brought to life previously only in my dreams. You'll love it!
  Of note... after 3 years of playing the endless grinding, memorizing boss tactics, and continued 
 repetitive quests, this game no longer has kept my interest. WoW addictcs anonymous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: washirv77
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game was billed as "casual friendly", and it is, for a while. The level cap is 60. Levels 
 1-59 are a pretty fun ride.
  
  Then you reach 60, and your choice of activities are:
  
  1. PvP against people who have nothing better to do than grind endlessly for gear that will kill 
 you in nothing flat
  
  2. PvE in dungeons which require coordinating schedules of 40 people for 5 hours at a time. Again, 
 not a problem for people with nothing better to do, but if you have a life, and want to play with 
 others who have lives, forget it.
  
  It's worth the money for the few months it takes to get to 60. Just be aware that you (a) cannot 
 compete against the hardcore players at 60, and (b) you will find it very difficult to participate 
 in the end-game PvE.
  
  I understand this is pretty common to all MMORPGs. Just don't be surprised when you find that this 
 game has the same problems as the rest of them and, in the end, becomes a catch-up fest where you 
 need to "play" at least full time to catch up.
  
  If you are one of those who plays his game of the year for 7 hours per day every day, obviously 
 the above doesn't necessarily apply to you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: splashmatrix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has made a great game with World of Warcraft. It is fun from the start - beginning instantly 
 with interesting quests and an amazing story. Anyone who enjoys Warcraft lore needs to try this 
 game. Most locations have a deep background in the established lore of Azeroth.
  
  The game is pure fun for the first thirty levels. Eventually, most players abandon questing due 
 to the diminishing rewards (experience gained) . Instances provide a exciting way to collaborate 
 with friends and gain powerful loot to improve your character with.
  
  Once reaching the level cap, however, the game loses some of its appeal. Most end-game content 
 lies either in raid instances or PvP Battlegrounds. PvP is good and bad. The battlegrounds (instanced 
 areas with team-based PvP objectives) . Although most classes are relatively equal, there are still 
 balance issues that Blizzard addresses in its frequent patch updates to the game. The honor system 
 was released in a previous patch to the game, and allows players to gain "ranks". Honorable kills 
 (of players within a fair range of you) give honor points, which are used to calculate rank. Once 
 you reach the higher ranks, you must work against other players. Unfortunately, this requires an 
 unhealthy amount of time, as the final rank (Grand Marshal for the alliance & High Warlord for 
 the horde) requires you to be the #1 player on your server. 
  
  Raid instances involve working with a group of 20-40 other players to conquer varied bosses. Offering 
 advancement in the form of new armor sets and epic quality weapons, raid instances provide a good 
 way to advance your character once you've reached the level cap. Unfortunately, raiding requires 
 a large time commitment which many players dont have. Raid instances require from 3-8 hours to 
 complete (which can be broken up over a period of a few days) . Different items have a set chance 
 to drop, and may require multiple attempts to get.
  
  For more casual players, Blizzard has introduced the Silithus zone. It focuses on quests and encounters 
 completed in smaller increments - eventually offering loot equal to that you could obtain from 
 raid instances.
  
  Most of this should change in a few months when the new "Burning Crusade" expansion pack is released, 
 increasing the level cap to seventy and offering a whole new continent of quests, items, and dungeons.
 
  
  If you have even a small interest in MMORPGs, World of Warcraft is your best choice, rising above 
 the competition and offering hours of fun for all audiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So almighty Blizzard once again graces the gaming community with their latest incarnation; World 
 of Warcraft. This is their first foray into Massive Multiplayer games and they made a smashing 
 debut.
  
  The world of Warcraft (no pun intended) truly comes to life with the stylized visuals which fit 
 with the Warcraft 3 theme. They truly do have a unique sense of style and have developed an interesting 
 game world with plenty to see and do. The graphics and effects are probably some of the best that 
 I at least have seen in an MMORPG. 
  
  As for the gameplay, their motto must have been KISS (Keep It Simple, Stupid) . You can easily dive 
 into the game and figure out what you are doing without ever looking at the manual. In fact, I 
 honestly don't think I've read a single word out of the manual to this date lol, and I've had this 
 game for a long while now. But don't let the simple interface fool you. This game has plenty of 
 depth, especially once you get into the higher levels and get to dabble in your talent trees. That's 
 when the real fun comes into play.
  
  The game consists of two factions; the Alliance, and the Horde. If you have ever played a Warcraft 
 game (and if you haven't you must live in a cave) , then these are instantly recognizable. Beyond 
 the factions you have 4 races per faction with classes that possess unique abilities. Each class 
 plays totally different, so if you ever get bored, you can always roll up a new class and try it 
 out.
  
  There are a million WoW servers. You have Normal, PvP, RP, and RP-PvP. Which goes to show you how 
 dedicated Blizzard is to this game and the community. They have consistently been rolling out good 
 patches and adding even more and more content without the need of an expansion pack (although the 
 first exp. pack, Burning Crusade, is scheduled for release sometime within the next century) . 
 
  
  With the good gameplay, stylized visuals, plenty of quests and "instances" (i. e. special "dungeon" 
 areas) , a simple interface, and character customization through the Talent Trees, and you have 
 yourself one heck of a game. There are secondary "trade skills" you can pick up and take part in 
 if you don't feel like doing quests. 
  
  That's another thing about this game. You can easily level fast by doing quests, so the days of 
 hacking the same monsters over and over are gone. There are more quests than I can even begin to 
 count, and that's only per faction. Taking in the game as a whole and you have a massive collection 
 of quests and things to go do.
  
  As for the loot, there are some very cool items that you can get. The auction house is a great 
 addition, something that EVERY MMORPG should have (although Blizzard was not the first to have 
 this idea, but it is implemented really well) .
  
  One minor quibble I have is that it would have been nice to have longer names or names with spaces 
 at least, and a little more customization in the character creation department, but this doesn't 
 really affect the game as a whole.
  
  All in all, if you are looking to play a MMORPG, at least right now, World of Warcraft is easily 
 hands down the best choice. Now, we shall see once D&D Online comes out who is the reigning champ 
 :)
  
  Now, WoW doesn't exactly usher in the next generation of MMORPG's, but with what's available on 
 the market, it is easy to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyjoe213
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one hell of an amazing game. Its such a big world with so much to do. There 
 are at least 20 classes and 8 races. Humans, dwarves, night-elves and imps make out the allience. 
 Orcs, Torans, undeads and trolls make up the horde. The classes are warriors, paladins, hunters, 
 shamens, mages, warlocks, and rogues. The Allience and The Horde are obviously enemies and both 
 have there own contient. What makes the game so fun is that you can pretty much do anything. You 
 can join guilds, swim, go on a raiding party or even invade enemy capital cities. The highest level 
 you can go to is 60 but once you are lvl 60 you are pretty powerful. Its nearly impossible to explore 
 everthing on the map and know where to find everthing because every week somthing different happens. 
 The dumbest thing is the graphics and the monthly fees. It looks to much like a comic book. If 
 you don't mind both of these things get the damn game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellas123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of RPG's, i always played with the idea of getting into MMORPG's, seeing that 
 they are more or less one and the same. Many of my co-workers had started the game from as early 
 as the BETA, and that would be all they would talk about. At the end i gave in, and thought "Hey, 
 why not". So ever since the day i purchased myself a copy, my wife has been second guessing on 
 why she accepted my proposal to marriage... lol.
  
  No matter how many reviews you read (good/bad) , you just got to go and pick yourself up a copy 
 and just give it a try. You will never look back again.
  As this game combines all the great features of past RPG's. Even if you are not a huge RPG fan, 
 but just a casual gamer, you will still get the chance to enjoy the game just as much as the hard 
 core players, as the game has been set up in a way to not penalize the casual players.
  
  I find sometimes that the game could of used some more polishing as far as the graphics are concerned. 
 But again the whole cartoon look actually compliments the game. But the game play, seriously makes 
 up for the lack in graphics in a huge way.
  
  Pick up a copy, first month is free. And judge for yourself.
  
  See you in Azeroth!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts. Before last summer, I had been playing EverQuest 2 since november 2004, and EverQuest 
 for 4 years before that, and I didn't believe that WoW had something so spectacular that it was 
 named "Game of the Year" on some sources before it was even live. Friends from EverQuest played 
 it, so I figured I guess I should give it a try then.
  
  [first of all I'd like to say that I'll try to leave out the obvious MMORPG -things, and compare 
 to the experience to EQ2 and other personal opinions]
  
  First thing to slap you in the face were the graphics. I knew the graphics look cartoony, but this? 
 But after a while, I came accross some amazing sceneries around various places, and I still do. 
 A certified "WoW" effect there. The graphics are very true to WarCraft -brand, in both good and 
 bad. Yes, they look exactly like places in WarCraft III, but everything is basically also freaking 
 big. I mean, seriously, look at the hands of humans. Huuuuuuuuuge, as Trump would put it.
  All in all, graphics are cartoony, but they work, and that's all I care about. Altough, why is 
 everything glowing so much? Is there radition involved?
  
  Playing WoW after 5 years of MMORPGing is quite easy, only few things were different, but easily 
 learned after a while of playing. It's actually TOO easy to just solo around with pretty much any 
 class available, monsters just basically die too easy. But alas, thy shall not get totally cocky, 
 or thy shall find the -peep- up in your arse faster than you can say "ganked". Have a friend or 
 two with you, and you'll go like a train through'em. 
  But that's one issue there - the game is so solo-oriented that you can solo around 75% of the quests 
 on your way to max level's. Mostly only dungeon and elite quests are the one's you usually cannot 
 solo, but with few friends they're no biggie. 
  
  Sounds and music do not make me stand in ovation nor shut down the speakers completely. In my opinion, 
 music is bit worse than in EQ2, same for the sounds. But only true lack compared to EQ2 in sound-department, 
 is that EQ2 has spoken quest-giving, which adds some nice touch to it all.
  
  Now, since everyone (well, basically 90% of the reviewers) have praised the game from earth to 
 heaven, I shall concentrate more on the lacking -department I've so far come accross (mind you 
 - I do not own max level character, yet, due soon-to-be-mentioned half-reasons) :
  
  - No Looking For Group -tool. Why not? It's pretty stupid to go to Ironforge or Orgrimmar to look 
 for a group and then spend next 10-30 minutes to get yourself to the scene, or wait in the "zone". 
 LFG Tool would help grouping greatly, and lack of such tool is one of the reasons I've kept soloing 
 or sticked with people I know.
  
  - As to other reasons for not grouping, I'd say "stupid people". Either they are generally incompetent, 
 moron's, or both. "diners rdy gg bye!" is the most stupid and idiotic reason to leave a group after 
 20 minutes inside a dungeon, no matter who you are. This isn't solely the game's fault, I just 
 think WoW has dragged more players from Diablo's, Counter-Strike and such, rather than from other 
 MMORPG's. I'm not saying people who play those games I mentioned would be stupid off the bat, but 
 they just seem to be the games the most idiotic WoW'ers play or have played.
  
  - Skills & Spells. I don't know about you, but when I came from EQ2 to play WoW, I felt a bit stupid 
 for tossing my fireball for next 50 levels. "Fireball Rank 8"? Is this the best the geniouses in 
 Blizzard can do? So what we basically have is bit over 10 skills with equal number of ranks (some 
 more, some less) . Additionally there are naturally talents, which have about as much variation 
 as traffic lights. Sure, you *can* go and do dozens of different sets, but only like two or three 
 are any use. Go anything else, and it means your lesser being in some way compared to others.
 
  
  - Lvl 60. Everyone wants to get there, except now I've started to think about the point of it. 
 Before 60, you can somewhat excell in Battlegrounds and such by sheer skill, with the help of your 
 gear. At 60 (or so I've heard/read/understood) , the thing is reversed - you excell with gear with 
 help of your skill. This is *exact* the opposite the thing should be, and since I don't have time 
 nor interest to compete with The Best on server, what's left to me? I've read about Arathi Basin's 
 closing 'cause other side saw who's up against'em and they left the scene 'cause they knew they'd 
 automatically loose no matter what. What kind of gaming is this exactly?
  
  - Duels and PvP. This should have actually been integrated to "People are generally idiots" -part, 
 but I guess it'll work on it's own, too. Now, first of all, I play on PvP server. I am there because 
 old friends were there when I figured I'd start to play, so it wasn't entirely my own choice, but 
 I still kind of like being on Pvp server. Anyway, most annoying things? Duels. I understand the 
 training aspect on duels, but 20 levels higher character challenges you to a duel? 20 levels is 
 maybe bit harshly put, but it has happened. Just last week some guy, 14 levels higher than me, 
 challenged me to a duel. I declined. He challenged again, and started jumping around like a bunny 
 in heat.
  Less than a week ago, I was in Felwood with my mage, I went after a quest, to kill some of those 
 magnifically animated (as in, they don't move their limbs, at all) blood-elf ladies. I got killed 
 three times by a horde character, each and every time I was attacking one of the elf's. Rogue's 
 were 53 and 56, warrior was 56. I was lvl 50. See a pattern here? But I'm used to that, I kind 
 of started to like the 5'ish minute runs to the corpse, getting spells up and running again, and 
 doing it all over again. But that's still PvP, and thus acceptable. But what is sheer stupidity, 
 is what happened later on the same day. I was running around a bit, looking for more elves, since 
 that spot seemed to be famously occupied. I saw an undead rogue (turn to east, see another. Turn 
 to west, see another. It's not like they'd be rare or anything) , who mounted on his horse when 
 I went past him in the distance. I'm not even lying when I say he rode after me for good 10 minutes, 
 while I was amused by his actions and just kept riding around, watching him tailing me. I'm not 
 saying some people got to do something for themselves, but Jesus H, that was bit sad.
  
  But all in all, World of Warcraft can be fun time to play with, especially with friends-only, when 
 the playing level usually gets elevated to new heights.
  
  However, I still wouldn't go saying it's hands-down better than EQ2 for example. I'd say WoW reminds 
 me more of Diablo, while EQ2 seems more like a role-playing game, with usually more mature players 
 than WoW in general. Quests in WoW are generally the same crap as in any other MMORPG with few 
 exceptions, but they're still nothing completely new.
  
  All-in-all, WoW is a fresh wind in MMOPRG land. It brings nothing new to the table but leaves something 
 out of it, still keeping the game generally fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDWright
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Actually I frowned upon games such as these for I thought that it would be soley dependant upon 
 other players and therefore boring. I started out playing SWG and was enthralled by the amount 
 of detail and character development... until their downgrade (or upgrade as they called it) . But 
 my friends got my attention with the amount of variety and solo playing capability that WOW had 
 to offer. I can honestly say that my first hour I was hooked. Numerous classes and hundreds of 
 quests that it just kept my attention and made me crave.."just another 10 minutes" mentality. I 
 will tell you that if you don't like MMORPG's then you will if you give this one a try. By far 
 the most addictive, fun, and interesting game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter_Shuemais
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  As a self-proclaimed Warcraft lover, spanning back to the original Warcraft: Orcs versus Humans, 
 all the way through Warcraft 3 and its expansion pack, I took the announcement of an online, fee-based 
 Warcraft game with some trepidation. Knowing little of MMORPGs myself, I watched as the game developed 
 over several years, and saw just how radical the change was.
  
  Gone were the tiny units I knew so well, all replaced by a single, solitary hero, my only window 
 into this strange new world. I was ready to wash my hands of the entire thing, and wait ever so 
 impatiently for the next game to return to its RTS roots. I was sure that the fine folks at Blizzard, 
 in whom I'd laid my trust so faithfully in the past, had lost their minds completely.
  
  Oh, how very wrong I was.
  
  As anyone who hasn't been living under a rock for the past year 
 likely knows by now, starting out in World of Warcraft involves a player creating a character based 
 on eight races set in the Warcraft universe, aligned with either the mighty Alliance, or the powerful 
 Horde. From the gruff Orc to the sinewy Human, and the svelte Night Elves to the stocky Tauren, 
 most races that players have come to know so well are available. 
  
  After that, a class must be chosen, such as Warriors (weapon-wielding powerhouses) , Rogues (stealthy 
 damage-dealers) , or Warlocks (magic-wielding terrors) . One class relatively unique to World of 
 Warcraft is the Hunter class, a popular choice that allows a player to eventually tame and control 
 a pet to fight alongside you. Also, if players have an interest in a more balanced, holistic-melee 
 class, they have to choose between the Alliance's Paladin, or the Horde's Shaman.
  
  After choosing a race, a class, and other details such as character features and a name, the player 
 begins in a starting area for his or her chosen race. It's here where the immersion into the game 
 truly begins, as you begin to explore this brave, new world you've leapt into. Experience (and 
 everything that comes with it -- money, abilities, etc) are learned through quests, handed out 
 by NPCs stationed throughout the starting area. These NPCs are found by the hovering exclamation 
 points over their head, which tell you that they have a quest for you to complete.
  
  Starting areas (or zones) are usually kept for characters from levels one through six, which offer 
 a good opportunity to dip your toe into the game without taking on too much too soon. Monsters 
 are relatively harmless if you leave them alone, and there aren't so many that you'll be overwhelmed 
 by them. You'll also get to see the graphic style and color of the world around you, and, even 
 on a lower-end PC, you shouldn't have a lot of trouble seeing where you need to go.
  
  Unfortunately, not everything is as perfect as it seems. As you progress through the game, challenges 
 become more and more complex and difficult to solve, and some players without access to friends 
 who play might find it harder to succeed. Guilds are easy to find and join (there's always someone 
 advertising for the latest and greatest guild; just keep your eyes open) , but it can be hit or 
 miss as to just what kind of group you've found. Still, the dreaded "level grinding" is usually 
 available if you're on your own, and with some hard work and effort, you CAN succeed at almost 
 any task, if you try hard enough.
  
  World of Warcraft is the sort of MMORPG that players who've never played one can enjoy, if they're 
 willing to make the effort to do so, and invest a little time and patience into it. If you give 
 it a chance, you might be surprised as just how addicting the gameplay can actually be. If you 
 have friends or regular players you can group up with, it's almost a certainty that you'll find 
 yourself playing this game more and more, until it's hard to step away.
  
  Warcraft fans should definately give it a shot. You'll be glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a3xloser
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  this game is so good, i played most mmorpg's from eq1 when it came out starwars, motor city online, 
 eq2, and loads more, this one looked really bad to me, i was going to give it a miss, but i had 
 an exchange a the shop and there was nothing else, glad i did, this is really the best ever, i 
 never liked PvP games as none have worked til now, the pve side is huge but i have made my way 
 as a PvP only player, you can do this i never do any thing other than battle other players and 
 get discount rewards for doing so, but thats me you can quest or do great instances with guilds, 
 it has every thing you could want, i love it, you will too, oh the reason the grafix are not the 
 best is to cut down on lag, unlike some other games a 40 v 40 pvp battle will run no problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batty_man
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok so you've played Everquest and all the other MMORPG but none of them could even compare to the 
 world of warcraft. First thing you do in this game is of course...... make your character and then 
 from there you enter the world of warcraft. When you first enter you'll have nothing...... nothing 
 at all besides what the character you are haves already.
  
  The gameplay in this game is like any other mmorpg but this one is really simple, you will get 
 help from npc plus messages will pop up to tell you something when you do it for a first time, 
 which really helps new people to this game. The levelling up system in this is also really simple 
 (it doesnt have some crappy 100% level up system) instead it has a system where as you level the 
 amount of experience points you need go up every time you level up.
  
  The Graphics in this game are also pretty damn good for a MMORPG, I used to play ragnarok (which 
 has anime graphics.) so basically Id say that the graphics on this game are very up to date even 
 if they arent as good as Guild Wars. Another plus with the graphics on this game are the views 
 that you can get, they are awesome.
  
  The sound for this game really suits it, from the sounds of Stormwind to the sounds of Ironforge 
 it is just really good.
  
  For Value on this game youll WILL get it, youll play this game forever Ive had it for about 
 6 months now and havent change to any other game. So yes this game defiantly get a 10 for value.
 
  
  So in the end Id say get this game if you want a game thatll last you a very long time and give 
 you ever lasting fun! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  good game, good graphics, but there are simply two problems:
  Fee: you gotta play loads of bucks or quids for this game to play it. makes no sense to me.
  
 Hardcore: you should play it 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to extremely enjoy it.
  I prefer Guild Wars because it hasn't got any monthly fees and you can play it softcore. Guild 
 Wars is more about skills and how good you play your character, while in World of Warcraft, skills 
 are very easy to learn. The thing which makes difference between your character and other people's 
 is your gear: the items you wear; and you have to go grind them by going to many high-end dungeons 
 which will take at least 2 hours each. you have to play too much World of Warcraft to enjoy the 
 game. But in Guild Wars, items aren't that improtant. You can still beat another guy who wears 
 better gear than you by just using your skills and spells carefully and in the right place.
  The graphic of both games are great. Guild Wars has more realastic graphic, but it has less lag 
 than World of Warcraft. World of Warcraft has a brilliant cartoon-like graphic which is great but 
 you will get lag with a normal PC/Mac while playing (esp. in major cities like Ironforge)
  The only problem about Guild Wars is that the world will look empty to you: it's just you and your 
 party (except in cities) , however, it has a pro: you won't have to wait for hours to get a boss 
 or a mob respawned in order to kill/interact him/her.
  The other thing about WoW is you will spend most of your time runnnig between cities or regions, 
 whereas in GW you can simply click on the city you want to go to and you will get teleported.
 
  Finding groups in WoW is quite easier than in GW. you don't have to wait much to get into a group, 
 especially at higher levels.
  The good thing about WoW is you get loads of updates every 6 weeks which brings more challenge 
 to the game, which is probably why you'll have to pay for this game.
  The Role-Playing part of World of Warcraft is good in my opinion, especially if you are a Warcraft 
 fan. The lore is defined for you in a great story (but not original) . However it can't compete 
 a game like Elder Scrolls in terms of RP. You don't have much to do in WoW to build a Role-Playing 
 character to a great level. Also the RP-Realms are full of Russians (or other people who don't 
 speak English) in the European servers.
  PvP as I said before, is great while you are levelling up. But when you get to level 60 (level 
 cap) the competition of going into massive raid instances to get a single item increases and many 
 people feel the game is changed to a "job" rather than a "game to enjoy". Without a good set of 
 items you always lose to your opponent (unless the really don't have a clue how to play) because 
 of the lack of your gear. However Blizzard has recently released a good set of items available 
 to "casual" gamers which has made the life a lot easier for casual gamers, but still, if you want 
 to be the best, you have to play all the time.
  
  My word? World of Warcraft is an enjoyable game, but extremely time consuming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Are you ready for a war within a box? Then World of Warcraft is for you. Within this great highly 
 addictive and motivated accelerated game you will find ancient armors, ancient areas, ancient secrets 
 that some players have never found yet. You will learn to become the best of the best on the food 
 chain along with being the best of the best of the in-game market, the Auction House. 
  You will cut and kill creatures fast and easy finding great treasures and wonders and secrets. 
 You may bump into an ancient Dragon or two that has come to destroy the land or you may just find 
 that the enemy forces that despise you have come to invade your cities all at once and all by surprise 
 with lethal vengeance and mindless unstoppable madness but fun. 
  Imagine this, your looking into your mailbox trying to decide if you should use this nice 2 handed 
 sword with agility stats and all of a sudden Horde, the Taurens Trolls Orcs and Undead pour like 
 a flood of water into your city taking out guards left and right. All you can do is scream at the 
 top of your lungs and try your best to protect your people and pray for a miracle that your city 
 will be safe. 
  All of a sudden your miracle comes true and a pack of deadly Night Elves come to save the day and 
 they are royally ticked off and they have come to kill and cleanse their city from all the filth 
 and an all out battle begins for hours it goes on and on. 
  You just want so much to get stronger so you can grab some of that action as well and for once 
 show your enemies how this war will end. But remember, if the war ends... they'll be back.. but 
 with more troops and they wont be happy. 
  The game just gets more and more intense. You'll never forget a bar fight when you and your 2 buddies 
 kick the living life out of 5 other heavy armed tough guys that tried their best to kill you but 
 they couldn't because you was just too good to be killed.
  Youll never forget a fight over a small chest that you want badly in a camp that's guarded by 
 half human half dragon like creatures and one of your great enemies came to take it too. But he 
 knows he will fight you over it and the last man standing to survive the camp and the battle between 
 the 2 fighters will claim the chest that may have an item worth more than you have ever had in 
 the game and is more than enough to buy you a whole new wardrobe full of great power.
  Youll never forget hiding in the woods with your friends that like to hide too just waiting for 
 an enemy force to come walking right by so you can gank them by surprise. 
  Youll never forget a fight where you have to take on 5 fighters and your all alone at the time 
 and you some how survive the fight and they are dead or wounded. You just feel so strong with courage. 
 You know from that fight you can kick butt fast no matter how many numbers they have.
  Youll never forget the secrets within the game that no one else has found ever and you just got 
 lucky and found it. Its more than worth the hours of your time i promise you.
  You will be stunned with amazement of how much this game pwns in hardcore warfare and game-play. 
 There's always something to do. If its fame or fortune or Honor, you will learn to fight for it 
 and you will enjoy fighting for it. There's no possible way you couldn't enjoy this game.
  Its the best of the best my friend, and its getting better every day. 
  I await for you to join 
 the game. I await for you in the great land of Feralas where it rains and its easy to hide in the 
 day and hunt at night. Come join the game. The game of mysteries and wonders that you will never 
 forget. Youll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nargalad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Before I bought this game, I heard of an insanely fun MMORPG. I have played the previous Warcraft 
 games, and I loved them, but I noticed that this new Warcraft game was not like its predecessors: 
 it was an RPG. Nah, I said to myself. I hate RPG games. So my friend invited to play at his house. 
 Well, can't hurt can it? I created an Undead mage on his account, and boom I was addicted. Of course 
 he wanted to play his Shaman, but I just didn't let him. So why is this game so appealing to most 
 people? Firstly, the graphic and sound effects of this game is quite amazing. I cannot believe 
 how some people rate down on the graphics. Anyone who has spent more than two hours playing any 
 computer game would surely recognize that the graphics of this game are just incredible! Also, 
 although the music aren't classics or anything, but they create a huge sense of belonging to this 
 world, and amplify the effects of the graphic environment by tenfold! Although some times different 
 classes and races are not balanced perfectly, many new patches are being introduced, and perfection 
 is slowly and surely being reached. We are lucky that this game gives us a selection between PvP, 
 PvE, and RP. True, the innovative PvP system does have many problems, but I would suggest that 
 people who rate down Blizzard in this area at least find out how to use their Horde/Alliance Trinkets 
 before whining about the limitations of honor point awards on this site. I find the idea of allowing 
 a friendly competition between factions very impressive, and I encourage Blizzard to build on that. 
 Of course, there are those who only want to explore the gargantuan and detailed world of Azeroth 
 and adventure in its many exotic dungeons. PvE is for those people. PvE forbids all combat between 
 the factions and allows players to focus on the dungeon-raiding experience. Also, to further the 
 balance of this game, ingame instances are created. Instances are special areas in which a "copy" 
 of it is created every time a different group/raid-group enters it. This unique and clever system 
 makes loot-stealing nearly impossible. As you can see, I have rated this game down in the gameplay, 
 only because the quests become quite repetetive. Quests can be divided into a few groups. Some 
 of these are talk to a person, deliver something, kill x of x mob, get x item off x mob, collect 
 x of x item, deliver item within x minutes, etc. There are about 10 groups of these, and 10 groups 
 is not a lot for a game that requires at least 3 months for an average gamer to max their levels. 
 All in all, WoW is a very impressive game, and surely will be a milestone for all MMORPGs. I hope 
 that we can all be intelligent enough to thank Blizzard for such a great game, and that the expansion 
 The Burning Crusade will improve an already near-perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airik1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  i spend many hours playing but still theres so much missing in my opinion... its like any newb 
 can pick this game up and be lvl 60 in no time. i want to have to work for my level and at the 
 same time while im playing, theres someone getting rested benifets making my hard work seam a bit 
 worthless.. also the items all look to be all the same up till you get your lvl 60 gear which everyone 
 in your class probably has. making your attempts to be diffrent and unique a bit impossable. in 
 fact the whole char. creation is all the same and no matter what spec you do its all the same to 
 any other players doing shadow/holy spec or what ever the case may be, in your class.... they take 
 a lot from EQ, but at the same time EQ could learn a few things from wow as well.. WoW made it 
 fun and easy to pick up and play this type of game, but with its downfalls. i love MMORPG's and 
 this is a must have (even with my gripes) .. ohh yea and blizzard servers arent the best thing, 
 with long down times and some times impossable to get on to any server at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallears
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  I played WoW from its beta release. I played for 7 months and then quit because I was going to 
 college and did not want to get bad grades from playing to much. This game is wonderfull and addictive. 
 I am sad that I must move on. I played AO for a long time and I think this MMROPG finaly over did 
 AO. I have summed up the game in less then 100 words and im just filling in space now. The graphics 
 are great. The game play is great. This game is so great im actually late to my class because im 
 writing a review about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warren55555
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun when you first start playing it. The world is huge, there are tons of 
 things to do, and it looks nice - although it looks a little bit like a cartoon. But after playing 
 for a while, it gets pretty boring. At first because there is so much content, it seems like you 
 have a lot of freedom to make your own character unique. But after a while you realize that you 
 really can't make that many important choices. And you find yourself spending huge amounts of time 
 mining mithril or hacking away in some boring dungeon so you can buy a horse or a new sword. And 
 when you get the horse, or sword? Yep, go hack and mine some more. OK, now you have a new helmut 
 , good boy, go grind some more.
  
  I played City of Heros for about a month before I played WOW. I got sick of that game too, but 
 in the end I came away with better feelings about City of Heros. You can't do much in City of Heros, 
 but you know that going in. In WOW you can't do much either, but because of the hype and initial 
 play experience, you think you can.
  
  Buy the game, play for a month or two, and then put it on the shelf and move on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: feen_uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Doom, Half Life and now World of Warcraft proudly sits up there as one of the all time greats in 
 PC gaming.
  
  Ive been playing this game since the BETA testing a year ago and im still hooked. I was never a 
 MMORPG fan before this, but being a Warcraft 2,3 fan, id thought id give it ago. WoW is one of 
 them rare gaming treats where you come home from work, turn on your PC and the next time you look 
 at the clock its midnight, doh!
  
  Blizzard seems to have nailed it, fair enough, there can be bugs like every other MMOG, but Blizzard 
 do fix them. Every aspect of this game is fantasicly put together, from setting up or joining a 
 guild with players that you get on really well with, taking that first step into PvP'n, finally 
 getting your mount after saving every piece of copper you had, to finally entering a high lvl RAID 
 party and defeating one of the games many boss's.
  
  Since playing WoW ive tryed other MMORPG's (SWG, DAOC, GW, etc) and for me, none have come close 
 to competing with this beast of a game. 
  
  One last point, some people complain about paying a monthly fee for MMORPG's, well, since playing 
 WoW ive bought about 10 other games, when normally id probably buy about 20-25 a year. So ive probably 
 saved myself money :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlyngeL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has the greatest polish I've ever seen in an MMORPG. From the get-go the game's 
 system looked very much like every other MMORPG and their mothers, but as I spent more time with 
 it, the amount of thought and balancing effort Blizzard has put into this game seems to really 
 stand out from the crowd of other "blockbuster MMOs"
  
  The graphics and animation of the game doesn't seem to push as many polygons as, say Everquest 
 2, but after spending a few minutes playing I find my disbelief is completely suspeded as every 
 single bit of detail seems to blend perfectly with this cartoony artstyle. The sound is good too, 
 with ambient music fitting your location humming away (you even have an option to play music all 
 the time, which is something I personally have missed in other MMOs) and the sounds of battle are 
 varied and fitting the actions they discribe. If you are an elitist you can actually discern everything 
 going on from the sounds you hear, as healing spells, backstab attacks and warriors battleshouts 
 all have specific sounds tied to them.
  
  Load times are a breeze. You will only ever see a loading screen a scant few times after you have 
 logged on your character and even these will be swift not pulling you too much out of your immersion. 
 When you board a ship for the other continent for example the loading screen will look like an 
 Indiana Jones-esque travelling sequence with loading done when your red path has reached your destination 
 harbor.
  
  One year after launch the game still has a few bugs but the ones I have discovered are never really 
 game-stopping. New content are still being added on a regular basis (though it must be said the 
 game always seem to suffer from lag the first 24 hours after a patch for some reason) and it keeps 
 the game exciting even for highlevel players.
  
  Finally blizzards support for plugins should be mentioned. I might be wrong but this is the first 
 time I have seen an MMO support custom content on a scale of this magnitude. In my oppinion the 
 basic interface of the game is somewhat lacking: I find its layout difficult to master and even 
 frustrating at times if you want to make reactionary moves (say, I want to interrupt a monster's 
 spellcasting) , when I need to keep track of information on both the left, right and bottom of my 
 screen all at the same time. The usermade plugins you can download from the web can help you sort 
 out your interface and help you place the information useful to you where YOU feel they will be 
 most useful. The kind of information a plugin can provide you are all something you can calculate 
 yourself using a pen and paper and a very fast finger on a calculator, (like how much health your 
 partymembers have, or an estimate of your enemy's health and mana) or info you can get by opening 
 an info screen (like your own attack power and how much it will cost you to repair your current 
 outfit) .
  
  The interface in the game is true to the artstyle and has a fairly good usability factor but its 
 inherent lack of customizability is a step down from SOE's Starwars Galaxies or Everquest 2. For 
 most casual gamers the vanilla interface will do just fine, but for the few elite gamers out there 
 a slight enhancement of your interface can improve your performance by as much as 2.341% :p (kidding 
 aside it CAN help your character perform better in groups where others are depending on you being 
 able to fulfil your role, especially on the higher levels of play) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAD_VIRUS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion World Of Warcraft is the best game ever made by any company on any console. To be 
 honest when I first started playing I didn't like it as much as I thought I would, but after some 
 more time of playing I found this game amazing (I still don't understand why I didnt liked it 
 ;) ) .
  There are so many different things you can do unlike in some other MORPG. It was so good that I 
 didn't do anything else except playing World Of Warcraft. Honestly... I was playing it 24/7. The 
 only disadvantage of it is that you have to pay. 
  Gameplay owns, amount of things you can do are immeasurable. PVP, Battlegrounds, PVE, Instances, 
 Questing, you have thousands and thousands of different armors and weapons, with 8 Races (2 more 
 in expansion) 9 classes and 12 different professions there are lot of different ways you can follow 
 and much, much more.
  So if you don't have this game, then you should really get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the most addictive game ive ever played. Everything is done right in the game, 
 the only problem i have found with the game is the lag and that just depends what kind of computer 
 you are playing it on.
  
  The combat in the game is very fast paced and very fun. If you ever get tired of questing you can 
 always work on your professions. Which vary from skinning animal hides to make armor to collecting 
 herbs to making potions. There are also alot of little things like, the mailbox feature which lets 
 you send mail to your friends, the auctionhouse, which lets you put a certain item up for a certain 
 price and other people can buy it, celebrating holidays like Christmas and Halloween and having 
 faires which let you buy food, drinks and turn in items to get rewards.
  
  The PVP in the game is very fun. You can either raid the other factions towns or you can enter 
 the Battlegrounds which let you go into Warsong Gulch, Arathi Basin, and the high level battleground, 
 Alterac Valley. In warsong you will be playing capture the flag and in arathi basin you will be 
 collecting resources and alterac valley is similar to arathi basin except bigger. The graphics 
 and sound are both fantastic in the game.
  
  I could go on and on about the depth and features in this game, but you will just have to check 
 it out for yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan17
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is crap its like a repeat of the old diablo games maybe a little updated but this game 
 is deff not worth the time or the money unless you dont have a life This game cannot compare to 
 games like City of heros, City of villians, SWG, Guild wars. Much beter games to spend time on dont 
 be a war craft nerd this game has so much hype from these nerds you dont no what to bealive trust 
 me like i said id rather play 20hours of pong then this game.... God help this game Band it from 
 the game world! its a total drag someone please agree with me on this crappy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mana_of_sword
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of those games that comes around, and blows everyone away, Although if 
 you make a few bad coices when making a character, it WILL come back and bite you. Looking at the 
 game itself, its great, lots of rare items, things to kill, people to meet, quests that need doing 
 and more PvP then you can shake a stick at, but, when you boil the game down, your left with two 
 things. Good class - Bad class. The classes in this game leave something to be desired. If you 
 look at something like a Warlock in the end game, what do they have to do..... summon? Sure, they 
 are good at soloing/PvP but in the end, you be good in PvP you need good gear, and at level 60, 
 soloing won't get you anywhere. Or you can look at the mage, who is just a vending machine that 
 - once every three minutes - can kill you. And Blizzard, like wvery other MMO producer, is after 
 money, and not losing their costomers, so they make lots of new content, although getting support 
 from players is never really taken into account, unless people are LEAVING because of problems 
 Blizz is ignoring.
  
  The lowdow -
  
  One of the best MMO's around, one everthing is fixed it will only get better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceoaces
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I love the Warcraft series, they actually hooked me with the first game. The storyline was so immersive, 
 and when I heard that a game was being created where you could take on the roles of characters 
 in the game I was SO excited. The Demon Hunter is such a cool character, I just couldn't wait to 
 fight as him.
  
  Turns out you don't get to be the Demon Hunter. Nor do anything like his weapons even EXIST in 
 the game. In fact, you don't really fight in the game, you just kind of tell your guy to attack 
 and then you go make a sandwich or something. It's actually kind of a math game. Haha, what are 
 the chances? Something so fun and arbitrary and throwing hordes of armies against one another in 
 the previous games is now just a game of "Oh my god, I just spent five weeks farming for shoulder 
 pads so that now I have 2352 armor instead of 2351."
  
  Did that wolf just drop a chestplate? Oh yes he did. Cause that totally makes sense. Hunting for 
 Murlock eyes? Good luck, turns out most Murlocks don't have eyes, even the ones that obviously 
 do, cause this game is all about random chance. I truly believe it wouldn't have been so rediculous 
 if it weren't for the fact that the formula for what an RPG is already existed, so Blizzard decided 
 to take it easy and just copy/paste Everquest or some other game like that. Sure, mining for copper 
 is fun. You level up with every swing. Then it's every other swing. Soon you're spending 20 hours 
 a day running arond some god forsaken hell hole looking for Mithril veins and you've failed all 
 your classes that quarter. I hear drugs work like that too, except DRUGS ARE PROBABLY MORE FUN!
 
  
  Seriously though, it has a great storyline. If you want to have fun in this game though you can't 
 be there for the game, it has to be more like, you live out of state and want a way to hang out 
 with your old friends so this is the next best thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiery_Fury
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game really, really, wears on you. It's a sad story, I payed attention to WoW for a long time 
 (Im a long time WarCraft fan) , and I actually fell for all the hype. When I first laid eyes on 
 this thing I joined the Alliance... None of the classes are what they're suppose to be. Now Ive 
 played several MMOs including Dark Age of Camelot, and now the one Im stuck on, Guild Wars. Both 
 of these MMOs know how to deliver classes - WoW dosen't. For one thing, mages are too weak in here, 
 their spells are too costly, they run out of mana easily (With no way of recovery, besides waiting 
 it out) , and they die even more easily. The priest is almost the same way. The only good classes 
 really are the non-complete-spellcasting classes. I tried every single race and class combo in 
 the Alliance, and I was NOT satisfied. I went to Horde, same story. After mindlessly running around 
 with an orc shaman doing the regular, Lightning Bolt, Earth Shock, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, 
 hack, Earth Shock and the crappy combat/quest system, I finally had enough and cancelled my account. 
 The combat system is the same as EQ's meaning over-repitive action, and the classes are just straightforward 
 killing. You dont have to have ANY skill to play even as a mage. All you do is blast your enemy. 
 Warriors hack their enemies... Healers heal... Shamans do everything. The quest system also wears 
 on you, eventually you get tired of the quests and find that they concentrated SO much on the quest 
 system, if your gonna do PvE, questing is ALL your going to do. Either that or... Kill monsters 
 with no reward on end. Not to mention, the system reqs, are mid, while not THAT high, you WILL 
 get lag. And here's the best part - there's so many bugs in the game, that at least 1/4 of your 
 time will be spent complaining about it, and the service dosent do jack either - the service is 
 crap as well. If your looking for a good MMO, Guild Wars is my suggestion - the combat system there 
 is unique and refreshing, the sound effects are great, the graphics are great, and all in all Guild 
 Wars is far better than WoW. Blizzard... Stick with RTS, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butterbong
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  WOW is possibly one of the most compelling online games out there to date. Only problem is that 
 its falling apart, bugs that have been there since release, constant imbalences to classes, certain 
 races and race/class combos are left in the dust by more popular choices. 
  
  All WOW is is a constant level fest. The few main things you can do in WOW is: Grind, do PVP, run 
 a instance dungeon billions of times, sit around the local auction house trying to get phat loot 
 that you are too lazy to get from one of the first three options. There is barely any story anymore, 
 there is no RP environment (even if you join a full RP server you dont find any RP) , the community 
 is getting frustrated, and theres no really fufilling things to do.
  
  This game is a hack and slash pretty much. No exploring at all. Crafting is horrible, even if your 
 crafting things that are above your level you have to still grind up so you can get to areas where 
 the materials are spawned. 
  
  With the constant buying of gold on WOW the economy on every server is horrible, overpriced and 
 not worth getting involved in.
  
  And of course theres new servers introduced everymonth on demand... but there are still servers 
 that are as old as the game and are struggling to get new players.
  
  WOW is a must not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DarkPrince_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a massive multiplayer online rpg in other words an rpg that you can play on 
 contact with a hundred of other players interacting with them.
  The graphics are awesome with a fortune of details and an great world where you can have an mount, 
 a house and a reputation
  The game win awards every year and is in an expansion. 
  The story gain life every update in the story of war in two factions, the horde and the aliance.
 
  The pvp system is very integrated with game and is very easy and give to you a good reward.
  
  World of Warcraft is the best mmorpg of all!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  although this game hasnt taken my life, like people would say, this is how MMORPG's are supposed 
 to be. the player creation is unique. the art style is great. the shear replayability is addictive. 
 you can play as 8 races. 4 from the horde, 4 from the alliance. i am a dwarf level 12. im not the 
 best. i did find it hard to level up in places. the group play is fun. you meet many new freinds. 
 there is even prostitution. this game takes on community like no other game has. you can pick two 
 proffessions and then you collect items to make weapons, clothes, etc. i got a couple of gifts 
 from my freind nick johnson (shoutout) . so the least you can do is pick this game up. the 15 bucks 
 a month thing sucks balls, but if u can cough up the dough, your in for a meaty, and long adventure 
 to WOW supremisy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  WoW has come a long way and the servers are begining to show signs of trouble. Blizzard still offers 
 no way of moving your character to more stable realms unless your server is absolutely trashed. 
 Guild Wars is begining to look really appealing considering that lately Blizzard's updates have 
 usually extended past their normal times making it hard for some casual gamers that don't have 
 the time to sit around waiting for Blizzard to come back up. I am so very tired of Blizzard creating 
 more realm issues, for instance how many of you have been dropped off the boat in the middle of 
 no where or be kicked offline right before winning in Alterac valley due to a server reset. To 
 make things worse, When you do log back in you may notice that you have become labled as a deserter. 
 I do commend Blizzard for their outstanding game and though trying to add new content or fix issues 
 every weak, problems are becomming more apparent with each update. It's like they have gotten like 
 a mechanics garage, when the servers are turned on, holy crap, anyone know where this file goes? 
 Considering the monthly fee, I would expect to be able to play at my convenience, not Blizzards. 
 As Guild Wars Factions draws near, I recommend people give them a try. My 60 Pally grows weary 
 and creating other characters gets old after awhile considering that you are doing basically the 
 same quest. Now with the recent broken 1.10, they have finally readjusted some things for level 
 60s but the game is still the same, the instances are still the same. It's great that they have 
 added new armor sets, I guess its okay so long as you don't mind finding a group that will do trash 
 runs with you so that you may have your chance to roll on an epic item. And there's another system 
 thats broke, it seems that some people are just so unlucky that the same person in your group gets 
 the high rolls the whole instance. Enough venting, I expected more with my monthly investment. 
 Time to make a change and give the other MMORPGs a chance and leave it to those patient enough 
 to wait for Blizzard to get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagisu
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  I cant play this game. The graphics are poor. I cant see the difference from mail , leather and 
 plate armor. The honor gear for high warlcord/grand marshal looks ridiculous not much of a reward 
 for bg grind. Too much PVE in this game its almost pure PVE. I even lost my friends to this game 
 who play this all the time, they think its so great. Well I have a decent computer and a brain 
 Im gonna check out other MMOs with more content and less immature players and some PVP!
  
  First Im gonna go back to Daoc go to thidranki I can even go to lios den, no wait- even bg from 
 lvl 1 and not lvl 60
  
  Sure pve is very fun but since I have played Everquest for 1 year wich is pure PVE I went to daoc 
 and wow was like going back to Everquest only with worse graphics and dumb parodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -0p3rat0r-
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest, although i have stopped playing it, this is clearly the best game ever made. 
 The problem with other sort like games is that they are mostly 'empty'. With World of Warcraft 
 emptyness can only been seen if you take your eyes of the screen. The world is completely filled 
 and detailed until every last bit. And if you like the game you are hooked to it for a long long 
 time. 
  But, never zoom in too deeply. If you wander around you get flooded by detail and the total picture 
 really looks stunning. But closer by it is polygon-city. That actually means that they did a good 
 job creating the experience that lets you look past the dents many computer games have. It has 
 been the experience i have been looking for a long time.
  
  It is the first fantasy game i ever played and i did a pretty good job i guess. But now that time 
 is over. Once you've reached the end game content it can either be fun or be like hell. You get 
 this one option: item farming so you can hold out long enough inside dungeons. The whole item farming 
 brings up the same question a volunteer would bring up while crossing the mojave desert without 
 water.
  It just gets a bit sawed off at the end. And as it is with all the games (look at counter strike) 
 the community is transforming. You know there is one race called Night Elves. 90% of all leet-speak 
 comes from that race. The forums slowly get flooded under "nerf" and "overpowered" complains towards 
 blizzard. Won't blizzard know how to balance their own game? A bunch of kids think they know better 
 i guess. No really there ARE kids out there, thousands.
  
  I think this game is best compared to a dream city. A dream city, without something overpowering 
 it like a government. It slowly turns gray and it gets free for all. The bored leave. People that 
 'own' the place stay, of course. Let's just say if you could kill your own alliance it would be 
 a massacre, that is how gray this community has become.
  
  Conclusion: i played it too long. Either had to be a pro now or had to be playing another game 
 for the last 4 months. None of it happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mershu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I never actually thought I could complain about having too much to do in a game. When World of 
 Warcraft came out I leveled up a priest. Thinking I had done all I could in the game, I took a 
 break. Months later I am back, and I realized I never even scratched the game! 
  
  The game is very immersive and highly addictive. You can play one race to the end game and select 
 another  and its a completely new game. 
  
  I am surprised for a product that has been out for nearly a year that the servers are all very 
 full. The cities are alive and full of people looking for groups to take down bosses or others 
 looking for help on quest lines. 
  
  This game is worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  And WAY to addictive. This game is like crack. I kid you not, this game will grab hold of you and 
 suck hours and hours out of yoru life and you will love every minute of it. Regardless of how much 
 experience or knowledge or love you have for the Warcraft Universe, this game is so simple, yet 
 so competitive and so deep, and so FUN, you just can't deny it once you start playing. THe music 
 is totally appropriate, the classic but effective soudns are there, the art/graphic design is gorgeous 
 although the graphical effects were unfortunately the only downside to this game as it is slightly 
 behind the times (the penalty for blizzards LOONG development times) . However, every other aspect 
 of this game was well worth the wait. Sure, there is a lot of bugs from patch to patch, but you're 
 also getting a lot of stuff from patch to patch, the developers are constantly refining the classes 
 and races and quests and adding new content and even without all that it's just one hell of a fun 
 game and it's SO full of character.
  
  It is no mistake that this game has hit 5 million subscribers and counting, if it wasn't so damn 
 uncomfortable to sit at a keyboard for every second of my free time, I'd still be playing this 
 game, and only this game.
  
  Leeeeroooooy Jeeeenkiiiinsss!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I buy a radeon 9600 (256 ddr & 333mhz cpu)
  I buy this game.
  Never played it before.
  Never played ANY MMORG before... except Knight Online for free (good game) .
  I instal it.
  Update 
 it.
  Log in.
  And I dont seem to remember much for the next 6 months... its all rather foggy. Except that it was 
 cold out, I leveled a paladin to lvl 60, im leader of a semi succeful guild called Atlas. I get 
 my girlfriend addicted to it, I think i ate at one piont or another, I only did about 2/3 of teh 
 quests on the humans side, oh and did i mention i rode a horsey?
  
  Ya thats in 6 months. And it sure was fun. 
  
  Since then i have seem many MMORGs. None of 
 them have half of what WoW has. And if you think i may be wrong go waste your money on other games 
 until you get to this one. Youll only be pist off at yourself for missing out on such a fantastic 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game is great 1-59, you feel like everything is moving wonderfully, and you are making progress 
 almost nightly, but then.... BAM!!! 60!!!! Once you hit 60 this game takes a STEEP turn for the 
 worse, and everything everyone hates about these types of games rears its ugly head.
  
  I think it is pretty obvious that the people at Blizzard are a bussiness, and a very smart and 
 savvy company. They really put that bait out, and sucked all of us in. Now that we are in, they 
 switch on us and OH NO!! 
  
  Take my advice, this is going down like a ton of bricks. You may think, wowz fuzzy!! but world 
 of warcraft was 520,000,000 subscribers!!!1 Ya.... and that means jack **** Lineage 2 has an buttload 
 of subsricbers, and that game is so seriously nasty it ain't even funny.
  
  Get out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redmasterman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:14 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I ever played in my gamer life. You can choose from different races and classes. The 
 alliance faction includes the following  Night Elf. The Horde faction 
 includes the following races: Orc, Troll, Undead, and Tauren (MOOOO) . The people in WoW can be really 
 friendly or your worste enemy. The game has over many creatures and instances to do. The game never 
 has an ending with all the updates. So you can never finish the game, its like a book that keeps 
 going on and on. The music in WoW is good and the graphics are dam right amazing. This game will 
 make you say WoW owns TV. This game is really addictive and you will maybe play it 10 hours a day.
 
  The pvp is amazing, it requires lots of skill and brains. They now have a battleground. Arathi Basin, 
 Alterac Valley, and Warsong Gulch. This game will piss you off several times when you die. You gotta 
 walk all the way to your body which can be a pain. You can choose from different professions that 
 can be profiting, or money consuming. You can get mounts when you reach lvl 40 which makes the game 
 much fun and your travelling much faster. Mounts will make a big impact in your time of leveling 
 up your character. I played this game for 6 months and if you are looking for a great MMORPG, World 
 of Warcraft is the way to go, you will thank me later for telling you this! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joestierman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best PC games ever made. As an MMORPG, it is the best of its kind. As a PC game, 
 it is highly addicting, revolutionary in its pure gameplay, and combines the funnest aspects of 
 online PC gaming. Comparable to Starcraft and Counter-strike in its replay value. The only thing 
 keeping this game from being perfect are the following: there are noobs and 10 year olds, there 
 are ninja looters, sometimes people spam and act stupid. And a bug here and there can be annoying. 
 But that's a problem in most PC games. Luckily blizz does handle those problems and perfects the 
 game more with every patch. It took be about a year (playing casually) to lvl up to 60, and each 
 class is just as fun to play and keep the game interesting. This gives the game so much replay 
 value. And for each class there are several builds that you can invent that will work gerat. This 
 game is NOT just about leveling or questing. It is purely enjoyment. You can approach the game 
 from your own style. Solo'ing is easily do-able (that is how I play) . If you like RPS elements, 
 such as leveling and items, then you must play this game. Easily worth $15 a month. This is very 
 easy to pick up and the most casual gamer can get into it. This is blizzard's magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BangerT
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  It has a great gameplay, the producers spent some quality time on this and is worth it bigtime, 
 do not doubt on buying this becouse this is a game for everyone to love. The monthly fee is worth 
 it.
  
  It will get boring after some time, so make sure you get another game for some switch. The factions 
 and classes are made unique in my eyes, horde and alliance are not able to communicate at all, 
 which is in my eyes a great solution against flaming and griefing. The classes are all well evened 
 out and nothing is overpowered.
  
  GREAT GAME!!! 5 STARS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  Unbelivible game!!!!! Everything about this game is beautiful!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: Beautiful. You choose out of tons of players like magician and all the creatures you 
 know. You can level up and then challenge other players. It is so cool!!!!!!
  
  Graphics: The best graphics in a RGP game I have ever seen.
  
  Sound: It like the same thing 
 over and over again in this game: The only time you hear music is when you in combo mode.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours trying to level up your creature to the highest level in 
 the game. And the best thing about this game is the part that you can challenge other players against 
 you and then get EP for that.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game rocks and you better play this game because this game is almost 
 the best RPG game in the buisness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best MMO online to date. The graphics are bueatiful, and everything in the game 
 except for one thing is great. The one thing your ask, it is some of the COMMUNITY!
  Some of the community is great, fun to play through the game with, and very respectble. However, 
 the other half can drive you off the cliff. They can be annoying, beggers, babies, you name it 
 they are. Some even take the game to far and get married on the game, and whoever interfers with 
 there so called "true love" who they haven't ever meet in person, they will cuss you out. Not saying 
 I did, but I know someone who did.
  Some of the players will get very annoying, but other then that the game is the greatest. The quests 
 are fun, and challeging. The begging is like you have entered another world. The games fun and 
 addictive. And the massive world they have in it is amazing. YOu willl love this game. Just don't 
 let the community annoy you! Have fun in World Of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiftninja223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I think that world of warcraft is one of the BEST mmorpg ever made, there is alot of action alot 
 of people u can talk to you can group with people and it will evenly share xp items ect. first 
 of all there is alot of classes  druid 
 they all have there own unique way of skills and a different way of controlling them some of them 
 are harder to control because there are more skills to choose from and you might tp use some addons 
 like mods but not really cheating blizzard has suggested some of these and made some themselves 
 last but not least the game is not really laggy unless u have a bad computer or your in a major 
 city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty790
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  i used to play the game WOW (over the summer and all) but sadly I had to quit for cash reasons 
 ( you know what I mean) but durring the 4 months gameplay I wish i didn't I only got to lev 17 
 LOL but again it was worth it .
  
  1 graphics : some of you non players think the game has bad graphics well so what beacuse of that 
 it runs well and it lets lots of things on the screen at once
  
  2 gameplay: 2 words its great
  
  3 sound: best music in a game ive seen in a long time
  
 
  4 value: what i said on the Review Deck
  
  final : Greg you are sooooooooo right thank you for that review I agree with every word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is blizzard's entertainment's MMORPG game that has generally token over all of 
 the games on PC and its definitely the most played game ever.
  
  Graphics:::::
  Graphics are starting to be important in MMORPG games, simply because the more real the graphics 
 are, the more real the "world" in the game is.
  But the graphics are as not as good as Guild Warss or EverQuest II, so some improvements are needed.
 
  The trees, the animals, the grass is all very amazing, so Blizzard have worked very hard for this.
 
  
  Sound:::::::::::
  The sound in World of Warcraft is awesome, its really well recorded.
  Wether your hitting a sword 
 or walking and theres rain, you can easily recognize the excellent noise.
  
  Gameplay::::::
  World of Warcraft is like any other mmorpg, its turn based. so guess what?
 
  the action aint slow, so it means your experience fun very quickly. Characters can also pick up 
 two professions, such as mining, herbing, fishing, cooking, alchemy, etc
  
  I do not own this game but i have played it or just over 8 hours at my 
  uncles house.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cummyhands
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  Jumpin jesus Ive played this game for a few days now and its really addictive, its such a good 
 game. Worth every penny!. So I have been playing this for a few days now and it is absoulutely the 
 best game I have ever played! I've played the original Warcraft since I was but a wee gamer but 
 this one just blew me away, the best thing about this game is the roaming. The map is so huge you 
 can explore so much and its always changing different monsters and items in the different areas 
 all the terrain looks amazing. this game is obviously amazing if 5 million+ people think it is 
 BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:20 am PT
Review:  This game is for kids, once you get past the smooth graphics, environment and amazing soundtrack, 
 it ends there. You'll be doing the same thing at level 40 as you were at level 4. This game is 
 a little kid's game: Cartoony graphics, Dancing Orcs, and extremely easy gameplay. I lost count 
 of the times I encountered immature or just plain stupid people in this game. If you like babysitting 
 or playing games with brats, then by all means get this game. If you are a mature human being or 
 an MMORPG veteran, beware. The game had potential, but the legions of kids for a fanbase sealed 
 the nail in its coffin for me. Sure Blizzard can do without my 15$; they have something like 4 
 million players. No one can argue with WoW's success. Compare it to mainstream Pop music: Just 
 because it sells millions of copies, doesn't mean it's good music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja2784
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  this is a very fun mmorpg. can't wait till the expansion. the class i play is warlock which is 
 very interesting to play. hmm maybe i'll start a druid next.
  meh this is a very good game i played it at a friends house. i'll buy it when i can. gnome warlock 
 is my favorite race and class right now. though i only played for like four hours i had fun. this 
 i s my first mmorpg experience it is a great game cant wait till I can play it again. Heh I need 
 to buy a better computer to play this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the firxt online game to follow in the footsteps of the Warcraft series, and 
 probably one of the most popular Online games yet to hit the market.
  
  You make your choice between eight different races, these belong to different factions. The humans, dwarfs, gnomes, and 
 night elfs are the alliance, while the horde consists of Orcs, Tauren, Troll, and Undead. Within this 
 again you choose your class, wether you want to be a warrior, paladin, mage etc.
  
  World of Warcraft does it's best not to make things boring, first you get to learn professions like 
 skinning, engenerring, first aid etc. then when you reach level 10, you can start boosting your character 
 using talents, not much later you can begin entering battlegrounds and dungeons, there is really 
 new elements coming up the further you proceed in the game, which really makes it alot of fun to 
 play.
  
  The graphics aren't the best, however it saves you a lot of issues with lagging, which basically 
 is... GREAT!! However it's opponent Guild Wars actually managed to bypass this problem and still 
 make the graphics awesome. As for glitches and such though, the game developers used a long time 
 looking for, and removing glitches, also the patches still keep on fixing those who still are in 
 the game.
  
  As for the soundtrack, there is some great music in this game. Although you don't hear it all the 
 time, it does spice up the game when you enter uncharted territory and such. 
  
  The game does however require a monthly fee, and if you're not into paying for both the game, and 
 then for playing it, well this might not be the game for you. Blizzard did something very smart 
 though, they invented a gamecard, which makes it alot easier for people who can't pay with VISA etc.
 
  Because you can buy the gamecard at your local gamestore, and use the code to refill your playtime 
 for a couple of months.
  
  This is a great game, it rarely becomes tedious and is really a very humoristic game. Any Warcraft 
 fan would want this, and for those of you wondering what you should choose between GW and WOW, you 
 have to understand that there is alot of difference in the two games, so you might want to play 
 both games before you figure out what's your thing.
  
  Bottomline, WoW is a great MMORPG, and it's alot of fun and entertainment.
  The fees for playing 
 it, is a bit expensive though. But if you're dedicated enough, you'll look past this fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudvault
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Personally I have played many MMOs to date. I first started with a little MUD called Gemstone. 
 As the times progressed so did I, moving on to the likes of EQ, Shadowbane, DaoC, and City of Heroes.
 
  
  World of Warcraft truly surprised me with its genius. The developers took out a lot of the stuff 
 that makes MMOs drag on and on for what seems an eternity (ala EQ) . I progressed into the higher 
 levels faster than I have in any other MMO, and at the same time continue to find new content just 
 about every day.
  
  While reaching the level cap did not take as long as I expected, there is not a lack of things 
 to do at the end. With all the raid dungeons, mass PvP maps, and the scripted end-game content 
 and quests, I still have my hands full after a year of play, not to mention the fact that Blizzard 
 adds new content with each patch.
  
  There are still some mindless activities that this game's predecessors included, but that is to 
 be expected with an MMO. There will always be "the grind," but at least in this game it is very 
 tolerable and you always feel you are accomplishing something.
  
  This game is geared more towards those of us with a life. Because MMOs are notorious time-sinks, 
 most people don't get into them because they simply can't devote that much time to anything other 
 than work/school. WoW actually rewards those of us who can't play for 8+ hours a day by giving 
 you a rested experience bonus for NOT playing for a while.
  
  Now, don't misunderstand me. There is also plenty for those of you who make playing an MMO a lifestyle 
 as well. There are raid dungeons that can take a good 6 hours of straight playing to accomplish, 
 and only the hardcore will obtain all that the dungeon has to offer.
  
  So, all in all, WoW has something for everyone. If you have never played an MMO, then this is a 
 great game to start on. If you have played an MMO before, then you will find a great deal of entertainment 
 in the world of Azeroth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbp6859
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  The freedom of this game is just wonderful. You can go just about anywhere, group up with all your 
 friends and tag team the harder bosses. The choice of professions is great. I couldn't believe 
 how much fun I have playing. This game was so easy to learn how to play. After about 3 minutes 
 I had the controls down. There is one downside though... the monthly membership. At about $14.99 
 a month, that seems a bit high. But I am sure this game will continue to thrive with other MMORPG's. 
 Everquest and Final Fantasy better watch out! I'm sure the next World Of Warcraft will conquer 
 all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooljacs10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is by far the best game of all time accross all platforms and all genres of game. 
 This game has kept me playing for 4 months now, what other game can you say has kept you occupied 
 for 4 months? And theres alot more play left in the game even after this time. WoW keeps growing 
 so you know that your 9 a month is going somewhere, new battleground and instances will keep players 
 interested for a long long long time. 
  The game evolves with the player obviously as your character levels up you get more from the game 
 as more comes available. You can spend the start of the game questing and the lower level areas 
 have their own feel you then become a high level and those areas have their own feel then you reach 
 60 and you can turn to instances or PVP. The life this game has to offer and the quality of that 
 life far exceeds any other game released to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnodude
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:46 am PT
Review:  The game as a whole is great, its great for team play and great for soloing.
  
  The game has great graphicsa and sound and everyone enjoys it for a time.
  
  The problem is 
 2 things:
  
  1. The quests are all the same, such as "kill a guy", "kill 10 such monsters", "deliver a messege 
 to X" etc and its the same the whole way through, so there is a story line, but not in story context 
 if you get what i mean
  
  2. is the price, you pay 30 for the game and have to pay 9 a month to stay on the game.... in 
 the long run its not worth it.
  
  There is also the problem that the level cap of this game is 60 and not 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinterUltima
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game. However, the level cap of 60 seems a bit too low.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Great for a MMORPG, average for any other kind of game. Don't believe what others 
 say about this game's graphics. Some people compare this game with other games like Doom, etc. 
 But this is a totally different kind of game. This is a MMORPG, not a FPS or anything. If all MMORPGs 
 had graphics like Doom, then the server would crash.
  
  Sound:
  
  Hardly any music, but the ambience is very good.
  
  Value:
  
  A bit too expensive. Try 
 the demo first.
  
  In all, this is a good game but you should try the demo to see if you really like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first played world of warcraft i thought it was gonna be like one of their rts. which was 
 pretty good. bUT this game is so much better i mean u can do what ever u want. u can make money 
 go do quests for magical items anything. I atleast got like 10 non gamer friends into playing this 
 game. Thats how good this game is. I have a level 60 undead priest and i kick ass. When i kill 
 some one i jump around and /chicken then omg this game is amazing everyone should play. but after 
 like 4 months i didnt play anymore cause i was to busy. this game is sick. the graphics arent to 
 good. i mean i play on high everthing and still its cartoony, but it does beat everquest 2 and 
 i played that game for a while 2. really great game =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimo1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Simply put, no MMO is perfect they all have issues and parts wehre they lack. The thing that I 
 most enjoy about WoW is that it literally has something for everyone..
  
  You like PvP.. got you covered.
  Like Solo play? got that in abundance.
  Team player? All day 
 long.
  Are you hard core and wan't a game you can play 12 hours a day?.. Here it is.
  Can you only play a few hours a day or a few days a week, but still want to move ahead in the game 
 and not feel like a total noob?? covered there too.
  
  But the best thing about WoW hands down over the other MMO's is the way it embraces and supports 
 user created mod's. It allows your Wow exeprience to be customized to your style of play and you 
 are able to change things that you don'tlike about Blizzards own UI. Change the look or add functionality. 
 If there is another game out there that can offer all these things and keep cranking out new content 
 faster than the majority of the player base can complete it, I have never heard of it.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Audaciousmoose
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this has to be the most player friendly game I have ever played. Blizzard eases you in to the 
 Warcraft universe with simple instructions, easy to follow guidelines, and small-scale examples 
 of quests to come. 
  
  Ok, so I'm a fan of the Warcraft series, and especially the lore, and it was absolutely amazing 
 being able to walk to places where famous battles were fought and be able to see from a first person 
 view what you have only read in books.
  
  Combat is fun. Being able to pick from a slew of spells, abilities, gadgets, and weapons doesn't 
 hurt. It's not just: press the attack key, continue until enemy is destroyed. Although combat could 
 be more compelling, I'm not going to complain. 
  
  In groups, you don't feel useless. As most dungeons in the game are five to ten man instances, 
 you really contribute, and teamwork is an essential component . It's not mindless clicking and 
 hacking, clicking and hacking, you really have to work with your team mates.
  
  The sounds are great, and the clever phrases by NPCs are still there (if you click them enough) . 
 The music really wasn't all that interesting, save for the Gnome's theme, and mostly consists of 
 epic worldly adventure music, cliche that is.
  
  This is something you will play for days, maybe years to come. New content is added practically 
 every month to give you more things to do, if you ever run out. There's the quests with involving 
 storyline, dungeons with a great backstory and fun bosses, player-versus-player content, including 
 three areas for battles (capture the flag, all-out-war, and a  
 the whole World of Warcraft to explore. What could possibly go wrong? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Blizzards 1st attemp at an MMORPG and they have succeded in have maybe thousands of players. First 
 you take into consideration that it has great graphics that you can adjust to reduce/increase performance 
 or lag. Like all RPGs you level up nonstop. But if you played it after Mid summer of 2005 you can 
 play CTF and King of the Hill with Horde and Alliance killing each other. Recently the King of 
 the hill was introduced. The massive variety of Weapons/armor/spells makes it good not so clean 
 fun ( not so clean as in you can mod it to run around 100% naked ) and go on 100 person raids into 
 massive cities and small towns. I will love the expansion when it comes out. Oh yeah their are 
 8 races and soon to be 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiral_dragon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The good things about world of warcraft. The intro. is done nicely and really draws people in to 
 this virtual world. Many players are helpful, unlike more competitive games such as cs. They would 
 go out of his or her' s way to help sometimes. Warcraft is a single-player game played online with 
 the help of some friends, but that is optional. WoW has many items to find that have unique abilities. 
 Some features, like groups, are done right. The loot system is applied to groups to prevent team 
 members from looting without consent. Either it is free-for-all, leader decides to distribute loot, 
 or turn-based looting. Unlike more simple rpgs, warcraft has an easy to understand system, yet 
 it has more complex mechanics to keep it interesting. My computer is not great at the moment, but 
 looking at the game, its colourful engine and many landscapes make it worthy of looking at. There 
 are many creatures to fight as well. Sound has nice tunes, but plain. Quite addictive perhaps so 
 be careful.
  
  Now for the bad. Since the game may be played single-player, the quests looking to slay certain 
 creatures are hard to do. You may get a quest at lvl. 15, but it is aimed towards a lvl.18. I am 
 not sure if Blizzard did this on purpose, they probably did. Since Blizzard needs to take into 
 consideration that the quests may be tried alone, they make it somewhat easy. When attempted in 
 groups, it is too easy to finish. You may wonder why you are still playing when the game is this 
 easy. Also, the balance of classes is disrupted at times. Blizzard evens the field for all classes 
 later. Unfortunately, the solution is not always best. There is a problem with all rpgs, I call 
 it "limbo". In Limbo, ur character' s progress is halted. Sometimes the class you choose is at 
 a dead end. Ex. You cannot go further because of certain requirements you cannot meet cuz ur class 
 is too weak to fight perhaps. Also while the AI displays some impressive things, it is quite simple 
 and predictable. The most annoying thing (no fault of Blizzard of course) is the constant amount 
 of players who are too lazy to read their quests. They fill the channels with words that I heard 
 at least 8 times. These people need to read their quests and explore. Thanks for listening to me. 
 I recommend this game to those who have time to play it. It is quite time consuming, after all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthseeker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I recommend WoW because it is one of the best MMORPG's i have ever played. It is a great game because 
 it has a great story, the story goes on from warcraft 1 to WoW when it warcraft was turned into 
 a RPG. I also like this game because once you reach the level cap 60, there is still so much to 
 do in the game. One thing i do not like about the game is that it is very time consuming and it 
 takes very long to level. Overall i highly recommend the game the graphics are great and you will 
 almost never find yourself with nothing to do when you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballdude997
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  WoW (world of warcraft) is one of the greatest games made to date. After reading all the people 
 who gave this game bad reviews... i accept that their YOUR opinions but your points seem to be... pointless.... (one 
 person played to the highest level then said they hated it) Well first off this game is for all 
 ages so expect 10 year olds to 40 year olds (my best friend on the game is 36) this game is for 
 casual players yet im only level 20 and ive been playing for 2 months.... idk y though. 
  
  Gameplay:10
  this game has the greatest replay value ever, you'll just want to do one more thing 
 all the time and it will certianly draw you back in to creating a new character since their all 
 practically different games if you choose a new one, their are a few whiny brats going around but 
 what online game doesnt have them, so what if its simple, its fun and it isnt so depth that you 
 practically have to write things down on a piece of paper i mean really i played AO and i felt 
 like i had someone throw 100 bricks at my headddd.
  
  Graphics:8
  Toony but it makes for a welcoming enviroment, its graphics can be a bit... lusty as i should put 
 it (just look at the female night elves dance) and the characters look extremely menacing with 
 epic armor and some of the spells are mesmerizing. If you want realistic graphics then maybe you 
 should reconsider buying this game but everything else that this game has will draw you in.
  
  Community:8
  sure there are mean people and whiny brats but really... what game doesnt from 
 the moment i stepped foot into WoW i was welcomed by a person my level which really made me happy... at 
 level 20 i have tons of high level friends and people are always willing to help you out... as long 
 as you dont pester and you thank them either with a simple "thank you" or a few other things such 
 as gold of money. Its really a big community and makes you feel like your in another world which 
 really draws you back in to the game also theres always someone there to help you or to just hang 
 out and have a few beers with.
  
  Customer support: 5
  
  Eh what can i say... with 4 million people or so... its kinda hard to answer back to EVERY SINGLE 
 LITTLE THING... not too many bugs in the game can get laggy in the big cities or when you first 
 log in but thats nothing compared to Battlefield 2... which isnt an mmo... but you get the point. 
 The servers are down for maintence at least once during the week ( sometimes tuesdays at 5 in the 
 morning till 11 in the morning but who plays then???) and during the weekend sometimes the servers 
 will just.. crash but they usually fix them in about an hour and half
  
  this game is truly THE GREATEST mmo of all time and one of the greatest games ever once i got into 
 it I CAN NOT STOP ... its really a great game but be prepared for it to take over your life... if 
 you let it like me =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 4
Date: May 18, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I had a few weeks off and was in the mood for a mmorpg. EQ was very much over with. UO was old 
 news. AC was not so good. So I went online to see whats new. I found that EQ2 was releases along 
 with this game. I spent the next 3 to 4 hours reading forums and reviews of the game. Finally I 
 decided on World of Warcraft. I figured, Sony had made me angry several times from their lack of 
 support, constant nerfing, and unbalanced/un-fun gameplay; I figured lets give another company 
 a shot. I remember seeing several posts while flipping through reviews that boldly stated that 
 WoW was a childs game. Of course the posters got flamed on the forums and at the time, I thought 
 it was just someone trolling the boards, and thus I discredited the statements completely. To my 
 surprise however, after playing for exactly 2 weeks and hitting level 56 with my rogue, I found 
 those statements to be 100% true. I do not mean to offend anyone that loves this game, nor do I 
 think that it is a bad game, but comparing this to EQ1, or AC2, or AO there is no comparison when 
 it comes to challenge, and intellect. This game is dumbed down to the core for the kids and casual 
 players however the casual player will be phased out in time.
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 4/10
  - Story na
  - Graphics 3/5
  - Sound 1/5
  - Effort/Innovation 3/5
 
  - Presentation 1/5
  
  - Overall 4/10 (12/30)
  - Replay Value moderate
  - Monetary Value $10 + $5 a month
  
  As stated above, Ive been around the mmorpg scene for 
 a while and the rpg scene even longer. From the release of Ultima Online, to Everquest, to Asherons 
 Call 1 &amp; 2, to Anarchy Online and now I decided I would try World of Warcraft, hereby designated 
 WoW. For those that do not want to read the full review, let me just say that if you are looking 
 for an engrossing online game, you will not find one here for many reason including gameplay, customization, 
 and player demographics. WoW feels more like Warcraft 3 with a side of 1st person shooter than 
 it does an rpg. Yes it has rpg elements, but the feeling just isnt there. Its hard to explain, 
 and that is probably why I was lured to buying it since no one can really put the feel of this 
 game into words very well. It just feels disconnected and incomplete. Perhaps a better way to state 
 it is to say that its too simple to be rpgish.
  
  Yes, I know what youre thinking You want to say that was also true somewhat in EQ and UO, and 
 AO. This is true to some degree however this game combined with the high percentage of children 
 under the age of 18 (and general immaturity from the dumber adults playing) completely ruined the 
 feel. I just couldnt get into the lore or the environment.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (5/10)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Fluidity (5/10) + Combat (5/10) + Options (2/10) = 12 out of 30 or about 4/10
  
  Fluidity: 5/10
 
  
  1st of all, this game, like all MMOs suffers from the elitist raider mentality. I will not go 
 into this here, just read my EQ2 review to see what I mean if you don't know already. To summarize, 
 if you have a life, and/or you are not part of a large guild you will not excel in this game.
 
  
  The games strong point. Unlike some games, things progress very quickly in WoW. Downtime is virtually 
 non-existent. When out of combat you regenerate health and mana at godly rates. Rarely would you 
 need to wait for more than a minute before your health and mana are full again AND I LOVED IT. 
 I cant tell how I loathed the system in Everquest of resting for 5 minutes just to be able to 
 go back and kill one more enemy. The fast regeneration meant that you spent less time doing nothing, 
 and more time doing what you wanted to do.
  
  Combat : 5/10
  
  Combat in the game is fast. Most battle will end in about 30 seconds even in pvp against similar 
 level opponents (depending on your class of course) . You see an enemy, you fire and you win as 
 long as the enemy is within +2 levels of yourself or less (save for elite mobs which can be found 
 fairly regularly) . There is generally no challenge when it comes to player vs. environment combat. 
 No strategy needed, just use the default of whatever your class is good at and spam it. Mage, spam 
 fireball, warrior click attack then go grab a snack, warlock send pet. YOU DO NOT HAVE TO DO ANYTHING 
 TO ELSE TO WIN. You can literally just stand there (yes even if youre a cloth wearing mage with 
 the mob beating on you) , close your eyes, and just click one button and win every single battle 
 you face. Its almost absurd how easy they made combat but luckily things can get more complex when 
 you have multiple enemies which does happen a good 10% of the time unfortunately it is almost always 
 unintentional and undesirable unless youre a mid level mage but that's a story for another time. 
 When you get more than 1 enemy, you will have to use some tactic to keep one of them from hitting 
 you. Some classes are better at this than others, but all classes have some way of dealing with 
 this situation. If you get 3 or more enemies, you basically have to run, as there are not tactics 
 for killing that many npcs at once (again unless you play a mage at mid to upper levels) .
  
  Because every class is overpowered against the environment, groups end up being extremely dull. 
 You end up with 5 (group limit probably because 6 would make things ridiculous) trigger-happy players 
 ready to obliterate anything and everything in sight. Tactics usually get shelved for chaotic hack 
 and slash combat because well no tactics are needed 99% of the time. At high level guild raids, 
 things become more organized yet there still is very little use of organized tactics. Every raid 
 I attended during my time on WoW turned into a simple zerg fest. If you can reach the limit the 
 of a raid group (50 players max I believe) then you will win (never lost a raid encounter and 2 
 raids I attended were 1st time runs) .
  
  As far as PVP goes, this game can simply be described as a gankfest. True PVP is rare to non-existent 
 in this game as all encounters are unbalanced either due to numbers, level ranges, or situation. 
 PVP generally hold no value due to these problems thus killing others is pointless. Its like playing 
 WCIII and hacking, even if you win, you really don't know if you would have without the hack. Meaning 
 you don't know if you won because youre skilled, or because of situation/level or because you 
 brought those 10 friends with you. Thus you feel no sense of accomplishment when you PVP.
  
  Options: 2/10
  
  Poor for an rpg. In a time when every online game gives you a dozen options 
 at character selection and hundreds of options in customizing your characters abilities as they 
 level up, this game gives you only the most rudimentary options at creation (less than games released 
 over 5 years ago) and only 1 (one) thing to customize as you level up and that is your talent tree. 
 Thus as you walk around the game, you will find thousands of people who look exactly like you, 
 have the same talents as you, and have the same items, skills, and spells as you (since they are 
 all easy to get in this game) . Very badly done.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY (NA)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This is a mmorpg, story is not applicable.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS (3/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics 
 can be seen in one of two ways. If you are an eye candy type of person, you will laugh at WoW for 
 its low polygon count, mediocre texturing, and cartoony feel.
  
  If you like cartoony, you will say that this game looks good and grows on you after a while.
 
  
  For me, I don't care about graphics. I want good gameplay. I could care less if the game looked 
 like Diablo or EQ1 as long as they are sufficient for the game. For WoW, the graphics were sufficient 
 although I don't like the cartoony look thus the midline rating for this category but don't take 
 this rating too seriously. Side note: When I saw an enemy there was never any kind of feeling. 
 Where in other games, when you saw a certain enemy or a certain class of enemy you felt some intimidation 
 in this game, I was waiting for an anvil to fall from the sky like it did in old road runner cartoons. 
 No fear, no intimidation, no worries, no nothing. This is really more to do with presentation than 
 graphics specifically but it certainly has some correlation so I put this side note here. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Basic phrases 
 are spoken. Everything else is just text. Each race has a set of voices, all people from that race 
 sound the same. Again, there are 5-year-old games that had better sounds and voices than this game. 
 1 point for the funny emotes namely /train.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (3/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  If youre 
 looking for something innovative just move on. Everything in this game was essentially borrowed 
 from other games like EQ, AC, and AO. The only thing that is different is the graphical style. 
 As far as effort goes, the game is huge and its obvious that countless man-hours were spent populating 
 the in-game world with countless quests, enemies, NPC, towns, shrubberies, and everything else. 
 I have no doubt that the developers put a lot of work into this game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The documentation is excellent albeit they couldnt possibly put all the info a single book fit 
 for packaging with a game. It does tell you everything you need to know on how to play, and more 
 importantly on how to get more info in-game. In-game, quests are well organized, and lead you to 
 different areas in a timely fashion as you level and become stronger. +1 point.
  
  I found the lack of enemy variation annoying. The same basic enemy graphics are used a thousand 
 times over in every zone of the game and if it wasnt a enemy graphic, then it was just a NPC of 
 one of the 6 playable races. The game can definitely use more variation.
  
  Spells, and abilities have unoriginal names (fireball level 1, level 2, level 3 etc) . No point 
 deduction for this since its not a big deal, but it did annoy me a bit and it *can* make things 
 confusing since they all have the same icon.
  
  Game continuously deteriorates at every patch. Every class in the game has been hit with a nerf 
 stick which is not a bad thing however with every nerf, another issue pops up makes something else 
 unbalanced. They did outright ruin a few classes for long periods of time between patches and some 
 classes still have bugs in their abilities and spells since day 1 of release.
  
  PATCHES huge long downloads. Yes other games had patches but this one (along with AC 1 &amp; 
 2) have inexcusably large downloads which means that quality assurance didnt do a good job pre-release. 
 If you have a 56k modem, brace yourself for a 10+ hour download. With a cable modem it still took 
 me about 30 minutes to patch the game downloading between 220k and 350k.
  
  LAG due to the overselling of accounts compared to available server space, servers end up shutting 
 down a lot. In my two weeks of playing (about 40 hour spent) , I personally experienced at least 
 6 or so server reboots. Not good but I am sure this issue will get alleviated in time as they add 
 more servers to compensate for the high player turnout. A lot of people complain about server lag. 
 I did not experience SERVER SIDE LAG because I went to a mid-line populated server.
  
  Player demographics 95% children under 21 and I am being generous because I didnt meet a single 
 person over 21 in-game and I was in a 40+ player guild. Most people fall within the ages of 15-20. 
 There are a lot of 10 and 11 year olds playing (guild leaders asked us to introduce ourselves so 
 I managed to see everyones age) . It was funny how they reacted when I told them I was 25.
  
  Game demographics most server are unbelievably unbalanced towards alliance. In the extreme 
 on some servers, alliance outnumbers horde 5 to 1. This trend is true albeit not as extreme, for 
 all but 5 servers. I am unsure why this happened especially when the best pvp class is horde only 
 (see shaman unless theyve been nerfed since I played) .
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (4/10 
 or 4.3/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Is it really as bad as the rating? It depends on who you are. If you are a casual gamer, this game 
 suffers from raider elitism. If youve played other mmorpg you will quickly note that this game 
 is unoriginal. If you are an rpg buff, you will quickly note that this lacks many rpg elements. 
 If you are a pvp (competition) buff you will quickly notice that this game is a gankfest and not 
 competitive at all. If you love Blizzard and will rather lick soap than say a bad thing about them, 
 or if you are a sheep that follows every day trends, then to you this game is the bestest most 
 uber, **** of a game ever. Sorry die hard fans.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Its an mmo. You can play and play and play and it will never end. This game however doesn't have 
 much content at end game but I assume expansions will be released and the problem will thus be 
 solved.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  $5 for the game itself &amp; maybe $5 a month if they added more solo content for casual gamers 
 and opened up current content to casual gamers somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeriti
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitally THE MMORPG of our time. World of Warcraft Has astounding visuals, a solid 
 level system and gameplay, a light learning curve that is easy to learn but can take a while to 
 truely master, a nice array of playable classes and races as well as ways to customize them all.
 
  
  Blizzard Entertainment's World of Warcraft is, of course, set in the warcraft world. Players who 
 have played Warcraft I, II, and III will appreciate the dedication to lore and maintaining the 
 storyline. The game takes place 3 years after the events of Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. It 
 sets you as a new adventurer where you customize yourself right from the get go. There is, however, 
 a lengthy installation spanning 4 CDs (or 1 DVD) followed by an equally lengthy patching process, 
 however it is pretty simple to install, patch, and setup your account. Once you are all set to 
 go, you can login by entering your name and password and then will be presented with the server 
 selection screen. There are 4 different types of servers you can pick, PvE (where the gameplay 
 is based on Players fighting the monsters Blizzard has put into the world, there is a lot of focus 
 on group dynamics and taking down the big bosses) , PvP (the PvE content is still there, but zones 
 (areas within the world) are now flagged as one of Horde Controlled, Alliance Controlled, or Contested. 
 I will get into this more later, but this server is for those hardcore PvPers who enjoy taking 
 down other players) , RP (Role Playing, for those who want to live as thier character. These servers 
 enforce rules about character names (No SSJ_Majin_Goku123 is NOT acceptable and the Game masters 
 will make you change it) as well as OOC (out of character) chat. The idea is that you are your 
 character, so you talk as they would, about events in the game world, not about your friends new 
 bmw...) , and RP-PVP (a server which combines the RP and PVP rulesets into one) .
  Once you pick a server it is time to design your character. At first you pick one fo the games 
 two factions, the Horde or the Alliance. The horde consists of Orcs, Trolls, Tauren (the big cows 
 from warcraft III) , and the undead. The alliance consists of the Humans, Gnomes, Dwarves, and Night 
 Elves. Then you pick your class from one of the following: Hunter, Warrior, Mage, Priest, Paladin, 
 Shaman, Druid, or Rogue, but watch out, only certain races can be certain classes (for instance 
 an Undead Paladin really doesn't make sense) . Then customize your characters appearence with thier 
 face, hair style and color, face details (from facial hair, to tatoos) and skin color. Then give 
 them a name and you are ready.
  THe gameplay in World of Warcraft is fairly straight forward. Your first goal is to level. You 
 do this by killing monsters, or doing quests, although most of the time you will get quests that 
 tell you to kill monsters. The gmae starts to shine as you gain some levels. You can join guilds 
 of friends either online or off, you can PvP against the opposing faction and advance through the 
 games Honor system (which grants Honorable kilsl that yield contribution points, which in turngive 
 you a rank from 1 (Peasant for the alliance and Scout for the horde) through 14 (Grand marshal 
 for the alliance and High Warlod for the horde) , you can gather together 40 friends and do large-scale 
 PvE raids against tough bosses for new items and gear, or you can gather a group of 5 and go take 
 down some easier mobs, for less stunning, but much easier obtained gear. 
  There is also a well founded crafting system which allows you to make almost anything youcan think 
 of. The crafts include Tailoring, Skinning, Leatherworking, Mining, Engineering, Blacksmithing, 
 Enchanting, Firstaid, Cooking, and Fishing. You advance in level in these crafts from 1 to 300, 
 at which point you can make awesome gear and other such items.
  Overall World of Warcraft is an amazing game that is sure to set the bar sky-high for any other 
 future MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda_man99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  Even though I am not a fan of paying for an account I just have to say World of Warcraft is Great! 
 It has so much to do and you can spend hours enjoying the world of Azeroth. You can level up by 
 fighting creatures, collect items, travel to distant land, and creat powerful items to help you 
 in your quest. If have not tried a MMORPG before, you really should try this game. The game has 
 a great character creation system, it may not be the best but it gets the job done, where you can 
 choose out of 8 different races and then you can choose your class. After you can customize what 
 he or she will ook like. Also there will be an expansion out soon giving two new characters and 
 much more. One of the new characters will be the Blood Elves and another has not been anounced 
 yet but i belive it will be the Panderian. Like I said earlier this games is great and is worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin286
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all, i am a fan of rpg's and mmopg, and this game does have some good points. The graphics 
 are good, but this let down by a relentless barrage of banal and pointless imformation, the game 
 is far too immersed in its own importance. Choosing ur race is a waste of time, the PvP side of 
 the game is frankly a joke, any1 who is a begginer will be swamped.
  The game styles itself on guilds and clans, and as an moderate player, a newb would be very lucky 
 to have any help from support exp. players.
  Here is my main grip $17.99 approx a month at that price u may as well be a walking piggy bank. 
 I have no problem to set up my payemnt details, but i think its important that buyers realise u 
 must pay and that u will need a creditcard account. 
  in conclusion: 
  it is a good game, but i had to play 4 a long time to have any chance at enjoying the game. THis 
 isn't a gripe at players or the ppl that make it, but in my popinion the game is a big fat RIp 
 off.
  
  long live ireland 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewyDeng2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Don't even think about getting any other MMORPG, because if your looking for a MMORPG then this 
 is exactly what you need. I've had a good ammount of experience with other MMOs, such as Star Wars: 
 Galaxies, and Horizons: Empires of Istaria, and they dont even ammount to anything compared to WoW. 
 And theres the myth that WoW will suck all your time away, and with other MMOs thats probably true, 
 but not with WoW, I dont get to play this very much, especially during the week and with the double 
 XP I still am able to hang in there with my friends. The PvP is the best I have ever seen and the 
 game is not complicated at all, not difficult to understand at all, its just right. So if your 
 thinking of getting this game, go ahead and get it, you wont regret it, I guarentee you that its 
 worth every penney. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironhead54
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, it's the best game ever. Just get up right now, go out to your nearest game store 
 and buy this game. It's the best MMORPG out there, so if you're looking for a good MMO, get this 
 game. Heck, everyone should get this game! The gameplay is the best that you will ever play on 
 an MMO, and it is just so fun that you wont even remember your friends are over, or your favorite 
 TV show is on. And what would a game be without an enormous variety of weapons and armor? So just 
 go buy this game now. Oh yea, and GO PALLYS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game his highly addictive but, I soon found myself aimlessly walk around Azeroth. I got bored 
 real quick. But I will play again in the near future. Enviroments were lush and large.... to large 
 I got lost during quest alot and sometimes killed the wrong things to. The graphics were okay i 
 guess i mean it had the graphics strangely similar to the RTS version I was discourage by that. 
 Also i found myself aimlessly waliking during quest to find myself waking up in a tavern drunk 
 and out of money with a ton of skills and weapons i did not need.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft takes all the characters of the RTS Warcraft and throws them into a MMORPG that 
 is shockingly amazing. The Warcraft world was beautifully converted to a massive world with all 
 the little details from Warcraft. One of the first things to catch my eye was the Orc Peons collecting 
 wood, when you try to talk to them they say the same things as they do in the RTS version, "Work 
 work work". It is the little things that make this game great.
  
  The gameplay of WoW is spectacular and very deep. Nothing new to the MMORPG world, but done with 
 such detail that it will suck you in and keep you playing for hours. There are tons of quests to 
 do, although they are a lot of the same old kill x number of y monster or bring me 10 of something. 
 It does get repetatie and frustrating when you and ten other people are doing the same mission 
 and waiting for enemies to spawn. What really makes the gameplay great is actually the people you 
 play with. If you can find a group of people that are just fun and want the same thing out of the 
 game as you do (RPG, Questing, just exploring or hanging out which a lot of people do) you will 
 love going to play everyday.
  
  The graphics are very colourful and will instantly remind you of the top down world you cam eto 
 know in the original Warcrafts. The worlds are massive and clean. The level design is a bit repetative, 
 with all the caps being laid out basically the same. But when you are dealing with worlds this 
 big, that is no big deal. 
  
  The audio is pretty simple, a bit of music, a bit of voice acting. The sound effects of the world, 
 birds, animals, water, fighting, are well done. Nothing really spectacular here to talk about.
 
  
  The replay value is obviously very high for games like this, especially with the expansion pack 
 coming out in the next 6 months or so. They are always changing things up and added things like 
 fairs. The community is what will keep you coming back though, so don't play by yourself, find 
 groups or clans to add to the experience.
  
  World of Warcraft is a massively addictive game that is one of the best I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BailieBeltane
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I did not like this M M O R P G... it had horrible graphics and was not very fun. All I have to 
 say is it is very overated and it does not compare to any other MMORPGs I have played. This game 
 was un-interesting and not that fun. I did not like the controls and how you were "supposed" to 
 use them. I like how you click and your person goes there... I know you can set it up that way 
 but it still had a bad interface. All I have to say is that most people wil like this game but 
 I just couldn't get into it with its kiddy-like graphics and a stupid interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiyandude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I don't believe there is much to say about this amazing game. Some people may say that the graphics 
 aren't very good but I beg to differ. Compared to a regular game these days the graphics aren't 
 that great. However for a world as massive as the World of Warcraft the graphics are amazing. 
 
  The PVP combat is one of the best parts of this game. Also the questing can be tedious at times, 
 but that doesn't stop the fun in this game. The diverse races, classes, and character customization 
 options only add to the experience. People may also say they would rather play a game that doesn't 
 cost money after you buy. Although the payment is annoying it's well worth it. You get what you 
 pay for and probably more even with the monthly fee. Overall World of Warcraft is perfect in every 
 means of the word and I can't wait for the expansion: World of Warcraft: Burning Crusade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gusted
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is the groundbreaking MMO from Blizzard, the company that brought you Starcraft, 
 Diablo, and lets not forget: Warcraft. While the company has proven its sucess time and time again 
 with RTS games they dipped their hand into uncharted waters; Massively Multiplayer Online RPGs. 
 With the flood of MMO's on the market WoW manages to rise above any and all competition around 
 today with intuitive controls, fast pacd action, intense pvp, and some of the most amazing environments 
 you will ever have the pleasure of gracing with your presence.
  
  First and foremost, if you have never liked MMO's and are always and completely biased against 
 them you should Still give WoW a try - it's that good. The action buttons are well placed and flow 
 seamlessly as they are acted out on screen in real time. Attacking and upgrading your skills is 
 a brease with every Non-Player Character (NPC) pointing you in a helpful direction. The first 10 
 levels, which are funner then most games, seem to fly by and only become quicker with the addition 
 of a talent tree at 10.
  
  The talent tree adds loads of customization to your characters skills by having three seperate 
 branching paths of type. Do you want your Priest to be less Priest-like and more Combat-friendly? 
 Then by choosing a seperate path he can do just that. All class-types in WoW have branching paths 
 that will impact your players build greatly. The great part is: every build works with its own 
 special skills. What may be amazing for one player may not work for another, but no individual 
 class is wrong - so whatever works for you will not gimp your status in the community. 
  
  The community is amazing also. While (like in every community) there are the occasional bad seeds, 
 other then those select few it has been a pleasure working alongside some amazing individuals. 
 Everyone for the most part is extremely friendly and knowledgable, willing to help you with any 
 requests (within reason) . 
  
  The Graphics in game are simply stunning with amazing day/night effects. Each zone in the game 
 has its own flare to it, with a special type of individuality applied to each section of the world. 
 The only downfall for me was the lack of realtime weather effects, or any weather effects at all 
 for that matter. The occasional rain/snow in some of the zones would be amazing to see and really 
 add to the games already submersive ambiance. 
  
  The games sound is another amazing and captivating feat, with all spells and attacks having a special 
 sound. Through the use of emotes you can hear your character say lines of dialogue that are anywhere 
 from funny to downright erie. The soundtrack is limited but amazing nonetheless; nothing matches 
 the feeling of walking through Stormwind and having the orchestral track playing which leaves you 
 in awe. But for the most part I turn the music off because even through its beauty it gets repeatitive. 
 
  
  Overall, WoW is one of the most immersive experiences around - dare I say ever. I have been hooked 
 from the moment I started and not a day goes by that I regret the time I have invested in the game. 
 It is a beautiful game on every regard with thousands of hours of gameplay, hundreds of quests, 
 and when thats all done - you will still manage to find more and more to do in the game. If you 
 hate MMO's, try it out. If you Love MMO's - this is the one to own. With perfect gameplay, amazing 
 ambiance, and a community thats truely inspiring WoW raises above all others. 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone28
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is the mother of all MMO it owens the market and for 12$ a month it couldn't get any 
 better you have the 8 races that you can chose from and 12 classes and the fun starts once you 
 srart playing you dont wanna stop you hold of dinners and homework just to play. you dont ever 
 wanna leave. once you make your character and start killing and leveling up you don't wanna stop. 
 this game has to much for me to review but if you have a decent computer and can pend 12 a month 
 you must get this game. 10/10 all the go WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutly
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  Hmm, where do i begin?
  
  Well, i got a free trial from a friend and installed it, downloaded the patch and started the game. 
 Couple of minutes later I knew how to play the game and was on my way to lvl 2. With 8 different 
 races split between Horde (Undead, Tauren, Orc, Troll) and the Alliance (Human, Dwarf, Gnome, Night 
 Elf) with several different classes (Hunter, rogue, warlock, mage, warrior, shaman, paladin, preist) 
 there is plenty of choice to this game. And best of all the rest system (a system which means if 
 you are logged off you feel 'rested' and you will gain XP quicker for a time, meaning you can keep 
 up with your mates if youve been on holiday or something) allows you to experiment with all of 
 the different classes and races becuase you don't have to worry about your characters falling behind. 
 
  
  So you got the game, youve created your first new character and youve logged into the massive (and 
 i mean massive) world. You'll start in a starting area (inventive name =] ) and gain a few levels 
 by hunting for this and gathering that depending on your class and then youll head out into a new 
 town and do more quests and then at lvl 10 youll get a nice new skill (like being able to tame 
 animals for the hunter, or being able to use 2 daggers for the rogue) and you can go out and explore 
 for hours at a time.
  
  You can group with other players if you want, or you can solo - both options are nicely balanced 
 and you can get going no matter what you want to do. 
  
  Then, you can learn 2 professions. Most people pick 2 things which compliment each other - like 
 skinning and leatherworking, or mining and blacksmithing. With these you can gather your base materials 
 and make cool things like armour and potions which you can use or sell on. 
  
  This game, for me at least, is one of the true 'pick up and play' games. I have a feeling that 
 i will be playing this for a long time. The game comes in a nice box with a decent manual - although, 
 to be perfectly honest, you probably won't need it. The hints and tips and other players will help 
 with everything youll need to know. And thats the brilliant thing, one world, hundreds of players.
 
  
  At the end of the day its always a good thing to make your own decision but bear in mind that World 
 of Warcraft has over 4 million (4 000 000) players world wide and has some really brilliant touches 
 to the game. With content being added regularly the game is well polished and definitely worth 
 buying.
  
  Vanghora - Elven Hunter - Darksorrow. Look me up if your ever around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Blizzard, I was highly disappointed in this game.
  
  Gameplay: First of all, it's fun when you start playing it, but it becomes repetative and there 
 seems to be a phrase that they will use when giving you quests: "go [some random place] and get 
 [some random item] " or "go [some random place] and kill [some random enemy] ". This goes on for 
 quite some time; so, quests are not very interesting. There is a lot of other gameplay elements, 
 but they don't really help one trying to move forward with in the game or with quests. Not only 
 that, but it takes so long to level up, I loss interest i knowing what might happen in later levels.
 
  
  Graphics: Honestly, they are ok, but games like Doom 3 and Half Life 2 put these graphics to shame. 
 I love Blizzard's art work and design, but visually it still has some drawbacks with the engine 
 that they use in making the graphics for WoW.
  
  Sound: The sound is great! I don't think there's a single game that Blizzard has made without great 
 music or sound effects.
  
  Value: Honestly, I don't think it's worth the $50 or the monthly fee after that. It's an MMORPG 
 that has such a repetative process that most people might find frustrating and make them feel like 
 they are not getting any where with in the game. I will stick with Blizzard's older games because 
 there seemed to be more innovation with in those games rather than in this game.
  
  Tilt: I feel like Blizzard took a great stragey game and made it into a lackluster MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggchan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is by far my favorite MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing 
 Game) right now. I've played my fair share of MMO's (and I mean a lot) , even way back in the day, 
 I religiously played MUD (Multiplayer Underground Dungeons.. I believe) games.
  
  Now, before WoW came about, I played Warcraft III quite a bit. This game was great and I had so 
 much fun playing it with all my friends.
  
  Anyway, back to what is on hand.. I was thoroughly surprised when Blizzard reported they were coming 
 out with an MMO about Warcraft. This I had to get.
  
  And of course, since the day that I bought it, I've been pretty much hooked to the game.
  
 
  Now, before I played this game, I had bought FFXI for the PC. This game was fairly fun, but I 
 was never able to get into it because of the interactivity that you had to have with other players. 
 Of course, most of my other friends had much more free time than I did (seeing as I was one of 
 the few who actually went to school) , and they became much higher levels than myself and so I had 
 no one to level with and I was stuck at the level that I was at.
  
  FFXI was just too much for me to play when I didn't have enough time or enough people to play it 
 with. It was 14$/mo, plus 1$ extra for each additional character.
  
  Now when I got WoW, I was a little skeptical. I figured it might be a bit like FFXI where you had 
 to have a group to get anywhere in the game. To my surprise, it is possible to get to the level 
 cap (60) without having to group with anyone at any time (of course, that's part of the fun of 
 the game) . My favorite part of the game is the laid back style of it. You can hop on at any time, 
 do a quest or two, and then get back to your life. It's very easy to grab a group, chat a bit and 
 complete quests while making a couple friends.
  
  With WoW, I was very happy and pleased to hear that I could have as many characters as I wanted 
 for 15$/mo.
  
  Most of my friends converted from FFXI to WoW, and now I am able to chat with them in Guild, or 
 party with them for support or to help them with quests.
  
  It's great how the game is set up, and of course like all MMO's has it's flaws, but the customer 
 service team is great. Most of my complaints have been answered in an hour or less, and if they 
 weren't able to get to me while I was in game, they will e-mail me with an answer to my question/concern. 
 They always ask if there is anything else that they can help with, and if you don't abuse the GM's, 
 they will do everything in their power to help you.
  
  There are many reasons why I beleive this is the best MMO out there right now. Of course, this 
 game does not have the "best" graphics, but I am one of those who beleives that graphics are not 
 everything to the game. It has to have content, it has to have interactivity, and in this case, 
 it has to have a lot of customability.
  
  All in all, I am thoroughly excited for the expansion pack (which hopefully will come out next 
 year) and already have my pre-order all set and ready to go at Gamestop :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volvo_man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  If you like warcraft, massive massacres and just chilling out with your friends over the internet 
 this is a great game for you! You gotta have a little $$$ to be able to play every month but if 
 u don't always have the cash but you're one of those people whose just gotta have it I advise halving 
 the money with a brother or sister to make it a little cheaper for you ( you can make many guys 
 with the one disc and you only have to pay for your whole account, not how many guys it contains) 
 Overall it's a great game and i recommend it to all you gaming freaks out there!
  
  Cheers,
  
  Volvo Man
  
  lol (laugh out loud) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Like the Gamespot review says, this is an MMO worth playing. Sure you gotta pay a couple extra 
 bucks a month to play, but if you invest the time and enjoy playing a socially interactive game 
 than World of Warcraft is for you. I've never played an MMO before this and I'm pretty sure I'll 
 never have too. World of Warcraft has enough to offer to keep me busy for months. Blizzard has 
 kept up there amazing track record for great games by making this such a fun and accessible game 
 for all types. The game just deserves all the awards it's gotten. This game has become the new 
 benchmark for MMO's. It's a rewarding experience when you play. Such as saving up enough money 
 to buy a mount. It's all those little things that make it just an awesome game and you should do 
 well to give it a try. The worst that can happen is that you get hooked and lose all your time 
 because your constantly playing.... enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2027
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about World of Warcraft is how easy it is to start and get into. The moment you 
 start playing your thrown into this huge interactive inviroment with several thousand other players. 
 Its easy to learn the controls, and get started and almost just as easy to level up a bit at the 
 begining. Because of this after just a couple hours of gameplay you will be doing very different 
 things and have many new interesting abilities. 
  
  Perfect Things:
  1) Very easy to get in to great fun from the start and just as fun after 100 hours of playing. 
 
  2) Brillant huge inviroment that is immersive, graphics are colorful and very nice, in my opinion 
 the best part of World of Warcraft
  3) Outstanding items and a very inivative auction house.
  4) PvP is incredibly fun and with battle 
 grounds perfect.
  5) Tons of spells and abilities that look cool and are a lot of fun to use.
  
  Superb Things:
 
  1) Many quests, most of the time they are not repetitive although ocasionaly they can be. 
  2) Mounts and public transportation are interesting, and creative.
  3) Almost all instances are 
 fun challenging and offer great items.
  
  Great things:
  1) Professions are simples, but very rewarding and fun. 
  2) Customer support is somtimes outstanding 
 and somtimes not so great, I find myself wondering if I should be paying $15 a month for it somtimes.
 
  
  Good things:
  1) The sound is different depending on which inviroments you are playing in. Most are great but 
 some are irritating. For example, I found myself getting a large headache from playing the gnomeragon 
 instance becuase of the sound.
  
  Bottom Line: Outstanding game definetly worth the purchase and by the the best MMORPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidhberry
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is, without a doubt in my mind, the most fun I have ever had playing ANY game, 
 ever. This game will draw you in and you'll become addicted. Once you take that first drag on this 
 baby, you'll be hooked. 
  
  The game is so simple to play, and because of this, it's easy to continue playing it as the hours 
 go by in seemingly minutes. 
  
  The greatest thing about World of Warcraft is the sheer variety available to all players. You have 
 _9_ different classes to choose from, each with dozens of skills and unique abilities. Then, underneath 
 each class is 1 of 8 races you can choose from in the game. The underlying storyline of all Warcraft 
 games has been Humans vs. Orcs, but in this game, it's broadened out into 2 factions, the "Alliance" 
 vs. "Horde". 
  
  The Alliance includes the Humans, Night Elves, Dwarves, and Gnomes, and the Horde consists of the 
 Orcs, Undead, Tauren, and Trolls. Each of these 8 races has 4 Racial-unique abilities. For instance, 
 the Humans have Perception, which grants increased stealth detection for 15 seconds (I. E., let's 
 you see Rogues easier) . Another example is the Orcs have 25% increased resistance against stuns.
 
  
  Moving on to the classes. There are 7 classes available to both factions, and each faction has 
 1 class unique to it. The Alliance have the Paladin, who's a heavy-armored mix of a minor healer 
 and a holy-damage warrior. The horde have the Shaman, who's specialty is healing, laying Totems, 
 and mle combat. The caster classes are the Priest, a heavy healer and/or Shadow damage dealer. 
 The Mage is a pure spell-damage dealer, using Fire, Frost, and Arcane magics. The Warlock is a 
 shadow-fire based caster that has a variety of spell-casting pets. These three caster classes are 
 only allowed to wear Cloth armor. The 2 leather-wearing classes are the Druid, who's a heavy arcane 
 damage dealer, heavy healer, and shape-shifter (Bear mainly, but has cat, and land/sea travel forms) . 
 The Rogue, is a stealth-based mle damage dealer. The Rogue relies on ambushing it's enemies and 
 has high-damage combo-point finishing moves and powerful stuns. The Mail classes are Shamans and 
 Hunters. Hunters are a bow/gun heavy-ranged attacker class that also has a variety of pet choices 
 and traps. The Plate classes are the Paladin and Warrior. Warriors are heavy tanks that can take 
 a load of damage and deal out very heavy damage themselves with 2-handed strikes.
  
  Another aspect of this magnificent game is the Talents. Each class has a talent tree, which after 
 level 10 they get 1 talent point per level to spend, similar to Diablo 2. But the Talents are secondary 
 to the class' main abilities. Talents are ways to shape your character to your specific needs. 
 For example, a priest will learn all it's shadow and holy abilities, but the talents he invests 
 in are what defines his class as either a shadow priest or a holy priest. Using the Shadow tree 
 would increase the potency of the priests shadow abilities, and likewise the holy tree would better 
 it's holy spells. The talents are spectacular and each class has several varieties that are very 
 efficient in gameplay. 
  
  Professions are an integral part of the game, also. There's many professions available to each 
 class. There are 4 basic gathering professions, each with other production-professions branching 
 from them. For example, Skinning (of animals) works in conjunction with Leatherworking, as does 
 Blacksmithing with Mining. Others include Herbalism, Enchanting, Alchemy, Tailoring, and Engineering. 
 Each character can only have 2 professions, so it's a common choice to choose one gathering profession 
 for materials, then a production profession to turn those materials into items that can then be 
 sold. Using 2 gathering professions and just selling the materials is also a valuable money-making 
 choice. Lastly, there are 3 secondary professions, all of which can be learned: Fishing, Cooking, 
 and First Aid. Each of these lead to production of items that restore health. Fish are eaten, food 
 is cooked, and bandages are made with cloth found.
  
  When you die in World of Warcraft, the penalty gets steeper and steeper the higher you level. When 
 you die, you lose 10% durability on equipped items, become a ghost and run back to your corpse 
 to resurrect. The penalty comes in when you choose to resurrect at the graveyard and not bother 
 with running to your body. This resurrection comes with a price: at low levels, it's free, but: 
 at level 60, you get 10 minutes of resurrection sickness (all stats reduced to 25% of normal) , 
 and lose an additional 25% durability on all equipped items. 
  
  The game is divided into 2 parts: PvP and PvE. Player vs. Player combat is mostly conducted inside 
 Battlegrounds, which are a sort of mini-game. There are currently 3 Battlegrounds: Alterac Valley 
 is a high-level, 40 vs. 40 Deathmatch with an objective of progressing across the map into enemy 
 territory and killing their commanding general. Warsong Gulch is a fast paced, small 10 on 10 game 
 of Capture the flag, 3 captures wins. Arathi Basin is a game of controlling 5 resource points. 
 For each point controlled, you gain resources at an interval. The first side to 2000 resources 
 wins, a 15 on 15 game. PvP is also done all around the world at any time. The Factions can fight 
 at any time on a PVP server provided they're in a PvP-allowed zone (The low level zones are gank-free) . 
 Large raids of one faction can invade the cities of the other and annihilate their major leaders.
 
  
  PvE is the other side of the game, which is conducted during the leveling process and in end-game 
 raids. Leveling up is done fastest by killing enemies and doing quests. Most quests entail killing 
 X number of Y enemy, and/or finding A number of B item, and returning to the quest-giver. Quests 
 reward you with experience, money, and items. In the End-game, there are a ton of dungeons where 
 high-level enemies and hence, high-level and powerful items are found. These are called Instances, 
 and are always tackled by a group of players, sometimes 5, usually 10, sometimes 15 or more. These 
 instances can take anywhere from 30 minutes to 3 hours, depending on the instance and the group 
 of players attempting it. The highest and most powerful items are found in Raid-dungeons, which 
 are virtually level 60-only instances that require 40 players raid groups. There are several of 
 these that yield the highest quality items, but they can take hours and hours to complete.
  
  The items in World of Warcraft are classed into different qualities. Grey items are trash. 
 White items are normal, no bonus stats, nothing. Green items are somewhat uncommon, usually having 
 a few additional stats or abilities on them. Blue items are Rare, and are uncommon. They are commonly 
 found in end-game instances, and drop very rarely around the world. These are high-quality items 
 and usually make up the majority of end-game players equipment. Purple items are Epic, and are 
 extremely rare. These are mostly only found in the before-mentioned Raid-dungeons, from the hardest 
 and strongest enemies. 
  
  There are more features in WoW, such as guilds, an Auction house to buy and sell items to/from 
 other players. Mounts can be bought at level 40 and 60, granting a 60% and 100% speed bonus, respectively. 
 Mounts are expensive but are very much worth saving your gold for. The Honor system is an in-game 
 ranking system among players. The ranks go from 1, Private/Grunt, to 14, Grand Marshal/High Warlord. 
 Different items becoming available as you raise in rank. You gain honor from killing the other 
 faction and from competing in Battlegrounds. Attaining the highest ranks is extremely difficult 
 and time-consuming, but the rewards definitely show this. Grand Marshal/High Warlords have the 
 strongest weapons in the game. A big disadvantage of the honor system is Dishonorable kills. You 
 get dishonorable kills from killing enemy faction civilians, which lowers your honor rating and 
 hurts your chances of rising in rank. This greatly discourages people from doing raids on enemy 
 cities, because they are chalk-full of civilians.
  
  That's about all I'm going to write about this game. It costs from 13 to 16$ a month to play, depending 
 on your subscription, but the amount of enjoyment and satisfaction you'll get from playing will 
 more than account for the fee. This game sucks you in and enchants you in it's incredible depth 
 and sheer amount of content. A definite must-own for ANY gamer. There are NO reasons for anyone 
 to NOT like World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  A once great game has faded into something that is not worth your time.
  
  Sure, if you were to start this game now, after never trying it before, the magic would be with 
 you. But after a two year stretch, this game dissolves into a tedium.
  
  The graphics, by todays standards, seriously need a looking at.
  
  The sound is still as awesome 
 as it was on release day. Even now with TBC, the music is immense.
  
  The gameplay is still fluid and easy.
  
  The value... two years worth of addictive, time consuming 
 monotany that amounted to nothing? *sigh*
  
  Overall conclusion?
  Leave this game out of your life, you really aren't missing out on anything that amazing. There 
 was magic there on release day. That magic stayed with me to level 60. It came back for TBC, but 
 the moment level 70 came about, end game rips it from you and leaves you with a heavy addiction 
 that is worse than smoking... it really is, think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasyx92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  "Many people love this game because they havn't tried a real MMO"
  Give me a break you Sad SONY fan boys, Just because Blizzard can make a better MMO than SoE don't 
 cry.
  Now for you people who are truly interested in playing WoW for any reason
  Wether you love the Warcraft Series, you want to play with your friends, or any other reason, WoW 
 is just a Great Game. Blizzard has always done a great job with there games, i personally have 
 never had a real problem with any of them.
  
  The Gameplay is some of the Best i've ever experienced. The game is very simple to get use too, 
 but hard to master. Anyone can play the game and get use too it. As a matter of fact its so easy 
 to get use too it, the game has no tutorial. The area you start in teachs you how to play but does 
 it in a fun way.
  That dosnt make the game too easy though. There are many skills and items to better your character, 
 and they are challenging to master.
  
  The Graphics arnt realistic but they are amazing and fun to look at. They make all the guys look 
 buff and all the girls look Gooood. That may be unrealistic but thats how blizzard likes their 
 games. I think thats actually a cool thing that is unique.
  
  Those who have played any Warcraft game will agree the sound is Teriffic.
  In the RTS series 
 you can click on a a unit and they will say something. If you keep doing it they will start to 
 get annoyed. Even in WoW they will do the same thing. Also when they weapons hit a target you can 
 hear them as they clash against armor. Or as they wizz over the enemy's head if you miss. Also 
 they animal sounds are perfect. You'll hear the wolf howl at the moon or yip when he's hit.
  
  The Value of the game is good. Today if you buy the game you pay $40.
  Also you get one month 
 of the game for free. After that you have to pay $15 dollars per month of game play. Which is a 
 really good deal. Let's say you went bowling for 3 hours. you pay about $3-5 an hour so thats $9-15 
 hours for a few hours of enjoyment. While for Warcraft you get a regularly updated
  game that you can play every day for 30 days for the same price. So thats a good value.
  
  
 My tilt toward's the game is not as important as the above. But i love how the game reflects the 
 world Azeroth (the name of the planet in WoW) almsot perfectly. Plus the little details are amazing 
 such as the children playing in the city streets. The people cooking fires for their dinner. The 
 little orc kid that brings a fish to the guards by his house. I just love the story and the way 
 the game lets you live it.
  
  So overall the game is Great. And chances are you know someone who plays. you have to know 1 out 
 of the 6.5million players. So i hope to see you in the warcraft world of azeroth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I first thought this game would be a normal game when I saw previews. Then, when I played it, I 
 could feel God erasing those memories. This game will make you say "Diablo wha???" its an instant 
 game from the beautiful only cutscene to the millions of people u see online. If u say that this 
 game is nothing u need to own look at us poor nerds cuz we have to $230 or a little less to wait 
 4 Burning Crusade. Buy this game or me and all people who love this game will hunt u down and kill 
 u like the wolfs in the pack. it must get all 10 points!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebyron16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  man this is da best...
  i dont think ive done anything other than WoW since i purchased it
  ultimate pvp, ultimate questing, ultimate gameplay it just doesn't get better.
  Its likc crack 
 once you start you never stop
  HOURS SPENT MY WHOLE LIFE!!!!
  Pwned there and pwned here you pwn them and they pwn you...
  PvP servers is like revenge FTW!
 
  RP = i dont live on earth i live in azeroth and with the game time that i have i pretty much do 
 live in Azeroth so yeh...
  Paladin FTW rogue FTW shadow priest FTW!!!!!11111oneoneone
  so like if you want to pwn sum noobs just play wow
  but watch it
  you might end up never stopping 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  I have never seen a game with so much detail. World of Warcraft is game
  that seems so full and perfect.. that it''s scary. But probably the thing thats
  most impressive 
 is the art design. The buildings look breathtaking, and some 
  of the areas you travel through are simply amazing. Places from winter mountains, to a hot jungle. 
 
  Addictive from the moment you begin... It's incredibly friendly to the solo gamer, allowing players 
 not only to gain Levels 1 to 60 without ever grouping with someone else if they prefer, but also 
 to earn the same or more experience playing that way. That means the solo gamer can level nearly 
 as quickly as a group of power gamers playing together. 
  It takes the essence of the MMO experience, breaks it down into its component parts, and plays 
 up all the fun elements while actively minimizing the boring or tedious aspects. World of Warcraft 
 is the MMO that nearly everybody can enjoy, and is a shining example of the game developer's art. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzi_whizzi
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  If you are not bothered by repetitive game play and monotonous quests, combined with rewards that 
 on the whole arent worth the pixels they are printed on then this game is for you. OH and for 
 extra annoyance try a PVP server Im sure you will find its what apparently makes the whole game 
 experience really worthwhile  not!
  
  If you have nothing better to do with your life than to incur a repetitive strain injury or deep 
 vein thrombosis from sitting at your pc for too many hours at a time then I would recommend this 
 game whole heartily.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd7132
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  The actual gameplay itself is pretty good, although it can get repetitive and boring at times....
 
  
  But the real issue is that it almost every day there is something seriously wrong with the WoW 
 game servers or web servers!
  
  For instance during the last week I have only momentarily been able to access my account information 
 through their web interface. E. g. Most of the times I try to connect I get some ASP or PHP error, 
 or a "No more connections" message screen. This is frustrating the hell out of me, how can I add 
 more time or cancel my account?
  
  When I try to tell them about it, there is no way of getting through. Posting to the support forums 
 is out of the question because of the continuous login error screen. Email support takes forever 
 and a day. Phone support is always busy or automated.
  
  Considering that they are making over $50,000,000 a month, with this game from subscribers, you 
 would think they would invest some of the money back into more or better server systems and tech 
 support people! Seems like this is not the case! They'd rather be developing an expansion pack 
 instead of fixing the game people have already paid them so much for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaKeith
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This Game is the future of games because when u join The World of Warcraft its like joining a family 
 what ever side you join the alliance or the horde thats like your new family. They'll protect you 
 at any cost and you will do the same. Blizzard you've done it again who ever came up with warcraft 
 in general IS A GENIUS AND YOU SHOULD BOW DOWN TO HIM/HER AND ALL THERE GLORY. I could tell you 
 alot about the graphics and the game play but if you have an account of Wow theres nothing I could 
 say that you won't allready know, and for all of you that don't have an account WHAT ARE YOU DOING 
 GO GET ONE. Theres only one thing I have Left to say 
  
  MY LIFE FOR THE HORDE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a great fan of the Warcraft universe, but as soon as I heard it was going to 
 be and MMO-RPG, I was a bit skeptical. I wondered how they could take all the finese and greatness 
 of the RTS and transform it into a 3-D RPG. A few days after the release, I saw Gamespot generous 
 rating, and decided to buy the game.
  
  If was worth it. There is one loading time. The environments are huge and very well textured. The 
 gameplay is really fun, and the good 'ol days of the Orcs vs. the Humans are back, but with other 
 races of course. These range from the orcs to the undead and tauren on the Horde, and Humans to 
 Night Elves and dwarves on the Alliance. The games story itself is very well written, as in all 
 of Blizzard's games.
  
  The one thing I dislike is the damn monthly fee, and if you play alot, your gonna have to pay a 
 lot. That's the price for one of the greatest games off all time. If you want a game that will 
 keep you well entertained for years to come, pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeishunu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  Oh my god WOW is so good. There are only two things thats wrong with it:
  
  U have to pay monthly.
  If u do not have good internet it's extremly laggy.
  
  But the game 
 is defenitely worth the cash, if u've played you would know what i mean:
  
  It has an incredibly long lifespan.
  It's a social game.
  It has a world that's far cooler 
 than ours.
  And plenty of other things.
  Please tell me if u agree or not.
  
  IT IS AN INCREDIBLY POPULAR GAME THAT ATTRACTS PEOPLE OF ALL AGES AND NATIONALITY'S. SO PLEASE 
 IF U CAN AFFORD THIS WONDERFUL GAME BUY IT, IF U CAN'T STEAL OR BORROW SOME CASH QUICK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htehtrhrtjrgjyj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the best mmorpg the game is huge many things to do like got to a battle grounds and pvp 
 or quest a little and now an expansion thats coming out thats going to be awesome, if you dont 
 like games well then pick this game game p to re think the way you think of games this is the best 
 game ever guild wars is also good for people who want te online play free but for small fee of 
 15 dollars this game is sooooooo worth it. Please who ever is reading this should go and buy the 
 game right now it wont be a waste of money i promise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korsoth
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  WoW is a brilliant game, normally I play a game for a few weeks and then go onto something else, 
 when I got this game I played it non stop for months. The game universe is huge in some cases too 
 huge, 15 running across Stranglethrorn vale being chased by mobs can be.... interesting. Blizzard 
 are continuously adding new patches with new dungeons, regions and things like the battlegrounds. 
 The people you mean well some you'll love some you'll hate like that lvl 60 tauren that continually 
 beats you up, get a good guild and you'll be set for life. Through thick and thin my guild has 
 always been there for me, taking me through instances, helping me lvl and with quests. I would 
 highly recommend this game to anyone and everyone, I'd never really played a MMORPG before but 
 now I can't get enough. I've never actually felt compelled to write a review before so I'll apologize 
 if I've rambled on for too long or if it makes no sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topius
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  WoW is boring at the start.. but it gets relly fun whan ur been playing a while.. and u have to 
 do missions.. u cant only creep! whan I started playing i was nearly only creeping... that sux!.. do 
 missions!
  
  wtf! 100 words that suz i only got 40 or something? words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
 words words words words words words words words words words words words words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikkii
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  The Wide endless looking fields..........
  The Green and Brown looking Forests......
  The Scary and Dark Caves..........
  The Biggest city's........
  The Best Gardians.....
  The 
 2 Races........
  The Horde....
  The Alliance.......
  
  This is a short summary of things you will see in World of Warcraft. It's a must have for anybody 
 who likes RPG or MMORPG. Yes, it's not for free but it's worth the money. 
  
  The best is that if you start as an alliance Hunter. You can start over with another character 
 like an Shaman Horde and you will see the game from an whole another prespective. So you don't 
 get bored....
  
  You will be addicited and will play for more than 100 hours.
  
  I hope to see you online.....
  
  BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeWanted
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  Familly of mine are playing WOW for i think 4 months now and they are like lvl 60 Shaman. So i 
 went over there to check the game out. I heard some really good things about WOW so i was very 
 curious and eager to play.
  
  I finnaly got there by train, the damn trains are never running on time, well they started up WOW. 
 Myself i own a 500mhz computer so my first impression was great. The graffics the details it was 
 super. They let me make my own caracter: a beatifull dark elf female hunter. I thought se was cute 
 to see. So the game had to load and started. 
  
  I came in a very nice looking forest. My cousin said that i had to do a quest. So i went to the 
 large guy with a ! above his head and talked to him. He was very kind and gave me a quest. I had 
 to kill like a couple of animals. So i opened the quest menu again and clicked with the Shift button 
 down on the quest. And there right in my screen came the kill counter, so it counted how many animals 
 i had to kill for the quest. very handy. 
  
  So my cousin said that i had to do some more quests to level up and that i would get my own pet 
 on level 10......
  
  i'm not going to say more because you have to check it out your self. But it is a must for every 
 gamer to have this game especcialy when you like mmorpg, 
  
  I hope to see you online as Alliance or Horde ..... (by the way i'm killing hordes right now!!!!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharionwind
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Two weeks into this game after a 36 month hiatus (LEFT EQ in disgust in early 02) - Im amazed. 
 No more 1 hour corpse runs. No heavy experience losses from deaths (just some damage to your equipment 
 thats affordable to repair) . Great people on the servers, great sound and good graphics. Time of 
 day that is local to you - tis in game (night for you, night in game etc follows your local time 
 zone) . Zones and balances well thought out. Was Monk in EQ and Paladin fits me well in WoW. 5 Million 
 people worldwide most likely are not wrong, now its 5 million and 1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seojva
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) gives any type of players a great game, even if you are not into RPG's 
 this game can have you in front of the computer for hours. If you love RPGs, wow! you are going 
 to love this game. It suprises me how Blizzard put so much depth in the gameplay and in various 
 other features like cities. In cities you can do amazing things, be at an inn, buy/sell items, 
 learn new professions- This is really cool, you can do mining, fishing, hunting, herbalism and 
 a lot otherprofessions are available. So if you are into RPG games, go get a copy NOW. If not, 
 the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedllama
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought World of Warcraft, it having been recommended by most of my friends (I was 
 weak and caved in to peer pressure) , I thought the graphics were excellent, the choice of races 
 and professions large enough to keep me entertained for a while. and the story was fairly well 
 written.
  
  Unfortunately, after a month, I felt more than a little disappointed. To me it has the feel of 
 a Disney cartoon with a player base that could probably recite the musings of Winnie the Pooh whilst 
 pulling up their Huggies training pants. I've met a more mature audience at anti-natal classes, 
 and they've not yet seen the light of day.
  
  It's got a fairly standard system of day and night, which ties up with real time. Sadly it's missing 
 even the faintest hint of a weather system (and don't talk to me about server load, that game's 
 got more shards than a smashed beer bottle) . 
  
  I was also a little disappointed with the constant grinding needed to actually get anywhere in 
 the game. It's fun at first, but soon gets very repetitive when you're wandering around Crossroads 
 killing your 143rd Giraffe of the evening.
  
  There's also no sense of loss when you die. You simply resurrect your character with all the same 
 skills and equipment, and carry on as if nothing happened. This might be good for some people, 
 but I like to at least feel as though I'm risking something when fighting other players/NPCs.
 
  
  On the plus side, the graphics are stunning, particularly some of the underwater effects. The musical 
 score also stands out as one of the most impressive and appropriate that I've heard yet. The range 
 of professions is diverse and provides for a unique gaming experience for every one, and I found 
 myself experimenting with a few different ones to see which suited me best.
  
  It's a difficult one. If you like RPGs in the style of Dungeons and Dragons then you'll like this. 
 If you don't have a lot of free time, then it's not a game I'd recommend - it can be addictive 
 and it does take a lot of effort to get your character to a good level.
  
  If, on the other hand, you prefer a game that revolves more around thought and strategy (and you're 
 old enough to have played Elite on a tape loading ZX Spectrum 128) , go buy EVE Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Great Game that will last a long time... for a lot of gamers. This is a must buy for all MMORPG 
 fans out there!!! This game has a huge world with tons to do, it is very fun once you get into 
 all the PvPing and when you get to a higher level.... like always this game is about as fun as 
 taking out the garbage, when you are a low level. But that is like most MMORPGs. Ups and Downs: 
 +Fun for a long time
  +Great and massive world
  +tons of different creatures and enemies
  +a lot of fun to interact with different people around the world
  
  -MMORPGs take a lot of 
 time
  -I'm guessing you probably don't have a very good social life if you have a lvl 60
  -Poor graphics, but it is a huge world so you kinda have to cut it some slack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casual_Gamer_23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is the best MMORPG out there. Hands down. World of Warcraft (WoW) is the 
 most polished online RPG I've ever encountered. It brings bright and vibrant visuals to a user-friendly 
 interface, capitalizing on what makes MMORPGs great, and leaving out things that makes them not 
 so great. For someone with an enormous amount of free time, this game is for you. If you're a casual 
 gamer like myself, I'd reconsider something else entirely.
  
  When WoW first came out, I was apprehensive due to my experience with other MMORPGS I played in 
 the past. I could never seem to get into Everquest, Asheron's Call was too drab, Anarchy Online 
 had way too many bugs, City of Heroes had no substance, and Guild Wars didn't feel like a true 
 MMORPG. Despite all this, I picked up a copy of WoW for one more go-around. I had finally found 
 the online RPG I had been seeking.
  
  WoW makes it extremly easy to jump into and start playing. The interface works very well, the community 
 is very helpful, and for some reason running around killing things for XP seems to be the greatest 
 thing since sliced bread. BE WARNED this game eats up ALL of your free time. Being a caual gamer 
 who wants to play for an hour and call it quits, think again. It's awfully hard to disband from 
 a group who is getting pouched by ogres simply because you've had enough. 
  
  One of the great things about Wow is that you don't lose XP when you die, you simply have to retrieve 
 your body. This works very well because there is nothing more frustrating than going into XP debt 
 and having to get that back. WoW encourages you go exploring while other MMORPGs make you tread 
 cautiously.
  
  WoW also is a game that the solo gamer can enjoy for quite a while. Granted, once you get into 
 the higher levels, grouping is a must. But for those of you who prefer to do your own thing, have 
 at it!
  
  There are elements in the game, however, that create shortcomings in WoW. It's not necessarily 
 WoW itself, but rather the genre. Having to grind through creatures to build up your character 
 can be very cumbersome. Also, for an RPG, there isn't much of a story and it always seems these 
 games lead to strictly hack and slash. I was lucky enough, however, to join a guild that exercised 
 a nice mix or role-playing and fighting, but on the whole, MMORPGs are glorified Diablos.
  
  If you are a fan of MMORPGs, World of Warcraft is definitly worth a look. If it's not your 
 cup of tea, I still encourage you to give it a try. It is the best of the best. I had a blast with 
 WoW in college, but now that I have a job, my free time is spent with console games that I can 
 stop at any time. I'm really enjoying Star Wars KOTOR 2 right now ;) . So in short, if you have 
 the insane amount of free time and are looking for an addictive online RPG, World of Warcraft is 
 the game for you. If you are more of a casual gamer like myself, check out something else. Cheers! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmeffle1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who has ever even thought about playing MMORPG has been waiting for the one that just 
 fits right FF11 was to hard to level up. Lineage 2 was to easy to die. Everquest was a little lousy 
 on the graphics but gamers beware World of Warcraft is the game you seek. With plenty of creatures 
 and an easy item gain makes the game ideal for single player battle. Plus the PvP system is very 
 unique giving you the option of a strict Player vs Player server or a Non Pvp server. With a huge 
 Variety of classes and races and proffessions you go wild with selection. Items drop on a regualary 
 easy bases making it not to difficult to gear up relitivally fast. MOUNTS! Mounts are another great 
 thing about WOW a beast to ride on when you reach lvl 40 is another one of the unique features 
 WOW has to offer. This is a must have for all serious MMORPG.
  
  Going a little more in deapth with races. You first must choose a side Horde or Alliance. The Horde 
 has the Orc, Tauren, Troll and Undead (blood elf coming with the expansion) . The Alliance has the 
 Human, Dwarf, Gnome, and Elf races. In short Evil vs. Good. 
  
  Classes are very unique in WOW also in the sense that there are many to choose from with all personalized 
 skills and talent trees. Warriors, Warlocks, Rogues, and Hunters just to name a few.
  
  World of Warcraft is a great buy and well worth the $15 you drop on it a month. You can't beat 
 this game honostly if you don't believe me look at the numbers. They don't lie!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamester92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game all around but can get boring after lvl 32
  Graphics are the best ive seen for such a huge world 
  but dont play it wit a slow comp pr youll 
 be screwed cause of all the lags youll get when you go into any city
  Gotta have a lot of time to spend playing the game at first but latr on you can play every once 
 in awhile
  by the time u hit lvl 30 it starts taking to long to lvl so tats y i got bored of it
  definitely 
 be a horde dude cause everybody will start off wit an alliance dude
  i made the same mistake but dont do it cause they suk and dont be a rogue they suk too 
  but 
 hey tats just my opinion
  HORDE ROCKS!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyfly76
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I like RPG, so with all the hype around I finally bought that game. Well, I cancelled my account 
 before my free month was out. I honestly tried to play the game waiting for the moment when fun 
 begins, but after 3 weeks and lvl 20 I got tired. The game is just boring, if you are looking for 
 some depth and fun stay away from it. On another hand if you want a chat room with fantasy environment 
 or a fun place to hang out with your friends it could be right for you. I just prefer real world 
 for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Movieguy152
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft is absolutly amazing. Completly addictive. If you plan on having an actuall life, 
 dont get this game... you will never stop. WOW is probably one of, or THE best game I have ever 
 played. It just never gets old. Even after you have made a completly awsome maxed out charecter, 
 you can always go back and do it again with a new race, and one of many awsome classes. The world 
 itself is just unbelievable. The only problom with this game is the lag, which isnt that bad, but 
 if possible you should probably get more than the minimum memory. Other than that this game is 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  In theory this game is perfect. Only bugs, lagl and server downtime hold it down.... And those 
 things don't really have anything to do with the game itself , but it's hard to ignore them when 
 you're paying 15$ a month. The only thing I really want to see is more races and classes, like 
 a lot more. I've seen my twin too many times in game, which may be more of a result of the number 
 of players on a server, than of limited customizability. I mean it's an MMORPG if that; s your bag 
 then buy this game, because it rox the genre, of thats not your bag then don't... it's pretty simple. 
 And if your on the fence, this game could very easily pull you to the dark side of warcrack addiction, 
 you've been warned... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zatrick
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of the best mmorpgs to date, its filled with countless hours of gameplay 
 as you pick your race, class and proffesions.
  the game is easy to play and has the best dungeons i've ever played in an mmorpg. The proffessions 
 that you pick enable you to craft items, armor, weapons etc. The game is fairly simple and doesnt 
 take much time to learn the basic movement and combat system. Both the alliance and horde sides 
 are filled with many quest that will keep interested and in the game without having to spend countless 
 hours doing nothing but PvE (player vs enemy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft, Have been played this game for almost 2 years and i have never been bored to 
 this game... Being the first at the top list of MMORPG game.. really suited the category of why 
 this game is really well welcomed by the players. For now, WoW could be quite challenging and sometimes 
 boring... though, never happened to me. WoW game is really unique by having variety of classes 
 and races, this game is really good in having many different characters in one game. Of course, 
 it would be really better and boosted up, if, the game represent something, or some interesting 
 event that happened in the game itself, which probably never ever being heard as it almost rare. 
 I have character that had already reached highest level, and there i go, that is the time where 
 i can say the boredom of the game is starting to come out. Sorry to say that, but, i guess, the 
 level limit in this game should at least being cut off. Hmmmm what else, in talking about graphic, 
 WoW serve a mediocre value in it. Well, of course, from what we know from the orginal game which 
 is Warcarft and Warcraft : Frozen Throne, that WoW is kindda following the type of graphic they 
 used previously. In my opinion, the graphic sometimes serve a wrong thing in my mind after playing 
 some high-quality Graphic MMORPG, such as Guild war and Granado Espada. Coming back to this game 
 after seeing their graphic, is really challenging and might affect the feeling towards it. To be 
 honest, WoW is just a good game but actually not a really WOW MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leej15
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this game for about 3 months now got a lvl 60 chacrater on horde and a lvl 55 on alliance. 
 First ill start off with saying all the good stuff then get to the bad stuff later
  
  Pros..
  The game is fun not as fun as other mmorpg's but it does good on delivering the fun factor
 
  
  the Ebay style auction house is a REALY good inovation very fun and makes for some easy money making
 
  
  now for the bigger part of my review the cons!!
  
  Cons..
  
  In this day and age we strive for better grpahics this game offers none of that i found my eyesight 
 being hurt more then pleasured on this game once you seen one gras texture youve seen all of em. lol
 
  
  this is kinda realted to the graphics but i mean becuase the graphics are the way they are it doesnt 
 make you feel like your there playing and actualy enjoying yourself i mean do x amount of quest 
 run round in bloody circles for hours only to get some **** armour that looks like smudges of paint 
 it takes away all depth and just in general is a let down
  
  Now with most mmorpg's you will have a GRIND every one has it and some hide it better than others 
 this game hides it but in all honesty i would rather grind then QUEST which has been invented by 
 WoW instead of killing loads of thing much higher lvl than you your lucky if you can take on summet 
 2 lvls higher then you but insetad of grinding they give you quests which send you into places 
 where you got no idea were the hell your going nothing looks right and dont even get me started 
 on the direction if in a quest they say find so and so go south west you more looking to go north 
 east honestly its that bad.
  
  The crafting now im a EQ2 player and love it to bits theres not a thing i can moan about on that 
 game but maybe thats why the Wow crafting for me sucked it was just to easy like in EQ2 when you 
 even make a bag its a lenghty process but it feels right in Wow youll be making stuff quick sounds 
 good right.... WRONG it sucks ass theres no thinkg or genereal fun its like having a teacher tell 
 you what to do and as i said above out the armour and graphics youll spend all that effort making 
 crap that looks like crap.
  
  LAGGGGGGg now if you americans are reading this then i dont really know how this applys to you 
 but for those of you like me who live in eurpoe the serves are shite expext it to be so bad that 
 you cant even log out and when it all finaly does settle down its short lived een with a 2 mb connection 
 (which is super fast for europe) watch you latecny rise like fire.
  
  and alst but certainly not least the communtity first of all WTF i mean how can you play an online 
 game and have a 3 year old talking like No0b Shut H33ll 00pp all the people you meet are either 
 12 or have the mind capaicty of a 12 year old honestly youd find better manners at a jovenile hall.
 
  
  All in all this game for me was a total let down i gave it everything i had and was expectiing 
 to get a breath of fresh air at lvl 60 and was i wrong..... yes all i got was the same old crap 
 you get when your lvl 10 if you want my honest opnion go buy EQ2 or guild wars or something like 
 that maybe planetside whatever but avoid this game its alot of hassle for very very very little 
 reward
  
  (id like to applagise for bad spelling a grammer i have left highschool but my typing is something 
 to be desierd) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPG_Ash
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a fantastic game! Almost everything about it oozes greatness. Though I cant 
 comment on the PvP side of it as I hate PvP in general. Only one thing Im not impressed with is 
 the slow travelling (running and flying) .
  
  You can play this game for ages without getting bored. There are lots and LOTS of quests. Many 
 different classes and races to choose from. loads of items and different areas to explore.
  
  You can solo to the highest lvl without anybody else but its much more fun to grab a buddy 
 and bash mobs together! The only drawback is when you hit lvl 60 (currently the highest lvl in 
 game) . You will become bored unless you are a fan of PvP or know lots of people so you can go on 
 "Instances". These involve battling very high lvl mobs in dungeons with groups of up to 40 people 
 trying to gain the best weapons and items in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  On the out side all game look brilliant, it isn't until you've been playing for sometime that the 
 problems start to come out.
  
  Many MMORGS I've played have been hurt by the people who create and support the players. Word of 
 Warcraft is a fun game to player, The Atmosphere though is nothing. New players and/ or Low level 
 players having to beg. The path to the Level 60 cap is a short one and at that time you suddenly 
 feel a sense of what do I do now?
  
  I've created 6 charactes in my time of 3 and a bit months 2 level 60's n 2 level 49s and 2 level 
 5s. The only difference between the 2 factions is the intelligence level of the people around you.
 
  
  The Horde on the Hellscream to put it mildy are just simply very childish.
  
  The Alliance on the same Realm are too relaxed, disrespect other people space or game time. They 
 don't listen to people with experiance inside the battlegrounds and are unable to do the basic 
 simple things with you have to draw a full detailed map for them.
  
  The Support - I can't critize, all the problems I've had have been addressed polietly and with 
 speed Its so nice to be able say for once that the people createing the game arn't the ones spoling 
 it. However there are some improvemants that could be made.
  
  The Developers are out of touch with the players, they have a suggestions board that has never 
 seen a Developer or a Game masters post. They said that all posts are read but theres no evidance 
 of that. Theres nothing to show that the post we write on this board has even made it to the eyes 
 of the Developers never mind the actual game. 
  
  The game design is Simply Superb, There are amazing contrast of places to go inside World of Warcraft. 
 If you prefer a the Forests of Elywnn Forest or the Barrens, Theres plenty of places to suit your 
 needs. My Personal Favorite is Moonglade, Every where and all around you theres people leveling 
 or killing each other, yet Blizzard has created this 1 place thats just Peaceful and in Theory 
 cut off from the rest of the game or players.
  
  It makes a perfect place to just fish, or to enjoy the view. 
  
  This game is simply one of 
 the best I've ever seen, yet however its not great. 
  
  Incase some one from Blizzard ever gets to see this :- The only changes that need to happen
  
 
  Is more interaction between the players and the Development team.
  
  Better Organizing and planning of new things implemented to the game.
  
  The game is worth 
 a try and just hope the people you get to play with don't spoil it as much as they have for me.
 
  
  I've given this a learning curve of 30 mines to 60, it took me less than 30 mins to learn how to 
 play my character but it takes others a bit longer I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacoMunch3r
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a fantastic MMORPG. If you have played any MMORPGs in the past or are a fan 
 of Warcraft, you will love Wow. Blizzard brings superb visuals, engaging gameplay, and great overall 
 interface to create a very appealing game, even for those unacquainted with MMORPGs. I was. Having 
 mainly played FPS and RTS in the past, MMORPGs were an entirely different genre for me. I had been 
 introduced to Everquest previously but it seemed very difficult. When I began playing WoW, somewhat 
 to due to the aid of my WoW friends, I had a much better idea of what I was doing. This game became 
 addictive. Now I consider it a great game that EVERYONE should give a try at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly2001
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is addicted as hell this is the 1st game that people have parties for and man the 
 parties are great everyone i know loves this game and now the expansion is coming out this just 
 too much! Now we have to hit lvl 70, and flying mounts!!!! are you crazy i just predict more parties 
 to go to and man they are to be crazy as hell. I have a lvl 60 troll hunter and I still got alot 
 of things to do. The just never ends this game is one for the record book for everything!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLFitzgerald19
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  Just a rant of a computer game and hype nay-sayer. I laughed at people when they said computer 
 games are awesome and I laughed when they said World of Warcraft is the best game they ever played. 
 Now those people laugh at me when they see me after 2 hours of sleep b/c I've been playing WOW 
 all night long. You have all these choices... quest, professions, groups, and just all out exploring. 
 You computer players have been holding out on console players. We get FFXI and you have this... what 
 else are you hiding? Sorry to keep going on but seriously, if you have a computer and you still 
 dont have WOW you are missing out on one of the most enjoyable games I can remember playing. By 
 the way, didn't mean to take a dig at FFXI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loec
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks A$$! all the way baby! i mean really what can i say that can describe its greatness. 
 it is impossibly awsome, incredibly kick @$$, and on and on and on. there is just no ending to 
 the programmer's ideas, and i love it!! it is the best game since chess ( no kidding either) . it 
 is no wonder so many play it is because it is that great, and if they try make a movie out of the 
 game or any warcraft game ill b pissed cuz they can't do in hollywood what they can do in the game 
 studio, but im rambling so i should tie this up. i could go on forever on how awsomely great this 
 game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahzud
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Holy Crap, where to begin. Blizzard has an excelent design team for them to create a world from 
 some stories and prevoius games. The world is incredibly inventive and fun. This game is very fun. 
 Yes some repetive at times but highly addictive. This game is so long and seems endless, which 
 is good but can also screw up your social life. But most of the time the people who started playing 
 never had one, no offense. I do not play anymore do to the expensiveness but its well worth it 
 tho. If the prices ever go down i will see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_midnight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  DOES WOW WORK ON DIALUP!!!??? I need to know! Please answer! I have only played this at my friends 
 and he has broadband and i only hav dialup so tell me DOES IT WORK!!!??? 
  
  DOES WOW WORK ON DIALUP!!!??? I need to know! Please answer! I have only played this at my friends 
 and he has broadband and i only hav dialup so tell me DOES IT WORK!!!??? 
  
  DOES WOW WORK ON DIALUP!!!??? I need to know! Please answer! I have only played this at my friends 
 and he has broadband and i only hav dialup so tell me DOES IT WORK!!!??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceXXX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  Just to clarify to readers, I have been playing World of warcraft for about 8 months at the time 
 of writing this piece. I have played various characters on the Alliance side but have little experience 
 in the Horde side.
  
  Firstly, I'd like to comment on what you'll experience the second after you put the CD in the drive 
 to install it. During this time, whilst clicking through the menus you will be asked to set up 
 your account with username and password then choose your payment option. One thing you must do 
 when buying the game is decide wether you are going to purchase 2 month game cards from stores 
 or not. The alternative is to use the simple Online Credit card system for auto billing.
  
  Once you have chosen that you will be brought into the fun parts of the game, choosing a server 
 and a character type/race, etc.
  There are advantages and disadvantages of all races. It is recommended you read guides to work 
 out which race will be most useful or powerful for the type of character you plan to use. Of course 
 at this time you could just choose something you think looks cool.
  
  Alliance and Horde have different characters and races. You cannot have an alliance and a horde 
 character on the same server at the time of writing this so make your mind up. You must also choose 
 which type of server you wish to play on. PVP servers are player vs player, which means people 
 from the opposite side can kill you for honor points (this is detailed elsewhere if you want to 
 know more.) The other type of server is a RP server (or Role playing) These are more about the 
 questing and completing in a fun environment. I'd definitely recommend the PVP as it gives an added 
 element of fun and danger into the game.
  
  Once you have chosen your character, its name and the server you will play on you are taken to 
 the first part of your epic story. The game starts in a protected zone, where you are Level 1. 
 There is so much that can be done in this game, it would take an age to write all about it, plus 
 you probably wouldn't read it anyways :P
  
  Anyways, You go and talk to the NPCs with the exclamation marks on their heads. They tell you to 
 do something or go and talk to someone. After completing their requests, return to the same person, 
 who should now have a yellow question mark on their head. You will receive experience, which helps 
 you level. As you level your character you gain more skills, abilities, access to more areas, new 
 quests and you can use more weapons etc. The maximum level at the moment is 60 but with the expansion 
 coming out that is sure to change.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, this game is very fun to play. It runs pretty smoothly and hours and 
 hours of gaming can be had. The graphics are great for an online only game and lag isn't usually 
 an issue. WoW is similar to Diablo 2 in some ways but much more expansive. You must simply give 
 it a go to be immersed in the experience. Regular patches and updates are made by blizzard, so 
 you're often getting new places to visit and quest, along with new items and the likes.
  
  This game will suck away ALOT of your time, so its best to buy this game if you have a bit of spare 
 time almost everyday that you can play.
  
  The best thing about WoW in my opinion is the community and the presence of Guilds. Often guilds 
 will do things together and other people will group up with you in order to complete a quest or 
 'instance' (a higher level place with more difficult mobsters for use as a group.) This creates 
 a sort of online family which makes the game even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrikcomn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  WoW is a very good game.
  It has a gigantic world, intens gameplay, cute graphic, and thousands of things to look after.
 
  The only big problem with this game is that you have to pay every month :-)
  And thats the reason i aint playing it no more.
  
  The good: good gameplay; nice graphic; do-what-you-want; 
 gigantic world; There is so many diffenrent swords, and axe's and so on to look after that you 
 will never ever find 20 % of what's in the game!; Lots of quest'es to complete; You can do so much 
 in this game, like getting your profession, doing a quest, or just gaining level, you can do what 
 ever you want !
  
  The bad; you have pay every month; Not enough classes, and races after my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pioougin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I have played WoW for some time now and i can say that it is indeed spot on. It has all the elements 
 that gamers are looking for, not to mention a new world for you to explore and get away to. . my 
 shrink made my mom take my computer away becuase i wouldnt get off. Its worh every penny. if u 
 enjoy the wonderful world of warcraft from your part, then get up off your a$$ and do your self 
 a favor. But be warned, this game is very similar to a drug and will rape you of your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  I never liked MMORPGs. I loved the concept of a continuous, anytime game online to play with millions 
 of others, but i could never get past the first month of grind. and that may have been because 
 i was a solo player. then i bought WoW. It changed my whole outlook on the genre. The game is well 
 tailored to solo until its level cap, so if you don't like other human interaction, you don't need 
 it. but if you do, WoW does a wonderful job of that as well with guilds, pick up groups and raids/dungeons. 
 the typical 'grind' you find in most MMOs is made fun in this game. Thousands of quests, weapons 
 and ways to play your character. I quit the game once when i leveled my first character to 40. 
 Burn out hits and i quit. It only lasted about a month when i started a brand new character and 
 i'm sitting at 45 right now and taking it slowly, but still thoroughly enjoying myself. Beautiful 
 graphics, fun gameplay and fairly frequent updates/additions make this a very addictive game to 
 play. the only issue i have with the game is the $15/month fee is a bit steep on top of the $60 
 price tag for the game itself, but in the end, i think it all pays for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2w-sephiroth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Reshorten Review, Important points to look at:
  
  World of warcraft is a fantastic game for players that can actually aford the time and money to 
 upkeep the rest of the players that actually have it. 
  
  Still Blizzard makes sure that users can be happy by playing this game, there is normally an update 
 every month or less that keeps players entertain. There is allways new and better objects for higher 
 character levels and new dungeons (and many more features that add with every update, check www. worldofwarcraft. com) . 
 
  
  The money is not a big issue when you consider that you only pay a couple of dolars but the time 
 is the biggest issue when there is so many games out there that include a more profund and closer 
 perspective of story line without having to spend so much time. In the same time you could play 
 (and pass) Final Fantasy 7,8,9 and 10 (or any other long RPG game) and still have some time to 
 go to the movies with your girlfriend.
  
  Apart of the increased time that you have to spend with the game and the money that you have to 
 spend monthly still if you are looking foward to buy any Online Massive RPG World of Warcraft will 
 be one of the best choices you will ever make considering the high quality this game includes.
 
  
  I know that this rewiew could be consider to be quite casual and personal instead of saying something 
 more profesional and general but I believe that It is never bad to recieve an realistic opinion 
 when they are so many superficial reviews out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryder_18
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun. I never actually played MMORPG before this game, because of the whole 
 pay to play thing (which I still think is Bull) , but when I first saw this game and played it at 
 a friends house, I knew it was meant to be.
  
  This game can kinda get repeatative after a while. Becasue quests usually consist of killing this 
 one guy, finding this one thing, or killing a certain number of animals. But for some reason it 
 dosent really bother you because you can always do it w/ a group or go do something totally diffrent 
 like battlegrounds or go PVP someone on the opposite side. Battlegrounds is totally fun and captures 
 the spirit of warcraft battles, there are some capture the flags, capture some resources, or just 
 take over someone elses base. There is also a ranking system that works off of PVP battles. You 
 kill a cetain amount of the other team or win the battle then you get more points and this can 
 lead to you getting your rank up. Ranking up allows you to be able to buy rare armor sets or mounts 
 and it also makes people respect you lol. This all adds alot of variety to the game, so you dont 
 have to do the quests all the time. 
  
  There are alsomany diffrent classes in whichyou can be. There are the Horde and the Alliance. (Horde 
 is the best LOL) . Under each team are diffrent races you can be and diffrent classes in which your 
 character can be. For example my guy is StryderX he is on the Horde's team, he's race is a Tauren 
 and his class is a druid. Now this is just my opion but i think druids are one of the better classes, 
 because its kinda all the classes rolled into one. Plus druids can turn into cool animals and they 
 can heal. 
  
  There are a couple things about the Wow that i don't like. One thing is that you have to pay to 
 play and its like $30 for 2 months. This cost seems kinda high if you ask me, but i dont like paying 
 to play anyways. In my opion if you buy the freakin game you should be able to play it. Man that 
 just pisses me off lol. Cause if u do the math you end up paying $80 or so all together. But I've 
 been paying for it anyways up until a month ago because I dont have any money left so i can't pay 
 for it anymore, and that means i can't play it anymore. Another thing that i dont like is that 
 it takes forever to lvl up your character, if you dont get the opprotunity to play it that much. 
 Now there are those people who can get there guy all the up to lvl 60 (which is the highest lvl) 
 in a short matter of time. But those are the people who dont have a life, dont sleep, never go 
 outside, and have no friends (except for those on WOW) lol. 
  
  All in all this is a great game, if you have a fast enough computer, and you dont mind eventually 
 being broke after paying to play it. Dont get me wrong this game rocks and is highly recommended. 
 And do yourself a favor and dont play as the stupid alliance be the Horde cause they rock lol. 
 
  
  FOR THE HORDE!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dv8dan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  As I look down on my prey.. my 200th dead raptor I come to an astounding revelation. World Of Warcraft 
 is boring! Yes, it is mildly addicting and some dungeons throw somewhat of an interesting twist 
 into the mix, but I don't remember the last time I thought:"Wow wouldn't it be fun to kill the 
 same creature 200 times!" You might think I'm not made for WOW or Massive Online Multiplayer RPG 
 in general. This might be the case and if so I apologize for bashing WOW so mercilessly. I suppose 
 I can understand the logic behind collection quests. They are easy to create and chances are one 
 of the collection quests will overlap with another quest. What I expect from a game is continous 
 fun, continuous challenges and the feeling of excitment of what may come next. In WOW I know that 
 once I kill this raptor, chances are he wont drop what I need and I will have to kill more of his 
 like. Let me throw out an idea at this point: Blizzard has an amazing track record when it comes 
 to games of any genre. I think Blizzard should build on this foundation in order to create a game 
 that is both amazingly fun and draws on story as well as gameplay of previous games. I realize 
 this game is not Diablo II, but Diablo II was the closest thing to a Massive Multiplayer Online 
 RPG and it worked. Thousands of people are still addicted to Diablo II, and for good reason.. The 
 weapon system is intuitive and there are not as many types of weapons. The gameplay is fast paced 
 and always has a main objective in sight (storyline is very important in a good game) . The map changes 
 everytime you play and your not bound to one server. You can trade all items (although I think the 
 auction house is a great idea) Actually that is all I will say right now, but those few things 
 alone are something that WOW could have been things that the developers of this game could have 
 used. If you want to spend your money wisely buy Guild Wars, while the weapons and armor in the 
 game are extremely boring and for lack of a better word stupid the actual gameplay is a lot more 
 rapid and rewarding. Oh and you don't pay 15$ a month for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtrdwngs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  Well, if you have played other MMOs you will be right at home with this one. All the elements of 
 a classic MMO are there. You have tanks, healers, casters, jobs, quests and guilds to name some 
 of the similarities. So what sets this one apart? Well, death is acceptable. It's not going to 
 cost you several hours in real-life time that you spent gaining xp. You do level fairly quickly 
 and the grind is not that bad. Character choices are not that plentiful but that could change with 
 expansions. NPCs don't really speak to you. This is good and bad. Another MMO has almost every 
 NPC speaking to you as you pass by. This can be fun at first but after a little while you start 
 quoting the guys before you even get to them. WoW has NPCs that dont talk to you but instead a 
 script is written when you click on them. I would rather have a combination of the two systems. 
 Like they would speak ONLY if you clicked on them. I am not sure why this game is pulling people 
 from EQ2 unless they are just tired of the grind and so forth. It is practically impossible to 
 review without mentioning the biggest dog in the pack EQ2. I played several characters and really 
 liked it until about level 27. It got old grinding away just to get a predetermined spell that 
 may not even suit my playing style. This is part of what sets WoW apart. You can pick and choose 
 what you do a bit more. You can even reset and reallocate your talent points. When deciding which 
 to play, you need to ask yourself if you can live with less graphics and NPC chatter and a bit 
 more fun. That is what sold me on WoW. It just became more fun for me. I could still be a warlock 
 with a pet but the grind was not so noticable. If the grind was a bit less on EQ2 I would go back. 
 I would say, give both a try and stay with the one that suits you best. For me, this is the one 
 due to the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of MMORPGs. Now just about every game company wants to make one, but WoW 
 is the best one out today! Its got a great solid feel that most online games tried to get but 
 never found. It has a stunning, huge, Open World, with so many quests, people, creatures, and beautiful 
 unique landscapes, its guaranteed to amaze you or take your breath away at least once a day :) 
 It has a helpful user interface that runs very smoothly, with awesome side bars and quick buttons. 
 The game itself is far more quest built then online games that came before it. When you do quests 
 it feels like your really part of a bigger picture to change the game world. The online is great 
 because you can make all sorts of friends or enemies on alliance or horde, and it has one of the 
 best MMORPG combat and PvP systems. If you like MMORPGs, what ever one you have, quit it so you 
 can get WoW. You will be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phuntymes006
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a MMORPG from Blizzard (Makers of Diablo) that takes place in the Warcraft 
 universe. It has the races and locations from the warcraft games but you now get to see them from 
 the point of view of a single unit and let me tell you it is amazing.
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics in this game are superb just not technically very good, but the graphics 
 in this game arent about being state of the art they are just artistically very good. You will 
 be amazed as you walk into a city like Orgrimmar and see it surrounded by huge stone walls towering 
 hundreds of feet above you also when you walk into a forest and see the fog in the air start to 
 get thicker. The attention to detail in this game is amazing.
  
  SOUND-The music and voices in WoW are also superb. Well, you wont be hearing much voiceovers the 
 ones there are vere well done. Each race and gender has thier own easily recognizable voices. The 
 music is really great though. It changes very from each area to area and it really helps create 
 great scope and and scale to the amazing adventure you are on. It also never gets that old, you 
 could listen to it for hours and not get sick of it.
  
  GAMPLAY/INTERFACE- This is probly one of the best aspects of WoW the interface you use in combat 
 and to interact with NPCs or players is great. The first time you have to talk to someone or get 
 into combat you know what to do its just that easy. There are small hints that tell you how to 
 do somthing if you havent figured it out yet, which is highly unlikely because the interface is 
 so intuitive. The gamplay is also very fast paced and fun which is dissimilar from most MMORPGs. 
 You wanna play this game, you never feel like its some kinda chore walking from one place or another. 
 The best part of the gameplay is interacting with other players. You can engage in PvP if you wish, 
 you can gather a group of friends and do a dungeon or quest together, or even just chat it up with 
 someone you come across in a town. The World of warcraft is also split up into two sides the Horde 
 and the Alliance so your gonna have to make a character for each side to experience each half of 
 the game. The two sides also make you feel like your in a big war and that even adds greater scope 
 to this massive game.
  
  FINAL COMMENTS- BUY THIS GAME. Don't ley the monthly fee scare you away because you are going to 
 regret it. This game also caters to more casual gamers so if u just like to sit down play for 30 
 mins or and hour it supports that because of the games rest system. So buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsymptoms
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW for short) is an extremely fun game. Solid graphics and a superb soundtrack 
 all make up for a fantastic game, but in no way can they match up to the unique style of gameplay. 
 World of Warcraft is like an action game crossed with an RPG/Strategy game. Whatever your tastes, 
 you will enjoy this game to some extent. Dont think in stereotypes about the online game genre. 
 You may think this game is incredibly nerdy. The truth is, I thought the same before I started 
 playing it. I was convinced by some friends to try it, and realized that this game could certainly 
 be enjoyed by anyone. At no point in the game will you feel like you are doing the same thing over 
 and over again. Sharing your time between trade skills, selling items, and chatting with friend 
 is always a nice way to take breaks from all of the battling. There are eight different races to 
 choose from (Human, Gnome, Undead, etc.) and nine different classes (Warrior, Mage, Priest) . This 
 all makes up for a very different type of gameplay for each character. Though many things are good 
 with this game, there are a few things that could have been included to make the game more appealing. 
 The character creation options are limited. Most people probably would have liked to have seen 
 some diversity to the system. There are a few other flaws, many of which are minor and fixed in 
 patches. The value of the game is very well worth your money. The $14.99 per month pricetag may 
 seem a bit excessive, but Blizzard adds so much to the game on a daily basis to make it even more 
 fun and exciting to play. Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone and everyone. 
  
  WARNING: World of Warcraft May Steal Your Life! Beware!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradleyroach
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  A lot could be said about this game. So ill keep this review short and sweet.. 
  
  Absolutely Perfect MMORPG. From the grouping together with friends and slaying monsters and exploring 
 dungeons and new langs.. to going player vs player in battlegrounds for the occasional break from 
 leveling up. Quests from shore to shore.. and tradeskills to keep you occupied for even more extra 
 time. 
  
  The only downfall to this game is the drain it will have on your real life. Dont plan on doing 
 much else with your time.. other than work off the $14.99 a month its going to cost you to keep 
 up your new drug.. this amazing game.
  
  Frequent updates keep this game growing and getting all the better.
  
  If you are thinking 
 about trying out your first MMORPG or already engaging in one looking for the next best one.. here 
 is your chance. Buy it and soak up the glory.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  you have heard everything good to say about the game so I see no point in repeating...
  
  but i have something to add
  you need patience.. A LOT of patience... most the time you will 
 be running from place to place or resting after a 5 sec battle..
  
  this get's anoying over time..
  
  the cartoon grafics are great if you likes it in warcraft 
 1,2,3 if not you might get dissapointed..
  no full fledged realistic grafics here..
  the music and sound is decent but might get to you overtime like I have never been here befor it 
 looks different but... is sound the same as it did on the otherside of that mountain..
  
  my point is sounds are all alike and gets irritating I ended up turing off the sound and music..
 
  
  there is bunches of enemys in the game but most of the are different versions of eachother... diablo 
 all over which for someone is a good thing 
  
  
  it's a greate game by all means
  but know that you need that patiece to enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiptail
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the pinnacle of gaming! Never have i played a game that showers me with fun and rewards 
 constantly! I was a warlock, and i found so many nice people online. When i went on quests, i found 
 many willing people to help me. Each time i played, it was a memorable experience. You all know 
 that you are going to die in the game, right? This game does not punish you for dying! you become 
 a ghost, or wisp in the case of the night elves, and journey back to your body. I actually found 
 the experience fun. The one downside to this game is the online fees. $15 dollars may be a bit 
 steep, but it is totally worth it. You can do virtually anything in the game. For example, when 
 i hit level 60 one of my greatest pleasures was summoning an Infernal into a populated area, then 
 watching the chaos insue! You really should get this game, it is one of the best games that i have 
 ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgranda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I put a lot of time into researching this game before i actually bought it. I was 
 still a little wounded from my SWG experience and was not ready to commit to another life sucking 
 on-line RPG until I new more. Everything I read pointed to this game being an epic installment 
 in the on-line genre and once I started playing I quickly found out why. Character creation was 
 quick and to the point no need to decide where to spend points or such just a few decisions on 
 race and class and you are on your way. The game interface is almost intuitive to get the hang 
 of and I was rolling through levels before I new it. I love the way they slowly add your class 
 powers through quests and levels and there is always time for you to integrate it into your style 
 of play before you need to worry about the next power or spell. The graphics are to die for and 
 I have yet to have any major problems with game play or latency issues. Some minor crashes during 
 initial days of new patch release and some minor latency in the large cities like IronForge and 
 Stormwind but that is the extent of it. I think I am most impressed with the balance of this game, 
 I am on a PvE (Player vs. Environment) server and have many options to engage in PvP type battles 
 and instances and not worry about having to look over my shoulder all the time. One of my favorite 
 items of note about this game is that they do not penalize you for death as I have seen in the 
 past and for players who have limited playing time per week are still able to keep up with there 
 on-line buddies because of the very cool "rested" feature. Basically if your character logs off 
 in an Inn when you log back on depending on the amount of time you were off-line, will receive 
 double xps for mob kills and such. This is great for those of us who have to cram our playing time 
 into 8 -10 hours a week. I could go on for pages about the awesome features in this game but the 
 best advice I can give you is try it for the free month, It is worth every penny!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  I'm a 24 year old gamer and have been since as long as I remember and wow is the absolutely the 
 best game I've ever played. So gratifying to have a game that will reward me with so much fun everytime 
 I play it. You can play the game in so many different ways and have so many different game experiences. 
 The botton line is I've played over 100 games in my lifetime and this one beats all of them. Thats 
 really hard for me to even write on this review. But its true even beats resident evil 4 which 
 is also great. Wow is the peak of all games. If you don't have it get it u won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donwoogie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  Gone are the days when you need to spend countless hours levelling before you reach the real meat 
 of the game, by which point you are usually sick of playing it. WoW throws you right into the mix 
 of itfrom the moment you have created your character! From the start, you are immediately given 
 the ability to go on quests which lead to greater follow on quests, and the one off ones are usually 
 fulfilling, in that, you get special items however, the follow on quests which provide no rewards 
 til the final part are the most rewarding, with special unique items. As soon as you enter the 
 world, you are immediately given unlimited freedom to explore as you wish should you get bored 
 of questing. This wonderful questing system also near elimenates the need for grinding (mindless 
 killing constantly for the sake of items and money) .
  
  In addition to tweaking the features that are present in most good MMORPGs, WoW brings some new 
 stuff into the mix, such as the wind/gryphin riders, zepplins and boats that allow quick transportation 
 over large distances. The fation system is also brilliant, upon entering the game, your character 
 must choose whether to join the horde, or the alliance. The PvP system is also extremely gratifying 
 with the ability to group up with units from your faction and Raiding towns belonging to your rival 
 faction, the new battlegrounds also allow you and randoms people from your faction, to take on 
 random enemies fromt he opposing faction in a series of matches, such as free for all and capture 
 the flag. Neutral towns are possibly one of the best ideas ever, the ability to wander into a town 
 or villiage populated by both opposing factions and talk to vendors fromt he opposite side, users 
 are free to attack each other, but should they do so, guards fromt he villiage will be swift to 
 knock down the aggressor.
  
  To put it shortly, describing the good bits in this game would take up days, if not more, rest 
 assured, if you like MMORPGs or this is your first outing with them, this is the game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad900
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best I've ever played. Blizzard has outdone themselves with this one. 
 It's as addicting as it is immersive, and you will never run out of new things to try. With endgame 
 content galore, capping levels doesn't mean a new character. Beautiful instances and raids keep 
 you entertained and give the hardcore players the level of dedication needed. For more casual players, 
 there are numerous locales all with seperate easy to get into quest chains that give storyline 
 and rewards.
  
  Each of the nine classes is well thought out and developed, with Blizzards updates implementing 
 great new features and tweaking settings. With graphics that can blow you away, the game's video 
 is more than up to snuff.
  
  The world is completely explorable, and you can visit almost anything you see. With hidden easter 
 eggs and jokes in places you might not find everyday. 
  
  All in all, this game is one that I think fully deserves the 10 out of 10 rating.
  
  Develop 
 on Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Embercaster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Christmas 2004,
  My older brother 17 has gotten World of Warcraft. I have seen him play the beta beofre and coudn't 
 stand with out looking. After that I have Never ever seen him leave his room. Then one faithful 
 June he had work to do on his mod for HL2 (Kingdom Lost check It out) He let me use his user (not 
 his characters) . I stod up until 3:00 that night never Leaving Stormscale (a Server) . Im not gonna 
 tell the storyline cause its too long and its an MMORPG, But i'm gonna say the graphics are good 
 not great. You can evan walk through other people not houses though. The sound is great... You 
 know what the Gameplay is awesome the money is worth it just get it if u didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is simply one of the best games for the PC and just the best online multiplayer 
 game that has ever been created. Fans of Warcraft, Final Fantasy, and Everquest will not be unhappy 
 because this game just works so well. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay really works well. The controls are the standar arrow keys and the numbers, however, 
 what makes the controls really work is the amazing interface so that all different players can 
 have all of their moves on the screen and they can be used literally with one click of the mouse. 
 The whole battling system works really well, but similar to other online games, sometimes gets 
 very tedious and boring when you have to level up. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were great on my computer, but I have an amazing video card. To really see all the 
 potential in the world, you have to have a top of the line computer or else you will have to tune 
 down the graphics. The characters look really cool, and they have tons of details, and it really 
 is cool how your character can drastically change apearance when changing equiped items and clothing. 
 The background is very nice , and there are no "billboard" graphics to show things very far off 
 in the distance.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in the game is pretty nice. The music is very cool, but I found myself playing my own 
 music while playing the game because you will get sick of hearing the same music for literally 
 days of playing time. The sounds of the different creatures and the voice acting is very well done.
 
  
  Value:
  Although the player has to pay for their time online the game gives its own dividends. You can 
 create a seemingly endless amount of characters on different servers while only having one account. 
 This game does require a lot of time. To be level 30 you really need at least 2 days of playing 
 time! This is not for the person with little time. 
  
  Pros:
  Amazing amount of people playing
  Great graphics
  Great sound
  A lot of things to do (many 
 hours of gameplay)
  
  Cons:
  Not for a person with not a lot of time
  Cost $15 a month to play
  Really hard to level up
  Some servers have terrible lag
  Need time 
 to learn how the world works
  
  After waying in the pros and the cons however, this is definitely a game you have got to play because 
 it really has made amazing changes to the genre and is just flat out fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetaforever
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i played it for a straight weekend, didn't get no sleep at all and 
 i felt like crap.
  
  i signed up for the 3 month trial and i couldn't believe it is $70 for a whole year and still is 
 if you want to keep on playing it.
  
  i think no game is worth to play for more then what you paid for
  
  Either the game is good 
 or bad, nothing is worth that much time and/or money.
  
  what's the point of that?
  
  The game is good, but still the principle is the game is overrated.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing this one for over a year now and guess what? its still amussing me still! the 
 combat system is a little complexe at first for the less experienced. ah yes i remember it like 
 it was yesterday.... allways wondering where to go and what to do next. the difficulty is realy up 
 to how much experience u have got in the MMORPG games. sometimes it can realy get repetitive but 
 it all pays off when u thinkah finally i can get this or that" there are 8 races and 9 different 
 ways of combat races : trolls, orcs, tauren, undead, night elf, gnome, dwarf and human. each harnessing 
 different strenghts and weaknesses. combat types : hunter, warrior, mage, , rouge, , preist, paladin 
 and the warlock, and again all having different abilitys streanghts and weaknesses. the thing i 
 like about it is meeting new people and trading a sword for a shiney new axe. when u go up i the 
 levels u will notice things will need to change like ure lvl 10 and STIL in the starters area thats 
 when u need somewhere else to go lvl up. same with equipment if its not packing punch get enougher 
 one. hope u enjoyed reading this as much as i liked writing it =-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspcoopper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Although i never played any of the warcraft games, wow is a different story. Not only is this game 
 one of the best mmorpg of all time but it's presentation does well too. The reason why i like this 
 better then ff11 and everquest is that it's wow's world is big and better then the others. Also 
 the games lvl up is better is better cause when you die you don't lose exp. points and also when 
 you die you can walk back to your body instead of being brought back to a save point. Plus i also 
 love the pvp or player vs player style of the game making the game last for endless hours. overall 
 this is perfect a game to buy for your pc and also the price of playing wow online is decent. WoW 
 rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackPandemic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  A game unlike any other. With over 4 million paying users worldwide as of this review, World of 
 Warcraft has proven it's powerful nature of attracting gamers of all statures.
  
  To being with, the reputation of Blizzard precedes everything. I knew that if I loved Starcraft 
 and Warcraft, I would love the MMO version of a classic. Their undying ability to create amazing 
 games has kept the money flowing for years.
  
  The gameplay is the big draw for this MMO. While Guild Wars attracts others with a no monthly fee 
 draw, the gameplay is severely lacking in terms of social engagement. In WoW, you are always with 
 other people, no matter where you are in the world, there will be at least 1 other person with 
 you. The combat is phenominal, with the ability to save over 50 different attack abilites and use 
 them whenver you want. The enemies are challenging from start to finish and provide hours of awesome 
 fighting. 
  The PvE is great but the draw for a lot of gamers is the PvP. The addition of Battlegrounds to 
 the game is a big draw for all role players who don't want to fight other players all the time. 
 The Battlegrounds allow players to join up in a team and play a game of capture the flag against 
 the opposing faciton. These kills give the player Honor which can raise your ranking (Private to 
 Master Sergent) which "unlocks" new items and abilites.
  
  The graphics, although not top notch, are great for the style. Blizzard is known for the non realistic 
 yet always creative display of creatures and cities. Although some people find these "cartoonish" 
 I think it adds a sense of uniqueness to the game as a whole. Towns are inviting if friendly, and 
 the hostile zones look their part as well.
  
  Sound is another thing to boast about. The sound effects are amazing as well as the well composed 
 score of music which (in options) can be run continuously as you play, adding epic, heroic music 
 to your quests and battles.
  
  Overall, World of Warcraft provides a total package in the MMO genre. The role-playing servers 
 are chock full of players wishing to play their characters, and meet new people. The PvE servers 
 are for the casual players (if they even exist) and the PvP servers are full of battle ready players 
 always looking for fights. If you have 14 bucks a month to spend on anything, make it this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fweubyjuuby
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  For your own sake, do not buy this game. If you ignore this warning, you might as well kiss your 
 social life goodbye. The game is incredibly addictive, and it's not just a short term addiction. 
 The gameplay is awesome, and will keep you actually entertained unlike the all too common timesinks 
 which provide little enjoyment but are nonetheless addictive. The only problem I have with the 
 game is the graphics. I'm not a big fan of the cartoon-like graphics, but it is much nicer to my 
 computer, which could probably not handle it if the graphics were really good. The game will take 
 a while to really get the hang of if it is your first MMO, but if you already have experience in 
 them it will not take nearly as long. There are thousands of quests in the game, and if you go 
 to the right place you will never be short of them. There is also a quest log which makes tracking 
 your quests very easy and interperets what actually needs to be accomplished for the quests, which 
 can be useful as some quest descriptions are rather cryptic. You will not have to grind to level 
 up very often until you hit the higher levels, and even then much of the grinding is accomplished 
 as you quest, which makes the actual time spent mindlessly killing things seem a lot less. If you 
 want a game that will keep you entertained until WoW II comes out, buy this game, but if you can't 
 afford to spend hours and hours on a game and have it only seem like 5 minutes, consider yourself 
 warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillyakos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  A friend of my showed me this game and at first I didn't think it would be good. I never played 
 online games so far and I thought this is not for a lone-wolf like me. Then I tried the game with 
 the 10-day guest card and that's exactly what I shouldn't have done. I got addicted after half 
 an hour game. So I roamed the city for days to finally buy a copy of the game. After only two weeks 
 playing it I can say it's SUPERB. It's very easy to learn, the small tooltips give you all the 
 help neccessery to start and you can always ask for help through the very simple chat function. 
 There are a lot of quests so you always have something to do. it doesn't matter if you play alone 
 or in a group the game is very fun and exciting. Your character can be totally personalized although 
 there is not much choice considering the look. But I haven't heard anyone complaining about this. 
 There is no need for a high bandwith internet connection, there are few loading times. But you 
 can use a massive video card to produce the truly amazing graphics in the game. If you have all 
 this then prepare to give up your friends, family, and your whole life because you will realize 
 it in a short time that you sometimes even forget to have dinner just because you are in the middle 
 of a quest with your teammates from across the world doing the same. I can recommend it to everyone 
 because it's one of the best games I ever played. But I must say don't try it if your friends are 
 dear! Haha
  
  pokica 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Well when I first bougt this game I took it out of the box and went to install it. This game is 
 5 cd's and took around 45 minuites to install even though I have a really fast computer. Once the 
 installation was done i opened up the game and started to play. To be honest I didnt think this 
 game would be good but little did i know it would probally be the best game I ever played.
  
  When you start this game you can choose to be Horde or Alliance, the alliance have Humans, 
 Dwarves, Elves, and gnomes. The Horde have Undead, Taurn, Orcs, and Trolls. I picked Taurn because 
 they looked kewl. Imagine playing with a half cow half man creature. Anyway once i picked him I 
 was able to pick how he looked, after that I chose my class. I became a warrior because I like 
 to fight. Though, there are many other classes such as palads, rouges, Drude, Hunter, etc..
  
  Once my character was all done I startred the game and it loaded. Then once it was done loading 
 (which took like 2 seconds) I was in a taurn training camp, there I learned basic movement and 
 controllers and how to do quests and where to get them from. So I talked to one guy to get a quests, 
 the quest was that I had to go find some lady to give me a weapon, so I did that and it took me 
 a bit to figure out how to do quests and find the lady. Once I found her I completed the quest 
 and got a huge wooded Hammer. Once I got that I went to kill some little birds to bring up my lvl.
 
  
  The combat system is good in this game, to fight all you have to do is right click on the enemy 
 and go near them, if you are facing the wrong direction it will say "you are facing teh wrong direction 
 unable to attack". You can also use magic in this game which and ablities whcih inhance you weapon 
 attack. 
  
  While i was doing quests and exploring I met many friends and they taught me that you can fly in 
 this game and you can sell stuff and auction stuf like ebay :) . So I learned so many stuff about 
 thsi game and i'm still learning
  
  If your looking for a game that will last you a LONG LONG time and will stay fun I say you shoudl 
 get World of Warcraft. Even though theres a montly fee its still fun. Most people say that people 
 get addicted to this game but I kno i dindt' even though it was one of the best games i played. 
 So This would defenetly be a game I would tell all my friends to get.
  
  Thanks for readin and I hope this helped!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doody360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft. The title which was anticipated almost a year before it came out. Ever since 
 the first ever Warcraft blessed my hard-drive, I have wanted to play it out in glorious first/third 
 person madness. That want has been fufilled a thousand times over. With eight playable races, four 
 in each army, this game has hours and hours of playtime. For a start, one could wander the world 
 for days on end, marveling at the lovely polyagonal scenery and occasionally being eaten by a wild 
 monster. Or you could try and make your name famous, competing and winning many duels or leading 
 a victorious force in one of the two currently playable battlegrounds scenarios. It even has a 
 social side, and, even if there are the ocassional idiots, is fairly interesting. Join a guild 
 and get some friends to help you out with a hard quest or raid a foreign land. Or just chat and 
 mess around and have fun. It's all up to you. But at the end of the day, having a good session 
 of World of Warcraft leaves me feeling all warm and fuzzy inside... And with a serious case of 
 eye damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I have played alot of MMo's over the years, anywere from plantside to SWG, City of Heroes, Lineage 
 2, even EQ2. After playing all of those games then playing this i just have to say this is the 
 best hands down. I have been a fan of the warcraft games for a few years now and was waiting for 
 this for a while, and i have to say it lived up to the hype, the art design was awsome, so are 
 all the races and classes. In the end their isn't anyhting wrong with this game and anyone that 
 wants to try vout an MMo or play a great one hope on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolamini
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  I've been playing videogames since I was 10 year old, so it's about...24 years of intense gameplaying 
 but hey, never played a game like this!!
  The MMRPG game experience is really great, and can keep you playing for hours and hours like no 
 other game. The graphics and sound are not todays top, but really fine, detailed and the 3d game 
 engine works really well. The storyline is great with a lot of quests, great in single player, 
 totally fun in multiplayer, where the game offers his best! Team up with other players, find new 
 friends, create or join a guild, defeat big monsters, try to get a reward from every kill and most 
 important, level up, level up to become stronger, faster, harder and discover new abilities and 
 buy weapons and armour.
  Progressing in the game you can find a lot of great places and landscapes, and ou can find a lot 
 of shops, every sort of shop you like, from the armourer to the herbalist, from letherworking to 
 fireworks and most important, where you can find your best tools, the auction house. Here you can 
 find all sort of objects the game can offer, and important something that you can't find in the 
 shops. Bid in auctions or create an auction with the objects you've found in the game for better 
 money reward.
  The gameplay works very well with a fine combat system, a clear interface that you can easily personalize 
 at your wish.
  I love the game realization, you can see clearly how much time programmers spent to perfect the 
 game, to add things, like the halloween pumpkins, halloween costumes and quests in these days. 
 Every months or two you get new patches, add on, new game sections and quests, the money spent 
 you know is well spent, for sure.
  You think this is a perfect game? Quite perfect, this is the reason I didn't put a full 10 score 
 on it. Sometime you find small glichtes, little gameplay imperfections, and the most annoying thing, 
 the game lag. This can be very annoying, specially when you are in Ironforge or big cities where 
 a lot of people are playing. I see some server migration in these days, hope Blizzard guys can 
 fix these little bugs, but don't care these little imperfections are like a bird sxxxt on your 
 new Ferrari Enzo, at 350 km/h you won't think about it, at all!!
  In conclusion I recommend this game to everyone, just a great game experience you have to do one 
 time in your life and a message to the Blizzard; great work, you have done another masterpiece 
 in game history!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gardla
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for an easy game that is nice graphically and has good sound, this game fits the 
 build. If you only intend to play till level 60 then roll on to another game, this game fits the 
 build. If your looking for meaningful end game and pvp, this game doesn't fit the build.
  
  End game dungeons/instances take between 3 and 8 hours depending on the group you go with, they 
 require 40 people and you aren't assured of getting anything out of it. It's a rerun of the Everquest 
 endgame. 
  
  PvP is decent, but has absolutely no tangible benefit. If you kill enough you get some meaningless 
 trinkets and if you kill non stop for 10 hours each day you can get some nicer trinkets, but the 
 items from the end game dungeons are still better.
  
  The promise of a casual friendly game that can be balanced between real world time and end game 
 time is a myth, unless you like being mediocre. Replayability isn't even that great, considering 
 you can do almost every quest from horde or alliance side. If you take a character to 60 on each 
 side, you've seen pretty much everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalienteBurito
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I was so hyped to play this game and I was not let down. WoW is one of the best games I have ever 
 played to date. Im gonna split this into sections to save some time.
  
  GAME PLAY :: Well the best way to describe it is... WoW if you like RPGs then you will love it. 
 Sometimes, I'll admit, The misisons can become a bit repetitive but it still is amazing
  
  GRAPHICS :: This is another thing that just blows me away. The detail put into this game goes perfectly 
 with the mood that blizz was trying to use. The "Ye Olde Towne" feeling... ya know? Its just perfect 
 what can else can I say!
  
  SOUND :: Once again Perfect... Amazing... Best sound on a game to date
  
  VALUE :: The P2P 
 thing kinda turns me off of the MMORPG catagory... but for this game I made the exception. It is 
 so worth the $10 a month it is just perfect... once again!
  
  TILT :: Alright and now the one downside. The P2P mixed with the sometimes repetitive mission structure 
 has in the past put me in a down slump where I dont play for a while. But I always seem to come 
 back. So although not perfect it is DANG NEAR CLOSE!!
  
  DEFINETLY BUY THIS GAME... IT WILL TAKE OVER YOUR LIFE BUT IN A GOOD WAY!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twistted232
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  What else needs to be said.
  
  In the beginning there were problems, and you may not want to get onto a high population server, 
 but there is always fresh servers that are being put up.
  
  The grapics are great for their style, no crazy special effects, but still very clean.
  
  Sound 
 is amazing, and adds a lot to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  The game is always being updated, with new items, quests, areas, and instances (dungeons) , so you 
 actually get something for the $15 you put up every month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalaf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an excellent game. This has to be the best fantasy MMO out there. The game 
 systems are fantastic and very easy to learn. The graphics are phenomenal but some may not like 
 that they are cartoonesqe... not the same level of realism you get from Dark Age of Camelot. 
 
  
  The character creation is simple and fun and allows you to get right to the game... detailed enough 
 but not a second job to create your character.
  
  The system is very typical to most MMOs and you have full control over the view of your character.
 
  
  I like that it is a free roaming environment and the you don't have the point click and move type 
 of action.
  
  The world also allows for free movement which is great. If you see something you can almost always 
 travel to it unless of course you would like to go to the sun or moon. 
  
  One of the most fantastic parts of the game is the travel system between the citiies... you are 
 of course welcome to walk but only suckers would do that.. you can in fact travel by Griffin... 
 this is the most fantastic thing I have seen in a game like this. While you are flying around you 
 can actually see real characters playing under you.. . you are actually flying over the game landscape.. 
 not some crappy animation sequence.... you can even tell funny jokes as you fly over a mob.
  
  The PVP aspect of the game is well done... and most important FUN! I love when you come across 
 a horde member with his back turned to you. Northing like giving him a shot in the you know what... 
 good stuff. 
  
  Definitely worth the rating it received here a great buy!!! Great support!! Great Product!!
  
 
  Only downside is some crappy shared updater software used to apply patches etc.... it stinks... 
 it has problems with firewalls etc... not good... it works but... well you will see.
  
  But still get it!
  
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best PC game i have ever laid my eyes upon. This is also my first MMORPG to 
 and i must say its pure gold in each bit. You go around the world Azeroth completeing quests, fighting 
 against the opposing force, and while your doing that you can have people from different locations 
 around the world be at your side through thick and thin. Welcome to the Steroided version of Lord 
 of the Rings. The graphics seem to get better and better each time a patch comes out. The staff 
 at Blizzard are so far keeping to their word about having the game fresh and new each time they 
 work on it on a daily basis. Their are still a few aspect left out like weather wise and being 
 able to attack on a mount and a few other things that may need to be tweeked. But hopefully they 
 will take peoles opinions into consideration when developing the expansion pack. Overall this is 
 by far the best game i have ever played. Its very addicting and it will steal your life if you 
 let it get to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  I usually buy a game and play it for 2-3 weeks. Then I don't want to see it's sorry ass again on 
 my PC for quite some time, if ever. "Usually" ended in December 2004. Two things happened in that 
 month - I had a baby girl, and I started to play WoW. (that was in priority order incidently) . 
 Whilst happily addicted to my baby girl, I'm still quite addicted to WoW, and very happily so. 
 This sort of game is rare in many ways, and to sum it up in a review is extremely hard to do.
 
  
  The game appeals to many demographics. - teenagers, womenfolk, and guys of all age groups and mental 
 capacity. This is evidence to the fact that WoW really does draw the player into a parallel world 
 which most of us can readily relate to and exist in. There are many of the same key elements of 
 'real life' - travel, money, clothes, banks, towns, cities, mountains, rivers, oceans, and even 
 trams! There's a constant presence of good and evil, and the war waging between factions and races. 
 Being multiplayer means that the randomness and nature of other human beings is involved also - 
 evident by many acts of kindness and generosity, and also plenty of humor, greed, and the not-so-nice 
 side of us all as well. Blended with those familiar things are of course an abundant array of elements 
 of fantasy - mystical creatures, dungeons, weapons, magic, shapeshifting, the list goes on and 
 on.
  
  I have given top marks to tilt, gameplay, and value for this reason - it just simply is not the 
 usual short-plotted 10-20 hour experience of most FPS games, and certainly not the endless rounds 
 of skirmishs on the same maps over and over again as seen in many RTS games. The quest system in 
 WoW is diverse and enormous. You could play 5 characters all the way up to level 60 and still not 
 have completed all the quests in the game. Even if you somehow managed to, Blizzard are continually 
 updating and adding content at the rate of a patch every 6 weeks. Now that's value for money. An 
 upcoming expansion will add zones to the already diverse range of 40+ zones and 20+ dungeons. Each 
 zone and dungeon by the way has an entirely different look and feel to it. One minute you will 
 feel like you're in outback Texas, the next in a steamy Amazon jungle, and the next in a dreary 
 swamp full of toads and crocodiles. Zones are discovered as you progress through the 60 levels, 
 so the element of discovery which we all enjoy is a constant factor.
  
  Speaking of money - $15 a month. Laughable, considering without this game I'd spend $50 a month 
 on other games. And as stated, the continual updates to content really do make this a small fee 
 for continued enjoyment. I'm sure there will be those out there who disagree - and those players 
 probably don't play WoW !
  
  I won't bore you with a video and sound analysis, let's just say that the graphics are rich and 
 immersive, and the sound diverse and extremely appropriate for each zone and action. It also will 
 run nicely on "normal" PCs without cutting edge hardware. If anything I recommend a cinematic widescreen 
 LCD - this really makes the game look outstanding.
  
  I can hear the music playing to wind up this review. Oh, wait, no that's the sound of my wife logging 
 off from her Level 50 Warlock on.... my account! Tip... if you get any of your family members into 
 this game, put them on separate accounts!
  
  If this review made any sense to you, go and buy this game NOW. The first month is free after all, 
 more than enough time to find out if you want to continue the adventures in the World of Warcraft.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  This is my most favorite game ever, no lie. Even though the game does not have a defintite objective, 
 you have fun anyway, and you never never run out of stuff to do. Wehther your killing horde, quets 
 completing, or just travelling, this game is awesome. The graphics andf lanscapes are beautiful. 
 Great game to look at. A bunch of varying landscapes. Capital cities are really fun to look at. 
 I am currently a rogue, I am having a lot of fun sneaking around and killing. I have killed 60 
 horde so far and I am only A level 26. There is so many places to do it as well. The battlegrounds 
 are absoloty fun and amazing. You might have to wait a whiole to get in them but it is well worth 
 the wait. It is like a capture the flag dealy. Very creative, expands the mutliplayer in world 
 of warcraft to a whole new level. The items and options in this game are endless. Tons of equipment 
 to get. Very complex and just plain big world. You can tell this by visiting the auction houses. 
 This is truly it's own world. This game is very good. Very difficult game to grasp, cant describe 
 it in a review. Just get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG around. Not even everquest can top it or even match it i any aspect. 
 Blizzard really knew what they where doing with this one.
  
  The good:
  
  The gameplay is a worse addiction then evercrack. It manages to put a good battle into the standard 
 "click and kill" gameplay of other MMORPGs. The Graphics although not that great for modern PC 
 games, are exceptional for a online RPG. The sound is wide enough for the spells so you never get 
 tired of them. The world is huge with a capital HUGE. Without the Map to tell you where you will 
 likely get lost. The different areas are constructed with such a different theme that the change 
 on one to the other is like going to another world, but it is subtle enough to seem natural. And 
 world is detailed enough for a person who has been to a place before can easely find their way 
 around, so there is no "lost in the woods" effect with wondering around. If you are a follower 
 of the WarCraft series then you will be surprised to see how faithfully this game follows the storylike. 
 Their are profesions that offer a lot of debth to the gameplay, as you can be part of a sort of 
 virtual society trading with other characters what you made, and buying from others what you need. 
 The good goes on but i had to stop myself because i would be here all day.
  
  And the bad:
  
  Like any MMORPG there are "cookie cutter" building, and cookie cutter enemies. 
 This doesn't prove to be too much of a problem, but i had to list something. Their are not enough 
 choices when making your character. So you will see a lot of dopplegangers wondering around. Their 
 are the often times annoying dirty mouthed ten year olds playing the game. And i experenced a bug 
 where i would often be killed or PKed by another character when not flagged for PVP. Also some 
 classes of character seem to be neglected by the guys at Blizzard. Like the Warlock, with experence 
 and skill can be very powerful, but lacks refinment, and is very underpowered in PvP matches or 
 PvP servers.
  
  Keep in mind that this game is a MMORPG and as such is likely to change by patches that are constently 
 in the works, and eventually The Bad portion of this review could be erased, or made larger, who 
 knows but if you want to play a MMORPG then this is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpioN_X_
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 14, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorx77
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonkuong84
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Back in 2 years time, when I first discovered the development of the world of warcraft from blizzard 
 offical site. I didnt really like the style and graphic to be honest, Its a bit too cartoonyee 
 and i thought the scale of the game is too small.
  
  Not until I have actually played the game! The scale is absolutly huge, and the details of story 
 has astonished my gaming experience. It seems a real life is going on througout the universe and 
 every single quest and story line has been written in rich detail.
  
  Game play wise, its well balanced and you have a chance to fight any race and class to death if 
 you have the skill.
  
  I specially like the idea of raid dungeon where you could only enter with a group of certain size 
 like 10 people or more, it gives so much fun working a s a group.
  
  Blizzard, good job again as always. 
  
  *it does takes LOTS of time to reach high level, so 
 be prepared to spend you sleepless night througout your next 3 month after ur purchase :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing WoW as a beta tester, and needless to say not everything worked back then. 
 I eventaully dropped out of the runnings, but now am back to see how it has changed and to see 
 how much better it has become. I for one think it's a great game.
  
  Points I would like to make about maximizing anyone's enjoyment of this game are as follows:
 
  
  1) Make sure you have a good computer. I, on the one hand, have an older computer, and my adventures 
 near large PC bases are ground to a 'slide-show' of a game while my computer fights with itself 
 to get my screen to refresh. Get a good game so your lag will be small if non-existant.
  
  2) Do it with friends. From the get-go you may bring your friends into a party and continue adventuring 
 with them until you are all 60's. This not only gives you an easier time when it comes to quests 
 ,but also gives you the oppertunity to fight tougher monsters and die less.
  
  3) Roleplay: Roleplaying your character you've always wanted to insert into the World of Warcraft 
 games you had before is one of the greastest strengths of this game. If you don't want to, that's 
 fine too. You can quest all you want, and still have fun.
  
  Basically, this game is fun, addicting, and at times very fufilling, but other times it can be 
 frustrating. Such as times you die away from your party, away from a Spirit Healer, and you have 
 to trudge back to your body, for you do not want to lost your experience you had just gained. Be 
 sure to make the nearest city your 'home' always, espeically when you will be staying in for instance, 
 the Crossroads, for a while. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  well to me it is really unchallenged to as which is the best MMORPG there is. even though i'm a 
 Final Fantasy Fan I love W. O. W. probably the most anticipated game out there (except maybe for 
 Starcraft: Ghost, btw blizzard when is it comin out?) it has not dissapointed any Warcraft fans. 
 it came just as i have imagined it and even better. If you were an experienced MMO player then 
 learning how to play was nothing, even if you werent it was pretty straight forward. not only was 
 the gameplay sound and graphics good, but the Story (the maine element to any game is a good story) 
 was awsome how it really completes the history of the warcraft series. I'm so hoping for a Warcraft 
 4 to come out, or an expansion to W. O. W to really expand on the story. 
  
  Even though paying monthly is well... who wants to pay, but i say blizzard deservs it (i've never 
 seen Blizzard make a failure of a game before) . this game sure is a must but and a must leave your 
 school and work to play game, who needs that while you could lead another life of adventure. (kidding, 
 though for me well lets just say i'm a fan) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvandenb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I got hooked on this game by a friend (you know ... i wonder if their commericial strategy was 
 not stolen from selling drugs... give a free try and hooked forever) . And wow, first day done, 
 12 hours of my life in Azeroth... Lemme tell you, this game is fun, it incorporates so many of 
 my favorite ideas of the best rpgs i have ever played (ultima 7-8, Might and Magic 6-7, Baldur's 
 Gate 2, ...) and seems to let go of many of the most annoying parts. E. g. don't worry about looking 
 for that person in that house somewhere in that map, the questlog will tell you where to return 
 and the gold dots on the map will show u where to be in that perticular place. Its easy to get 
 into, rapidly addicting, you will quickly find people to join you (best to get to lvl 10 or so 
 before you start joining a group) and after that you can enjoy the best of group play. 
  
  Anyway, to fans of the above named games, and who like me might have issues with MMORPGs ... get 
 this game its worth the money ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Apunisher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is ok and the sign in time is very quick .
  but i have a little problem with the graphics... i'm not talking obout the efects
  like: pixel 
 shader and vortex shader thats fine.
  
  i think that the graphics in the game is like cartoone , i prefer more realistic
  graphics like 
 for example in guild wars.
  
  Overall the game is a lot of fun, many hours of gameplay (even for hardcore gamers) and evryone 
 can enjoy playing it even people that dont used to play RPG.
  
  sory for bad spelling (if there is, im not sure)
  
  
  Alex 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is great and does every thing right. The one great thing about this game is that when 
 you die there are no repurcussions (except maybe a little equipment damage) . The PvP is where the 
 game really is great with Battlegrounds that can be first accessed at level 21. These Battleground 
 have different styls to them 1 being a Capture the Flag style and another with a control the territory 
 style play these allow alot varitey in play but some times you might find yourself waiting awhile 
 to play one but the good thing is you can go off and do a quest or grind while you wait. The one 
 thing about this game that made me mad is there wasnt enough customization in it sometimes you 
 will find someone with the same eqiptment as you and may even look like you. The character creation 
 is nothing to that of City of Heros but still has a feel to where you can make your guy look unique. 
 This game may only have a few flaws but other than that is a great game that any MMO veteran or 
 new comer should try (just get ready to lose your life for a few months) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Bizzard's reputation couldn't be higher. The world renouned developer is responsible for such addicting 
 games as Starcraft, Diablo and Warcraft. Their most recent venture into the world that is Warcraft 
 takes you from the skies of a commander of an elite army to the soldier on the battlefield.
  
  There are 8 races: Undead, Orc, Tauren, Troll, Human, Gnome, Dwarf and Night Elf. These races 
 are divided into two alliances: The Horde and the Alliance. Each race has it's own traits and attributes 
 while each allegance has it's own fortresses, towns and cities.
  
  The game offers the typical Massive Multiplayer stuff such as quests, xp, professions, cash and 
 sweet, sweet items. Warcraft takes advantage of what it's got by creating involving quests that 
 begin as simple run and kill quests to more interesting and involving ones later in the game. Awesome 
 rewards motivate you to complete the quest and play more and more. Excellent skills and the mad 
 fun of hunting monsters and other players forces you to come back for more and more.
  
  The leveling system has you start at Level 1 and end at Level 60. The game doesn't really start 
 until Level 20 where you can finally venture into "Contested" territories where Alliance and Horde 
 characters both quest and may meet which makes for shaky alliances or fierce fights.
  
  Level 20's and up also may enjoy the Battlegrounds. Blizzard's flawed but fun Person vs. Person 
 combat arenas. There are various arenas for Horde characters to fight the Alliance and complete 
 different objectives. Winning earns you Honorable Kills which translate into higher Honor Ranks 
 and more respect across the world and you recieve some XP. Losing gives you the taste of bitter 
 defeat, but you still get the Honorable Kills.
  
  The honor system is a game in itself and adds a whole dimension to WoW that most games are without, 
 making it twice as addicting as the typical MMO.
  
  Partying only allows 5 characters per party which is low on MMO standards. Though, for high level 
 areas which would be impossible to complete with 5 people, there are Raid Groups for dozens of 
 characters to team up and do battle. This can wreck major havoc and the groups may seem nearly 
 indestructable.
  
  To be fair, there are a fair amount of frustrating glitches in the game. But, thanks to Blizzard's 
 almost sickly attentive watch over the game world, glitches and bugs are quickly attended to and 
 new, improved and awesome content is added in each patch making the game seem fresh and new every 
 2 months.
  
  There are times where the game becomes frustratingly difficult and large cities are home to thousands 
 of people at any time so major slow down is mandatory and frustrating within cities. Possibly the 
 most aggravating part of the game is the death penalty system. You don't lose XP like in some RPG 
 games, rather you become a ghost and have to run from a graveyard back to your body to return to 
 life. Sometimes, Blizzard supplies only one graveyard in the surrounding area which is extremely 
 far away, making for a long and boring run all the way back to your poor body. As if that's not 
 bad enough, you lose a minimum of 10% durability for your armor, once it reaches zero it does nothing 
 for you until repaired. And repairs can be pricy.
  
  Other than that the game is pretty well rounded and easy to play. Whether it be hunting monsters, 
 questing, PvP, managing money in the Auction House, exploring the world or improving skills in 
 your professions there is always something to do in the World of Warcraft. And I mean always! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I've played nearly every major MMORPG since Ultima Online. They all have thier strengths and weaknesses, 
 but so far none have put it all together in one package like WoW. 
  
  The graphics and animations are great. No location ever gets repetitive and you can play for months 
 and still find new interesting places to visit.. which is great for those of us who like to explore. 
 The pacing is good enough that it never feels like a grind (at least compared to some other games) , 
 and no matter how long or short your game sessions are, you always walk away feeling like you accomplished 
 something.
  
  And no other game probably blurs the line between new players and veterans more than this one. 
 It's easy to pick up, but deep enough for us old guys to not get bored. 
  
  A+ on graphics, A+ on entertainment, and a big A+ on customer service.
  
  Blizzard can do no 
 wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravvy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:13 am PT
Review:  This game is what every MMO should be afterwards. Blizzard has simply done it again there is nothing 
 about this game that is bad. The grapics have such an amazing feel to them, the classes and races 
 are all so different an unique. The one major thing i love about htis game is from start to lvl 
 60 you feel like your doing something important (unlike EQ2 were i felt like an errand boy in a 
 city for hours) . PVP the day it came out along wiht mounts (EQ2 and SWG i am looking at you) wont 
 tear your computer apart. in the end if you like playing MMO's play this one if you dont like this 
 game get a new hobbie. LONG LIVE BLIZZARD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyousetsu
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 11, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrakHead3524
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX220
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is repetitive to the Nth degree...
  
  Raids are the same old thing after awhile, and for a live long gamer, it just got too tedious and 
 boring doing same things over and over once to the max level, in hopes that I might get a lucky 
 item drop! Drops were too hard to come by and just like Diablo 2, fellow players as a whole, far 
 too greedy!
  
  The additions of battlegrounds didn't help enough, still same repetitive fare!
  
  Another thing 
 that bugs me about WoW is the lack of character variety, there are just NOT enough classes in the 
 game .
  
  Try DAOC, I actually prefer it (gave it up too though for it too had repetition issues, but I played 
 it 5x more before quitting totally) , but it's aging and it's problem now is probably not enough 
 people on to assist with tasks, that you MUST have help with.... especially in it's various expansions.
 
  
  Lots of that in WoW too, and if not in a good clique, you are often SOL.
  
  Graphics are excellent on the + side! 8)
  
  Too much lag in busy areas too, and Blizzard was 
 unable to fix it.
  
  -R
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuteye
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best MMORPG yet. The interface is so much more flexible and intuitive than any 
 other out there. The games graphics are excellent. Even though it is difficult to obtain gold, 
 the games economy is healthy thriving. It is possible to play WoW with a 56k dialup connection, 
 but I would not recommend it. Latency can be rather high especially in areas with lots of activity, 
 like the Auction House or large raids.
  
  The current maximum character level is 60. Levels in this game are not too difficult to obtain, 
 just take some time at later levels. The best thing about it is the ability for all classes to 
 solo if they want. The quests are very numerous and generally provide you with the equivalent of 
 about 10 npc kills of experience per completion. Of course some give much more, especially if it 
 involves a dungeon or elite mobs.
  
  Death in this game is not an event that will just ruin your day like some of the other MMORPG games. 
 Here there is no experience penalty or future debt to repay. There is however, a significant monetary 
 penalty in the way of 10% damage to your gear you are wearing at the time of death. The damage 
 is easily repaired at various npc vendors. There is more to death and resurrections but suffice 
 to say, you are not so afraid to die that it would prevent you from make death runs into places 
 where you know you will die. Little hint, if you know you will be dieing, put all your damageable 
 gear in a backpack and make the run naked.
  
  I highly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Divine_Guider
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  My personal motto concerning games is this: they must be fun, otherwise they are just work. You 
 should use games to escape the clutches of reality, not to trap yourself in a devious and surely 
 evil spiral of tedious grinding for short-lasting rewards [in whatever form they may have, be they 
 exp or gold] . Now World of Warcraft fails in doing just that.
  Obviously, one might argue, the fault lay within the concept of MMORPG and not with this particular 
 game. And I certainly might agree with that, World of Warcraft is probably the best the genre offers 
 today, but that still doesn't make it a fulfilling and over-all enjoyable game. I think that World 
 of Warcraft amounts to this; if you feel that you are an intelligent, sensitive person, with a 
 limited timepool, then the work you have to put into this game isn't compensated by its rewards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutchkiller1
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  hi
  
  Each time i enter world i must atleast try 5 times before i can get in. When im finaly in the world 
 i cant see the ground now sky nor enemies! I informed the technical support but they just made 
 it so that I have even more bugs! My computer is right and my internet connection is very good 
 2. So i dont have a clue where in hell this should come from! when u dont mind that then the world 
 is full of lag and if ur playing more then half an hour u get kick out cause they say someone else 
 already used that name! while u already have the char! i dont know how it got in my mind that i 
 bought this game! i strongly recommend that noone ever buys this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakiro2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The pinnacle of single-player role-playing games was Baldur's Gate 2. Five years after its release, 
 there's been nothing even close. Bioware produced Neverwinter Nights (after much delay) , and it 
 was sadly lacking in both graphical prowess (BG2 looked much better with its 2D design) and depth 
 of story and characters. Sure there was multiplayer, but it always felt like a number crunching 
 version of Diablo 2. 
  
  Meanwhile, the MMORPG genre has been steadily improving. City of Heroes was the first to really 
 "get it right," though. CoH made it so easy to find a party, the combat was simple but fun, and 
 it totally rocked running around being the superhero you dreamed about as a kid.
  
  It's safe to say that World of Warcraft is the perfect blend of these two genres. It's not flawless. 
 Soloing really isn't that great, but it's certainly doable. There is definitely a fun story to 
 be had here with tons of background information created by the Blizzard team. The artwork is very 
 stylized, but stunning all the same. The best part is that it runs on very low end PCs (unless 
 you want to enter a couple of the capital cites, in which case you'll wish your system had more 
 memory available) .
  
  With the release of the Battlegrounds patch, World of Warcraft really seals the deal. If you want 
 to go slay monsters, there's always someone willing to group with you. If you want to work on a 
 profession, there's a great variety to choose from, each of which provides you with useful items 
 to sell, trade, or make use of yourself. You can even just sit around a fish, if you want (then, 
 later, you can cook up your fish for faster health regeneration between battles) . If PvE and hobbying 
 isn't for you, there's always Arathi Basin, Warsong Gulch, and Alterac Valley. Or you can simply 
 join a raid group to attack the opposite faction's settlements. 
  
  The one thing that many people will hold against WoW is the monthly fee. It's difficult to compete 
 with Guild Wars in that respect, but, honestly, most gamers buy at least a game a month. That will 
 most likely stop once you give WoW a try. So, you could always see it as saving yourself $45/month 
 ($60 for new game - $15 for Wow subscription = $45) .
  
  Do yourself a favor, find somebody who hasn't used their guest pass. Give yourself 10 days to try 
 it out. If you don't like it, there's always Counter-Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahoo91
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 28, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I have played multiple dozens of games over the past two years and this is the best of the best. 
 Awesome in every meaningful way. Cannot recommend highly enough.
  
  There are so many different ways to play, between the different classes, each class talent tree, 
 the economic model and auction house, the PvP servers and realms w/in the game, the guild participation 
 and not least, the continuing saga and story of the Warcraft Universe that so many of us have grown 
 to love.
  
  WoW makes this all seem like real life.
  
  I am easily bored, yet I have played this game non-stop for over 6 months and there is still no 
 end in sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwolf
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 21, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  i write this to let u all know how bad customer service can actually become, 
  
  cause i feel its a serious concern.
  
  Last friday my wow account was hacked, it was an account 
 used by my whole 
  
  family, so there is a lot of characters there, not any level 60 i might add, 
  
  but a lot 
 of hard work still. 
  
  When i got the account back after long phones with blizzard a nice man 
  
  helped me. 
  
 
  Now start the problems. All characters exept 2 was deleted , all gold was 
  
  gone, all items was gone, surely i asked to get these items back since it 
  
  was hacked. 
 
  
  WHat wow did: they sent the items from one character as Cash on delivery for 
  
  it. ANd for expensive amounts too, so that means that i actually have to buy 
  
  all my items 
 for more cash than they sell for, to get them back with gold i 
  
  dont have.. since its stolen. 
  
  Tried to contact gamemasters again, and they claim that only 
 one character 
  
  on account can be reimbursed, does that mean that if i had an account with 5 
  
  level 60 characters 
 on it, only one will be restored, and with no items? Yes 
  
  it does. 
  
  Be warned, im not sure its worth it. THe character hacking is a known issue 
  
  for wow and 
 everyone around it, so how come nothing is done to fix, or to 
  
  actually maintain its customers, i think they have become to large and dont 
  
  really give 
 a damn.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4077
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2005 12:17 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WOW) is Blizzard Ent. entry 
  in the MMORPG market and like an atomic bomb 
  the industry and the genre have been destroyed 
 
  and will never be the same. 
  
  
  THE BASICS:
  The Story:
  "Four years have pasted since the mortal races 
  banded together and stood united against the 
 might
  of The Burning Legion. Though Azeroth was saved the 
  tenuous pact between the Horde and the Alliance has all but evaporated; The drums of war thunder 
 once again" --- (from the WOW intro movie)
  World of Warcraft (WOW) takes place four years after 
  the events of Warcraft 3 and Warcraft 3: 
 The Frozen Throne
  
  Starting the Game:
  The two major factions in WOW are The Horde and
  The Alliance. When you begin the game you will 
 choose a server. Your server choice is key it determine how you play the game; the three main choices 
 are:
  RP or role playing
  PVP or Player Vs. Player 
  I must warn you only choose PVP if you have played
  other MMORPGs or have played lots of PVP 
 games
  the PVP server flags EVERYONE on the server as PVP the ENTIRE time you play on the server so if 
 you want to constantly get beaten up by level 60 horde players go for it if not choose the most 
 common type of server;
  PVE or Player Vs. Environment
  PVE is the most common type of play; its you against the world, this the default style of play 
 for 95% of the MMORPG's and the regular RPGs that are on the market 
  
  Once you have chosen the perfect server for your style of play it is then time to start creating 
 a character. which goes like this: 1. pick a faction 2. pick a race 
  3. pick a class 4. select or create a name upon completing set 4 you will begin YOUR experiences 
 in WOW.
  your race choice is determined by which faction you choose:
  ALLIANCE: 
  Night Elfs 
  Dwarfs 
  Gnomes 
  Humans 
  
  HORDE:
  Orcs
  Trolls
  Taurens
  Undead
 
  
  once you pick a faction and a race you have the following class choices:
  Druid ---elemental magic
  Hunter ---think creature handler (if you have played SWG)
  if not; Hunters 
 tame creatures to use as weapons and pets
  Mage ---default magic user
  Priest ---default healer
  Rogue ---assassin/theif combo.
  Warlock ---demon summoner
  (think 
 of GF's if you played any FF game)
  Warrior ---Primary melee combatant
  there also two faction specific classes
  Horde;
  Shaman ---priest/druid combo.
  Alliance;
 
  Paladin ---Priest/Warrior combo.
  
  The default starting areas are:
  Elwynn Forest==Humans
  Dun Morogh==Gnomes & dwarves
  Teldrassil==Night Elfs
  Durotar==Trolls 
 & Orcs
  Mulgore==Taurens
  Tirisfal Glades==Undead
  
  Once you have a char you will be dropped into your 
  starting area and begin your adventure in 
 Azeroth.
  the lands of WOW are massive and comprise two major 
  areas: 
  The Eastern Kingdoms of Azeroth, Khaz Modon, and Lordaeron;
  and the Western continent of Kalimdor.
 
  The only loading times are when you go from a 
  dungeon back to the world or when you go from the east to the west
  and vice versa. The lands 
 are seamless you can 
  cross the border from one area to the next without a loading screen 
  
  A word of warning while 
 you can go into any area you want it is not always the BEST IDEA; going into the burning steppes 
 at level 20 is a very bad idea considering that the enemies start at level 50. A good rule of thumb 
 if the enmies in an area show up on your screen as ?? or a skull then you are way too low for the 
 area. To be honest ?? or skull enemies are generally 5 to 10 levels above your current level, in 
 many cases they are 15+ levels higher then your character. The maximum level right now is 60.
 
  Any new character starts at level one the way to get more levels is to quest or kill everything 
 you can for experience points (exp) . questing is easy just finda random NPC (Non-Player Character) 
 with a yellow question mark over their head they will give you a quest complete it to get a reward 
 of usually exp and money in many cases you get an item as a reward but most of the quests give 
 an exp and money reward. At the bottom of your screen is an exp bar fill it up to gain your next 
 level. 
  
  The major areas of the game are;
  Stormwind Capital of the humans
  Ironforge Capital of the Dwarves 
  and temporary home of the Gnomes
  Darnassus Capital of the 
 Night Elfs
  Orgrimmar Capital of the Orcs 
  and temporary home of the Trolls
  ThunderBluff Capital of the Taurens
  The Undercity Capital of the Undead
  A word of warning 
 IronForge and Orgrimmar 
  are the worst places in the game cuz of the 
  Auction house in those cities; they are 
  constantly filled with people which makes 
  the areas 
 LAG very badly.
  
  ok this the part where I stop telling You how the 
  game works cuz at this point you should have a char 
  and a class and should be playing the game 
 in the 
  style YOU want to play.
  
  What Works:
  EVERYTHING!!
  The game looks absolutely breath taking, you can get lost in the look and feel of the game each 
 area looks exactly the way it's name would suggest. Like the snowcapped peaks and valleys of the 
 high peaks of Dun Morogh or the quiet beauty in the forest of Teldrassil or The watery beauty in 
 the Swamp of Sorrows.
  The game sounds incredible each area and city has its own music. 
  The Weapons sounds like they should and even the voice emotes sounds great.
  The travel system 
 is wonderful you can pay for rides to most places and at level 40 you can buy your own ridable 
 creature. All of the clases work like they should and all the equipment works like it should. The 
 new BGs Warsong Gulch and Alterac Valley work when you can get into them their is ALWAYS a wait 
 to get into them. Blizzard got the game right on their first try and as 
  Adam Sessler from X-Play on G4tv said:
  "This is MMO you wanted to play anytime you 
  sat down 
 to play any other MMO"
  
  What Doesn't Work:
  I have to be honest here the game's 
  largest and ONLY flaw IS:
  THE PEOPLE THAT PLAY IT!! 
  many of the players are nice decent 
 
  people but there are a lot of real @#$wholes that 
  play the game.
  
  On a personal note I spent 
  June of 2004 to June of 2005 playing 
  SWG (Start Wars Galaxies) which 
 was a good MMO when I
  started playing however from March of 05 to June of 05 
  Sony Online Entertainment release a "Combat Upgrade" that destroyed the combat system and replaced 
 it with and incomplete and bugged system that still does not work.
  On top of that they released an expansion Rage of The Wookies that introduced Kashyyyk to the game 
 but it plays and feels like a glorified dungeon. 
  I am one of the many SWG players that have 
  defected to the much superior MMO World of Warcraft.
 
  
  SERIOUSLY EVERYONE LOVES THIS GAME!!
  The list of major awards WOW has won includes:
  Readers' Choice - Best PC Role-Playing Game 
  World of Warcraft 
  Gamespot. com
  
  Best 
 Massively Multiplayer 
  Online Game of 2004
  World of Warcraft
  Gamespot. com 
  
  Best PC Game of 2004
  World of Warcraft
  Gamespot. com 
  
  2004 Game Of The Year
  World 
 of Warcraft
  Gamespot. com 
  
  X-plays Award for Best 
  Massively Multiplayer game of 2004
  
  and
  The EB gamers choice award at 
  this years G-phoria 
 awards show are among 
  the major awards this game has 
  garnered in the past year
  
  
  BOTTOMLINE:
  " [World of Warcraft] is the online 
  role-playing game you should play, 
 
  no matter who you are." 
  - Greg Kasavin, 
  from GameSpot's Full Review
  
  
  THIS GAME IS AWESOME
  IT EARNS EVERY BIT OF A 
  FLAWLESSLY PERFECT
  
  10 OUT OF 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  After figuring out that I needed to buy a game card since I didn't want to use a Credit Card It 
 took me awhile to earn some money. Now that I have it and the game It was amazing. I am spending 
 countless hours of my life playing this. Through the morning till nite and late at nite too. Talking 
 over the microphone to other WOWers while doing amazing instances with my guild members. When you 
 level up to level 60 you get that great feeling that you are one of the best. It may take awhile 
 to learn everything and get used to the many attacks you will have to use. The controls are great 
 and the graphics are simply amazing for 64MB of VRAM. Its worth paying monthly. The different classes 
 there are to choose your character from are great and give you choices how you want them to look. 
 I wish I got this game earlier but I really don't care anymore now that I have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 31, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamteam411
Rating: 0
Date: May 31, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerofNoobs
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 25, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Ladybug 
 iPod speakers    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpitLead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft (WoW) is simply a great game without question. The worlds are rich and varied 
 and the graphics are top notch. The game is truly balanced in it's approach to the different character 
 classes and professions which in fact drive one to explore playing as different classes/professions. 
 WoW steers the game very subtly yet effectively this way in allowing one to only have 2 prime professions. 
 Given this, you're better off playing as multiple characters to swap/trade equipment and goods 
 so the characters complement each other. It's also fun to be a mage or rogue and use their special 
 skills rather than play the entire game as single character like a warrior. The quests are easy 
 to follow and very intuitive yet challenging. With over 2000 quests to choose from there is no 
 shortage there. The sound and music are first rate as well with sort of a 'Lord of the Rings' feeling. 
 Very moving and they always set a mood. Combat is fun to watch even after many engagements and 
 which there's always an element of the unknown. And the death animations are varied by enemy character 
 so it's fun to watch each one. And the animations are first rate. The giant spider legs twitch 
 when he flops on his back and dies. The "robot" Harvesters jerk and shudder with sparks flying 
 as you would expect if a machine has been killed. Your player could miss several key hits or the 
 enemy could resist 1-2 attacks and/or another unseen enemy nearby could join the fray and the whole 
 fight could be lost. But the death "penalty" is not tremendous so dying never becomes a really 
 negative event other than the time lost to recover your corpse and repair some armor durability. 
 Still, dying has just enough of an inconvenience that you don't just waltz into combat without 
 a care. The maps are pretty big but WoW has some nice features in place to help you out there such 
 as riding a Gryphon or taking the underground Tram. All these things enrich the Warcraft World. 
 Playing for 3 or 4 hours at a stretch is easy to do. And the added feature of "selling" your goods 
 on an auction is brilliant. My only big negative about the game is the somewhat instability of 
 the servers (they gone down several times a week at least) and how in the main areas like IronForge 
 or riding the gryphons the game becomes very choppy and laggy. And my machine is no slouch. I'm 
 running the game with 512MB RAM on a 2.8Ghz Pentium 4 with a 128MB NVidia video card. In fact, 
 getting around in IronForge it's a chore because of the game delay. But, these problems (as frustrating 
 as they are) are well worth dealing with for the experience of playing WoW. This is a must play 
 game even if you're not a big RPG fan. It's just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_god689
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 17, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  I've been seeing negative feedback on this game in the community reviews. I don't think it is because 
 they don't like the game. It is because they have never played it, they are Everquest fanboys, 
 or either they are jealous of the people who own it. The one thing people complain a lot it about 
 the graphics. I can agree that it isn't a Doom 3 graphic engine or anything, but think of this: 
 The game would lag like hell if it did on lower end computers. I kind of like the fantasy graphics 
 anyway. It gives you an awe about it. The only way the graphics look bad is if you have it all 
 the way on low, but they still look pretty decent. I like the graphics like that because I can 
 play it on my laptop, which is an office laptop.
  The gameplay is a major plus. I got the trial version of the game in a PC Gamer magazine recently, 
 and I liked it so much that I went out and bought it, not even caring if it had a subscription 
 fee or not. It's worth it. I really like the community too. The only time you get called a noob 
 is if you start to act up or make fun of someone. The sound is great too, unless you are using 
 speakers from 1980 or else you don't even have any. 
  This is a must buy for any RPG, Multiplayer, or straight out Medieval-fantasy fan. If you liked 
 Blizzard's titles like Diablo and Warcraft, or even the Lord of the Rings, then you will love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 15, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel11
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 7, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  The second you dive into WoW, you will be totally immersed in a huge world where there is a strong 
 community of other players. If you don't like MMOs WoW is still great, if you do like MMOs WoW 
 is still really great.
  
  The gameplay in WoW is addictive, start your guy out with terrible items, and work on him to get 
 awesome items. Some quests in the game you can do solo, but other, you will NEED a group for. The 
 game has a strong emphasis on getting your buds together to complete more challenging quests. Another 
 instance that takes getting groups together to the next level is... well, instances, which are 
 dungeons which are near impossible to solo, so grab some friends and go through these challenging 
 dungeons to get new armor, and weapons. Once you have a group inside the instance, no one who is 
 not in your group can get in, so you have all the bad guys to yourself, as its annoying sometimes 
 when you find out that the bad guy you needed to kill was already killed a few seconds ago.
  
  WoW can get slow sometimes, but a way to make it really fast-paced is entering Battlegrounds, 
 in these Battlegrounds, you can play 80 player battles to conquer a vast land, or do a quick game 
 of Capture the Flag, to make your hours of getting cool gear for your character pay off.
  
  WoW has 7 classes, and two faction specific classes. The classes are each different, and fun. The 
 Warlock always has a Demon buddy to help them out, Warriors can take on anything with good gear 
 and without a bunch of strategy, and priests can heal themselves or their comrades, which makes 
 them very important when fighting tougher enemies. The two faction specific classes are the Paladin, 
 a mix between a warrior and a priest, who can give out auras to make their friends stronger. Then 
 there is the Shaman, who can really multi-task, they can heal, cast spells, get up close and personal 
 with melee attacks, and set out totems, which can severly decrease the opposition's power.
  
  The graphics are okay. They have a great artistic style, but lack good details, like lighting 
 and shadows. There are some okay haze effects, but that can't hide the fact that some parts of 
 the game aren't too detailed. But, the artistic style is amazing.
  
  The sound has some good points, such as every NPC you click on gives a little snipit of dialouge. 
 But effects sounds, and music can get a little repetitive.
  
  This game is totally worth the money, and monthly fees. Expect to be sucked into it for a very, 
 very, very long time.
  
  The game would be perfect with a bit better graphics, and sound, but overall this game can't be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googooman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for the greatest MMORPG out there, World of Warcraft is what your looking for. 
 This has the best gameplay i've ever seen, and there are sooooo many quests to do you wouldnt believe. 
 You gain lvls buy killing monsters and doing quests. You start out as a nooby lvl 1 and make your 
 long long journey to the highest lvl, 60!
  
  The Graphics to WOW are Terific. The inhabitants of Azeroth look just like human beings, well if 
 your human. It brings you to the game.
  
  The best part of WOW is the character creation... you can choose from 8 different races, Gnomes, 
 Dwarves, humans, night elves, orcs, the undead, taurens and trolls. You can also choose from 9 
 different classes like a druid, hunter, mage, warlock, shaman, priest, paladin, the sneeky rouge 
 and the warrior. Apart from all that wonderful stuff, theres more. You can choose 2 proffesions 
 out of a wide selection...
  
  The sound in this game is also a great aspect of it. If your fighting a little bunny you can hear 
 it squeak, but if your fighting a lvl 62 gold elite with 60 of your guild members you'll wanna 
 pee you pants because of the dragons roar!
  
  Allthough it does take 50 bucks to buy and 15 dollars to pay each month, if you have the money, 
 buy it... its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylsdad
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 1, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmgProtoss
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 31, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, sadly, it is Warcraft done again (Why? Nobody knows) , but in the MMO universe. I am going 
 to keep this game short and to the point, since I did not enjoy this game enough to write a full 
 fledged review.
  
  
  Ever played Everquest? Change the universe, the point of view, and the crafting system, and you 
 have World of Warcraft. You chose one of 8 races and then a class from the race's class list, and 
 depending on your race, you will spawn into a certain part of WoW. There isn't much character customization 
 here. 
  
  Now down to the main points
  
  Game Play (7) - The game uses a simple questing system where you just run around, collect quests, 
 and go down the list doing each one of the quests until your a higher level. Repeat in new town. 
 It trys to stray from the oh-so-infamous "Grinding". Sorry to say, "Grinding" is more fun than 
 what WoW has you do. You will spend most of the game running. Bind your Mouse3/4/5 to the "Autorun" 
 feature so you won't hurt your fingers. 90 percent of the quests are the following :
  
  1. Kill (A Number) of (NPC) s.
  2. Meet (an NPC) or go to (insert location) .
  3. Meet (an NPC) 
 or go to (insert location) and then kill (a number) of (NPC) s.
  
  I can't say running around collecting the same old quests over and over agan are worth the few 
 quests you may come by that don't adhere to the forumula I just provided.
  
  Graphics (8) - It is very hard to get immersed into the cartooney graphics that rely on art style 
 moreso than polygons and textures. That is NOT a bad thing considering it is an MMO, but they still 
 could have done much better. Especially on the horrible animations. They feel less fluid and more 
 stiff than what it should have been. 
  
  Sound (6) - No voice acting. Okay Music. Lame Sounds. The only reason it gets a 6 is for its music, 
 and for the jokes each race can tell.
  
  Value (10) - I have to admit, this game is massive. But I can't exactly say it is all fun (The 
 Crafting system is too basic to be fun and worth doing, it feels more like a chore) . If you get 
 addicted, the only thing that will keep you addicted is the endless amount of places to go. Even 
 though the world isn't as tight as it should be (Added blankness between towns and cities just 
 to annoy the crap out of you) .
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (5) - I got addicted for a month, but after that the game was more boring than 
 any other game I have played. It feels completely pointless to play and I wouldn't play even if 
 it was subscription fee free. Oh, and the community is horrible. 
  
  --------------------------- 6 . 9 ------------------------------ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damningwind
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When first starting out in the game things are simple and you are guided quite well through the 
 first few missions. This remains true throughout all races and professions. As soon as you step 
 outside of your first safe haven and take on more quests things get increasingly difficult. You 
 will find yourself doing quests in which you have to kill 20 monsters as opposed to the 6 or 8 
 you might be used to. The game gets challenging, fast.
  
  The game also encourages group play. There have been many missions which I have embarked on in 
 which I needed to find another person to give me assistance. Even though my characters are often 
 time equal or greater to the mob levels I am fighitng with.
  
  The game play is amazing. The fighting system is a lot of fun and all the abilities you can do 
 with your characters is mind blowing. The great thing is that unlike other games where once you 
 learn abilities you have to keep them, in WoW you can unlearn them and place points somewhere else.
 
  
  The graphics engine this game possesses is nothing short of amazing. Fast renders, seemless loads, 
 it all equals a great experience.
  
  The musical score is terrific. I often times find myself wanting to see if I can find the musical 
 tracks to the game because they are so good. The sound of the enemies and fighting is also right 
 on. The sheep when killed sound like sheep. As do the cows, etc. However, the deer when killed 
 give off this not so deer like sound that comes from somewhere I don't know where.
  
  Overall this game has a massive amount of potential to hook players for a long long time. I amc 
 ompletely hooked and don't see myself going anywhere anytime soon with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WartHawg8
Rating: 0
Date: Jul 22, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: asker_p2
Rating: 0
Date: Jul 21, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanalee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  WOW is by far one of the best games I have ever played. Whatever I try, I just have to start it 
 up and before I know it 5 hours are gone. I never played any other mmorpgs games, so this was my 
 first online RPG.
  
  The game play is the best thing ever. Most games these days struggle in this area. They always 
 have nice graphics (which is great!) , but they do lack in game play. This game sets a high standard.
 
  
  The other thing that makes this game great is the people that are playing with you. In my two months 
 I have met some great people and everybody is always willing to help you out if you need it.
  
  The game manages to draw you into this world and you almost believe that you are there. Sometimes 
 you just stop to have a look at the scenery. The game is so large and it is really hard to believe 
 once you load it for the first time. After two months there is still a lot to learn, and the game 
 just keeps offering more and more.
  
  I just can't wait to see what the future will bring if it gets any better than this, I'm glad I 
 am a gamer!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2005 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Game of the Year. A huge title, and one that is not taken lightly by Gamespot. Yet they felt that 
 World of Warcraft is indeed the game that you must own. And, if I were to have an awards ceremony, 
 I would concur with their choice. It is easily the best game of 2004.
  
  Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games, or MMORPG's, are nothing new in gaming. They have 
 been designed and played in for years now, and their addictive nature is well known - just think 
 of the title Everquest, or Evercrack, as it is unofficially known. Addictive nature aside, MMO's 
 have been coming along at a steady rate for the better part of a decade now - but there has been 
 little talk of designing a game for the masses, with a licence such as Warcraft in mind. There 
 have been attempts at this, but changing a title from a different genre into that of a MMO, whose 
 gameplay stems much from it's co-existing gamers, has not had the greatest of success. And MMO's 
 themselves haven't evolved as far as they should have either, and as such, are penalising to gamers 
 who are not used to the nature of this genre. World of Warcraft sees to this effortlessly.
  
  If this is your first MMO, than you are really striking out in the dark - this is a very different 
 genre to others, and as such, the gameplay and manual should be streamlined to make it easy and 
 comforting. No such problem here, in fact, the Inventory and Action Bars have been designed exceptionally 
 well, making it easy for the new adventurer to the veteran. There is no tutorial to speak of, but 
 the website, handy tips and manual speak clearly and easily of whatever it is that you seek. As 
 such, this is the perfect game to ease non-gamers into the folds of a truly great MMO, and one 
 that will easily keep you gaming for months.
  
  After signing up and choosing your payment method, you than load the game proper. This is where 
 you see just how quick the game is. Loading is remarkably fast, you can be in Azeroth in seconds. 
 However, the first thing you need to do is choose a race and class for your character. There are 
 eight races to choose from, split into two groups, the Horde and the Alliance. It is here you can 
 choose from the Dwarf, Undead, Orc, Human and more. As well, you can tailor their appearance, and 
 also their class, from a selection of nine, whether it be a Druid, Hunter, Shaman or more. Selecting 
 a name for your character, you are then dropped into the World of Azeroth.
  
  But where in the world depends upon which type of character you choose. Creating different characters 
 also starts you in different areas, even if you have two characters on the same side. An example 
 of this is the Dwarfs, who start in Coldridge Valley, near Ironforge, the dwarf city. And the Night 
 Elves, who begin their adventure in Shadowglen, near the Elvish capital of Darnassus. You are then 
 easily informed of the gameplay by handy hints (which can be turned off) , and the many NPC's in 
 the world. Speaking to them, you can receive quests, which vary greatly.
  
  World of Warcraft is littered with quests, which you can take at will. Many come with restrictions 
 on who can take them, so it is a good idea to try out different character combinations to get the 
 most out of the quests, which are the backbone to the game. There are hundreds available, some 
 multi-tasked and epic, and some as simple as running a hot beverage from one part of town to another. 
 Some are timed, and others you may have to do in groups. The fantasy setting of Azeroth should 
 be instantly familiar to fans of Blizzard's previous games Warcraft III and it's expansion, The 
 Frozen Throne, and they have translated well to an MMO.
  
  The huge depth of content available has to be seen to be believed. And, if you allow yourself, 
 you could find yourself playing for much longer than you originally intended. As a reference, it 
 took me about 10 hours, which included general questing, to get from Coldridge Valley, to Ironforge 
 with my Dwarf Paladin. This also included Mining and Blacksmithing, two of the several jobs which 
 you can undertake. Coldridge Valley and Ironforge are part of the county of Dun Morogh, which is 
 just one of the roughly 40 counties present in the game. The huge size of the game is incredible, 
 you will be in for a truly epic adventure.
  
  This isn't off-putting though, as quests and skills will be given to you at a steady and easy to 
 follow rate, and you will never be overcome by the epic size of the game. It will open up to you 
 as you allow it - and through general levelling up of your character. Your skills also level up, 
 and there is even reputations to uphold with the many kingdoms throughout the world. The storyline 
 is well told, however, there is no need to follow any one story, quest or NPC. Much about what 
 makes a MMO great is that you can do your own thing. If you feel like levelling up your character 
 in a hard area, you can do this - and call upon friends, or even your guild, to help. If you feel 
 like taking it easy, perhaps you can fish lazily while catching up with your guild, and seeing 
 what they are plotting. The time is yours in World of Warcraft, you aren't hemmed in by anything 
 - and you can travel freely over the vast continent.
  
  All the normal activities of MMO's are here, with questing, job abilities, skill learning and levelling. 
 Fighting dangerous creatures, (or other characters) , and just exploring are all presented. But 
 they are presented just so well and effortlessly that you are geared easily into the type of gameplay 
 that best suits you. From the casual enthusiast to the hardcore leveller, no-one is left out in 
 the gameplay, and everything has been balanced well. The strong will usually overcome the weak, 
 but more so than that, characters and monsters are matched well, with new powers, characters and 
 monsters introduced evenly. World of Warcraft also brings some new elements to the MMO table, and 
 do away with some of the annoyances that have come before.
  
  One of these is death. Dying is always going to occur in World of Warcraft, and indeed in any Online 
 RPG. But World of Warcraft have taken it so that you don't lose experience, which is the norm, 
 and instead take you out of battle, transporting your spirit to the nearest graveyard, where you 
 can choose to return to your body, or speak to the Spirit Leader, who will reinstate your life 
 for 25% durability of your equipped items. This means you can jump straight back into battle if 
 you feel you can, without any penalty whatsoever, but if you felt that the area was too hard, return 
 to life immediately and try elsewhere, but be penalised slightly for it. 
  
  After many countless hours spent playing, the great first impressions don't wear off. In fact, 
 the more you are drawn into the game, the more you discover. New opportunities, new quests, new 
 monsters, or even starting over, with a new character, (you can make several on a single account) 
 all contribute to the epic scale of the game. It appears seamless as well, with loading times all 
 but eliminated in game and no loading screens except for the initial one that launches your adventure. 
 Whether you invest a small or large amount of time into your character, your experience will always 
 feel that you have accomplished something. The rewarding nature of the game doesn't just stop at 
 the gameplay, but in just how that gameplay helps immerse you into the World.
  
  Thats where the graphical style of the game really draws you in. While not the best looking game, 
 it has an artistically exaggerated style that is easy to get into. Forgoing true realism (this 
 is a fantasy game, after all) , the graphical style is pretty, stylish and reminiscent of Warcaft 
 III and The Frozen Throne. Heavy outlines and overdone bright colour propel you forward, through 
 the games many locations. Such is the size of the game, some initial worry may be had that the 
 scope of the title may make the seamless feel early on not continue. You may lay those worries 
 to rest - the game looks good from start to finish, and locations are ever changing, yet all feel 
 part of a fantastic whole.
  
  Combat is easy-going in World of Warcaft. You never feel completely overwhelmed, and it will only 
 be because you were bested by the enemy, rather than your slower reaction that you will be beaten. 
 Enemies stay away from the roads, and main cities, congregate in the many mines and caves, and 
 are spread out throughout the countryside. They can work together, inflict spells that may exploit 
 weaknesses, and even run away in fear if you are stronger, only to come back for a second round. 
 Experience gained is made to your level. Pummeling an easier enemy can be gratifying, but it's 
 hardly rewarding. This will attract you to fighting harder enemies, such as those you must waste 
 as part of your many quests.
  
  The music is easy to get into, without ever getting in the way of gameplay. A beautifully rich 
 original Soundtrack by Jason Hayes, (who also did the soundtracks for other Blizzard titles, like 
 Starcraft and Warcraft III) is provided. It's synchronised with the gameplay and cutscenes, and 
 only makes itself really known when the heat is on. There is a great deal of ambient sound effects 
 employed throughout the locations to draw you into the experience with chirping birds and blowing 
 wind prominent. The voicing is also exceptional, with minimal but effective use which suprisingly 
 makes every NPC feel unique, given the size of the world. 
  
  This uniqueness continues in just about every element of the game. Whether this is through the 
 clothing and feature system, which allows you to create characters that are unique to you, or the 
 emote system, where you can wave, fart, or dance with others or on your own, there is no denying 
 that each NPC exhibits a great deal of their own personality. This kind of personality is usually 
 the norm of titles such as Bioware's Jade Empire, an offline single player focussed storyline RPG. 
 The fact that Blizzard have achieved an Online equivalent, in a world teeming with thousands of 
 unique characters is truly worthy of applaud. As such, the game feels more meaningful than your 
 typical offline and even run of the norm online rpg's, with the individuality that you can place 
 upon how you play and how your character evolves being truly remarkable.
  
  World of Warcraft is a stunning achievement in the evolution of online RPG's. It creates a truly 
 unique world which you actively want to explore, and where you are encouraged to continue playing, 
 as well as feel rewarded even if you haven't been. Every time you log into Azeroth you come away 
 with a great gaming experience, and being accesible to even those not normally playing this style 
 of game, I highly recommend it. Play World of Warcraft, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 13, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  While World of Warcraft may be improving daily theres not much thats really changing to personally 
 effect you and your character. It all starts out as your one of the many heroes of either the Horde 
 (Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, Undead) or the Alliance (Elves, Dwarfs, Humans, Gnomes) . Let me start off 
 by saying if your in this for the PVP you better join the alliance cause I'll tell you right away 
 that you won't be doing much of raiding or heroics on a Horde character I gurantee it! If your 
 curious why this is you play and find out Hahaha, the Alliance are massive numbers ALOT more players 
 for some reason enjoy being midgets and common steroetypical humans. And the Horde are outnumbered 
 about 1 to 6? Ya so.... dont expect to have much fun in your capital of Ogrimmar the capital city 
 of the horde. Now think if its the capital city wouldnt it be most defended? I mean it does hold 
 the leader of the Horde and the Warlords of the Horde hmmm makes you ponder how the alliance could 
 conquer it so easily? Let me explain by saying the Alliance come in massive waves the PVP doesnt 
 last long as there pure numbers demolish the few Horde defenders and the AI well they are so retardedly 
 spreaded out in the city it doesnt take much for 60 Alliance members to jump 4 guards and if they 
 lose health NO PROBLEM 15 healers in there group easily restore everyone like new! So they slaughter 
 the leader do there thing and bam hes dead and the alliance conquer once more blah blah blah. Blizzard 
 has edited Ogrimmar defenses around 4 times to correct this easily conquered area but its just 
 pure and simple the Alliance are too many and the guards are far too few and spread out. Well lets 
 see besides the constant raids that lag your computer to drive you crazy with impatience, your 
 goal is to hit lvl 60. Well after you hit 60 what do you do? Simple question answered, instances 
 or AKA dungeons go grind out these enemys that take anywhere from a group of 25 to 40 men to handle 
 for "Rare Items" that you gotta decide who will have and well if your a rogue and theres a hot 
 rogue Item well your gonna want it but plain and simple you gotta decide who needs it URGENTLY 
 cause there may be 10 rogues in yoru group and it leads to "Ninja Looting" where people steal the 
 item without asking and this often leads to disaster with arguments and well you can take it from 
 there. Basically if you like to run instances and spend your time watching your capital burn at 
 the hands of the Alliance this is your game, but if you wanna be the mass alliance who burn the 
 horde capital and easily find large groups to run these instances it may be for you or it may not 
 be for you its a good game just with too many flaws. And by flaws it just seemed so poorly planned 
 on how everything works such as sides and defense and instances that take 40 people and must share 
 epic items and these things create quite a choatic atmosphere in WoW. And if you heard recently 
 of the "Battlegrounds" in WoW its a bunch of crap. LOTS AND LOTS of crap. I say this becuase well 
 it F****** sucked lol. The beta was VERY convincing because finally the horde owned the Alliance 
 because they had used there numbers for a crutch and Battleground evened the teams for 40 on 40 
 action for so long they didnt know how to fight without that advantage so the horde easily ran 
 over the Alliance on battlegrounds. Now the battlegrounds are out and its a complete failure no 
 more even teams and this unfair advantage steps in once more and the horde are crushed mainly because 
 14 horde vs 40 alliance is how it will start 40 being the max number of players for battlegrounds. 
 The 14 horde see the poor advantage they have so about 6 quit next thing you know its 8 vs 40 and 
 so this makes the horde even more of non-threat to the alliance to crush. Thus leaving the horde 
 with nothing to do but do instances. And your fun as an alliance goes away because theres no horde 
 to fight because they know they cant win so your basically doing nothing when you raid a city or 
 village. And basically running instances leads to the point where you finally get your epic set 
 and you have epic weapons and blah blah blah Basically this leads to almost everyone getting tired 
 of doing nothing and selling there account on ebay from anywhere from $60 to $400. Basically WoW 
 is a game for people with ALOT of freetime and ALOT of patience and it really ends up to having 
 no purpose in the end thats why I have the replay value so low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a great game if your playing it in a group. The game has a fantastic social 
 aspect to it, which is kinda funny considering its an MMORPG which are usually considered by many 
 casual gamers to be games for complete losers. This isn't the case here, as anyone can pick up 
 the game and have tons of fun going around clubbing people and what not.
  
  Solo play is a little different. For the first 10 -20 levels of the game, its rather fun once you 
 get into it. But as you begin to reach level 30 you realise that most of the games missions and 
 quests consist of the same thing.
  
  Go here, kill that, gather this, return. 
  
  Or
  
  Go here, kill this many, return and collect reward. 
  
  Thats really all there is too it. 
 Gameplay wise at least.
  
  When it comes to sound and art-direction the World of Warcraft is full of this wonderful imaginative 
 world. Ranging from the caverns of Ironforge to the houses of Darnassus. It sure has this great 
 cartoony feel to it that makes up for what it lacks in the technical department that other games 
 like Half-Life 2 and Resident Evil 4 have.
  
  The thing that really sucks about the game, is that you have to pay 20 bucks a month (or every 
 two months whether or not you get a game card) to do the same thing over and over and over again. 
 It's really quite tedious after a while. Still, the group quests make it (usually) worth it. Going 
 through Gnomeregan to kill the final boss, a mechanized Goblin King, and fend off bombs whilst 
 helping your party kill him is alot of fun.
  
  But still there is a part of me that just thinks all the time you might spend playing World of 
 Warcraft wont be as memorable as a third of the time you spent playing you're favourite game ever. 
 Whether it be Zelda : Ocarina of Time, Grim Fandango, Halo, Anything really. I think the main reason 
 that is, is because with an MMORPG like this, it relies heavily on non-scripted events and the 
 players, whereas games like those mentioned above, rely purely on the scripted events which makes 
 everything so much more professional.
  
  If you've got the time and the money, buy this game and join a guild. Otherwise there really isn't 
 any point to getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firze
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 28, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontbehatin45
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 24, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jafajafa
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 23, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makrillen
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 21, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: KKx2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  MMORPGs (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) have been around for a long time. Of 
 many choices, this is the one who you should be playing. World Of WarCraft shows all the best aspects 
 of this genre, if not general games as well. A game such as this is a game you cannot expect nor 
 should you miss it. And World of Warcraft for sure proves that RPGs are far from beeing dead. While 
 some RPGs feel like work, WoW is enlighted with fun and joy. A game every RPGist can enjoy. Many 
 here have been waiting for this game for months, years. And considering having been waiting for 
 this game for all this time, does it live up to its expectations? Well it most certainly does. 
 Not only does it live up to them, but this game is even greater than I could imagine. The abilities 
 in this game are unlimited. And because of that, there is always something to do. And therefore 
 you cant get bored, not in this game. Because as soon as something gets boring you have hundreds 
 if not thousands of other things to do.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Though graphics have been said by some not good enough. You must ask yourself, how can they be 
 better. Of a game like this graphics are great. World of WarCraft has a nice, brisk pace to it, 
 and the fast-loading. The quality and details are incredible, remarkable. Never did i think this 
 game would be of this quality. The combats run smoothly and the pacing of them is good. So the 
 graphics are good, very good. And the graphics also help you to play the game without slowing 
 it in any way. Therefor the graphics add to the enjoy ability of the gameplay. This game runs smoothly 
 in most computers as long as you have higher than 128 mb ram. Unless you are not using XP. The 
 graphics are incredibly comfortable. For many games playing in 3rd person can be an uncomfortable 
 ability, but in this game its very successful. Every single view is perfect and this adds even 
 more to the enjoy ability of the game.
  
  Plot: 9
  As for the plot, its good. Your storyline begins as you take quests but here its not like Diablo 
 II where you take quests from smiling strangers. The storyline also takes over where Warcraft III 
 left it. The quests are both entertaining and quite interesting. I think the storyline is fantastic 
 and a fantastic gameplay helps making it even better. World of Warcraft is yet another prove that 
 Blizzard qualify as the best game making company. You would think that no one could succeed as 
 they do. World of Warcraft has It all, not only is it a entertaining, interesting adventure MMORPG 
 but its incredibly funny as well. Here many things are taken easy so you get plenty of good laughs 
 when playing this game. When your done purchasing this game you can throw the other ones away, 
 because you wont be leaving this one for a while.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The gameplay is INCREDIBLE. It might take you a few hours or days to learn the massive amount of 
 hotkeys but when you figure them out you will love this. The hotkeys are so well organized and 
 comfortable and well placed it takes moments to get something done. And once you become the master 
 of the hotkeys the game rally begins. There is nothing to complain about with the gameplay, its 
 incredible. They way you play, character movements. Everything fits so well together, and with 
 the great graphics you should get endless hours of entertainment. When you get to learn the gameplay, 
 this will be the best game you have ever played. Take it from someone who plays 24 hours per day.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  The sounds are incredible. They fit perfectly and the music I played at the right moments and it 
 makes every scene more intense and enjoyable. It really enhances the feel of the game, it really 
 does. Also what the characters say, often very enjoyable and funny. There is not much to say about 
 the sounds and music other than they are incredible!
  
  -Krist&oacute; fer K. a. k. a KKx2000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlesak
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 17, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazin01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I'd read the reviews months and months ago. Ordered the game from amazon, took about 3 months before 
 it arrived and it actually sat on my desk for another 2 before I even installed it. I'd heard all 
 the stories about this game taking over your life and I have to say its true.
  It is the 1st real RPG that I've ever played, and the 1st online one. I really never knew anything 
 could be so immersive and addictive. 
  The game has so much depth and although its relatively easy to get yourself started, to really 
 get the best of it you really have to invest quite a bit of time.
  
  Graphics are great in my opinion, I don't really pay all that much attention to it in the 1st place, 
 but the 1st time you enter a major city such as Stormwind or Ironforge, you really step back in 
 awe. There was some juddering at times for me, but mostly when flying on the griffons, but I guess 
 my system is not up to scratch. Its running on a xp2600 512mb ram and 9600pro, either that or its 
 lag.
  
  Sound effects and the speech in the game is good enough to keep you entertained and some of the 
 characters in the game have some quite amusing lines.
  
  Gameplay is great and extremely varied. Lots of nice touches such as the professions and auction 
 house are great ideas. Some of the quests are great but I do find some a little difficult it your 
 playing on your own rather than in a group. There is so much to see and do in this game and its 
 very easy to get completely addicted to it.
  
  Overall, I really can't find much flaws with this game, there is the odd technical issue, but these 
 do not infringe on you enjoying the game. I wholeheartedly recommend this to even those that normally 
 shy away from RPG games. Give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aweus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  I don't know how Blizzard is able to keep highest value of it's games from years now, but yeap 
 - it works again! Although WoW does have some minor issues with bugs and content under development 
 and it is not the most complex MMORPG made, it is probably most fun-to-play and casual gamer friendly 
 game of this genre. I never thought some game may provide me 1000+ hours of gameplay, but WoW is 
 on a good way to achieve this. The only question now is how long Blizzard will be able to keep 
 players focused at mass scale. The true value of any MMORPG can be justified by the time it actually 
 stays fresh thanks to new content and player circulation. But when I look at the current state 
 of much more primitive Blizzard's on-line based games (Diablo 2, Starfract, Warcraft 3) future 
 seems really bright.
  
  PS. After playing more than 1000 hours and still being drawn into this world every day, I decided 
 to rise my mark to 10. First 10 ever! Perhaps game has some flaws but expecting more would be an 
 eccentricity. Thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlk
Rating: 0
Date: May 30, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  GreenPrint 
 can help save paper    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft
  
  Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games, or MMORPG for short have long since been associated 
 with gamers that like to dress up and re-enact favourite scenes from their beloved choice of game 
 while pretending their size 9 Dr Martins are in fact, Boots of escaping, agility + 4, not that 
 theres anything wrong with this, but is does get a little weird when you see someone running down 
 the street clad in Toys R Us childrens knight armour shouting something along the lines of Dragon 
 be slain.
  
  But now, those days are well behind us. Well the bit where MMORPGs are associated with geeks 
 that never see the sun unless its on at the Cinema and then they will have downloaded it from 
 a P2P network. Im sure there are still the odd few that enjoy a bit of a dress up every now and 
 then. But I think its about time gamers shouldnt have to hide the fact they play a game solely 
 online without the fear of being shunned and excluded from society.
  
  Blizzard, the creators of some of the finest games to grace our personal computers. With a repertoire 
 of games that boasts the Diablo, Warcraft and Starcraft series its no surprise that once again 
 Blizzard have delivered the goods with their latest addition to their line up. 
  
  Going into the MMORPG market is dangerous enough these days with so much fierce competition around 
 but Blizzard on their first outing in the genre have done themselves proud and have clearly been 
 doing their homework.
  
  Using their expansive storyline the series Warcraft has to offer they had a very good building 
 block with a large portion of the storyline already completed; something that must have helped 
 out some way or another. With the game set in the Warcraft universe it would be argued even on 
 paper the game was one step ahead of the majority of online games.
  
  The game offers a selection of playable races, Human, Dwarf, Gnome, Night Elf, Orc, Tauren, Undead 
 and Troll. All these races are split between two factions, the Alliance and the Horde and depending 
 on your choice of race will depend what faction you align with. Apart from cosmetics, each race 
 also has certain attributes that others wont. For example Night Elves when dead can move in wisp 
 form giving a bonus to movement speed. Other attributes vary from a bonus in a certain weapon specialization 
 to the ability to blend in with your surroundings making it harder for other players to see you.
 
  
  So, youve picked your faction / class and now youre presented with the old dilemma of what class 
 you will play. There are nine classes in total to choose from, although two of these classs are 
 faction specific. Druid, Hunter, Mage, Priest, Rogue, Warlock and Warrior are open to both Alliance 
 and Horde but are limited to what race can be each class. For example a Night Elf cant be a Warlock, 
 but they can be a Druid. The other two character classes are Shaman, which is the Horde only class, 
 and the Paladin which by the process of elimination means its the Alliance only class.
  
  Character Race  check, Character Class  check then the big one, what you look like. Appearances 
 are everything and one to many curls in that hair or eye brows that are to bushy can brand you 
 unfashionable, while normally hair that can only get spiked in such way that a combine harvester 
 has driven over it and is normally a shade of purple, green or blue will normally bring you lots 
 of cool and wicked.
  
  A variety of customizable options is available and these vary between hair style and colour, facial 
 features, skin colour and type are all there for you to tweak to your liking. Its worth mentioning 
 that different races have different customizable options, where for example when you customize 
 the Undeads facial features it can have a broad array of effects and can see lower halves of jaws 
 removed to other ghastly appearances. Gnomes are probably the most fun playable race to customize 
 as the facial hair option is unlike none other and its not uncommon to see a Gnome running around 
 with a moustache a plumber who is a porn star in the evenings would be proud of, and thats not 
 all. They come in a variety of colours and can only be described like a well known confectionary 
 advert taste the rainbow. Pink, Blue, Green, you name it; its all there for you to choose. Player 
 names are limited to one word which is a shame as characters with a surname would be a very nice 
 addition, but so far this is the only downside (if you can call it that so far.)
  
  You notice the time and realise its now taken you two hours to choose your race, class, appearance 
 but now your stuck on your name you quickly scan your desk for inspiration and eventually end up 
 with the name Tipex. So with all that done the only last thing for you to do is hit the login button 
 that seems to have been calling out press me, press me in a seductive sensual voice ever since 
 you opened the window.
  
  Depending on the choices you made earlier will depend where your character first begins life in 
 the World of Warcraft (bad pun, I know, but save the rotten veg for later please.) Humans, Night 
 Elf, Tauren and Undead all get their own starting locations while Dwarves and Orcs find their 
 homeland being shared by the Gnomes and Trolls respectively. Dont worry though, reasons for the 
 shared accommodation are all in the games storyline and is easily found, but dont worry though, 
 it doesnt have any implication on your character except perhaps for the first few levels youll 
 probably see at least two different races running around instead of the one if for example you 
 picked Night Elf vary rarely see another player race as they start off in an isolated woodland 
 realm.
  
  When you log in for the first time is probably one of the most important parts of the game for 
 players, as its now when you begin to learn the games dynamics, combat system and all the other 
 basics such as loot etc. A bad experience here and its down hill but World of Warcraft gets it 
 down to a tee and you will quickly find yourself advancing through the beginner levels with the 
 aid of various NPCs (Non Playable Characters for anyone whos interested) and the quests they 
 have for you. One thing Blizzard have done right with the beginning is not treat everyone like 
 six year old (no offence to any reading this.) You know what I mean when I say tutorials which 
 basically assume you have the combined brain cells of two ice cream van mechanics (once again, 
 no offence intended if any are reading this.) Instead the starting quests, which not only get you 
 through the starting levels, teach you the basics such as loot, how to train new skills and spells 
 but they do it in way which stays in touch with the game. You do believe that NPC Harry has asked 
 you to obtain 8 pieces of wolf meat, and its only after you complete the quest that you realise, 
 hmm, I know how to loot now, cool.
  Like Ive said, the opening of the game is spot on and to change anything would be a silly mistake 
 from the developers. But moving on then
  
  Many MMORPGs start off promising but soon begin to become a monotonous (no I couldnt spell it 
 right first time either) levelling grind that makes you want to tear your eye balls out and replace 
 them with Satsumas (small orange fruit to anyone whos not a fruitarian (yes, I did just make 
 that word up, but MS word is happy with it which is good enough for me.) ) World of Warcraft is 
 different, it leaves you wanting more, and more, and then you soon find yourself shutting out the 
 outside world in order to reach that glorious level so you can use the sword with strength + 6 
 on it you found one week earlier. 
  
  Ive played quite a lot of MMORPGs, but never did I think Id say this (braces himself)  Levelling 
 is fun! Yep you heard me, levelling is indeed fun. While it is just like most games on the market 
 where you have to kill mobs for experience or complete quests for an extra bunch of Exp goodness, 
 World of Warcraft seems to have got the balance perfect and most of the times it doesnt feel like 
 youre levelling at all.
  
  Quests, seeing as Ive made a few references to them, I suppose I better explain them a bit more. 
 Throughout your travels youll encounter hundreds of NPCs, some might be guards, some may be Inn 
 Keepers, whatever their occupation many of them will request your services one way or another. 
 Easily picked out from the crowd by a Golden exclamation mark above their head (It will be grey 
 if youre to low level) , these quests can see you do a selection of things. You may be asked to 
 cleanse the lands and kill X amount of Y creature or perhaps it could be a delivery quest where 
 you are asked to deliver some horseshoes to a blacksmith in a neighbouring town. Whatever the quest, 
 one thing is for sure, there is always a reward. Be it in the form of some lovely experience, money 
 or maybe an item, quests can be very rewarding so it makes sense to keep your eye out for any quest 
 givers. NPCs you need to speak to when you have completed a quest will be branding a golden question 
 mark above their head (it will be grey if youre yet to meet the quest requirements) making it 
 very easy to distinguish which NPC you need to speak to.
  
  All the usual stuff is present, and by that I mean a party system where you can team up with some 
 comrades and lay waste to some nasty beasts together or even go about completing quests together, 
 choice is yours. For those tasks that require just a bit more horsepower, there is the option to 
 create a raid. A raid simply put is like a party, but where the party is confined to 5 members, 
 a raid can hold plenty more. Allowing you to take down that boss of Ultimate doom and vengeance 
 that one hit killed your group of five a few days earlier. Partying and raids are where the fun 
 is at and youll find yourself using these features on many occasions as you play through the game, 
 especially towards end game when PvP becomes a bit more interesting to you.
  
  Guilds also feature in the game and also come with a few nice additions. Once your guild is established 
 you may want to consider purchasing a guild tabard which members can then buy from all good retailers. 
 These tabards are customizable by colour and you can also choose which crest to have displayed 
 on yours. Probably the nicest thing about the tabards is that they are viewable by anyone else, 
 as once equipped they are displayed on your character so can you proudly state where your elegance 
 lies.
  
  Jumping back a notch I forget to mention talents. These talents become available at level 10, and 
 you gain 1 talent point for every level you gain after that. You can then use these points to increase 
 a variety of stats and even gain one or two new spells. For example a Mage might decide to increase 
 the strength of his fireball by a small percentage, and he can do this by spending his talent points. 
 This system offers another bit of customization and does help add to the individual but dont be 
 afraid if you make the wrong choice later on. For youll be able to reset your talents for a small 
 charge.
  
  A bit fed up of levelling, been killed one to many times already today? Perhaps some crafting might 
 cheer you up. For the crafting system is in my opinion up there with the very best of them. Theres 
 a stocking full of professions to choose from and whats even better, you can have more than one. 
 While the usual is all there such as blacksmithing and mining, the addition of the likes of fishing, 
 first aid and the mind boggling engineering really adds a whole new dimension to the game. Whats 
 even better about crafting is that the goods players make are actually useful. Where in other games 
 your heart would bleed so you could make a certain item, you would then find 30 minutes later that 
 its useless and nobody wants to buy it from you. This is not the case in World of Warcraft (ok, 
 Ive avoided abbreviations enough WoW for short.) With some of the most sort after items all being 
 player made, it really gives the game that other edge that so many lack. So what if youre not 
 the highest level in game, or have amazing skill in PvP, but if anyone wants a new piece of armour 
 made, its you they turn to, perfect.
  
  The graphics, while Im sure wont appeal to some, suit the game down to a tee and they really make 
 the world seem alive and full of life. While the graphics are perhaps not in the realistic category 
 such as Lineage II or Guild Wars, they suit the game; they are perfect for the game.
  
  High level content is there and is mostly in the form of PvP. With an honour system that rewards 
 you for your PvP exploits with gifts of new items and in some cases, even a new mount.
  
  Whats more with Battlegrounds now just on the horizon, which will allow players to go to war 
 against each other on specific maps but its not just the case of oh look enemy, get him. By 
 all means no, theres more to it than that. With guards protecting your camp, it makes sense to 
 upgrade them and what better way to upgrade them? By capturing the mine of course, all that valuable 
 ore will come in use. With towers to capture and various other little features, Battlegrounds are 
 the one thing most WoW players are waiting for at the moment.
  
  Ive probably left something out, but overall all I can say is genius. Blizzard have made MMORPGs 
 fun again and I take my hat off to them. Amazing and definitely worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmoney__9127
Rating: 0
Date: May 22, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 0
Date: May 20, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  First off, if you are not a fan of MMORPG'S or rpg's for that matter this game isn't for you and 
 you shouldnt play it and you shouldnt give it a bad review. That said, this game is amazing, yes 
 the graphics arent anything off the wall but its the presentation and style that makes this game 
 just flat out beautiful. As soon as I stepped into the world of warcraft, my mouth dropped, it 
 was like I was playing warcraft 3 over only I was right in the game looking up at sprawling mountains, 
 beautiful lakes and wild animals running around. I have only been playing for around 7 hours and 
 this game is expansive I havent even left the beginners area yet, and I have already completed 
 around 20 quests. You can learn so many skills, not to mention professions like mining, skinning- 
 which is fun, you can skin animals after you kill them and get material like leather to make armor 
 or sell. You can also train to ride animals like the kodo beasts the tauren use. The size of the 
 landscape is something you need to see to do justice to its immense size, its just amazing, the 
 mountains are gigantic, and you can go into paths that lead up the mountains, theres caves, you 
 can swim underwater. There are all kinds of weapons to get, and make. I can go on and on but we 
 would be here forever. The sound in this game is good as well, the beautiful music pieces, although 
 short, only playing when you enter an area or when you fight somtimes sounds great, as well as 
 the character voices, and the sounds of the crickets and birds chirping away. I highly recommend 
 this game to any warcraft fan and to anyone who enjpys rpgs, especially mmorpgs, give it a try 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownWalrus
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This is THE best mmorpg out there no doubt. It has the most content and offers dozens of cool things 
 to do that will keep you entertained for weeks if not months or even years. This game will cost 
 you 15$ a month but don't let that discourage you from getting it because if you pay for a month 
 you get 2 months free since the first is free and folks.... in reality 15$ is just .50$ a day thats 
 not that much and i wrote that so all those people who say MMO's are bad because you have to pay 
 for them (most of them at least) can see that's its really not that bad.
  
  
  Now this game is simply amazing and even the graphics while not really very comparable to current 
 MMORPG or MMORPGSIMILAR games (such as EQ2 and GuildWars) it still has gorgeous scenery. The different 
 lands you explore are amazing and the monsters you fight are awesome so while the textures, character 
 details, etc may not be the greatest it still looks beautiful. Forests, wastelands, volcanic islands, 
 tropical islands, underwater, ancient ruins, castles, mines and much much more are all explorable 
 in this game and each look amazing. 
  
  
  This game has tons of content. In fact it has more conent then any other MMORPG out today 6 months 
 later with more content just POURING in. 1000's of armor pieces and 1000's and 1000's of different 
 unique weapons (such as AXES, SWORDS, MACES, POLE ARMS, BOWS, THROWING WEAPONS, FISTS, AND EVEN 
 CROSSBOWS (there will also be siege weapons in the new upcoming expansion) . There are also tons 
 of different eatables, recipes for professions such as cooking and first aid and 100's of different 
 foods to eat (not including potions) and dozens of different mounts and 100's of different monsters 
 to fight. Now this game gets updated constantly (once every few weeks) and when it does the patches 
 aren't minor and maybe just fix a small bug or something (while it does do that too) but instead 
 it alters characters and add tons of new things that not only they think should be added but also 
 things players want to be added (yes players that post on the forums) . There are also on occasion 
 huge patches that add entire new sets, weapons, armors, mounts, and different missions and instances 
 and the such. The patches in this game are very nice.
  
  Now lets talk a little about customer service. Yes the game has been doing bad its first few months 
 by having bad servers which lagged for some people and constantly crashed and caused people to 
 wait hours before they could log back on. But i assure you that has all changed now. Before i would 
 constantly have to wait for servers to come back and be working but from what i remember the last 
 time i have had one of these problems was about...1 and a half months ago. Yes whatever blizzard 
 was doing that kept screwing up the servers has now been fixed and now the service they offer is 
 amazing! No more constant crashes or any of that its all fixed now i am not kidding the servers 
 flow like a dream now. Back then i would give the customer service (on servers) a 3 now i would 
 give them a solid 9. 
  
  
  This game offers many different things to do to keep you entertained. For one theres the very nice 
 profession system. This game has a wide selection of professions to choose that are used to help 
 your character earn money or make very useful things for himself. Now you can only choose two of 
 these proffesions so that it wouldn't be too hard trying to upgrade a lot of professions at one 
 but instead focus on the main two. But if you aren't happy with your proffesions you could just 
 unlearn them and choose two new ones though you would loose the progress from the other two you 
 were working on. There are 3 proffesions that anyone could learn and won't count as one of the 
 2 you can choose. They are cooking, first aid and fishing. Yes they all help you heal but in different 
 ways. Cooking for example is used to heal you after a battle where your character gets healed over 
 time (though it heals you pretty fast and usually takes less then 10 seconds) while first aid can 
 be used any time even in combat and heals you very quickly and heals a lot at a time but will get 
 interrupted if you get attacked while healing plus you can only use a bandage once every minute. 
 The professions are fun and help you character out and each requires you to do different things. 
 For example if you choose minning you would be mining bronze, silver, copper, gold, mithril, etc 
 and use them to help you out with different proffesions such as blacksmithing or engineering. So 
 if you choose mining it would be wise to choose one of those two since they need a lot of content 
 from mining. But then again you could just mine and sell the ores for quite a lot of money actually. 
 There's a lot of other cool things to do such as traveling on boats or zeppelins, getting yourself 
 a mount and traveling with it, doing many fun instances or raid instances, PvPing to get honor 
 points which earn you valuable equipment and auction items off at auction houses and much much 
 more.
  
  
  The PvP in this game is pretty nice and refreshing. You can PvP one on one or in Raids. In one 
 on one you just duel each other for fun and there is no gain or loss. You won't lose or gain anything 
 if you loose its just a lot of fun. In raids (by the way if you didn't know a raid is a huge party 
 made up of many smaller party's) you go raid an enemy town and get to kill a lot of players at 
 once with a lot of teammates which is very fun. Theres also the wonderful honor system which awards 
 you honor points by killing players (opposing faction players that is) which are used to get yourself 
 the best set items and weapons and mounts available in the game. You will also get dishonorable 
 points if you kill players a lot lower level then you or if you kill NPC's such as quest givers 
 or traveling masters. The result of a lot of dishonorable kills... your own faction turning against 
 you and even attacking you on sight. This makes PvP a lot better and more rewarding (by the way 
 when i said you won't get anything for dueling i meant when you duel your own faction members) .
 
  
  The game is long and has a level cap of 60 which means a lot of gameplay and leveling for you. 
 Blizzard is even thinking of making the level limit higher later on which is good for those players 
 at 60 who want to raise their characters even higher. 
  
  The solo gameplay is very fun and easy which means no more frustrating teaming (unless you are 
 doing instances or extremely hard quests) so you can easily go kill on your own without the need 
 for a party though there will always be one available. The interface is THE best interface in any 
 game to ever come out and its very easy to use and very useful. You can already customize it in 
 amazing ways but there are also 100's of addons you can download to enhance it and even interfaces 
 that look different. The game has many skills to use and each class plays very differently and 
 even start out at different places to keep the replay value at max. 
  
  The sound in this game is nice and soothing. There are many tracks from battle music to relaxing 
 tranquil music to just plain fun music. The music never got old for me and i love it.
  
  This game is amazing and offers much more then any other MMORPG out there right now. This game 
 is so fun it brought tens of thousands MMORPG haters to lovers thats how amazing it is. If you 
 are thinking of picking up an MMORPG don't even think just go and get Wow. And for those of you 
 who don't like monthly fees well just think if you pay a simple 15$ once you get 2 months free 
 which is a long time of this amazing game. Overall this game is the perfect MMORPG that crushed 
 and will crushed all other MMORPG's and if the graphics were a bit better (i. e textures, character 
 details) then this game would be flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is great i love playing this game and it has brought me back from the shambles that is 
 SWG. This game has it all:
  
  9 great classes to pick from. Ranging from warlock to paladin, hunter to druid, shaman to mage, 
 rogue to priest and not forgetting warrior.
  
  8 cool looking races to play. These are split into to sides one the alliance there members include, 
 Humans, nightelves, dwarfs and the small but always liked gnomes. Then there is the other side 
 called the horde and there members include Orcs, trolls, undead and the powerful tauren.
  
  12 cool professions that are easy to get into. These are:
  
  Alchemy.
  
  Blacksmithing.
 
  
  Enchanting.
  
  Engineering.
  
  Herbalism.
  
  Leatherworking.
  
  Mining.
  
  Skinning.
  
  Tailoring.
  
  Cooking.
  
  First Aid.
  
  Fishing.
  
  as you 
 can see there is alot to pick from in this game and that is before you start to realy play. also 
 sone there will be batllegrounds in which both sides will be able to slug it out in a big war and 
 should be fun for all the rogues out there :) .
  
  My tip is if you want to have a war and you want to play online with lots of poeple and you like 
 MMORPG then you should get WOW.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marctina
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  When WoW first came out I was one of the hold outs. There was NO WAY I was going to pay $15 a month 
 for an online game! As time when on, and the positive reviews poured in, I eventually had to give 
 and and try it out.
  
  I will disclose that I was an avid fan of all the previous Blizzard games; Warcraft, Diablo, Starcraft, 
 etc. I had very high expectations going into this game, hoping that even though much of the original 
 creators had left, they would stay true to the franchise.
  
  To my surprise WoW has proven to be an in-depth game, full of amazing stories, and graphics that 
 stay true to the original games. If you were a fan of any of their previous RTS games you will 
 fall in love with WoW.
  
  Don't let the monthly fee scare you away from getting this amazing game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  It is worth noting that this is my first true MMO experience. I started getting interested in MMOs 
 with back in the day when Star Wars Galaxies shipped and I wanted to jump on that really bad. Good 
 thing monthly fees had me researching like crazy to pick the right one to dump my time and money 
 into. I work full time so my gaming time is at a premium. So after months of researching each game 
 that was coming out, I realized that they all promise pretty much the same thing and I was going 
 to have to try them out. I got a Star Wars demo, I played Ever Quest over a friend's house and 
 played Guild Wars a bunch as well. Then I downloaded the WoW beta right before retail and within 
 2 hours I was hooked. I purchased retail and haven't looked back since. First off, it is incredibly 
 easy to pick up. I have had RPG experience in the past and played Diablo I and II extensively so 
 perhaps I benefited from having experience with the Blizzard model. I loaded the game and after 
 creating a character (fun process) I jumped onto a server. Getting missions is easy. People who 
 offer them are clearly indicated. The missions that you get make sense and are fun. Most of the 
 time you are running errands for people, slaying monsters, or what have you, but really, this is 
 all ways to learn your character, the landscape and the game overall, aside from the obvious gaining 
 of experience and developing your character (the whole reason we are playing) . Outside of missions, 
 you get professions to develop. Everybody has access to the same sets (i. e. fishing, cooking, first 
 aid) and then they are left to choose to focus on any variety of other choices. These professions 
 can then be used to develop item or equipment for yourself (which can be convenient, given to other 
 players (or sold yeah, sold) or put up for auction. Between all of that and exploring the vast 
 landmass that this game has to offer, it is safe to say that this game has a lot of depth. The 
 action in this game is paced fairly well. In the early going it'll seem slow, then it'll ramp up. 
 This is primarily determined by the number of enemies you are facing and the number of people you 
 have fighting along side of you. The graphics in this game have two qualities to me that I need 
 to explain. First, they are great! I find myself looking around all of the time admiring the beautiful 
 landscapes and environments. Second, they still seem a little dated. Most of the objects in the 
 game are 2d. The artists have done a tremendous job hiding this so much so to the point that in 
 order to see that the fence you are looking at is flat, you have to get beside it and look at it 
 from the right angle to notice. When I say hiding though, it is not to be interpreted as in concealing 
 flaws, in fact we should all be thankful because it is with this that we can have such tremendous 
 visuals and still maintain a great frame rate. Overall though, I am impressed with the visual quality 
 of this game and I love me some outstanding graphics. The sound in the game is fantastic. Surround 
 Sound setups will benefit. Ambient sounds as well as sounds of the environment youre are in (the 
 Beach, Forest, etc.) are constant with actual music being played as you enter certain areas. Unfortunately 
 I dont have tons of experience with MMOs outside of this one. Before I purchased WoW, I thought 
 for certain I was going to be jumping on the Guild Wars bandwagon. Because that game has no monthly 
 service charge, I may still give it a whirl, but that game cant even be placed in the same category 
 as WoW. This truly is a great game that has me finding myself playing for complete days at a time 
 (Saturdays, Sundays, and sick of work days) and when playing a few friends, its nice to actually 
 discuss what things will be like in the game come summer time, or next fall or even next holiday 
 season because with such depth in a game has us confident we will still be interested in it after 
 that amount of time. This style of game wont appeal to everyone though. It is very involved and 
 time consuming, which does not appeal to everyone. The main reason it is time consuming for me 
 is that I just enjoy playing it that much. From what I understand, other MMOs have their players 
 feeling like they need to keep playing or at least play a little bit on a regular basis, just to 
 keep their characters up to speed with everyone else. I have not felt any of that so far with this 
 game. One really nice feature this game has is the rest state. The rest state for me is great 
 for two reasons. One reason is that when I come home from work, I can play and notice that I gain 
 experience faster than normal. It only lasts a certain amount of time, which is determined by how 
 long you were either logged out or hanging around an INN. This is still nice because for my second 
 reason, I can play other games and still get that rest bonus. Another time it comes in handy is 
 if you decide to start a second (or third or fourth or so on) character. You can spend time developing 
 a character that is of a different race or class and when you come back to your original character, 
 they will be well rested and therefore gain experience at a faster rate. Anyone who is concerned 
 with this giving player an advantage can stop the worrying. One example I have is that I added 
 a player to my friends list and when I did, we were about the same level. I play a lot with the 
 character that I started, but I maintain a second character along side of it as well. For this 
 one-week period, the player I added to my friends list was able to gain 10 levels on me within 
 one week and I played as often as I could that week. Put the time in, and you will progress, but 
 the rest state is a great way to keep your spirits up if you find yourself bummed you cant play 
 for any given period of time. The bottom line? I love this game, and I cant seem to get interested 
 in anything else. I bought Half Life 2 a week before and Im not even halfway through it (no pun 
 intended) . In fact, I cant wait till I get home tonight to play it see you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesta999
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 2, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobshow
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 30, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Kim Kardashians 
 Got the Look    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA519
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I hate RPG's. I hate the fact that you sit there selecting an attack, and that watch a stupid movie 
 of them doing the attack. Then why is this game so good? Because it feels more like and Action 
 RPG. You are selecting attacks, but it's so much more fast paced! You're constantly moving around 
 and attacking. And It's great! I don't need to review this game. I don't need to throw down the 
 pros and cons of the gameplay, graphics, sound, value, and tilt. This game is that good. it's addicting, 
 it's super freakin long, and it's a masterpiece. I don't care who you are, go out and buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarillos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2005 12:18 am PT
Review:  Great game for the MMORPG player that has struggled with the group and finding group aspect of 
 Everquest and Galxies. WOW allows for you to hop in and out based on your schedule. You don't have 
 to marry the game to enjoy the game. As a casual game player, I have been able to get my fix and 
 enjoy the gameplay.
  
  While I am not a group oriented player, I have been invited to quest in half a dozen instances. 
 It helped with my goal and I was able to move on and contine my success without being tied to the 
 group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddalet
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 28, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlMcload
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 26, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  Blizzard came out with another outstanding game and this one tops all the rest. World of Warcraft 
 not only has most of the things you would have liked about other MMORPG's, but they add a lot more 
 and almost none of it is bad. 
  
  The first great thing about this game is how easy it is to learn how to play. You don't waste time 
 in a boring tutorial instead you go right in. They have many help bubbles that can tell you whats 
 going on but I never used those. This game is easy to learn just from messing around but the gameplay 
 requires skill and is extreamly fun. 
  
  The combat in World of Warcraft is outstanding. If you want you can stay away from fighting other 
 players all together. The spells are colorful fun look cool and there are a huge variety. There 
 are thousands of items some with special abilities that are just outstanding. You can also make 
 parties in Wow (world of warcraft) that give the game a great twist of strategy. Some fights are 
 too hard to do on your own and other people are necisary. Youll learn how to be a good member of 
 a party and play your role. 
  
  The best thing about this game is its rich, fun, and colorful landscape. It was thousands of miles 
 that are impossible to cover all of them. Becuase the game is so big at the begining its overwelming. 
 For me im not used to these kinds of games and i like to do everything. This is immpossible and 
 you are not ment to. So, if you don't like a quest (These are jobs you can get from computers in 
 the game) don't do it. Other ones are out there just waiting. 
  
  You will never get bored of this game and will be hooked the instant you start to play. Blizzard 
 has new quests coming out all the time to keep you busy. You will spend most of your time doing 
 quests which are assighnments you get to do from other people. They will pay you, give you items, 
 and most important you will get XP. 
  
  I havent coverd even half the great things about World of Warcraft like professions so be sure 
 to visit www. worldofwarcraft. com, blizzards official site. Or, www. worldofwar. net. This site is 
 unofficial but has way more regaurding help in the game and whats in the game. 
  
  But remember this game still has its flaws. Some bugs are irritaing and make some quests impossible 
 but don't despair the good in this game far outways the bad. 
  
  If you don't buy worldofwarcraft you are missing out on one of the best games ever made, quite 
 possibly the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusCoven
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 24, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  Frustration. That is the name of the game in Blizzards take on the Massively Multi-player Online 
 Role Playing Game or MMORPG for short. Out of the box you will get 4 cd-roms, a hefty 208 page 
 booklet and the usual Blizzard catalog. Installation was quick and easy as was setting up my account. 
 The game comes with the first month free which was a plus but you still have to enter a credit 
 card or game card as a precaution incase you exceed the trial period.
  
  The game allows you to assume the role of a hero separated into two factions, the Horde and the 
 Alliance. The only difference in the two sides is appearance though most the servers you play on 
 will have the Horde greatly outnumbered. Each side has 4 playable races each. The Alliance consists 
 of the humans, dwarves, night elves and gnomes and the Horde consists of the Orcs, Trolls, Undead 
 and Tauren. As mentioned before theres no difference in whom you pick other than the way they 
 look. 
  
  However theres a third choice you must make in your character which is Class. The game allows 
 you to choose between being a hunter, mage, rogue, paladin, priest or a warrior. Your decision 
 will set what abilities you can learn throughout the game. After you have chosen your allegiance 
 and customized the decorative aspects of your male or female player you are given a brief history 
 lesson on your players race and then its finally time to start the game in your hometown.
  
  Now we can get down to business. First things first, WOW is not a MMORPG as its been made 
 out to be. No its actually a running simulator set in a fantasy world. This may sound strange 
 to you but I promise you its the truth. You will spend 3/4's of the game not battling, not chatting 
 with friends, not even buying new items. No you will spend most of your game time running around 
 the world aimlessly. Dont let anyone tell you different, the game is nothing more than a running 
 simulator and your quests are just incentives to get you running.
  
  Coming from the company who made great games like Diablo 2 and Warcraft 3 I was expecting some 
 type of waypoint system to transport me across the lengthy world but no such system exists. The 
 closest thing to it is the Hearthstone which is a item that returns you to your current home 
 and comes with a horrid 60 minute cooldown feature. Thats right, once you use the stone once you 
 will have to wait a full hour before using it again.
  
  Occasionally towns will be linked via a flying creature transport system but this usually only 
 exists between capital cities and not with the smaller towns that you spend the most time in. Id 
 also like to mention how ridiculously slow character movement is in this game. Theres no direct 
 stamina meter so you cannot increase your speed at anytime. Instead you must cross miles of land 
 with the auto-run feature activated during which you can go out for dinner, take a shower, play 
 ANOTHER game and see a movie before your character actually arrives to his/her destination.
  
  The sad thing is this is one of my lesser complaints with the game. Lets talk about the monotonous 
 quests you will undertake. 70% of them involve RUNNING (north, east, south or west) to kill (insert 
 creature type here) and pick up the (insert pointless item here) they drop once every 12th kill. 
 This wouldnt be so bad if the fighting system was more hands on. Instead the game has you clicking 
 on a bad guy, walking over to it and then your done. Yep, thats all the interaction you will get 
 in these battles except the occasional spell casting triggered by the number keys.
  
  The game is also a complete grind if you are playing solo. You can forget about taking on legions 
 of enemies unless you wanna die real fast. The maximum amount of enemy characters my player was 
 able to handle at any given time was 2. And I have heard the same from other players so I know 
 im not just bad at the game. Enemies also take WAY too long to kill by yourself which clearly says 
 that the game is designed for group play.
  
  Another horrible problem with the game is its lack of direction. This is not a game for linear 
 players. The quest givers usually lead you in the vicinity of where your supposed to head but thats 
 about all you will get. This isnt a terrible problem until you get lost and, due to the games 
 lack of a waypoint system, the game has you retracing your steps for excruciatingly long periods 
 of time. The game manual and in game map are your only companions in finding your way. If you use 
 to the detailed maps located in the back of the booklet this will help you navigate only through 
 the big name towns because the smaller places dont show up on any maps. I find this whole problem 
 to be really ridiculous when you go into a town and the guards have no problem marking something 
 such as "the bank" on your map but the same can't be done for the quests. I understand some people 
 like to explore but it should at least be an option for the more linear type players.
  
  Group play is better, and I never really had much trouble finding someone to go on the quests with. 
 The game has a channel messaging system that lets you categorize your messages to the people in 
 your town based on General talk, Trade, Looking For A Group or Local Defense. If you have a group 
 of people to play with your experience with the game will be better especially if your other players 
 know where to go which avoids the risk of getting lost. The problem with group play is the already 
 boring combat is reduced to even less interaction considering your team as a whole is dealing out 
 the damage more than just you when you are not the most powerful member of the group.
  
  The most frustrating aspect though is death. Death sucks. You will dread the moments when your 
 health starts to lower because dying is made out to be such a drag. Basically you respawn at a 
 graveyard unable to do anything but run (which, like I already said, is the object of the game) 
 and then you must venture off to find your body. When the 6 to 8 minutes spent finding your body 
 are up, you will resurrect. But dont expect a warm welcome back because not only will you still 
 be surrounded by the ones who killed you, but you will only have half of your health. This usually 
 means you will repeat the die and run 6 mins to your body process 2 to 4 times especially when 
 you're deep in a cave. Its because of this dreadful fear of death that combat with higher levels 
 is nearly impossible and gives you only one option which is running away of course.
  
  I cant knock the game completely down in the gameplay department because there are some features 
 that make it above the average game. Searching out new items and equipping your character with 
 them to achieve new looks and strengths is quite fulfilling after hours of frustrating running. 
 I really wanted to keep coming back and playing simply to upgrade my character, not because the 
 game was fun. Another plus is that leveling is considerably easy if you manage to complete quests 
 quickly which is looked upon as both good and bad depending on what kind of player you are. Personally 
 this was a relief because nearly all of the badass upgrades require high levels including mounts 
 (creatures you can ride around on) which make running not so much of a pain.
  
  The best part of the game is the immersion. After a couple of hours of play you will start to lose 
 all sense of self and really become involved in the world you are forced to play in. You may make 
 new friends and start to care for your teammates especially if you join a guild (a band of players 
 grouping to help each other out) .
  
  Graphically the game is pretty to look at. The visuals arent exactly breathtaking but they are 
 very colorful especially in the elf city of Darnassus. Each race looks like youve come to expect 
 and only the very basic beasts you will encounter at the start of the game are low on detail. Each 
 race has very distinct looking towns and the vast landscapes will never fail to amaze you in how 
 seamlessly they are loaded in. The game has almost no load times except for when using the Hearthstone 
 to cross continents. 
  
  The sound is top notch combining a soundtrack youve come to expect from Blizzard with voice acting 
 and sound effects that sound appropriate. But just like the graphics its nothing breathtaking 
 and after youve heard the 3 or so battle grunts they will start to get a bit annoying.
  
  The only area the game has the most weight in is the value department. If you happen to enjoy the 
 repetitive gameplay and frustrating quirks pulling the game away from fun then you will be happy 
 to know this is a very LONG game. There is over 2000 quests available with an expansion pack on 
 the way. You will be limited to achieving the level of 60 but this will take you hundreds of hours 
 to accomplish. There is also an endless array of weapons, items and tasks you will be able to keep 
 busy with. If the main game gets tiresome you can take a stab at the games professions which include 
 mining, leather working, alchemy and many other skills you can use to make useful items. None of 
 these jobs interested me enough to do them over the main game but maybe you will find more fun 
 in them.
  
  When it comes down to it, WOW is not for everyone. In my opinion, I dont see how anyone would 
 rather play this than some of the other great games currently available. Call me a hater but Im 
 just one of the few people who just dont get the whole massively multi-player shtick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCP690
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great for beginners by the fact that you can just pick up and play, but it's also 
 a great gaming expierience for the hardcore MMORPG players out their. The developers have tried 
 risky but brilliant angles at the MMORPG genre. I love the new element of not getting a penalty 
 when you die; this gives the game a more fun feel and less of the feel that your getting punished. 
 This also encourages you to go out and quest more. For me this game is almost straight out fun. 
 You never have to grind for xp to level up. And because of the dedicated team at Blizzard the massive 
 game world interacts with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredthefrog
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 23, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyshidenXBL
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 21, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  GreenPrint 
 can help save paper    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 21, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_bagle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  wow is a great game i had never played a mmorpg before so i had no idea of what to expect. The 
 first thing that you will notice when you go into wow is how easy it is to get into it and start 
 playing. The quests you go on are realy interesing and the name of the quests in your log book 
 are color coded so you know how hard they are. And the good thing is that you dont get penalised 
 for dieing. The other thing i noticed was how friendly the people who are playing this game are 
 , when i was in trouble i just asked someone to help and they were more than happy to. The combat 
 is fun and looks great , one of the reasons that i never played a mmorpg before is because i watched 
 footage of them and the combat looked boring, well thats not the case with wow. I also love the 
 graphics they do look cartoony but the amount of detail and the great environments are great and 
 the atmosphere they create is amazing.
  all i can say is if you are a gamer than you should get this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  With that being said, you can pretty much forget about other MMORPG's out there, because WoW is 
 the most well balanced MMORPG you will ever play! This game is really easy to pick up and play, 
 and not to mention, easy to get hooked on. Worlds are huge, lots of quests, and many different 
 job classes makes this game really hard to ignore; even to those whom have never played a MMORPG 
 before!
  The game starts out fairly easy, you choose you side, character, and classes... and believe me, 
 there is plenty of them to choose from! The game is more focused on the players itself, because 
 you can do so much to a character, and you can have as many characters as you want on one server. 
 WoW is just massive, and I honestly dont know where I should start on this game; and where I decide 
 to start, I can easily talk for hours on that subject.... the game is that good!
  Lets get the problems out of the way; and my only complain is that the graphics. Dont get me 
 wrong, the graphics are awesome... but once in a while things will start to lag, and you really 
 wonder if its the server or your computer. I have a pretty decent machine, and the game is choppy, 
 or worse, stuck at a scene for a few sec (if there is a battle going, then your just missing out 
 on it) ... but the game can be run at a lower performance, and still look good! There will be occasional 
 server errors, and thats expected mainly because there is about million players trying to get 
 online at the same time as you.
  Now for the fun part... exploring! The worlds are just huge, and I honestly dont know how long 
 it takes to explore the worlds of Kalimdor or Azeroth; because it seems like you could spend an 
 eternity doing level 10-20 quests and not explore about 75% of the game! WoW has a solution for 
 travelers; there are means of transportation available to all level players... but a special treat 
 for higher level player as they can ride their own horses across the worlds! 
  You will have a tough choice picking what class to pick, since there are roughly 8-10 classes on 
 both sides; and you really cant go wrong with any one of them. You really wont enjoy the characters 
 that much at first, but when things get tougher and you group up with other players, you will know 
 how valuable your character is to the WoW community! No single character is better than one; because 
 every class is really well balanced... Priest might be weak offensively, but good luck taking one 
 down at your level. 
  World of Warcraft has two sides, and since players from both sides will be seeing a lot of each 
 other, Blizzard has a "PvP" option for those whom are not in the PvP servers.... you can turn it 
 on so you fight players from other side, but its also there so that opposing players just dont 
 go out and kill you if you are on a mission or something; they can see you, and if you dont have 
 PvP on, they can not attack you! Turning PvP on is easy, but to turn it off, you have to wait about 
 5 minutes.
  Overall, I've been very impressed with this game. This is my first time with a MMORPG (that I've 
 paid monthly subscription) , and its truly a wonderful game. However, be warned, this game is like 
 legal cocaine!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinton
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 19, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  As good as the presentation is, something is missing from this game. Based on other player reviews, 
 I am obviously in the minoriy here, but I can't fool myself any longer: I just can't get into WoW. 
 
  
  I am a big fan of games that have open content, a steep learning curve, risk/reward, hidden areas, 
 excruciating difficulty, etc. A few games that satisfy at least some of my desires are games such 
 as Gothic I/II, Arx Fatalis, Morrowind III, Baldur's Gate series, Myst series, heck even a shooter 
 or two. What I'm saying is that I need to feel immersed in a game's environment. I need to feel 
 like I'm not playing a game, but rather experiencing something exotic. If I want to play a game, 
 I'll shoot pool upstairs.
  
  WoW is good; great even. I can see the appeal. However, that's the problem. WoW will make a fortune 
 with all the console game fans out there. I'm an adult, and I like adult games. This is a game 
 that (to me, anyway) is made for children.
  
  Please don't get me wrong, this game is presented beautifully. I roamed around for a few weeks, 
 just looking, testing, fighting, chatting, and I was usually impressed. But the basic elements 
 of the game seem flat. I read on some post where it was stated that WoW made a game where EVERY 
 PLAYER will be at level 60 (cap atm) with little trouble. I also played, until recently, SWG, where 
 everyone who wants will eventually be a Jedi Knight. I can draw a parallel here because when that 
 happens, as when too many players cap out at 60, the game dynamics will change. The RPG aspects 
 are affected and for me, the game just looses it's appeal.
  
  I agonized for 2 weeks reading posts before buying this game, and I did have fun playing it. Sadly, 
 though, I couldn't keep fooling myself that there would be enough in WoW to keep me happy for long. 
 I cancelled my account tonight, after some internal debate, and I feel immdiately liberated. I 
 can now freely admit, that, although the game is sharp, it just doesn't appeal to my taste. 
  
  I write this post only for the gamer who, like me, wanted an opinion other than "10... BEST 
 GAME I EVER PLAYED." For some, I'm sure it is. For me... something was just missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nubz4lyfe
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 18, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Ladybug 
 iPod speakers    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The World of WarCraft is Blizzards attempt at the online era! And happens to be one of the best 
 so far! You never find yourself saying I need to level up or find something to do. The graphics 
 in this game are almost cartoony but also has a dark look that really fits the world. characters 
 are very well detailed! if you have ever played Diablo you know that armor , and weapons never 
 look the same on. Every race in the game has it's own strength and weaknesses . night elfs, trolls 
 the orcs ,undead scourge that's to name just afew! There are professions to master such as blacksmith, 
 leather amor etc, engineering where you make many different gadgets, mining and sub professions 
 like fishing , cooking, first aid. you can have two main profession , and take all the sub professions 
 you choose... at level 10 hunters can obtain petsand train them much like Pokmon. hunters also 
 have moves where they act like a certain animal gaining different abilities. , Warriors have different 
 fighting stances. You gain talent points that you can use to improve powers 
  for a price , you can hire a class trainer to undo your talents! There's a lot to be talked about 
 but I'm going to talk of our some of the problems! many of the levels seem over populated with 
 mobs of overpowered enemies sometimes even with a group that has higher levels . you can be over 
 taking out. Also what plagues most online games plagues Warcraft you can never find a group there 
 should be easier ways to find them! another thing I wish they would of added was like in city of 
 heroes it points to where your quest is. this can be very irritating trying to find out where you 
 need to be if you're on time constraints. something I very much like is when you die your gost 
 must run back to his body to resurrect! or you can pay the angel and take a 25% penalty on your 
 items that must be repaired. the player versus player has not been fully implemented yet and an 
 newbes will run around begging you to fight. from what I've been reading they plan on adding an 
 in-depth pvp with rewards for helping in the war really pulling you into the vibrant world that 
 exists. you could say it's wc4 . anyways why you reading this review go buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthViper3k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of Hype to this game, yes, and it almost lives up to it. Is it "Gods Gift" as some 
 have described it? No. Nothing is.
  However, WoW has got to be one of the best MMORPGs ever made. I've played several and have quickly 
 been disgusted with their gameplay in 10 minutes or less. The only other games that have done that 
 would be Call of Duty's Multiplayer, Halo, and Halo 2.
  
  Some of described this game as boring, repetative, and childish. The gameplay is perhaps easy to 
 catch onto but that doesn't make it childish. The game isn't repetative either. From time to time 
 you'll find yourself saying, "This game is too repetative and boring". However you'll also find 
 that right after that when you're ready to log out for the last time.... you're saying, "Just one 
 more quest". It's usually that one more quest that shows you that this game truely isn't repetative.
 
  
  If you read through some of the low scoring reviews here on Gamespot you'll find some rather pathetic 
 arguements against this game. Each one of them talks of how boring and unimagative the quests are 
 but if you look at how far they've taken their character.... level 20. Those people arn't qualified 
 to tell you about the "unimagative and boring quests" as they havn't experianced a lot of them. 
 Some of the stories behind the quests are rather deep and sometimes confusing. One such confusing 
 quest is called, "The Missing Diplomat". I wont tell you the details of the quest as it's better 
 for to experiance it. In this quest you're helping the nobles of Stormwind find a diplomat that 
 has gone missing however the nobles are keeping the news of this quiet. Each quest is only 1 part 
 of this long mystery and each quest only tells you so much of the story. When going through the 
 quest you feel like you're apart of some Mystery movie. Even after I was completely finished with 
 the quest chain I felt as if I had missed something.
  
  Another item some of the low reviewers brought up are that there is no diversity... each class 
 and race is the same. They obviously didn't get past level 5 if they believe that.
  
  Each class is unique and requires a unique fighting style to fight at your best.
  Warriors: Warriors 
 are supposed to be tanks, period. (Tanks = a character dealing as much damage as possible and taking 
 the most damage to save the weaker classes) Another reviewer talked of becoming a Defensive Warrior 
 and that was a down hill thing for him. Defensive Warriors now are almost completely gone. A warrior 
 shines with his arms and fury talents. Dealing massive amounts of damage and living to laugh at 
 the fallen.
  
  Paladins: While Paladins are good tanks they're not as good at it as Warriors are. Some will argue 
 that Paladins can tank better than Warriors but once they get past lvl 30 or 35... that starts 
 to change. Paladins are simular to Warriors in fighting style and in items they can use. The differences 
 between the two are Paladins can't use ranged weapons or dual weapons but they can, however, heal 
 themselves and heal others. Paladins are popular at lower levels because of this.
  
  Hunter: Unlike Paladins and Warriors, Hunters can't use Chain Mail armor and have to resort to 
 armor that is one step down. Leather. Hunter's start off with a dagger and a bow with their bow 
 being their primary weapon. Starting at level 10 Hunters can use a pet. The pet is the Hunter's 
 best weapon, in my opinion at least. For a hunter to survive and fight at it's best, they need 
 to use their pet to do the melee fighting while they attack with their bow. Which does more damage 
 than their sword anyways.
  
  Rogue: Rogues are like your Splinter Cell characters. Now I havn't had a lot of experiance as a 
 rogue but fighting along side one of my friends a lot I can tell you something. One of their best 
 abilities, that I know about, is called "Back Stab". A rogue player can use stealth to sneak behind 
 a target and use this ability which can drop the target's health real fast. (I had a horde rogue 
 use this on me and it knocked me down to around 30% health) As for their fighting style? Stealthy 
 assanation is their key to survival. Rogues are also the best class at PvP (Player vs Player)
 
  
  As for the other classes in World of Warcraft.... I can't really comment on them. However after 
 fighting along side them and fighting against them.... Most of the rest are primarly ranged fighters. 
 Classes such as the mage and wizard can only wear Cloth armor (and perhaps leather armor at level 
 40) so they don't do so well against tanks.
  
  As for the differences between the races?
  Each race has racial abilities. The Humans, for example, have a racial ability called "Diplomacy". 
 This increases their reputation (which affects the prices at venders) faster than other races. 
 The humans also start with a "natural sword" ability which gives them a bonus to their swords. 
 The elves on the other hand have a natural bow ability and have a racial "stealth" ability. 
  
  My personal opinions of it? Everyday I play this game I'm discovering something new. Just today 
 I discovered that you can have all three Secondary Professions (Fishing, Cooking, and First Aid) 
 while still keeping your two primary professions. I often travel throughout the world in this game, 
 either on quests or to find a new place to go questing. The two continates are as diverse as each 
 region is. From the forests of Elwynn, the lush trees and grass of Ashenvale, to the swamps of 
 The Swamps of Sarrow, to the charred and barren lands of The Burning Steppes and The Barrens. Each 
 new region provides a new look, a new feel, and most importantly.... more quests.
  
  The graphics may not be ultra-realistic like Half-Life 2 or Unreal Tournament 2004 (or 2005 .... 
 I don't really follow that game) but graphics like that on the scale this game is done would be 
 next to impossible. As a modeler and programer myself, I can tell you for a fact, I'm impressed 
 they are able to produce the graphics they do on the scale that they do.
  
  The only thing I can find repetative about this game would have to be the sound. The only bad part 
 of this game, if there is a bad part. However I really like the sounds. The knock-down sound makes 
 me feel like I've been knocked down. The Parry sound sounds as if I really blocked a sword (even 
 though sometimes it's a fist or wooden club) . Then the music... Even though it's short... I'm always 
 impressed with it. Sometimes I'll walk to the entrance to Stormwind City just so I can hear the 
 song played again.
  
  I hope this review answers any doubts some people may have after reading some of the rather negative 
 and poorly writen reviews.
  Despite the low score and bad review some have given this game... I have to say that this is a 
 must buy. I sometimes forget to eat I get so deep into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzNmAgNuM7
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 16, 2005 2:16 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: montana
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 15, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Megan 
 Foxs Trip Across the Border    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaBob
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 13, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3RV
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is an MMORPG, this review is from a perspective of someone who has played many 
 online RPG's but no MMORPG's.
  
  World of Warcraft is simply the biggest game I have ever played, with the most to do. 
  In the 
 world of warcraft you have an epic journey ahead of you. I cannot compare how large the game is, 
 and how much there is to do within.
  
  When you have created your account, etc, you are to create your character. You can either go the 
 horde *vomits*, or the **Alliance**. They each have their own unique races from the Warcraft universe, 
 and also there are 8 classes to choose from. One exclusive for each side (Paladin for the Alliance, 
 and the Shaman for the Horde) . 
  
  When you have created your char, you are directly transported into the starting area for that race. 
 Here you can find afew quests to lvl you up and get strong enough to take on the outside world. 
 The game uses its quests as the main reason to explore, though out of curiosity you can explore 
 away until your hearts contempt. 
  
  In most RPG's you simply buy items from NPC's. Here lies one beuty of the World of Warcraft, the 
 Auction House (AH for short) . In here players put items up for sale and you may bid on them. In 
 most cases more cheap than NPC's. You can also buy resources and such for your trade skill. Blizzard 
 did this do well than Gold is a stable currency in the WoW. You won't just throw it away like in 
 Diablo 2.
  
  There are I believe 8 proffessions in WoW from Blacksmithing to enchanting, they both have their 
 strength and weaknesses and in many cases you have to use your second profession slot to get a 
 gathering skill to provide for your profession eg. Mining --  Smithing, or engineering. 
  Along with Proffesions are secondary skills such as fishing and cooking. They are simply a little 
 fun and you can get quite some nice bush tucker out of them. 
  
  The combat in WoW is great. having all the beuties from WoW transformed into an RPG. Everyones 
 favourite skills ar ein the game from Warstomps, to devolution Aura. Though they are limited to 
 the actual classes. As you level up you gain an assortment of talents which upgrade your skills. 
 To learn new skills you go to a trainer and you learn them... for a price, (Money) .
  
  In all WoW has had me hooked for the past 2 weeks... Nuff; said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivysmate
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I've always wanted to play Diablo, and Warcraft, and Starcraft, because I heard from people all 
 around that these games are the best. So back in December of 2003, I bought myself Warcraft III: 
 Battle Chest, which included Reign of Chaos and Frozen Throne. As soon as I loaded it up on my 
 computer, I was hooked. I believed that this game I was playing was one of the best I had ever 
 played in Real Time Strategy (RTS) games..... EVER!!! So naturally, I wanted to follow up on this 
 company called "Blizzard", to see any up coming projects or any types of hints and stuff to help 
 me in the game. I went on their site http://www. blizzard. com and I found an upcoming project game 
 called "World of Warcraft". I read up on it and I found it was going to be an MMO (Massively Multiplayer 
 Online) game. I didn't in particular like those kinds of games because they cost you every month. 
 But over the months as Blizzard release more and more info, and then started taking apps for closed 
 beta, I was ready and waiting for release. So finally in November 2004, after months of waiting, 
 and YEARS for everyone else, I finally got my hands on the special edition of World of Warcraft. 
 
  
  This game is OUTSTANDING!! This is my first exposure to MMO games and I'm glad WoW was my first 
 choice. The artwork, the expanding storyline, and just the overall environment of the game including: 
 quests, emotes and etc, made this game excellent. Blizzard has outdone themselves in creating a 
 game that not only hardcore gamers can play, but casual gamers as well. In booting up the game 
 you have lots of different choices, first you pick what race you want to be, and they're all devided 
 into opposing factions which is the staple of the game, the Horde and the Alliance. For the Alliance 
 there is: Humans, Dwarves, Gnomes and Night Elves. For the Horde there is: Orcs, Trolls, Undead 
 and Tauren. Then you choose classes like Paladins, Warriors, Shamans and priests. Just for noting 
 to you, this game has plenty to do, and since this is an MMO, this game is never ending, which 
 means you can play this game on and on, and still not get bored, because as the months and years 
 go by, Blizzard will already have inserted new content such as quests, items and etc.... so don't 
 expect this game to be ending any time soon..^_^
  
  There is just so much to this game that as many words can describe, there is nothing like experiencing 
 it for yourself. This game is absolutely worth your time, and the money if you have a job, even 
 a bad one you don't like.. lol... will afford you this game. For all the time that you can spare, 
 WoW will take it from you like THAT!!! That's how good the game is.
  
  GREAT JOB BLIZZARD!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if your a warcraft fanboy then you'll love this game! Seems that everyone playing it loved 
 warcraft 3! But i've never played it so trust my review.
  
  World of warcraft does nothing new to mmorpg series and i'm sure if your've read reviews you'll 
 hear the same thing. But it adds goodpoints bout mmorpgs and puts them together, my view is that 
 made the game too easy! As they have taken out the annoying hard point's bout mmorpgs it's made 
 WOW too easy and for kids! 
  
  It's full of little kids as its a 12+ swearing at eachother :P The graphics attracts little kids 
 too and i've found out that it's made me sleep constantly looking at the game! As the lvl grinds 
 are easy i got to lvl 22 in 2/3 days! Everything in the game is sooo simple it makes it a bore! 
 Nothing to find out as you know the game already : (
  
  If you like games that give u a challange play Everbore 2 or EVE-online.
  
  If you don't like 
 warcraft 3 then this game isn't fore you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorkosigan97
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 12, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that World of Warcraft is a good game. It's a solid execution of a number 
 of different ideas drawn from several other successful MMORPGs, especially EQ and DAoC. I've never 
 found an MMORPG that captured my attention for more than a few months, but after the glowing reviews 
 and Gamespot's "Game of the Year" award, I decided to give it a try. So far, I've played a number 
 of types of characters up to around level 15, and my main up to 25.
  
  Like in other MMORPGs, you create an Avatar and then level him/her up. You pick between several 
 races and classes. The races are divided into the Horde and the Alliance from the Warcraft series, 
 and offer a wide variety of options, includes gnomes, undead, and tauren (minotaurs) . Classes fit 
 the traditional fantasy classes dating back to Dungeons and Dragons and Everquest.
  
  The game is structured to be very quest oriented, but most of them boil down to the "slay monsters 
 and bring me back the items they drop." Some quests involve searching an area or just speaking 
 to a faraway individual, but these are in the minority. The quests are well executed, but (at least 
 at low levels) just fail to appear significant. Quest givers do indicate what you can expect to 
 recieve as a reward, preventing dissapointment on discovering that you can't use the reward. My 
 system is new, and I have had no problems with stuttering or framerate. The combat is a little 
 more involved than, say Everquest, still largely consists of a repetitve series of button taps.
 
  
  The artistic achievement of the graphics are excellent, and Warcraft players will recognize a fair 
 number of things from the series, now viewed from ground level. The art hangs together well, and 
 often has a cartoonish look. This is probably a love-it-or-hate-it kind of thing. From a technical 
 standpoint, the graphics are better than any of the other MMORPGs out there, but coming off of 
 playing Bloodlines and Half-Life 2, they just don't look as appealing.
  
  The difficulty of the game bears special mention. When you die, you must run back to your corpse 
 as a ghost (at most a five minute trip) , at which point you return to life. If you don't feel like 
 running back, you can be ressurected at the graveyard, though your items will take (repairable) 
 damage. There is no other penalty for dying. This makes the game forgiving to the point of being 
 easy. Ever player, no matter how inept, will inevitably eventually reach level 60.
  
  Bottim line: if you want to get into a fantasy MMORPG, play this one, but if you are already playing 
 one, World of Warcraft offers no real incentive to switch over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dijita
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I started with Everquest, years ago. I think I played for about 2 years. I have to admit when I 
 played Everquest I was probably addicted to it in an unhealthy way. I played it WAY too much, got 
 WAY little sleep, and it made my real life rather lethargic. During that time I even dabbled with 
 Anarchy Online and Dark Age of Camelot, but Everquest was my true addiction. When I realized that 
 it was too much, I auctioned my character and cancelled my account. I swore off MMORPG's.
  
  So now I buy World of Warcraft. I couldn't help it; it looked good, TOO good. Luckily this 
 go around I am aware of its addicting factors and I have actually been able to manage my time well 
 without having the game interfere with my real life. Heck, I've only had dreams about the in game 
 world once (which embarrassingly I was told that I was sleep talking through it all) . 
  
  The nice thing about World of Warcraft is that it is set up in such a way that you do not NEED 
 to put in hour long Marathons to actually progress in the game. It is geared well for hard-core 
 and casual players alike. You do not HAVE to depend on grouping to get decent experience. You can 
 play the game in any style you want, choose any class that you like and still be efficient. In 
 fact there is a system in game that yields players with extra experience if the player hasn't played 
 their character for a period of time. 
  
  There are 9 classes to choose from, which may not seem like a lot in comparison to other games 
 of its kind. However every single class in this game feels unique. It is nice to know that every 
 class is chiseled out rather than simply having a lot of classes to pick that all feel muddled. 
 Not only that but they are all a lot of fun in their own kind of way. I am confident in saying 
 that there is a class (or more) for everyone.
  
  The online community works out fantastically. The items that players can make with their trade 
 skills are actually useful and sought out for by other players as opposed to a system where the 
 items you quest for are always more powerful than the player made ones; a problem I have seen from 
 playing other MMORPGs. The online economy is efficient and evident. With the in-game auction houses 
 located in major cities some people spend a lot of their time buying and selling just to turn a 
 profit. It's easy to find people to group with and easy to form a guild which takes the frustration 
 out of spending more time looking for a group than actually playing the game.
  
  On a technical presentation the game is beautiful both graphically and aurally. The developers 
 actually did a way with the realistic looking renders and opted for a simpler stylish look. This 
 type of staging presented a world that is awe-inspiring to explore which, as a bonus, isnt overly 
 taxing on even a relatively older PC setup. There is a very minimal amount of zone loading and 
 each piece of land you explore has a different feel to it. The character models are well done and 
 all have a distinct and sometimes quirky personality to them with their animations as well as their 
 voiced emotes. The sound is equally impressive. I like the fact that time was put in to create 
 the worlds using sound effects. For example if you are in a marsh expect to hear mosquitoes, water 
 dripping, and birds in the air; its all very subtle but if the sound was taken away I guarantee 
 it would not be the same experience. The music that is composed is pleasing to the ears and creates 
 a sense of tension or serenity depending on the situations in game. The only way I can compare 
 the music is to think of The Lord of the Rings.
  
  Whether youre an experienced player to the world of MMORPGs or a new player thinking about trying 
 out an experience like this, World of Warcraft is THE game to get out of everything available right 
 now. The entire game feels as though Blizzard put every effort possible to create a package that 
 comes together perfectly. They stuck with the same formula as past games, got rid of the annoyances 
 and added a lot of their own flavor to produce one of the best games I have ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nugsolot
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 9, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  Back in 2001 I was siting with everyone else waiting for Blizzard's next game to be unvieled, I 
 remember seeing the picture of a planet from space, and a countdown clock. I, like most people 
 were hoping it would be sequel to StarCraft still considered the best RTS out there. Though I remember 
 at first I was disappointed by the announcement of World of Warcraft. At first I laughed at the 
 idea, and up until it's release I figured it to be just another whack at the MMO genre. But boy 
 was I wrong, Blizzard has once again showed, they are the kings in this industry. 
  
  This game could have a 50 page review of all the things that you can do in it. First I use to be 
 an EQ addict, I promised myself i would never play another MMO again after that horrible incident, 
 but WoW has sucked me in, but in a good way. What I like most about it is that it is easy to use, 
 easy to play and easy to stop playing. Easy to level, but it's not SUPER EASY, it is just so well 
 streamlined it does not feel like your life is draining away. I can stop as easy as I can start. 
 
  
  As for the gameplay it is wonderful, death is not a penitly it feels more like a short break. And 
 the interface is so well streamlined (Thats a common thing that Blizzard does) you almost forget 
 how complex the game is. Though it may look simple at first once you get higher level you see how 
 complex this game can get. Though the only low of the gameplay is there is not much point to PVP 
 but that is to change with the new expansion coming out for free in the next few months. Within 
 the first week and a half of having the game I had a level 20 character, and I had not bene playing 
 obsesivley. I like that a lot, with EQ it took me a lot longer to get up to 60, but this game it 
 seems it won't take TOO long. 
  
  I enjoy this game immensly and if people want to try out an MMO for once this is the one to do 
 it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob23090
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 7, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jansolo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is a great game and in many ways better than just about every shipping MMO game to date 
 (are you listening, Verant?) . But, to read the GameSpot review of the game, you'd think God had 
 handed us this game as a gift to mankind. Well, from the GameSpot review, it is obvious that GameSpot 
 had an internal contest to see who could write the most absolute ass kissing piece of propaganda 
 to help sales.
  
  Graphics wise, the game is seriously lacking. Don't believe me? Look at the 2 dimensional plants, 
 the flat grass textures, the blocky vehicles and blocks statues. Low poly count rules this game, 
 which it has to in order to be a hit with the average PC gamer who has a GeForce 2 and a 1gig CPU.
 
  
  From an audio perspective, this game is nothing short of average. The musical score is just fine, 
 but nothing you will walk away humming and is unfortunately very repetetive. The only positive 
 sound I've heard to date is when you get knocked down - there is a nice bass heavy thud that makes 
 you feel like you've really been knocked to the ground.
  
  Gameplay is where the game really shines. Everything is easy to learn and with the sheer breadth 
 of content throughout makes you want to explore everything and anything. The worlds change with 
 real time, so if it's 9pm where you live, then it will be 9pm in the game and the sky will be dark. 
 Most of the realms look different and have decent variety - the haunted forest of Duskwood, the 
 plains of Westfall, the snowey regions near Ironforge, etc. The only thing this game lacks is rain, 
 which would probably be too much of a resource hog.
  
  What is missing in WoW is a good way to report bugs - something City of Heroes offered and that 
 I found to be very useful when the need arose. And then there is the fact that Tauren Shamen and 
 Human Paladins are ridiculously overpowered, and mage really lack any ability to take hits. Clearly, 
 a bit more balancing needs to take place in the game.
  
  Again - the game is good, but not the poetic gift that GameSpot made it out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  First off, this review is coming from someone who was raving about Everquest 2, which I still play 
 and enjoy, but like many others eventually did go out and purchase World of Warcraft, if only to 
 see what it had going for it that Gamespot gave it a 9.5, the highest rating ever given to an MMO. 
 
  
  Needless to say it was extremely evident why right off the bat! World of Warcraft is an absolutely 
 solid MMO. The graphics are great, granted not on par with EQ2, but they do still add a really 
 nice sense of immersion to the game, without bringing your system to a crippling halt if you put 
 all graphics on the highest detail. 
  
  The sound is perfect, ambient for setting the mood, but really good music in soft undertones that 
 only add to your experience.
  
  The important part here though, is gameplay. Like so many others had told me, there really is just 
 something very different about World of Warcraft. Yes, they do have a great series to build the 
 lore and set the stage on, and they do this wonderfully. I think the reason WoW is doing so well, 
 is because this is truly the first MMO that gives you the sense of achievement that seemingly could 
 only be found in Single player games.
  
  
  Quests have meaning, you feel like you're helping the overall story push forward, and that you're 
 doing your part to help the cause of the side you're fighting for. EQ2 does this as well, but again, 
 there is just something in WoW's presentation that sets it ahead of its competitor. 
  
  The only thing I can say to anyone reading this is to give it a try. Its a completely different 
 experience from any MMO you've played to date, that much I can guarantee you. There is something 
 for everyone here. Just try it for a full day, and you will see what everyone is raving about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 6, 2005 3:45 am PT
Review:  Hi ho,
  
  4Got to mention, in this game you will never ever ever FEEL like your a HERO, unlike in Diablo 
 1 and 2. You feel as another NOBODY in game and don't get any special extra fmv or cool bosses 
 to fight like diablo games. So like in real life, your a NOBODY, in this game your also a NOBODY, 
 a boring dull hero in a boring game. You never feel the way Diablo games put you in, that fantasy 
 world where either you kill Diablo, Satan himself or the world ends. Thats WOW, to me, this game 
 is Crap.
  
  *I do like the sound in the beg of the game and thats all, the FMV music is amazing and thats y 
 it got a 10, also the sound is pretty good in game.
  
  Played this game in beta and now for a month retail version. Game hasn't changed much, some Classes 
 are uber and some just suck at pvp. The Warrior with the most uber item wins always but, the Priest 
 Shadow Disciplines build owns anything else. Ya you got the Rogue for perm stun but, if he misses 
 its gg. The PvP in this game lasts about 5-10 seconds and that was a good thing in diablo 2 or 
 games like Dota. But, in this game its just mostly jumping, swinging and not actually hitting the 
 hero but still showing as you hit them. 
  
  None of the formula from D2 is in this game. What formula?, well the 75% chance to block based 
 on Hero lvl, dex, shield quality. Also note that you cannot place attribute points and they are 
 giving sequentially every lvl same amount.
  
  The forums don't work so good as well. The forum makers, blizzards representatives don't listen 
 to the actual problems of the game but, the just do what seems right for themselves and the company. 
 Every complaint that you have about a class or item, they simply will not fix it. It's in their 
 best decision to make the game appealing to everyone instead of the hardcore gamers that most blizzard 
 fans are.
  
  Played with gnome/miner lvl 14,  20, paladin/herbalist/lvl 10, I 
 could go on and on but, no point. The reason y i only went to lvl 20 is because I wanted to try 
 out all the characters. K, there is 0 difference if u pick a tauren or orge or human or troll cause 
 although they have different hero models they all attack the same way and do about the same dmg 
 which sux for variety. This means if you pick tauren warrior or orge warrior there is jack difference.
 
  
  The games main missions or side quests are you searching for something, and I mean searching for 
 something u search and that never EVER EVER EVER EVER stops. U search the entire freakin game for 
 something that they the NPC (None Playable Character) needs. It is like HOMEWORK disguised as a 
 game. To break it down even to my uncles parrot, Hey Buddy, go outside get me a candy bar and ill 
 give you 25 cents. And just keep repeating that into a bigger candy and more money for you and 
 that is what the ENTIRE game is about. Most quests will give you a prize of 50 gold or so and 190 
 exp or so and a lame item.
  
  This game is fun atfirst but, then the entire fetching items quest gets boring. You will fetch 
 soo much that in "REal life" you will be waiting for you prize when you wash the dishs or take 
 out the garbage from you mom or dad.
  
  Ohhh, the opening sequence is offf da hook man. If the game looked like that and played like diablo2, 
 id pay 30 a month and 200 for the game. 2 bad it isnt like that at all. Its a Good game if you 
 like Everquest, get it "EVERQUEST", a never ending FETCH quest. Then this game is for you, I after 
 looking at the fmv would rather play with manure :D.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorangriel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of MMORPGs. Its not that I dont enjoy roleplaying or interacting with 
 real people, its just that I enjoy computer gaming on my own terms, not someone elses. This is 
 what I do for fun and it should be fun. The first (only) time I stepped into another MMORPG was 
 dark age of Camelot. I had no clue what I was doing so I walked up to someone I saw and asked a 
 question. A simple newb question. His response was to run me through. At that point I had had enough. 
 Until World of Warcraft. 
  I read the review on gamespot, I did some investigating myself and decided to take the plunge. 
 The first choice one has is which Realm to join. Not much of a choice really. There are two types: 
 roleplaying and PvP (player vs. player) . Given my history, I chose to go with a roleplaying realm. 
 After that you get to create a character. That was a lot of fun, just because of the sheer number 
 of different options available. The game itself starts you off slowly so even newbies to MMORPGs 
 can jump in with impunity and play. Another thing I appreciated was the fact that people like me 
 can easily play solo; interact only with the computer-generated NPCs and generally have a good 
 time just like playing a solo computer game. However, I have found that the beauty of this world 
 lies in finding a good group and taking on some of the instanced dungeons and elite mobs that dot 
 the landscape. Cooperation and teamwork do wonders for the enjoyment of the game. 
  All those of us who play computer games for the solitude, should do well to remember that: as much 
 fun as WoW is playing solo, it becomes so much more when playing with others. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joechicken
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  I've never played a MMORPG in my life. But this game has introduced me to an all new genre and 
 I feel very welcome. This game is excellent! The environments are stunning the sounds are very 
 clear and subtle, and the gameplay is excellent. My one problem with this game is that its monster 
 can be highly aggressive and it is easy to die if more than one monster of your same level or higher 
 is attacking you at once. This problem aside, it is also very easy to get lost in some of the games 
 dungeons and caves. Though, there are easy remedies. You get uncomfortable with the monsters your 
 fighting, run. And with the dungeons, just use your Hearthstone and it'll get you out in seconds. 
 This game is excellent, I love it and I hope I see some sort of expansion pack soon, I want to 
 play more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdok
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  this is the best mmorpg ever to be released it is just great however we all hope that blizzard 
 could fix the pvp a little bit but i trust in blizzard and they could do it but what a great game 
 full of suspense and it actually sucks u in to the world of warcraft so u think u r ur hero and 
 u r living. back to the quests they r plain great no comment actually this game is great and for 
 me it is the greatest game ever released i know alot would disagree and believe me i love half 
 life and halo and gta but this game takes it to the another level 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkmonk22377
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 2, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 31, 2004 7:45 pm PT
Review:  [Edit] Before you get upset about the score, realize this is completely representative of my experience 
 with the game rather than the overall quality. I'm aware that the game deserves higher than a 7.6 
 based on technical merits alone, however, I did not enjoy it as much as people who the game is 
 aimed at. [End edit]
  
  Going in to this I was somewhat reserved about buying it. I have never really played a Massively 
 Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game, but I am a huge fan of Warcraft. Warcraft I through The Frozen 
 Throne remain some of my all-time favorite games, but World of Warcraft just doesn't seem to do 
 it for me.
  
  I can't really explain why. I don't know if it's not having enough time to dedicate to the game, 
 or not having anyone who can play with me -- because all of my friends who are playing are really 
 high levels. 
  
  The game play is decent, although it gets really repetitive. Almost all of the quests are fetch 
 quests of sorts, either "go here and collect all of these plants" or "go here and kill all of these 
 monsters", it often gets pretty boring at times. I'm not sure if that's standard for these kind 
 of games, but seriously, there needs to be a lot more variety in these quests.
  
  When it comes down to it, I don't understand the broad appeal to these games, other than the fact 
 you can play it online with your friends. There's no real story, there's no real goal, there just 
 doesn't seem to be any point to it, unless I'm missing something completely. The sad thing is, 
 this is the best role-playing game to come out all year.
  
  The graphics are pretty good though, and you can go from your desktop to the game in almost seconds, 
 it has a really good engine that way. The graphics themselves are good, like I said, but they're 
 not really all that impressive. Artistically they're definitely intriguing, but on a technical 
 standpoint they're nothing special. Terrrible textures are a big problem in the game, and lack 
 of variety in the enemies as well. But some of the environments are breathtaking just because they're 
 so colorful.
  
  In the audio department it's hard to really be impressed. Sound effects are nothing too amazing, 
 there's very little voice acting, and some of the sound bites are actually from Warcraft III, plus, 
 there's barely any music at all. So needless to say, I wasn't blown away by the sound of the game 
 at all -- although it certainly isn't bad.
  
  The game costs $15 a month to play it, so I fail to see how this is such a good value. The fact 
 that you're basically paying money to play a game you already paid $50 for seems sort of like a 
 rip-off, even if there is a lot of stuff to do.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty fun, even if it's nothing truly amazing. To anyone who likes MMORPGs, 
 it's probably some gigantic leap for the genre that I just don't see, but to people who aren't 
 really interested in them, I can't imagine this is really going to sway your opinion on the genre 
 that much. Maybe as I get farther in the game I'll start to enjoy it more, but as of now I'm pretty 
 indifferent to the whole ordeal. It's definitely a well-made game, it just isn't for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confirmed_Kill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2004 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simply this game is awesome. The complete package, it gives you everything you could 
 possibly want in a MMO. With its ability to help players who can't play as often as others (the 
 rest system) to its simple yet satisfying travel methods, World of Warcraft is superb. This however 
 is not different from any other Blizzard game in the way that it has been so heavily polished and 
 worked on for so long, for so many years. If u like MMORPG 's or RPG's or just the warcraft series 
 then I highly recommend u buy this game, because you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonoricfanta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Although the reviewer of this game should play it through to the higher levels to find whatever 
 flaw or unbalance between skills, abilities, classes and so on I think that you get a pretty good 
 picture of the all the perfectionism that has been crafted into every detail in this game. A perfect 
 blend of spectacular graphics, sounds, and gameplay could fascinate almost every gamer for hours.
 
  
  If you have not played any MMORPGs before you might find it tricky at fist to customize yourself 
 with all the abilities, skills, talents, professions and so on. Fortunately help is not far off. 
 A tutorial helps you by bringing up tips for every new situation you encounter which is a good 
 thing. The world is designed so that you easily understand why you did those mistakes you did and 
 prevent you from doing them again if youd decide to give it a fresh start with a new character. 
 Though things seem easy at first it gets more challenging as the game goes on giving hardcore gamers 
 something to work on.
  
  Would you now take the time to read through all everything that the Non-Player Characters (NPCs) 
 say then you get a somewhat clear picture of the complicated and deep story of the war going on 
 in Azeroth, which is the world where you play the game.
  
  The perfect mixture of the constant flow of new quests which not only give you opportunities to 
 kill monsters and gain experience which grants you new abilities and skills or spells, but also 
 makes you travel to new parts of the world or interact with you NPCs that set you off further. 
 Combined with the professions available and the possibility to make things, cook, do some fishing 
 and so on, you rest assured that youll never get bored. There is always something to do!
  
  I would be a person that really enjoys eye-candy which brings us to graphics. Although Blizzard 
 surely never meant the world of Azeroth to be realistic as reality it still boasts warm, ambient 
 and rich worlds with all necessary elements included like live water, crisp textures, grass, trees, 
 fog, bushes you name it. A too complex would not have applied to the masses and that is indeed 
 the intensions of this game. One really impressive effect is the sun or moons reflection on the 
 ground or water which only shows if you face the moon which is quite impressive. Would you not 
 be lucky enough to have a high-end machine there are dozens of effects that can be turned on and 
 off.
  
  What would a live world be like if our aural senses didnt get what they intend to get? Im talking 
 sound  another medal for Blizzard. When you stand in a wood you expect to hear birds, blowing 
 wind, trees creaking and so on which is exactly what Blizzard delivers to you. The production of 
 the soundtrack is very well done and music kicks in sometimes when entering a special area just 
 to fade off again a moment later. That is a good thing though continuously looping music might 
 have been disturbing for some people. The surround system does its important job by pointing from 
 where the enemy is approaching which is vital to an unwary player that does not want to be backstabbed 
 by some evil thief.
  
  I asked myself how long this game would last and have come to the conclusion that it really cannot 
 be compared to non MMORPGs. As I dont have any other MMORPGs to compare with Id say that you 
 have months of game time with a single character alone which would take you through about one quarter 
 of the world if you dont venture off too far. There are two continents that house eight different 
 races and six classes. The uniqueness of all classes and the number of quests and secrets to explore 
 gives you more than enough variety. On top of that you have the option to play in a Player versus 
 Player (PvP) that enables any confrontation with other players as well as NPCs. This makes all 
 even more exciting knowing that the player next to you might attack any moment.
  
  Finally Id bring to light the importance of the multiplayer element of the game. Although it is 
 possible to do complete a lot of quests yourself, aid from other players will eventually become 
 critical to your success. With several options for looting of bodies between the party as well 
 as how important every class is, this concocts a most pleasant gaming experience with your friends. 
 Later on in the game you can assemble a small platoon and do raids on Horde players if you play 
 the Alliance.
  
  The one downside could be that the game is dependent on the Internet and its gaming servers which 
 lies heavy burden on Blizzards Techteam to keep things running smoothly and ensuring that players 
 dont experience lag or other problems.
  
  Anyway, Blizzards promise to constantly update the world and the endless possibilities of experiencing 
 true gaming pleasure adds up to a true masterpiece and should be awarded only with the highest 
 review scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberNova
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2004 5:33 am PT
Review:  Considering this is my first MMORPG I played in a long time, I have to say, the genre has not been 
 rejuvenized by this game. That doesn't mean this game is crap. Why change something that has worked, 
 I am reminded of a old saying. Why fix something that isn't broken. This has been proven in other 
 games as well. The whole Gran Turismo series has been the same since the beginning but GT is still 
 the best racing simulator out there.
  
  For myself, since I got the game I have not touched another game. Maybe due to the game being pay 
 to play but the game is very addictive and I love playing my character and can't wait to level 
 up. There are so many choices to make from the race I play to the class of the race I pick. After 
 that is done, I have to choose the professions I want which is very difficult. Even that isn't 
 enough, you get to choose the talents of your character as well which gives it depth making every 
 character that unique. This game will have you up until the sun comes up the next morning. It's 
 a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Now here is a game that deserves to be more. I really have no idea where to start, so I'll start 
 from the beginning. You start off by creating your character. You have 2 alliances and 8 races 
 and a number of classes to choose from that gives your character its unique look, along with faces, 
 piercings, skin color etc. You are thrown into the world with your first quest literally standing 
 right in front of you. You get quests by talking to NPCs like in most MMOs, which leads you to 
 new places and new NPCs and new quests. As you continue you will get new weapons armor and just 
 about every type of clothing you can think of to increase your armor level and attack level. You 
 can create partys and go monster hunting or questing. The interaction you have with other players 
 is a big part of the game, as you will chat and become friends with them, but also rely on them 
 in battle. The world you are in is two continents big, and by continents I mean the size of real 
 continents. It's massive. I have been playing for a good number of hours now and I have barely 
 gotten out of the first forest. The landscapes are as diverse as the quests, ranging from forests, 
 snow capped mountains and desersts. The quests range from personal quests for people or for the 
 army of the race you are. There are really so many features in this game, that to talk about all 
 of them would be impossible. All I can say is this game is great, and is definatly worth the price 
 of admission and the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoi
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 27, 2004 7:48 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaBoy2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2004 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has been known to me and millions of other gamers to put on shelves some of the very best 
 game to date. Classics like StarCraft, and the real-time stragey Warcraft games are what make it 
 not suprise this game, right here is simply incredible.
  When I read articles before the game was released stating that Blizzard never entered the MMORPG (Massively 
 mulptiplayer online role playing game) genre, maybe it was just remembering StarCraft which I played 
 for year but everyting inside of me told me this game would be a break through. Take a good look 
 at other MMORPG games and look at there reader score and gamespot score alike. None even COMPARE 
 to this game.
  
  Review:
  The gameplay couldn't be more fun, taking up quests and grouping (and you actually CAN solo which 
 is going out by your self and getting experience) . That may not sound like fun, that's only two 
 things but you can take up professions which allow to make items. (Including weapons but not limited 
 to) . It's all simplicity. Some of the greatest games you can remember playing are based on simplicity. 
 Take Counter-Strike for example. The most widely played online game ever, and all you did was a 
 have a team deathmatch with the other team. Final words: World of Warcraft manages to take all 
 the good elements from an MMORPG and weave them together flawlesely. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajv
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 27, 2004 4:21 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Add CNET 
 widgets to your page    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 27, 2004 9:19 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2004 6:36 am PT
Review:  This game is simply a masterpiece of gaming creation. What makes it so?! Well it is the entire 
 Warcraft world transmorphed into a beautiful, colorful and fantastical world. The learning curve 
 is very small and the game makes it purposly easy to learn. The game is neatly focumented into 
 log book, quest book and dozens of neat statistical windows.
  
  Perhaps the best part about the game beside's it's wonderous style, design and gameplay is that 
 this MMORPG doesn't make it its goal in life to make the player's life as miserable, hard and grinding 
 as possible as other MMORPGs of this genre do. EQ2 pales in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Paradox-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2004 2:12 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is an awesome game by all means. It deserves the PC game of the year award.
 
  
  Gameplay
  ------------
  Exellent. Couldent be better!
  
  Graphics
  -----------
  Perfect. Nailed graphics completly on the head!
  
  Sound
  --------
  Superb. 
 Never have I heard such great sound on the PC.
  
  Value
  -------
  Perfect. Takes well forever to beat and has a high replay value also
  
  Tilt
  ----
  Perfect. 
 This game deserves my respect by all means over all other PC games it completly revolutionizes 
 the PC gaming industry.
  
  Blizzard Ent. has created a masterpiece here. A must have game for any PC owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2004 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot did a good job of hyping the game, but they have left out some of the minor problems. 
 So, to find any problems, I've looked through all the lower scores on the Gamespot Community Reviews 
 and here are the major complaints:
  
  - Bad support
  - Long download of content 
  - Servers down
  - Soloing is impossible
  - Too much running
  - Repetetive quests
  
  I 
 have encountered each and every of these problems, but in the end they were too minor to ruin the 
 overall game experience. (Scroll down to see my responses)
  
  1) Bad support: There are a lot of community created web pages and a lot of people who will be 
 happy to help you. Yes, Blizzard does not take care of every person, but if you want to find an 
 answer to a problem you should get the answer, but you will have to spend some time searching for 
 it on the forums. 
  
  2) Long download of content: It took probably half hour to download each of the several patches 
 although each of them was only 30MB, which should be downloaded in 5 minutes with my connection. 
 Again, this is not too much of a big deal although it was a bit annoying. 
  
  3) Servers down: Servers where down several times. But Blizzard have warned about server shutdown 
 up front. Furthermore, i only found servers to be shut down during week days at 12pm when everyone 
 should be at work (or school) anyway. 
  
  I think there were that many complaints because so many people tried to play the game the first 
 day it came out. Still, some problems are still present but they seem so minor that they can be 
 easily ignored. There are some gameplay issues, however.
  
  4) Soloing is impossible: Soloing is difficult at some parts of the game and some quests are even 
 impossible. Still, if you are determined at playing the game as a Single Player game, you will 
 reach high levels, even though it will take a lot more time and won't be as much fun. I have played 
 most of the game on my own and it did get frustrating at many points. WoW is aimed at group play 
 and it becomes very clear once you get into a group. A Warrior and a Mage, together, are 3 times 
 better than just a Warrior or Mage by him/herself. Furthermore, the different professions encourage 
 people of different skills play together to get the greatest benefit. Again, Soloing is possible, 
 but difficult because the game forces people to cooperate. 
  
  5) Too much running: There is a lot of idle running around while doing quests. Although the game 
 world seems to be beautiful at first, it quickly loses its charm after you ran through the same 
 place 10 times. However, there is still a LOT to do while you have "Num Lock" pressed and are running 
 towards your next quest: You can review the quests you will have to do next; you can plan out the 
 talents you will take once you gain a level; you can chat with friends... 
  
  6) Repetetive quests: The quests, as many have noted, usually are set up in the way "Kill X amount 
 of Y monsters" or "Bring X amount of Y items." At the core, probably 60% of the quests are set 
 up in that way, but there is always a backstory to a quest. The questgiver will always explain 
 why your quest is important and although you will still be killing monsters and bring items they 
 drop, you will do a new quest every time. The other 40% of quests can be vary greatly. You may 
 have to rescue someone; explore an area and manipulate a certain object. Some examples include: 
 First, gather components for a poison and then you give the poison to a dog, which transforms the 
 dog into a monster. Or, help a attack an encampment. Or, help fight off a centaur invasion. Oh, 
 and then there are unique quests triggered by a unique item you found, such as a talking head... 
 I'm not sure what kind of variety people expet from quests, but fortunately there are SO MANY quests 
 that you should be able to have at least one fun quest at a time. 
  
  World of Warcraft is a great game and it won't get any worse with time. For example, for the Christmas 
 holidays, Blizzard has added several special quests (Can you imagine an Orc Santa-Claus?) . There 
 are some empty buildings in world, but Blizzard will surely fill them up with NPC with time. There 
 are already a lot of quests, but probably more qests will be added in time. 
  
  Scoring: 
  I stand pretty much by the Gamespot Review Score: 
  
  Gameplay: I compared the 
 gameplay to Diablo II's. It's repetative and yet every other monster is somewhat unique. So, even 
 if you kill the 1000th scorpion, it superficially seems like you killed only 10 purple scorpions, 
 because all the other scorpions were green and red and had slightly different abilities. However, 
 you can't forget the superb player vs player component and the different, but balanced clases. 
 
  
  Graphics: When compared to Doom3 or Half-life2, the graphics are not very good. But you have to 
 compare it with MMORPGs and look at the quantity instead of quality. Doom3 and other FPSs only 
 take 20 hours to complete, while WoW will take up thousands of hours. The different areas in WoW 
 look different and the architecture of each race is unique (Undead lands during the night do look 
 scary) . 
  
  Sound: It's fine, but nothing special. The music changes from area to area and the sound effects 
 of weapons are as good as can be made in a game. 
  
  Value: The game will take up a lof time from a lot of people. There is already a lot of content 
 and only more content will be added in time. No one will be able to get everything this game has 
 to offer... even if they take playing the game as an over time job for a year. And most of the 
 content is good.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I think this game deserves the 9.5 Gamespot gave it (If i could i'd give the game 
 a 12 tilt) . Some people will not like the game and especially the $15/month should scare away a 
 lot of people. Unlike other MMORPGs, however, WoW allows anyone to advance in the game quickly 
 and yet it leaves a lot of things to do for the high level characters. 
  
  My longest post yet..... I hope it was worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boaster
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: bollwinkel
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 22, 2004 1:27 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   GameFAQs :  The 
 top 10 most tiring games    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedryn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2004 5:02 am PT
Review:  I had planned on writing a detailed review, but after reading all the reviews already posted it 
 seems a little pointless. I'm better off reviewing the already posted reviews.
  
  In short, almost everything positive listed in the reviews below is true. World of Warcraft is 
 a lot of fun. The quests are fun. The combat is fun. The game is pure, unfiltered fun! Are there 
 a few bugs? Yes. More than the average MMORPG? Hell no. On the bug scale World of Warcraft is at 
 the bottom of a very long list.
  
  Now, a few words on the negative reviews. Never in all my years of gaming have I seen more resentment 
 over a game from established fans of other titles. To some degree, I understand. Nobody likes it 
 when a game comes along that puts your favorite title to shame. But, seriously, get over it. World 
 of Warcraft is the best MMORPG ever created, hands down, no doubt about it. If you're a fan of 
 Everquest or Dark Age of Camelot I know it kind of sucks to see a lot of your friends leaving to 
 play something better but instead of whining about it you may want to join them. They know something 
 you haven't accepted yet and that is that World of Warcraft is superior to whatever it is you're 
 currently playing, period.
  
  Give World of Warcraft a try. Don't pay any attention to the detractors, they're completely full 
 of it 100% of the time. Unless you've already decided beforehand that you want to be disappointed 
 with World of Warcraft you won't be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 19, 2004 7:18 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2004 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what an insane turn around. At first I gave this game a 5.7, saying it was overhyped, boring, 
 ugly, monotonous, and badly designed. After seeing this game through the eyes of an expertly developed, 
 strong, team-forming lvl 36 paladin instead of a crappy lvl 10 warrior trying to solo it out in 
 a high level zone, I've discovered the true beauty of world of warcraft and that all of my previous 
 assumptions of the game were totally false.
  
  First off, this game is the best massively multiplayer game ever. Hands down. Better than Dark 
 Ages of Camelot, Everquest, Planetside (ughh) , City of Heroes, etc. It combines the addictive role 
 playing of Everquest with the action of City of Heroes and ties it all together with wonderful 
 production values and great graphics.
  
  I'd be sitting here writing all day about why this game is so damn fun. Basically, the entire cool 
 factor of this game can be served in a single phrase: the HUMUNGOUS world. I was dazzled by grand 
 theft auto: san andreas' game world; this blows it away. It literally can take days to walk across 
 an entire continent, yet the quests are laid out so that you usually only have to travel across 
 a zone or two to complete them. And this huge, huge world is filled with so many quests and things 
 to do that it will amaze anyone who gets around to traveling across it. Not one section of the 
 game world is uninhabited; you'll constantly find structures, elite monsters, bosses, and quest 
 items and wonder "where can I find the quest to kill this or that boss or plunder these items." 
 Almost every single enemy in the game has a quest associated with them. There must be thousands 
 of quests for the alliance and thousands more for the horde. The true beauty of this game outs 
 when horde and alliance quests overlap, and players of all different races will be passing each 
 other and communicating with body language macros (since they speak different languages) . The only 
 gripe I have with the large world is that you can sometimes find yourself running from point A 
 to point B for thirty or more minutes when the quests aren't as conveniently laid out as you would 
 like them to be. The PvP isn't all that great, but blizzard is adding battleground instances in 
 the future for guilds which want to slaughter one another in big army-like battles. For now, large 
 groups can raid enemy cities, small groups can ambush patrols in enemy territories, and solo-ers 
 can assassinate npcs in the thick at their own free will. Yet if someone doesn't want to pvp, they 
 don't have to. You must get your pvp flag flipped on by an enemy npc before other players can attack 
 you, and once they attack you their pvp flags are flipped on. So those who want to steer clear 
 of a huge raid and go about their business doing quests and PvE can.
  
  The graphics, while not technically outstanding, are incredible artistically. Different regions 
 of the game vary greatly in mood; there are lush, tropical jungles, lava-filled barrens, grassy 
 plains, countryside, huge bustling cities, small and quaint villages, lakeside cottages, creepy 
 forests, the list goes on and on. You can take days of playing to explore all of the areas in the 
 game, let alone do all the quests for them. Everything is just so unique; every human emotion seems 
 to be explored and uplifted by the game's graphics. It's just awesome.
  
  The sound is great too. There is wonderful music, clashing of swords and maces, funny voice-over 
 emotes, awesome ambient noises, positional sound, and cool monster growls. There are some sound 
 glitches, such as hitting and blocking sounds being cut off once and a while, but patches will 
 fix these up sooner or later. This isn't halo-good, but its pretty close.
  
  Value, value, value... 15 if I could rate that high. I've been playing on my lvl 36 paladin for 
 96 hours in a period of five weeks and I'm still not getting bored. For fifteen dollars a month 
 one hundred hours of quality game time is certainly a bargain, despite my initial thoughts of this 
 game.
  
  This game grew on me. At first I hated it; now i LOVE it. My suggestion- buy world of warcraft 
 and play it nonstop. Hang on to the game and cherish it. Once you've learned the ins and outs and 
 you don't think your character is that good, start a new one and stick with this one. Don't make 
 a third character, it will discourage you from playing. Keep going, even if you feel you are underpowered, 
 because when you hit lvl 30, making one gold a second, doing 100 dps to monsters five levels higher 
 than you, you won't regret being five copper short of a silver getting killed in westfall by buzzards 
 when you were level ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2004 12:22 am PT
Review:  I admit it, I used to be a World of Warcraft "hater". Even though I never played the game, I was 
 just so ridiculously disgusted with the WoW hype... I declared myself an avid EQ2 fan before I 
 even played either. Guess what I got the day it came out? Everquest 2. I filled the board with 
 obnoxious posts claiming how "deep and inspiring" Everquest 2 was... But as I got into 20+ hours 
 of EQ2 I had a stunning realisation that the game was awful and I was merely trying to justify 
 my purchase... How could this have happened? Me a fanboy? It couldn't be... Now I was stuck with 
 a game I didn't want to continue, but there was light at the end of the tunnel, that light was 
 World of Warcraft. I picked up the game, it took a hit to my ego, but I had to do it. Well let 
 me tell you this, Everquest 2 is simply collecting dust as of now and I have never been happier 
 with an MMORPG. The gameplay is brilliant, I don't feel as if I am grinding or even playing an 
 MMO- I feel as though I am actually playing a game! My only complaint with the game is that it 
 seems to be a little easy... Other than that I cannot find any real flaws, this is to date the 
 best MMORPG available. As of now no flaws, but Blizzard better release an expansion within the 
 next 4 months or the servers are gonna be flooded with all level 60's......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saturnine
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 16, 2004 5:52 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 Cracking Open the Dell Adamo    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'd be lying if I said World of Warcraft is anything but superb, but the supremacy of the 
 game over other titles just doesn't seem to last too long. From previous experience, I expect my 
 mmorpgs to be diverse, vast, and very addictive and World of Warcraft doesn't disappoint on that 
 end, but what detracted from the appeal the game managed to conjure up was that leveling up was 
 too easy and doesn't dissolve into the mix very well. 
  
  For the sake of cutting this a bit short I will get straight to the point: World of Warcraft is 
 a great game, great fun, great people and it lasts as long as you want it to last but it's combat 
 in general just isn't as appealing and isn't as challenging as it could be; [In fact, I played 
 the game for about two months and managed to reach level fourty-six in half that time] - too bad.
 
  
  All in all, from it's great atmosphere to it's great "fun factor", World of Warcraft offers, and 
 don't let some review by some stranger stop you from buying the game and trying it out yourself 
 - I mean, there are still people playing that game long after I quit, so it all comes down to opinion, 
 and this was mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edrulez
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 16, 2004 1:43 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: theivorytower
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2004 4:49 am PT
Review:  There's just too much to write here. This game is so unbelievable polished; so unbelievably perfect; 
 it's mind-boggling. Not only does WoW have amazing gameplay, but add to that the mind-blowing sound/music, 
 beautiful graphics, and top-of-the-line Warcraft lore.
  Let's start with the sound, because that is, to me, one of its best qualities. World of Warcraft 
 has the BEST music I've ever heard in any game, hands down. Usually, when you get a game, the music 
 is great, inspiring, and beautiful. After a few weeks, though, the music gets a bit old, though, 
 and you find yourself turning it off. Is this World of Warcraft? No. World of Warcraft's music 
 is just right. It's not epic enough to get tiring, but not subtle enough to make no difference. 
 The music in WoW is just write, enchancing gameplay, and when it's off, you know that there's something 
 missing. The sounds, apart from the music, is amazing as well. The details go as far down as footsteps, 
 changing for terrain, character size, and foot type. The sounds for weapons are awesome, monster 
 sound effects, spell effects, you name it; it's all fabulous.
  After the sound comes the graphics. From a great majority of WoW players, you'll hear, "Wahh, WoW's 
 graphics are too cartoony and exaggerated, waah." World of Warcraft takes the Warcraft's RTS graphics 
 and seamlessly turns them MMORPG style. The graphics match up perfectly. When you look at World 
 of Warcraft's art style, you immediately think, "Warcraft."
  Gameplay in World of Warcraft is amazing as well. Not only can it adjust to MMORPG newbs, given 
 its simple and straight-forward nature, but it can also expand for the experienced gamers, allowing 
 customization options that will blow your mind. World of Warcraft's simple UI serves two purposes. 
 It can be easy-to-use for players who are sufficient with the innate UI, but it is also easily 
 modified, which Blizzard provides support for. Quests are definitely the main course, though, due 
 to the fact that there are more than a thousand of the damned things! Questing is SO easy, too; 
 you get a quest log that tells you EXACTLY where you need to go, and what you need to do. There's 
 no keeping notes or jotting things down, like one must do in other games [cough everquest cough] .
 
  Lastly, you got your lore. World of Warcraft packs all of the Warcraft story line into one game 
 amazingly. It digs as far back as Warcraft I, and in case you never played a Warcraft game or read 
 a Warcraft novel, you'll find random books strewn across the world, holding random chunks of story 
 line. There's the quests, too, that will give you an a ride through the mind-blowing Warcraft story 
 line.
  I don't know what else to say. You cannot compare World of Warcraft to any other MMORPG, it simply 
 stands in a realm of its own. Better than any other game I've ever played, World of Warcraft is 
 for everyone, the gaming newb or expert. World of Warcraft is for you; if you're considering buying 
 it, then DEFINITELY go for it. Trust me, you will NOT regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbert80
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 11, 2004 12:49 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 End-user training: A lost cause?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2004 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I have always resisted playing on-line games with a monthly fee : it is my very first experience. 
 The gamescape is beautiful, especially when you play as a Night Elf. 
  
  After over a hundred hours, I have encountered no bugs, no lag, no crashes, no graphical glitches 
 : no technical problem whatsoever.
  
  I am somewhat happy with World of WarCraft. My major beef (which is typical of most action-RPGs) 
 is that there are too many tedious quests which come off more as mechanical action-chores than 
 lively RPG experiences. That's why I have indicated the game's difficulty as "hard" : as in tedious 
 hardship.
  
  For example : It took me one whole hour, as a Night Elf, to collect 7 "small spider" legs... because 
 most spiders I killed either yielded no legs whatsoever or the wrong type of leg! One hour to waste 
 on a mere Level-4 quest is way too much toil. On the plus side, it forced me to slaughter so many 
 spiders that it allowed me to graduate to level 5. But it was a lot of running around in the hills 
 after giant spiders, while big felines sometimes assaulted me from behind. I died three times during 
 that hour, but coming back into the hunt was very easy (with no penalty) . 
  
  In some regions, there are too many creatures lurking close by : consequently, while your level-4 
 character is busy bashing a level-6 spider with a thin margin of success, another level-6 monster 
 might jump you from behind. Those creatures are sometimes positioned too close. I suppose that 
 it adds to the challenge, action-wise : but it weakens the RPG dimension of the Adventure.
  
  I would rate the Gameplay somewhere around 8.5 : the reason I would not grant a 9 or 10 is 
 because of what I have just described. There are too many frustrating chores of monster bashing 
 for too few "quest items". A patch could easily fix that by elevating the probability of obtaining 
 a quest item per appropriate monster slayed. Update : Blizzard changed the spider-leg hunting quest 
 (Night Elf) by making the spiders yield TWO "small legs"... when they do yield any ! You can still 
 waste time killing spiders which yield the wrong type of leg... or NO leg at all !?! Come on, guys 
 : this is a low-level quest for beginning Night Elves ! Why brake the flow of the Adventure experience 
 with tedious chores which can take way too much time to dispatch : with no smart challenge and 
 too much hack-and-slash for cheap rewards ?!
  
  After two months of play, I have about 15 characters located in the level 7 to level 10 range. 
 Playing solo, it becomes too tedious to advance any further, because of the chore required to obtain 
 many quest items. My interest has sharply declined because of that. 
  
  Blizzard must make it less tiresome to evolve beyond level 8 : not everybody has the time to level-up 
 by long hours on the monster-bashing threadmill. Paying customers often have college or jobs to 
 attend to. And not everybody belongs to a guild, clan or gang : solitary players are penalized 
 in too many quests.
  
  So I give WoW a 9... but I have strong reservations concerning the game's long-term value. Blizzard 
 must compete with the likes of the creators of City of Heroes, who offer much more customization 
 options for a player's avatar. That's another major beef I have against WoW : too few options to 
 design the character with a really personal touch. Consequently, as a Night Elf, I get tired of 
 seeing blue or purples clones running around. 
  
  And I forgot to mention that the basic offensive spells of Mages, Priests, Warlocks, Druids and 
 Shamans are essentially identical : they only vary in name and color. That dilutes the replay value. 
 The 5 types of magic-users basically all shoot colored beams of light. Blizzard really took an 
 easy shortcut here : Star Wars lasers in the forest !
  
  Unless Blizzard comes up with a whole lot more content and options, I do not think that my monthly 
 subscription shall last beyond one year of off-and-on gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2004 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Many gamers have worried that the MMORPG genre became stagnant before it ever had a real chance 
 to take off, and they certainly have a valid point. Many MMOs with great promise are simply recycled 
 versions of Everquest, with a few tweaks here and there to make them stand out from the crowd. 
 Attempts at true originality, such as The Sims Online and Planetside, were bland and uneven, further 
 cementing the notion that persistent online worlds may have stalled before they ever got started. 
 Enter World of Warcraft, Blizzards answer to the jaded naysayers, and a superb game that proves 
 that online RPGs are far from dead. WoW does not turn the genre on its head; instead, it brings 
 that unquantifiable it that the developer has infused into its previous titles to a vast, detailed 
 world brimming with activity and personality. While other online RPGs feel too much like work, 
 World of Warcraft is unadulterated fun at all character levels, with all classes, with all professions, 
 and with all quests. 
  
  The Warcraft mythos translates extremely well to the new format. While at launch there was no singular 
 story thread such as those that tied together titles like Anarchy Online or the now-defunct Earth 
 and Beyond, snippets of backstory are brimming from every possible angle. The meat of these narrative 
 bits, as well of the gameplay itself, is in the almost endless quests available at every turn from 
 various NPCs. While Everquest 2 and other recent MMOs have introduced players to the game world 
 with a clear tutorial that showcases the basic play mechanics, World of Warcraft dumps new players 
 directly into their starting area and offers tips by way of glowing exclamation points at the bottom 
 of the screen. Beginner quests are available everywhere you look, so it shouldnt take long for 
 new players to get into the swing. Even experienced levelers will enjoy the starting quests available, 
 since they draw you in immediately, making even the simplest of kill wildlife quests feel as 
 though they have significance because of the lore fueling every goal. 
  
  You choose your character from one of 8 races in 2 realms. Races in the Alliance include Humans, 
 Gnomes, Night Elves, and Dwarves; Horde races are Orcs, Tauren, Trolls, and Undead. Each race has 
 specific classes available to it, so for example, only Tauren and Night Elves can become druids, 
 while only Humans and Dwarves can be Paladins. Players used to customizing every bit of their avatars 
 appearance will be initially disappointed, since there are limited face, hair, and skin options. 
 This is proof, however, that beauty is only skin deep, and as you progress further, you will be 
 surprised at just how individual your character becomes. Armor, clothing, and other odds and ends 
 you equip will ensure you never feel as though you are buried in the crowd, and the enormous number 
 of professions and talents you can develop will cause you to forget about your physical appearance 
 rather quickly. 
  
  Once you have gotten used to your basic abilities and skills, you can choose from 8 primary professions 
 (such as alchemy and enchanting) and 4 secondary professions (such as cooking and fishing) . Choosing 
 a profession opens up an entirely new world to you, giving you additional spells and abilities 
 that support your new job. You can choose as many secondary professions as are available, although 
 you are limited to two primary professions. While certain classes are more suited to certain jobs, 
 you can choose any primary profession you wish, and this is where your true individuality will 
 take root. Soon afterwards, you will also begin to earn talent points, with which you can enhance 
 your current spells and abilities, making your avatar even more unique. For example, you may be 
 able to put points in a ranged attack talent, giving you a smaller chance of missing your target. 
 Eventually, you will be able to follow branching talent paths to further develop your character. 
 
  
  You will spend most of your playtime fulfilling the many quests assigned to you via discussions 
 with various NPCs, who are identified with exclamation points above their heads  or question 
 marks, if you have an open quest involving the character. Most are solo quests, often requiring 
 multiple steps, so while they may seem at first to be your standard run-of-the-mill delivery or 
 combat assignments, they end up taking on a lot more meaning, and you will notice actual relationships 
 develop between NPCs as a result. Additionally, many of these quests introduce you to entirely 
 new aspects of the game, such as traveling methods, or further explanation of the mythology imbuing 
 the entire landscape. For example, destroying a bevy of roaming spirits so you can read an ancient 
 stone tablet reveals a fresh glimpse into Azeroths history; a simple delivery mission introduces 
 gryphon travel to those unacquainted with it. Most elite quests, on the other hand, require a 
 group to be effective, although you can share your solo quests with group members that would like 
 to come along for the ride. 
  
  The combat that is alternately addicting and somewhat hollow in most online RPGs is a pleasure 
 in World of Warcraft, in no small part because of the array of different enemy behaviors. Some 
 foes will flee to grab assistance from their comrades, some will cast various spells, lending an 
 added dimension of strategy, and others can move with amazing speed, making for some nail-biting 
 chases uncommon in the genre. While some may still complain that the leveling grind is as apparent 
 as ever, Blizzard has used varied NPC artificial intelligence and behavior to add spice to the 
 usual fare. Of course, grouping provides the best adventuring, and in fact, the enemy AI, combined 
 with the multitude of spells and skills at players fingertips, makes for an extremely tactical 
 experience. The combat even gets quite visceral, as there is never a shortage of enemies. In fact, 
 the swarms of enemies and frequent spawns can cause one of WoWs few frustrations: its sometimes 
 a little too easy to die, making it tough on the solo adventurer  or small groups that find themselves 
 in over their heads. Fortunately, running away is actually an option much of the time, as many 
 adversaries will give up the chase if you have been fleeing long enough. 
  
  Death penalties and a lack of quick travel options are amongst the most common frustrations of 
 experienced role-players, and Blizzard has widely chosen to concentrate its few innovations in 
 these areas. Choosing to rest at an inn will make a glowing pool near the area your resurrection 
 point, and when you perish, your ghost will appear there, near a spirit that can resurrect you 
 with a 25% effectiveness penalty on all your items (which can then be repaired for a fairly small 
 fee by a vendor, if necessary) . Should you want to avoid the penalty, you can travel to the location 
 of your corpse and resurrect with no punishment whatsoever, although you take the risk of reincarnating 
 near the same foe that vanquished you a moment earlier. As for travel, you will undoubtedly be 
 getting around primarily on foot, but not only does the varied game world keep it from becoming 
 weary, but once you have discovered a new city, you can travel there on the back of one creature 
 or another, be it an enormous tiger or a winged hippogryph. 
  
  The interface and map system helps make it easy to get around, for the most part. The shortcut 
 bar at the bottom of the screen makes casting spells and performing actions simple, although its 
 sometimes too easy to accidentally drag an icon from the bar and delete it in the heat of battle. 
 In a stroke of genius, not every entity is always available to view in the map. Instead, certain 
 classes can cast spells to illuminate one type of being or another  and you must choose what kind 
 of being (such as wildlife or humanoid) to reveal at any given time. Finding trainers, auction 
 houses, and other locales is as simple as getting directions from city sentries, who will kindly 
 mark them on your map, although they will only mark one at a time. On the other hand, we would 
 have liked to have seen a waypoint system such as the superior ones in Star Wars Galaxies or Everquest 
 2, as finding your quest location can sometimes be a hassle. Fortunately, quest logs are generally 
 quite specific about the location of your mission object, although roaming around is still impossible 
 to avoid. Its at these times that you will be grateful that exploration in WoW is more enjoyable 
 than almost any other MMO, thanks to your fascinating, colorful surroundings. 
  
  World of Warcraft may concentrate on Player-versus-Environment combat, but the Player-versus-Player 
 aspect has not been forgotten. Players can engage in one-on-one combat if they so desire, but full-on 
 realm vs. realm battles are possible, particularly in PvP-specific servers, even if they are presently 
 rather uncommon. The huge number of race-class-profession-talent combinations makes for an exciting, 
 rousing skirmish every time though, unless you are harmlessly milling about one of these areas 
 and find yourself the unwitting target of an aggressive player. Successful PvPers earn honor points, 
 which they can use to purchase certain upgrades, and in a terrific twist, higher-level players 
 that consistently battle lower-level ones earn dishonor, which penalizes the player with various 
 hits to their abilities or belongings. 
  
  Blizzard has done an outstanding job at creating a detailed, charming depiction of Azeroth and 
 its inhabitants that faithfully recreates a world familiar to players of Warcraft III and its predecessors. 
 WoW doesnt feature many of the technologically impressive features of other games, such as full 
 real-time shadows and millions of polygons. However, what the game lacks in technological marvel 
 it makes up for in colorful environments with unusual, stylized buildings, flora, and fauna. Character 
 models are loaded with personality, and animations are top-notch. Its also worth noting that Azeroth 
 is, with almost no glitches, practically seamless. You will travel dozens of in-game miles without 
 ever seeing a single loading screen, ensuring you will never be anything less than completely immersed. 
 There are still tiny issues here and there, such as corpses that remain animated, and a strange 
 implementation of ranged attacks that allows the attackers arrow to fly through the landscape. 
 However, these are small quibbles in a game designed to look great and run exquisitely on a wide 
 range of systems. 
  
  The games sound is similarly glowing, particularly in the music, which is never less than completely 
 appropriate and atmospheric. In fact, we often wished there was more of it, particularly during 
 combat, when you usually only hear the sounds of the battle. Thankfully, the objects of your wrath 
 squeal, grunt, and moan with great personality, and the roar of a hunters pet is eminently satisfying. 
 Voice acting is of high quality, and while NPCs dont give long soliloquies, each one has a variety 
 of phrases that lends him a good deal of character. On our 5.1 system, the sound was as overwhelming 
 and exciting as the best battles, although there were times when the environmental sound made it 
 difficult to hear an NPC's spoken dialogue.
  
  Outside of a few opening-day glitches, World of Warcraft has been completely stable during our 
 testing period, which is just as well: we dont want anything coming between us and perhaps the 
 most fascinating 3D game world ever created for an MMO. That it will keep you coming back for 
 more, regardless of your prior experience in the genre. While WoW could have benefited from a few 
 more original touches, and perhaps a few more tweaks found in other recent MMOs, the choice is 
 clear: if you are looking to play a new online RPG, Blizzards newest classic is as easy to recommend 
 as it is enjoyable to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galzakian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2004 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well this is my first real MMORPG, and i was anxious to see what Blizzards first MMORPG would be 
 like. I got the game, selected my server (Proudmoore) and began playing. From the moment i started 
 playing the game i knew that this was a masterpiece. The graphics are great and the landscape is 
 absolutely stunning, everything you can see in the distance, is reachable.
  
  You start out in one of your factions minor cities and progress through the world by doing various 
 quests, killing monsters and levelling up. The levelling system is quite simple, and all you have 
 to worry about is making skills and professions better, and picking talents and abilities for your 
 set class. As you level up you will see more of the beautiful lands of Kalimdor and the Eastern 
 Kingdoms
  
  Obviously the multiplayer aspect is one of my favourite parts of the game, and the options that 
 there are, are amazing. You can choose to create a party, for one-off quests and things like that, 
 a guild; for long-term help with quests and vatious information about the game, or you can create 
 a raiding party, and attack the opposing faction somewhere in their region. The way you communicate 
 with your fellow players on the server is also quite nice, you simply type in /1, which is normally 
 general chat, or /2 for trade in major cities.
  
  The PvP servers are great fun as you can meet up with other players of the same faction, and launch 
 assaults on enemy territory. You can also complete the quests in the normal PvE servers too though, 
 so when choosing a server type, make sure to choose what you prefer more, questing with people, 
 or attacking people.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the auction house, which allows you to view items that other 
 people are selling and bid for them. When auctioning items, you simply set the starting price, 
 how long the auction will go for, and the buyout price. Then you go off, complete a few quests 
 or so, and later, you will get a message saying either that you sold the item, or you didnt, therefore 
 the item or the money will come attached with the letter.
  
  
  The game is like no other i've ever played before, and i highly recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2004 11:11 pm PT
Review:  
  First and foremost, i would like to say that I can't really think of a single Blizzard game that 
 hasn't been worth playing for an extended period of time. The company just seems to put in a lot 
 of effort into making their games worthwhile and fun while not taking themselves too seriously 
 - a result game after game being addictive and fun.
  
  World or Warcraft is everything that you more than likely have been reading it is. Its a very well-done 
 MMORPG that stays fresh while somehow eliminating the annoying elements that other games of the 
 same genre have. 
  
  
  Random notes about the game so far: 
  
  Good
  
  -The game is fast paced to a point. If you have the dedication, you can level faster than normal 
 games of this type, but there is a point to where it becomes the slow tediious job that you expect 
 of this genre - which is good because somehow this game has a stigma that you level TOO fast which 
 dies down past lvl 20. 
  -Quests give you experience so its good to always be doing quest (you can hold up to 20 at a time) 
 so you level almost twice the speed. 
  -You can solo or party and both types of playing are equally rewarding. 
  -Crafting goes quickly 
 but still keeps an edge of challenge as you have locate and find recipes to be able to make the 
 qualitity items you want - so guild playing is rewarding if everyone does different crafts and 
 helps each other out. 
  -You can swim giving the entire world access to exploration (you can even swim in the seas and 
 there are monsters and hidden treasure!)
  -Instanced dungeons for special quests (Called Elite in this game)
  -Tons of skills and in battle 
 combo points that allow for a more stategic fight. Certain moves build up a combo meter and releasing 
 the move at different points have different effects (Stunning enemies - place holding - 5 hit combo 
 moves - healing over time - Area of effect spells to name a few)
  -Interesting monsters - pets - world. Takes place in the world of warcraft! (plus many more ceatures 
 not in the game)
  -Interesting PvP and honor point system which is fun when you get to a high enough level to utilze.
 
  -Ability to have mounts - fly - teleport - sprint make traveling much faster (and fun)
  -Seemingly fair job class system as you can - to a point - solo with any class, even being a priest! 
 
  -No exp loss for death - and ironically dying still can get you very angry even if it only takes 
 about 20 seconds out of your life. The system works well as it gets you out of the action long 
 enough to inconvenice you, sometimes enough to totally frustrate you to no end. 
  -You can make as many characters as you want - on as many servers as you would like. 
  -3 different 
 kind of servers. Normal, PvP, and role playing for added variety!
  -bonus experience system for anyone who doesn't play often. The longer you don't play - the longer 
 period of tiem that when you return you get 2x the experience points.
  
  negatives 
  
  -pace of game is sometimes too quick and hurts the overall story
  -some repetative quests 
 
  -comparting to FFXI - so far no cutscenes and less of a story, but I haven't played enough to 
 know if this changes
  -certain classes can only be done by certain races (Druid can only be done by Night Elf and Tauren 
 so you see about 200 Night Elf Druids)
  -Mail system isn't too great 
  -So much crafting makes for less sales on Auction House
  
  
  
  Overall this game is a great 
 game and I really don't have enough complaints about it. Anyone who has ever played an MMO should 
 try this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caerid11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2004 8:38 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I've never played a MMORPG before this. I've always been an FPS fan for online 
 gaming, however have a long backround in RPG games (talking old school Nintendo here) , so I've 
 seen quite a number of great, good, bad, and what-were-they-thinking? types of RPGs. 
  
  It took me maybe an hour and a half from the time I started installing the 4 disks to the time 
 I got into the game world (including patch download from Blizzard, which is horrendously slow-6kps 
 at times) . Simple, streamlined, easy to understand. The game actually plays like some FPS games 
 I've played. You have a complete 360 degree environment that you can survey with your mouse. I 
 haven't gotten overly far, but the graphics are impressive considering everything that's going 
 on. A ton of people with enemies, NPCs, graphics cranked up to the max on a 2 year old system runs 
 smooth-butter smooth. The inerfact features some basic Computer RPG ideas such as the toolkit toolbar, 
 a minimap and your player stats. It has your basic inventory system, nothing special here. It gets 
 the job done. The quests are numerous and diverse, the grouping system is unique by anything I've 
 seen, where a group can complete quests together, sharing experience and loot. The in-game auction 
 system is neat to have, along with plenty of side-occupations a player can have make it a game 
 that could last for damn near ever. Especially if you make an attempt to play every class. 
  
  So far, I'm hooked. And I think that Blizzard is the type of company that is going to continue 
 to update WoW in order to make the game the best it can be basing some ideas on community response 
 to the gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr-No
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2004 7:37 am PT
Review:  This is my first MMORPG, yet has had previous experience with the genre. Glances at friends playing 
 Galaxies and Everquest, and PSO, were surely inspiring. Yet, this game completely revolutionises 
 the gaming industry. Previous games, such as Galaxies weren't necessarily fun, yet were "digital 
 caffine," as I call it. The world is immense, satisfying the needs of any gamer. The game would 
 still be great if it wasn't an MMORPG. You generally don't get that from this genre, yet the online 
 multiplayer adds some spice. This is a game required by any major gamer. You have not experienced 
 the true meaning of an MMORPG until you've played this. This is the beginning of a great revolution! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2004 11:16 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of those games that doesn't come along that often; the developer seems 
 to have gotten everything right. This is going to be a fairly short review, just touching on my 
 impressions of the games. I leave it to the official review and other Gamespotters to get into 
 the technical aspects :-)
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Many people don't like the "cartoony" look, but it really is spectacular. 
 You feel like you walked right into the world of the Warcraft series. Bright, vibrant colors mix 
 with the environments to just steal your breath away. Your first wyvern ride (or bat, hypogriff, 
 or griffon) will literally make your jaw drop as you see people and creatures walking and fighting 
 below you.
  
  The music is very beautiful and moving, from slow, melodic pieces to fast, drum heavy war songs. 
 Everything just sucks you into the world and makes you want to stay there for as long as you can.
 
  
  Gameplay is fairly simple to learn. Challenge comes from mastering tactics and trying different 
 races and classes. At no time, though, have I ever felt as if I was "grinding". There's just always 
 a desire to try one more thing, see one more thing and the levels seem to come magically, just 
 from playing. That's the way it should be, in my opinion, but many games in this genre put you 
 on a level treadmill and you eventually feel as though you're punching a time clock.
  
  Blizzard also stuck to their classic formula in that they made a game that's not a system hog. 
 People with mid-grade systems should be able to run the game just fine. In summation, I'm not a 
 huge massive multi-player fan, mostly because of the afore-mentioned grinding. But Blizzard took 
 the tediousness out of the genre and just left the fun. This is a game I see myself playing for 
 a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyG
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 3, 2004 8:17 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiethMY6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2004 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This review will be short because all I have to say are mainly positive comments. The game is easy 
 to learn, has silky smooth graphics (even on older systems) and is so well thought out and polished 
 that it's simply a joy to play. If youre trying to decide between World of Warcraft and EQ2, I 
 recommend you pick WoW because the Blizzard team focused on all the right areas that make a game 
 great, not just on the latest and greatest technology. 
  
  The only negative comment I have is in regard to the service interruptions during the launch of 
 the product, but that was due to a never before seen number of users showing up in the first days 
 after launch so I cant really blame them for that. I should also mention that they have done the 
 right thing and extended the initial 30 day trial period of those affected to compensate for the 
 outages and seem to have now corrected the initial hiccups. 
  
  This is the first game of this type (or any other for that matter) I have ever felt deserved a 
 10. 
  
  Bravo Blizzard, Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallenoneusn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2004 7:52 am PT
Review:  Minus a few bugs here and there WoW is the best MMORPG I have ever played. The interface is easy 
 to use and the content is outstanding. The graphics rock and the sound is great. Having just experienced 
 my first PvP with my guild I would have to conclude that this game will be around for a long time 
 and I highly recommend it to first timers in the MMORPG genre. I played DAoC for the last 2 years 
 and this blows it away. The Quest system is great for those who do not chose to do the "grind" 
 while allowing you to become immeresed in the history of Azeroth and Kalimdor. The Class Diversity 
 allows you to "do your own thing" but doesn't hamper you with having to rely on others to survive 
 in a group as they are fairly balanced. Great Job Blizzard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IokesI
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2004 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has always been known for it's classy RPG work, and WoW is no different. Keeping this 
 review short and sweet, let me fill you in the details:
  
  Gameplay: One of the most highly addictive game ever made. Quite literally this is the game you 
 want to play for hours on and on and on. You have to pay a monthly fee, but does it really matter 
 for such a high quality game?
  
  Graphics: Technically - not so good. Artistically - Fabulous! While WoW is not as good looking 
 as that certain other comeptitor MMPORG from Sony, it sure has superb aesthetics and level design.
 
  
  Sound: It's Blizzard, they can't go wrong with this! - superb score with nice ambient toned. Crisp 
 sounds.
  
  Value: Blizzard + MMPORG = unlimited goodness.
  
  You really can't go wrong with this. WoW is THE defination of online gaming, that is countless 
 hours of addictive gameplay and unbelievable ammounts of fun. I suggest buying the Collector's 
 edition. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: njvenge
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 2, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Megan 
 Foxs Trip Across the Border    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: theda8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  Ever since the beta, I've been immersed in this fabulous game. Well done and just love walking 
 around soaking in the scenery. I would recommend this game to anyone. You can level fairly quickly 
 and the community has been very supportive. Just about everyone helps others out on their quests. 
 There are plenty of quests for all skill levels and for the more difficult ones, there are people 
 who are more than willing to assist. The death penalty is not too severe, so you don't get discouraged 
 and leveling is a blast. So if you've never played a mmorpg, this is the one to get. But watch 
 out you may never want to come back to reality again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiamatDraconis
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 2, 2004 4:54 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:43 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: aintraba
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I've played EQ and SWG and COH, And all have there pro's and cons/ But WOW is the first MMO that 
 i got sucked into the game in about 10 minutes. Plus the one thing this game brings that alot of 
 MMO's seem to forget is alot of humor. I found myself laughing a few times in the game at some 
 emotes i saw as well as some pets and cretures i came up against. Plus so far the game really doesnet 
 seem to have a grind to it. All the quests are quite interesteing. I made it to leval 4 before 
 i evne saw a trainer becouse i was haveing fun. And never felt that pressure to level. All in all 
 a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice125
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:52 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jag64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2004 5:34 am PT
Review:  at first i underapreciated mmorpgs, for the first time i played 1... moslty because i usto play 
 warcraft 3 roc and ft... aware 2 meet a new type of game i expected it 2 lag greatly "its a rpg, 
 some have slow pace" i found my self having a blast meeting new people doing new things and playing 
 with my real live friends. it took me no longer then 10 minutes or so to get on track on what im 
 suppose 2 do, and the PvP game play is awsome... the quality and graphics put into the characters 
 and surroundings are epic for an online game... this game is very addicting, give it a try @_@... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 1, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   GameFAQs :  The 
 top 10 most tiring games    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: fodonico
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 1, 2004 1:04 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  New Yelp 
 for iPhone app    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 7:08 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unltd
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  GreenPrint 
 can help save paper    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review is accurate. Unless you hate RPG's or don't have any time and/or money, go 
 out and buy the game. It's that good.
  
  I don't have time to focus on all the good points, and since Gamespot took care of those, I'll 
 use this space to nitpick on the game's few flaws. I've played every class in beta, but only the 
 mage in retail. So I'm no expert, but I do know a little more than most. 
  
  Character creation is fun, but not particularly so. Your choice of models is fairly limited, and 
 you'll find that you may end up looking a lot like one of your friends, and will likely be a twin 
 for many in the game. Gear makes up for this, but you may also see similarities in the way you 
 and others dress in the game at the same levels. There are certain quests that give out popular 
 items. For instance there is a red bandana mask that all rogues seem to pick up in their teen levels 
 that makes them all look like members of the same youth gang. WoW is not particularly good at letting 
 you make your character unique. Fortunately adding new items is a certainty, and Blizzard will 
 definitely improve the game in this area. Maybe they'll even add new character models in the future.
 
  
  The servers are not entirely stable yet, and tend to become laggy if they have been up for too 
 long. This is acceptable for such an otherwise great MMORPG, but still a flaw. Blizzard has done 
 a fine job of fixing the problem, but could do a better job of more rapidly communicating issues 
 on its website. Some servers were down for the first few days, as unforeseen problems arose from 
 the massive number of subscribers. My complaint is this: With all of the preorders, these numbers 
 shouldn't have been unforeseen, and more servers and better load balancing should have been provisioned 
 at launch. Currently the servers are taken down once a day for an hour, and your characters show 
 up on the login screen in their underwear, due to some database problem.
  
  Some areas tend to be overcrowded, producing some camping. The spawn rate on most mobs is fast, 
 very fast compared to many MMORPG's, making this a minor problem, but it is still frustrating to 
 wait even a few minutes only to have someone else tag the mob first.
  
  Even though there are many, many quests that are diverse and fun, there are still some improvements 
 that need to be made. Many quests are of the "kill X of Y" or "Gather X of Y" variety. Sometimes 
 quests seem to take a very long time to complete. The other problem with quests is that despite 
 the large number of them, you often find that you have a quest log full of tasks that are too difficult 
 to accomplish alone, forcing you to group. Now don't get me wrong, this game can be solo'd easily, 
 but if you intend to solo you may not be able to do it through quests alone, and may have to grind 
 a bit, or travel quite a bit to find easier quests. I recommend the latter as quests are much more 
 fun.
  
  There are still some technical issues with the client itself. I had a number of application errors 
 that were solved only with a reinstall. You may have to adjust the video settings to achieve a 
 good framerate. However I can run the game in a 1024x768 window on my 24" monitor for an excellent 
 framerate (30-60 FPS) with the highest detail settings. (ATI 9700 Pro, Athlon 2400, 1 GB RAM) The 
 game is not a resource hog though, it's playable on my old laptop over a dialup connection, although 
 it isn't very pretty.
  
  Money makes Azeroth go around. It's the most precious commodity in the game, and can be earned 
 by doing quests, looting mobs, or by selling items to players. The problem with money right now 
 is that gathering trade skills will net you more cash than production skills. For instance, if 
 I have the mining and blacksmithing tradeskills, I could create 10 bars of copper with the mining 
 skill and sell that for say 10 silver pieces. Or I could also buy some flux, add in some grinding 
 stones that I crafted, and use blacksmithing to create a copper dagger and sell it for 8 silver. 
 People are buying the copper bars at higher prices because they want to improve their blacksmithing 
 to make themselves or their guild weapons. It's a commodity economy, and much like all other MMORPG's. 
 It's not a big flaw, but since Blizzard solved so many other problems, it would be neat if they 
 could tackle this one too, perhaps by making player crafted items better than loot in some way. 
 
  
  Do not let these minor complaints defuse your excitement over the game. I include them here only 
 to give a more complete picture of the game, and to reassure those who believe that fanbois aren't 
 revealing horrible flaws that may exist. If you like RPG's at all, you can't go wrong with WoW.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordstalker10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. You get to explore everywhere with tons of quests to do so you will not 
 get bored. So if you were a fan of Blizzard's work before, you will love this game as much as I 
 am right now. If you weren't, this game is a lot better unless you like strategy games more. It 
 has all the enemies from Warcraft 3 and a ton more. The only bad thing is that you have to pay 
 $15 a month. But that's not a lot of money. You can also choose from 8 different races and 9 different 
 classes. Depending on which race you are, you will either be on the Alliance side or the Horde 
 side. If you're Horde and want to kill Alliance or if you are Alliance and want to kill Horde, 
 you have to play on the PvP server. I hope you found this at all useful. See ya in the game. :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valderon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Im really impressed with this game. I havent played a ton of MMORPGs but Ive played UO, AC2, and 
 SWG. WoW is by far the most polished MMORPG Ive played, very well balanced and designed.
  
  It does alot of what you find in other MMORPGs but it does it way better. The one thing it does 
 best is deliver a fun expereince. Im not used to having alot of fun in a MMORPG, but WoW is a blast 
 to play. Most of these types of games have me interested in the envoriments and overall game world 
 at first... but Im usally not having a super fun time and playing it. Most often games like this 
 seem like a grind or torture. Then after you invest time into them you feel that you should keep 
 playing even though its not very fun.
  
  WoW doesnt feel like that at all, finally a MMORPG for the average casual gamer, its great! 
 
  
  Give it a try if you never played a MMORPG before, you will like it. If you played a MMORPG already 
 chances are you are already playing it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 4:15 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  See 
 the new TRANSFORMERS 2 TRAILER!    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2004 4:13 pm PT
Review:  After wading through so many other MMOs such as EQ, Galaxies, Horizons, Lineage 2, and EQ2, I can 
 finally say someone got it right. Blizzard's WOW is not only good, it's great and an absolute blast 
 to play.
  
  WOW features richly detailed enviroments, a slick user interface, wonderful sound effects, captivating 
 quests, plenty of interesting loot, detailed character leveling, and so much more. It's loaded 
 with cool features from unique characters classes to entertaining pets to shapeshifting as a druid. 
 I could go on and on about how many elements of WOW are so well done, but instead I insist you 
 do yourself a favor and pick it up to see for yourself.
  
  Blizzard has raised the bar to an entirely new level that other MMO publishers will be hard pressed 
 to reach. Instead of feeling like some CEO's underdeveloped cash cow, WOW comes across as a game 
 that Blizzard invested a lot of effort into to make it just right.
  
  Thanks Blizzard for all of your hard work and effort! We have a winner!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2004 3:35 pm PT
Review:  First, some quick background. I played UO (Ultima Online) when it first hit the MMORPG scene back 
 in 1997. I didn't play it for very long due to bugs and such, but knew I had found a very addictive 
 game genre. I did return to UO over the years... as recently as 2 years ago I was playing it again, 
 but it just couldn't hold me.
  
  From there I tried numerous other MMORPGs. Strangely I was never sucked into EQ though I did try 
 it for all of one day or so. My love for MMORPGs was revived with City of Heroes. I currently play 
 CoH, EVEOnline and as this review will indicate, WoW.
  
  I honestly did not believe that I would purchase World of Warcraft. From what I previewed it looked 
 too cartoony and I thought I had enough of the whole crafting, looting and general fantasy based 
 MMORPGs. I was thoroughly mistaken!
  
  The graphics in WoW are good. They aren't mind boggling, but they are very detailed and give you 
 a great sense of immersion. I'm blinded in some instances when I see the sun shining off the water 
 in this game (it's that realistic!) . They do have a cartoonish look about them and are a definite 
 contrast to say, City of Heroes gritty city look. When taken as an overall picture WoWs graphics 
 are easily on par with other MMORPGs out there today.
  
  Sound is top notch. From the various animals and monsters to the music played as you enter a large 
 city, Blizzard again manages to capture that fantasy feel and draw you even deeper into the game 
 world.
  
  Gameplay is totally addictive! I purchased WoW on the day of it's release and have played hours 
 and hours EACH day since I've had it! The game is incredibly DEEP and thinking about all that you 
 can do and see is sometimes overwhelming! From quests and general monster bashing the crafting 
 has been implemented very well and is mostly intuitive. Blacksmithing, Leatherworking, Fishing, 
 Cooking, etc., are great fun and you'll be finding yourself deciding between completing quests 
 and crafting your next piece of armor, fishing or cooking some Brilliant Smallfish! Reaching level 
 10 and opening your class' Talent tree brings up another avenue that will take some time to fully 
 explore!
  
  Negatives? Let's be honest no game is perfect. Some come close and WoW can definitely be put in 
 this category, but there are one or two things that can make one *sigh* when having to deal with 
 it.
  
  Traveling in the early game can be tedious. You have no other mode of travel other than two feet 
 and the quests you're given can take you across most of your starting area. The human race does 
 get a quest somewhat early (level 10-12 or so) that allows them to fly a Gryphon. (Definitely one 
 of the highlights of this game!) It only occurs for a short quest story, but it was the best of 
 the game so far. I do not know if the other races get a similar opportunity, but I would believe 
 so.
  
  Further issues that arise can be the common quest of, 'Kill 10 Kolbolds.' This is alleviated greatly 
 once you move beyond the initial starting area and are able to train in your choice of crafting. 
 Then you'll be happy to kill 15 Boars so that you can obtain some boar meat or skin them for hides 
 to increase your crafting skill (s) !
  
  One last item I'll touch on before finishing. I started playing WoW solo and had a great time. 
 I now play with two other RL players that migrated from CoH and found it to be MUCH easier to advance 
 and have a good time. I'm not saying don't solo. I love to solo myself sometimes, but a group can 
 make completing the 'Elite' quests MUCH easier. Regardless of your gaming style, death will occur 
 unless you are an extremely skilled player or very lucky. Death in WoW is no big deal. You're simply 
 popped to the nearest graveyard from the point of your death and have a number of choices as to 
 resurrection. If you move to the ghostly figure in the graveyard you can resurrect right there 
 on the spot. Or if you prefer you can 'fly' to your corpse and revive at that point. A third option 
 is to have a PC Priest, Shaman or Paladin revive you through a spell. I usually travel back to 
 my corpse. 
  
  In closing, WoW offers something for everyone. From good graphics and sound to totally immersive 
 environtment and fantastic gameplay, you'll find yourself many hours a day cursing because you 
 really need to do some RL things, but you just have to skin one more cow to get your Leatherworking 
 skill up 1 more point! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masdecke
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoganHunter99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2004 2:38 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a seamless game which is very easy to get into. Its just as rewarding no matter 
 how long you play. The gameplay is fast paced and action packed. The controls are intuitive and 
 very easy to learn. The professions are very well done and very easy to use. They have made PvP 
 great and it will keep people playing for a very long time. The quest system is also very to use, 
 and the game is based heavily on questing. Becasue of this, you level faster that most games. Blizzard 
 wants everyone of level and experience high end raids and the like. 
  Combined with fast leveling, good PvP, great gameplay, and simple controls, Blizzard has made a 
 game for the ages.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:51 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:29 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker82
Rating: 0
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   BNET :  Win feuds 
 and intimidate people    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: loboblanco
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 4:47 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  To date the best game I've ever played. It is the game that have the more content in the world. 
 The map itself is really big and that make you feel like you're totally in Azeroth (the famous 
 world of Blizzard) .
  
  Gameplay : Really good gameplay, the best for an MMORPG. The combat systeme work well and is fun 
 to play in pve and in pvp.
  
  Graphic : I put nine for a good reason : Blizzard did make the cartonish graphic for two good reason 
 : it make you feel like you're in Azeroth and the game have less lag than it would have be with 
 better graphic.
  
  Sound : the music and sound effect fit perfectly with the game.
  
  Value : You wont care about the fee after you get in the game.
  
  Tilt : Best of 2004, and 
 still for me, best of 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 30, 2004 12:53 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojo283
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Im a long time EQ crack player. What joy it was when I was picked 
 to beta test EQ2. I was also hoping to be a part of wow as well, but sadly I wasnt picked. Anyway 
 water under the bridge. I played all of blizzards games you name it I played it, so when wow came 
 out I knew I will maybe at least play the first 30 day free and maybe stopped playing because I 
 would have enough on my plate with EQ2. BOY I WAS WRONG! I found myself immerse in this beautiful 
 game. In fact I quit EQ2 so I can dedicate more time in wow. And for one review I read about the 
 music not all that! My goodness this music rocks! Well for fantasy role play anyway. Anyone looking 
 for a great adventure looks no further. Its ok EQ players come to the dark side and experience 
 a game I call "A must have and highly addictive This will get you off of Evercrack:) I give it 
 2 thumbs up!
  
  ps.... wow rules! Worlds of Warcrack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2004 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This is my first "fantasy" MMORPG, though I have played City of Heroes (I consider them different 
 genre) . Before playing WoW, I wasn't too excited about the "cartoonish" look and feel I saw in 
 video captures. After playing WoW, I have to agree with the producer's decision to go with the 
 cartoonish environment, it definitely enhances gameplay. This isn't about better graphics, it's 
 about graphics that encapsulates the player into WoW. I find myself exploring the beautifully designed 
 world locations. The Dwarven cities are just amazing, visit IronForge and you'll see what I'm talking 
 about.
  
  Gameplay is the typical grind and level MMORPG, nothing special. The quests are well designed. 
 The loot and reward system is satisfying. Skills and professions will keep you playing days and 
 nights.
  
  WoW definitely has a stickiness factor, you will be sucked in and time will fly by. 
  
  As 
 for EQ2, I have not played it but from what I've heard from my friends there are similarities in 
 gameplay.
  
  I say WoW is a "Buy"... at least try it for one month, afer that who knows.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBestEver
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2004 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off this review by saying, "Bravo, Blizzard you made a masterpiece." Now moving 
 on with the review. World of Warcraft is the 6th MMORPG to date that I have played (EQOA, Horizons, 
 Final Fantasy Xi, City of Heroes, Everquest II, and now World of Warcraft) so when it comes to 
 MMORPG's I get very picky when determining which one is gonna consume up more than 50% of my time. 
 I did play Everquest II and while it was a "decent:" game I just got sick of sitting in one spot 
 for endless hours just to move up 1 or 2 levels. With World of Warcraft, that is a problem I will 
 never have to worry about, because Blizzard made this game to where you can solo from level 1-60, 
 no matter what class you are.
  
  Now while some of you might see this as being "too easy," let me just state for the record it is 
 not. You have to know before each battle how you will approach it, such as what spells you will 
 use, what weapon to use on this enemy, etc... otherwise you will end up dead and halling butt back 
 to your corpse. Now just because you can solo from level 1-60 doesn't mean you should always just 
 solo. Grouping is crucial in this game like other MMORPG's if you want to complete difficult quests 
 and get rare items for your character to wear. 
  
  To get right to the point of this review, for all those out there considering what MMORPG to play 
 for the first time or for the 50th time (joke) you need to pick up a copy of World of Warcraft 
 today. Trust me you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Let's set the record straight here; this reviewer has been dissapointed mightily in the past by 
 Blizzard titles. Diablo 2 was one my personal greatest let downs after a promising first entry, 
 and the Strategy titles offered in both the Warcraft and Starcraft series have been found lacking 
 over meatier competition. Have I gone mad then? Hardly... World of Warcraft is the real deal, the 
 Prime Rib of the MMORPG universe, and hands down Blizzards best game to date.
  
  Where to begin with this behemoth of a title? How about the box? The Collector's Edition is the 
 single best presentation of a game I have ever seen. For an extra $20 above and beyond the price 
 of a normal game, I have a soundtrack, a cloth map of the world, a free month out of the gate, 
 a guest pass, unique pets in game, a DVD featuring behind the scenes footage on the making of the 
 game, and a 200 (!) page hardcover book featuring game art that is stunning. Oh yeah, the instruction 
 manual is gorgeous as well, and actually has good info. If you buy this game (which you should) 
 the extra $20 is well spent.
  
  You may have heard some rumors about lag/lines/issues with the launch of this game. Anyone who 
 has said this to you must immediately be placed in the 'suspect information' part of your contact 
 list. The game launched with a QUARTER MILLION people on it's first day, and this reviewer suffered 
 practically no connection issues and a 5-10 minute login period. Worried about follow up from the 
 crew? How about over 10 new servers added to handle the load within 24 hours?! Had this launch 
 been handled any better, I would have begun to assume NASA had something to do with it.
  
  MMORPG's have been subject to 'meh' graphics for sometime, and WoW drops a Neutron bomb on this 
 standard. The world is absolutely gripping in it's visuals, from characters, to terrain, to effects, 
 to spells. While it is not the 'realistic model' type of game, the colorful visuals mesh perfectly 
 with everything we've seen from Azeroth in the past. Structures that have been built by players 
 in the RTS series are featured in game, and the game artists have done an amazing job of fleshing 
 these areas out. Terrain and architecture deserves a special mention here. Tired of running around 
 on flat plains with mountains on both sides? The foothills/mountains of the dwarven realms are 
 actually hilly, covered in snow, and feature frozen lakes, etc. Taverns, towns, castles... it's 
 all so LUSH that you simply can't believe the sheer amount of it to be had. The dwarven capital 
 litteraly jaw-dropped me the first time I laid eyes on it... and that says nothing about the real 
 time griffon rides to be had from one realm to another. If you're worried about running out of 
 new areas to explore, don't be; the world is HUGE.
  
  The in game sound is great, truely bolstered based on the amazing score. I've always believed that 
 music really drove Blizzard's games in the past, and WoW is no exception. The tracks vary wildly 
 from location to location, and do a great job of capturing the feel of each race and locale. Taverns 
 have appropriate chatter, glasses clinking, burning fires, etc. The Dwarven central forge burns 
 with the sounds of weapon smithing and armor crafting. The beautiful Loch Modan sounds hauntingly 
 open and wild. NPC speech is well done, although I wished there was a little more in the way of 
 spoken text.
  
  So the trappings are great and all; where's the beef? The prime rib analogy is no joke, and there 
 is a mountain of content here. The game allows you to choose one of 8 races on either the Alliance 
 or Horde sides, and then one of 8 character classes. WoW sets the bar on differing classes in the 
 MMORPG genre; all play with drastic differences. Switch from a warrior to a warlock, and you'll 
 be treated to an entirely different combat experience, both in abilities and tactics. In addition, 
 each race is gifted with various abilitles which go beyond the "+1 intelligence" we've seen in 
 the past. Trolls regenerate, gnomes can escape traps, Night Elves may become invisible, etc.
  
  The actual navigation does a good job of mixing the arcade style of say, City of Heroes, with 
 the tactical depth of a turn based strategy title. Your character will have a slew of abilities 
 to choose from in no time, and customization options become deeper and deeper as you proceed down 
 the rabbit hole. A 'Talent Tree' opens up at later levels which really allows you to emphasize 
 your skills across your 3 different disciplines, each replete with their own spells, moves, etc. 
 The options for customization are practically limitless here.
  
  Tired of beating the hell out of monsters? Who isn't? WoW has several trade skills in the game 
 which are exremely well implemented. All characters can learn to cook, fish, and apply first aid, 
 and are then given the option of picking two additional trade skiils. These include mining, engineering, 
 herbalism, skinning, etc. These activites are addictive, fun, challenging, and most of all useful 
 within the confines of the game. The developers did a great job of making the characters somewhat 
 reliant on eachother for clothes, weapons, potions, etc, so no character is at a loss for a target 
 of his skills. A blacksmith is just as valuable as an alechemist and vice versa. You simply know 
 a game's skills are great when you can't wait to go fishing and cook up a long jawed mudsnapper 
 on a fire...
  
  The gameplay is polished on so many levels it's hard to know which to highlight in this space. 
 Enemy races speak in unkown languages, NPC races have adjustable reputations based on your actions, 
 PvP is actually a focus instead on an afterthought, navigation is brilliant, gaurds actually HELP 
 you find where you supposed to be going... whew.
  
  As if you couldn't tell already, the replay of this game will be off the scale. If there was a 
 way to go over 10, I'd double it.
  
  The truly terrifying thing about World of Warcraft is that it just started. MMORPG's have had a 
 way of becoming more invloved after they are out for a while, and this game feels utterly complete 
 now. Armed with add ons and downloadable content, I'm genuinely fearing for the well being of my 
 fellow gamers who may become zombies under the thrall of a commanding power known only as World 
 of Warcraft...
  
  World of Warcaft is nothing short of a masterpiece. The game excels and surprises on practically 
 every level and has clearly placed itself in the throne of this genre. Do yourself a favor and 
 get lost in the world of Azeroth; just make sure you get back at some point!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullet_Song
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 28, 2004 7:21 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: snbatman
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:31 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrerFox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2004 10:32 am PT
Review:  To its legions of patiently awaiting fans, World of Warcraft seemed like a dream, perhaps even 
 a nightmare. After numerous delays from its cruelly conservative release date way back in 2003, 
 many months of closed beta, two stress tests, and an open beta, Blizzard's MMORPG juggernaut has 
 finally hit the shelves only to be swiped up twice as fast.
  
  World of Warcraft is a game in a saturated genre that does not handle saturation well, the MMORPG. 
 Developing a title of such a massive scale, and such a massive commitment, is not easy. Many said 
 that Blizzard should stick to RTSes and ditch the WoW concept; many doubted its success due to 
 its 'crappy' visuals or its lack of innovative gameplay, but in the end those naysayers have been 
 proven so very wrong: World of Warcraft is the new king of the hill.
  
  The boon of WoW lies in its uncannily fast-paced gameplay, involving action-packed, often hectic 
 combat, and a streamlined method of getting everything to click just right. There is never a slow 
 moment in World of Warcraft, there is literally always something you could be doing, whether it 
 be questing, working on a tradeskill, or raiding an enemy town with forty of your comrades. Any 
 MMORPG fan that is tired of the same old grind will find good solace in WoW, as boredom is not 
 a factor here. 
  
  Now one may ask what makes WoW's basic gameplay any different from all others in the genre, and 
 the answer would simply lie in the fact that it is just more fun. Tradeskills are easily accessible 
 to anyone and everyone, right from level one, and so is the ability to become a large player in 
 the world economy. Even menial tasks such as mining are thoroughly enjoyable, not overly monotonous 
 or 'work-like' such as those found in Star Wars Galaxies or Final Fantasy XI.
  
  Combat is, again, very fast and more involving than any other MMORPG I have had the chance to play. 
 Take your average MMO battles, make them twice as fast, and you will have an idea what its like 
 to fight in World of Warcraft. This pacing allows for some downright hectic scenarios that make 
 the game feel more action than RPG.
  
  Visually, World of Warcraft is stunning, but technologically primitive when compared to todays 
 pixel-pushing monsters, most notably Everquest II. However, this supposed handicap is thrown out 
 the window when you actually step into the world. The game looks fantastic. I can honestly tell 
 you that the screenshots do not do this game a sixth of its justice, and it can only be truly experienced 
 firsthand. While it does not flesh all the bells and whistles of a souped-up engine, World of Warcraft 
 defeats the need with unbelievable artistry, a bevy of old-school tricks, and sheer care and detail. 
 Every inch of every area in the the world is hand-crafted and meaningful. That is not just a mine, 
 that is Jangolode mine, and that is not just a farm, that is the Jansen homestead... the feel of 
 the environments are something that just has not been done before.
  
  Consequently, one could expect a concentrated effort on making all these areas look great, and 
 to that Blizzard delivers. Every camp, every building, and every city is packed with detail, style, 
 and personality. Unique architectures and foliage inhabit the world, varying greatly zone to zone, 
 and on the topic of zoning, there is none: World of Warcraft is seamless. The only time you will 
 find yourself loading is during the log-in process, (which takes a grand total of around ten seconds) 
 and when you cross continents or use an inter-continental transportation system such as a boat 
 or zeppelin.
  
  Perhaps one of the most important aspects to the visuals of an MMO are how well the average PC 
 can manage a large group of players or monsters in one area, and whether the performance will be 
 so bogged down that it detracts from the overall gameplay. This is not a problem in World of Warcraft. 
 Thanks to its undemanding system requirements, the average computer will be able to run the game 
 just fine in most situations, without sacrificing too much on quality. This allows everyone to 
 fully enjoy raiding, and other large-scale combat situations without a hitch.
  
  The visuals also capture that Warcraft feel perfectly, and the continuity between the MMO and the 
 RTSes is astounding on the graphics front, though I do believe they could have accomplished their 
 sense of style while still pushing a few more pixels, as while the textures look fine, some of 
 the models are a bit jagged, and underdone. (For example, an average rabbit's tail is nothing but 
 a pyramid.)
  
  Your eyes are in for a treat should you play this game. My hat is certainly off to those artists 
 at Blizzard that could pull off such an awesome set of visuals with limited technology.
  
  What you hear in WoW does not disappoint. The general sound effects are not exactly the greatest, 
 but they are average for the genre and fit in well enough. The voice acting is exceptional, as 
 is to be expected from the makers of Warcraft, and the sound clips are full of that same personality 
 and humor. The lack of fully-featured voice such as that in EQII does not affect the game all that 
 much, though it would have been nice to have, and this one of the only things its competitor has 
 over it.
  
  The music, however, is on par with the environments it represents. Wide open plains have that majestic, 
 grandiose scale you would expect, as do the deep, forlorn caverns have their eerie hair-raising 
 dirges. From the choral symphonies of Stormwind City to the war-drums of Orgrimmar, the score is 
 cinematic in quality.
  
  Value and longevity is a mixed bag in World of Warcraft. On one hand, the hastened pace of leveling 
 may put some gamers off who wish to create one character and work on him or her for years on end, 
 and if you are one of these fans then be warned that you may find your desired experience over 
 before you wish it to be. When I say hastened leveling, though, I do not mean it is over in a few 
 months, no. If you play an average of four hours a day, for example, it would take you about five 
 months of concentrated leveling to make it to the current max of 60.
  
  Though your character development may be a mite quick, the prospects for that character's future 
 are bright enough to put the worries of the game being 'over' to rest. The late-game instances 
 and raiding are masterfully done in WoW, and the future implications of PvP battlefields, rewards, 
 and prestige will allow for players to literally become heroes and enjoy such content long after 
 they have maxed out their characters.
  
  Player vs. Player combat is well balanced, and is a good deal of fun. Each class brings something 
 unique to the table, and guild wars really gain a new definition. With rewards on the way, and 
 the aforementioned battlefields coming, an already worthwhile feature will give new depth to an 
 already great game.
  
  Reviewing an MMORPG of such a scale is a difficult task, and the deciding factor no doubt lies 
 in the player him or herself, but if you are in the market for an MMORPG, I would by all means 
 recommend World of Warcraft to you. Involving, artistic, detailed, fascinating... fun. See you 
 in the World of Warcraft.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodybagz
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 28, 2004 9:19 am PT
Review:  In starting, I will focus on the negative... the service. Blizzard, being one of the most successful 
 game shops must have tons of resources and thier pick of potential employees. So I must ask, why 
 the crappy service? I am writing this review during a period of server downtime. The load that 
 is now on thier servers must have been anticipated by the open beta alone! I feel that a company 
 with Blizzard's resources and a predictable subscriber base has no excuse for these server downtimes! 
 PERIOD.
  
  OK, now that I have vented, lets look at the positive aspects of the game, which is everything 
 else besides the crappy service. I find the gameplay to be terrific. The pace is just right and 
 so far I have found none of the skills or talents to be ridiculously overpowered like some of the 
 skills are in Diablo 2. In a word, the game is FUN. The graphics are also top notch. I continually 
 find myself admiring the scenerey and thinking what a great job the programmers have done in implementing 
 such a smooth engine. I have a fairly average PC but have no performance issues with all the settings 
 beefed up as high as they could go. The game just looks outstanding and runs as smooth as glass. 
 The sound is also very good although the music leaves something to be desired.
  
  Its a shame that such a great game is suffering from service problems. What good is a game you 
 cannot play whenever you want to? Thats my only hit on the game but it is an extremely BIG hit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:40 am PT
Review:  Regardless if you have played the games in the WarCraft series you can find this game enjoying. 
 I consider myself very critical of the MMORPG style of play but WoW somehow made me appretiate 
 the style they have created with this game. 
  I bought the game the day it came out and once i had it installed i begane to play and noticed 
 right away something was wrong. 5-10 min que to get into a server... 5-10 min lag when you try 
 and loot a corpse.... 5-10 min lag when u die before you become a ghost... 5-10 min lag once you 
 ran back to your body to respawn. The game wasnt playable unless you are ok with leveling every 
 other day. BUT now after a few days of Blizzard working with their servers the game runs flawlessly 
 without any delays.
  
  One thing i would like to point out is the environments in the game. I havnt seen them all by anymeans 
 but the areas i have explored so far draw you in and encourage you to go explore other areas just 
 to see what blizzard has done with the world.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Now that the lag is gone it is great. Im pressed to believe there is a better way than 
 what blizzard has given us to date.
  GRAPHICS - With everything on high the environemnts look great. I am not a fan of the slightly 
 cartoonish looks but that is my opinion. And in no way are they fully cartoonish it is only a slightly 
 noticable.
  SOUND - Turn your sound up and become immersed. Sound is great nothing else to say.
  VALUE - 
 An everchanging world... I HATE PAYING FOR IT THOUGH!!! just charge an extra $10 for the game. 
 IMO no game is worth, give or take, $14 a MONTH! please!! but ill pay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aillon
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 27, 2004 10:19 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycfoster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2004 9:30 am PT
Review:  In classic Blizzard style, World of Warcraft takes a genre that is quickly becoming a mainstay 
 and breathes fresh life into it by polishing EQ and UO's original concepts with an improved interface, 
 balanced characters, and better gameplay. 
  
  Graphics are good, but what's impressive is that they're not any more hardware intensive than the 
 original EQ; Blizzard just hired better artists and gave them room to work. The result has an elegant 
 and realistic feel to it, even though you're essentially moving in a cartoon environment. Quests 
 are well-written and you gain token experience for exploring, which I'm glad to see. It's a rich 
 world.
  
  All classes are interesting and viable, immediately after launch, which is something Everquest 
 couldn't accomplish after 5 years. It's not a difficult game, but combat is much more rapid and 
 requires that everyone have their head in the game - you can't just click "A" or "F" and watch 
 your toon swing away for 2 minutes. It makes it a much more involving experience, but as in Dark 
 Age of Camelot, I think it will lead to frustration for EQ players who played the classes that 
 required less skill. Enchanters and melee hybrids will feel right at home in WoW, as virtually 
 every class requires using the appropriate skill at the right time. You can't just click taunt, 
 slow, or complete heal in this game, folks. 
  
  Downtime is much lower than EQ, reducing the "level treadmill" issue that SOE relies on to keep 
 their customer base paying through the nose. While Everquest is addictive, it was very rarely fun. 
 WoW is a fun game that does the best job of any MOG of implementing a viable quest system. 
  
  Grouping is not necessary, which I applaud. However, one problem is that you tend to level 
 more slowly in a group than solo, at least at lower levels. That's a problem that Blizzard will 
 have to resolve if they hope to build a thriving community, and if there's one lesson every MOG 
 should have learned by now, it's that you keep coming back for the social, or at least the grouping, 
 elements. 
  
  Al in all, if you're looking for another MOG, and you haven't already formed connections to another 
 game, or if you have friends that are playing WoW, it's definitely worth the monthly fee. I prefer 
 Dark Age of Camelot, but if they can resolve the grouping issues, I'll be keeping both accounts 
 active so that I can occasionally group with my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizmet
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 27, 2004 4:58 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXLINK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2004 1:43 am PT
Review:  A game a while in the making and is in competition with Everquest 2. Having a hard time deciding 
 which one to get? Well I haven't played Everquest 2, but this is my review on World of Warcraft. 
 A game which I did play and own.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay of this game is fun as you would guess a MMORPG is. The game starts off slow with 
 the first quests, but as you get farther in the game, it become more fun. I played on a Person 
 versus Person server (PVP) and its fun interacting with others. But before I actually got to play 
 the game in-depth, I had to go through 3 different servers and characters in order to stop being 
 kicked out. However, as this is a brand new MMORPG, I can accept all the problems that they are 
 getting with the rush of customers logging on to play. After that, the game had some sort of connection 
 with me that just wants me to come back for more.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics of this game are great. They are more focused on effects than polygons which is a 
 huge plus. With doing this there are barely any loads, and if there are, the loads are extremely 
 fast. The worlds are vibrant with color and it feels like a great enviroment. But they are just 
 not on par with what other games have/are.
  
  Sound
  The sound is great for the theme of this game. Music and all. I won't give it a 10 becuase it wasn't 
 anything astonishing. Good overall, but you won't be amazed. However, some of the enemy NPC sounds 
 were very repetetive, same goes for your own guy. Therfore, it scores an 8.
  
  Value
  As this is a MMORPG, this may make this game have great or poor value. The fact that it is a MMORPG 
 makes it that it isn't a short game at all. The bad is that it costs $12.99 - $14.99 a month. Which 
 all depends on what plan you take. I took the month-to-month plan ($14.99/month) because I usually 
 don't play games more than 2 months either way.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  The game is great once you have it paid and have successfully entered a server.
  
  Version 
 Tested: World of Warcraft - Store Retail
  
  Minimum Specs:
  
  P3/AMD 800MHz
  256MB Ram
  32MB Video Card (GF2 and Up)
  4GB Free Hard Drive Space
  4x CD-ROM Drive
  56k 
 or Better Internet Connection
  DirectX 9.0c
  
  My Recommended Specs:
  
  P4/AXP 2.0GHz
  1024MB Ram
  128MB Video Card (Geforce4 Ti and Up / 9600 and Up)
  Cable or 
 DSL Connection (1mbps or More)
  
  Test System:
  
  AMD Athlon64 3200+
  1024MB DDR400 Ram
  Nvidia Geforce 6800 Ultra 256MB
  Broadband Connection (3.5 mbps)
  
  
 Settings:
  
  *Max Possible Settings*
  1600x1200 @ 72 hertz
  8xS Anti-aliasing
  16x Antistrophic Filtering
  Max Ingame Settings
  FPS = 30-70 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotty23
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2004 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I played all through the beta, and did have lots of fun. The game world is artistically impressive. 
 It lacks the unbelivable graphics as EQ2 does, but it has it's own nice flare to the game with 
 the warcraft world. You really feel you are in a world of warcraft like characters.
  
  Getting around is relatively easy with zepplins that fly from continent to continent and there 
 are a plethora of wind riders to take you from city to city for a minimal cost. The combat in the 
 game is fast paced, and there is very little downtime between fighting enemies. It is very easy 
 to solo out in the outside world, but for the instanced dungeons where some of your (elte) quests, 
 and harder quests will be, require grouping. 
  
  I played FFXI for months, and while I didn't like the fact that you were required to group you 
 really felt as if you contributed when you in a group. Every person was incredibly necessary in 
 order to defeat an enemy or it could spell death, so you felt important. In WoW often times if 
 you need to go AFK it's ok in a group because they can handle some challenges without you as the 
 enemies seem weaker in nature to some other games. This attributes to an almost diablo style gameplay. 
 I love diablo, but not for an MMO and to me the ease of leveling and killing creatures is a negative 
 in this game. 
  
  I also don't like the Character customization, and the lack of really detailed characters. I love 
 whenever you change equipment in other games, you really stand out, but you look very similar in 
 this game, no matter what equipment you are wearing. That annoyed me. I also didn't like the lack 
 of many different classes to choose from. You can choose from a warrior, mage, warlock, hunter, 
 druid, paladin, shaman, and a rogue. Different races are limited to their choices because of their 
 race. 
  
  The best thing about this game is the feeling of PvP. There are areas, of contested territories 
 that no matter what you're doing you can die due to an opposing faction member being there, that 
 lends an air of cautionness that you don't see in other games, and I'm sure will help the game 
 in the long run. 
  
  Also they've had a horrible launch in this game, with queues to get into the heavily populated 
 servers for at least 30+ minutes. It's like downloading a file from fileplanet or fileshack. com. 
 Not a solid launch at all but hopefully they will have that worked out soon.
  
  There are a lot of positives to the game, but it's not immaculate. I will continue to play it and 
 hope that the game exceeds even the greatest of expectations. I did not write this to be an anti-fanboy 
 as I love the game, but it's not as perfect as everyone thinks it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonny673
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I've yet to experience major lag spikes like some have. Even if I have, I wouldn't complain, because 
 every MMORPG has some rocky times when they start. This game is amazing. Brings me right back to 
 the Evequest days. The graphics are smooth and clean and just plain gorgeous on high settings. 
 The music is done very well, with music that kicks up at the perfect time. Assortment of quests, 
 side jobs etc are done so well, it will hold any MMORPG fans interest. I haven't felt this addicted 
 to a game since the Everquest days, and all I see is more great material to come. Fantastic job 
 Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taldred
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 26, 2004 6:16 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady 
 Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendomac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2004 3:31 am PT
Review:  Despite being only two days after the game's release, the game has had a great impression on me. 
 Although the graphics look cartoony, they do end up workin very well and looking quite well also. 
 If you tweak them the right way, they look better than most offline games that I've played lately. 
 The gameplay is phenomenol. I can't get into everything, but from what I've seen, it's almost endless. 
 The quests are bountiful, the places to hunt are endless, and the amount of dungeons are amazing. 
 The thing is realized right off the bat, especialy with the large amount of people, was the lag. 
 What I noticed about it was, there was none! I was very surprised, which shows that Blizzard did 
 an excellent job with the server population and stability. The music was good, and changed accordingly 
 to the envoronments. I especially liked the nature sounds when you were out and about in the wilderness, 
 which added to the realistic effect. Furthermore, so far WoW is a simply amazing game packed with 
 fun and adventures galore. I just hope it stays that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:45 pm PT
Review:  WOW is the first online strategy/RPG game for blizzard. Lets be frank, this game cannot compare 
 to Everquest 2 as far as quality goes, FFXI and EQ2 pretty much dominate the US market for online 
 RPG games. As you can imagine, WOW tries hard to dethrone everquest as the true great online RPG, 
 and they come close, but fall short.
  
  WOW is great becoase it puts you into the real world of warcraft, visiting firmilliar areas and 
 becoming your own person. That there would have been a good game, but there are some major issues 
 that come with online games. The major problems are: 1. security - the online hackers are as easy 
 to find as trees in the word of warcraft, the security settings are powerful but fairly easy to 
 get around, I was hacked within 10 minutes of being onine. 2. lag - overloading your CPU may be 
 a problem unless you just got a PC, you will lag, other people will lag and you may even freeze, 
 although not a problem that can be easily fixed, its a huge problem when it coes to really enjoying 
 the game to its full potential. The game without these problems is about a 9.6, that goes to show 
 how badly these flaws hurt the games score.
  
  At a technical standpoint this game is relatively weak. The graphics are practically a jooke compared 
 to EQ2 and FFXI and even some console games. The cutscenes have beautiful graphics, but we need 
 more then beauty in only the beginning of the game. The sound works, but conversations and talking 
 effects are pretty bad as they have always been in blizzard games. The backround sound isnt all 
 that great, but without it it doesnt seem very exciting. A few beautiful scores can be found scattered 
 throughout the game.
  
  Overall, WOW puts out a great effort, but blizzard isnt well trained enough in the online RPG department 
 to really put out a superior game. The game has big problems that can be fixed, look for mods to 
 make the game better. If theres ever a sequel that fixes all the major problems, it will easily 
 be at the top of list for best online RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadcow92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2004 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  Well, WoW doesn't sport the most up-to-date graphics engine, nor does it have to. To those who 
 can only base a game on pure graphics, WoW is not for you and if you try to strike a blow at the 
 game because of it's graphics, you are making a mistake. It is true that the feel and the art is 
 somewhat cartoonish, but you must understand this is f*cking Warcraft. Most gamers who have experienced 
 Warcraft III will recognize the style immediately, from the HUD and menus to the creatures and 
 buildings. If you want an MMORPG that has Graphics, I'd suggest Everquest 2, but it sacrifices 
 gameplay.
  
  Sound
  I do enjoy the sound in WoW, from the combat to the ambience, make you feel involved with the enviroment. 
 The music score really makes your character feel involved, especially when entering a significant 
 town. When you click on an NPC they will give you a generic greeting sound that echos if your in 
 a big hallway or underground city such as IronForge. Much of the combat sounds seem pulled or remastered 
 from Warcraft III, but that's acceptable seeing how it's Warcraft. One thing that it does lack 
 is Blizzard's creative taunts and comments when you click on an NPC such as a Peasant a few times 
 over like in the old Warcraft RTS games, but you never know with future content upgrades. 
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay of WoW is my favorite part, mainly because it sticks out from most MMORPGs. 
 Granted you have your crafting, hunting, leveling, questing, etc... but the manner in which you 
 can carry out these things is not nearly as boring as past MMORPGS. Completing Quests actually 
 give decent rewards for your level and usually most of your early leveling will be from XP given 
 in quest rewards. As you complete more quests in one area more will open up and as you gain higher 
 levels. Combat is straight forward, depending on your class you will either have Mana or Rage bar. 
 Rage fills up as you take blows and deal blows allowing you to use special abilities. I have not 
 yet experienced PvP combat yet, but I have been in a few duels, which dueling is quite fun seeing 
 how you do not actually die when defeated you just kneel and get back up. Usually the person you 
 duel will offer to heal you. Death isn't that bad, you have two choices, either find your corpse 
 and suffer now penalty towards your item decay or goto a spirit healer and get ressurcted for 25% 
 reduction of all items you have.
  
  Value 
  You can get regular edition for $50 or the Collectors Edition that comes with alot of neat stuff 
 for $80, I got the Collectors Edition. The ingame pet isn't that great it's more of a novelty thing. 
 It's about $14 a month after your free month that you get with the game, which goes to content 
 updates, patching, and server matience (someone has to pay the bills) .
  
  Reviewers Tilt 
  WoW offers what most MMORPGs with a twist, it has a unique style that keeps 
 you engaged without being totally involved for hours on end. If you want to play for hours on end, 
 you can, but you don't have to to get far as the Rest System rewards players wtih XP bonus per 
 day for the first somewhat hours they play. The quests are amazing, they are well written and well 
 plotted out and add a variety that contributes to the overall story. WoW is Revolutionary because 
 there is still actual Role Playing involved and not just repetitive tasks that have no story or 
 interesting background, which is unheard of in most MMORPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:32 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Evil353
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:07 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy7
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 25, 2004 6:11 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxygrkstd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 4:05 am PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daemous
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2004 4:03 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is taking it on the chin. This is hopefully a very temporary incident. They had a huge 
 beta test period. They should be able to scale this easily, but they are having serious problems.
 
  
  It appeared to me and friends that few East Coast servers weren't completely over-subscribed on 
 the first day. Queues to get into them were a few hundred people long. The second day had them 
 down for service.
  
  West coast servers didn't fare much better. East coasters (like myself) holed up on them before 
 PT players joined in. The server I chose developed critical problems at the end of Day 0. I managed 
 to get up to level 5. On day +1, things worked during the mid-day (the one time I tried) but by 
 night they weren't working at all. This was probably because East Coast servers were all down "for 
 maintenance".
  
  Let's hope Blizzard does better. They certainly have in the past. And their products have always 
 had exceptional QA. Unfortunately, it looks like their capacity planning didn't work out. Ah to 
 be a fly in those colos.
  
  Hah. Of course I signed up for a six month membership and bought the Guide. They better work out 
 the kinks.
  
  UPDATE: So it's now been a week. Things are going much better. I don't think they knew there would 
 be 240,000 customers on day zero. There are still a few bugs that appear, but things are working 
 out. I'm upping my review...
  
  UPDATE: It's been two weeks. Maybe longer. Stability is under control. Time has no meaning. This 
 game completely rocks. It has so much depth and complexity but is free form. Game of the Year. 
 Going from a 9.1 to a 10.
  
  UPDATE: I don't know how long it's been. Time has no meaning when you stay up far far too late 
 playing this game. It is an obsession. It is for everyone I know. I also am using a better graphics 
 card, and it's rather incredible how much detail is there for the viewing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 25, 2004 3:27 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: kivzirrum
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 25, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  You know, no game is perfect, but if anything ever deserved a 10.0 rating it's World of Warcraft. 
 After playing for the last year I have to say that this has been the best gaming experience of 
 my life.
  
  The game starts off nicely with the while climg from level 1 to 60, and then once you get to 60 
 you may feel for a while that there's nothing left to do, or that you'll be doing the same things 
 over and over.
  
  But I've been level 60 now for as much time as it took me to get to level 60 in the first place, 
 and I now have more fun every day playing at level 60 than I ever had in the process of getting 
 there.
  
  After 60 you still "level" but it comes in improved gear (and skill) rather than some number that 
 changes every so many XP points.
  
  I now have a huge circle of good friends in our guild and we get together and have fun, and that's 
 really what the game is all about.
  
  G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 24, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Harry 
 Potter Hitting Screens Early    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2004 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I will admit I was a little sceptical about this game because of the cartoonish graphics. But when 
 you start playing it doesn't really matter. Everything just seems to fall into place. 
  
  But I gotta give some of thd bad first. Blizzard was unprepared for the numbers at launch. While 
 they are working on it, it is a little disturbing. And why are the veins for mining around aggro 
 mobs??
  
  Lastly about the bad, I have to say Blizzard is worse then a drug dealer. Getting everyone hooked 
 with open beta, and then making us pay for it! (Not that is necessarily a bad thing :) )
  
  Just some things to point out and why I think this game is the ultimate choice.
  1. The quests, 
 multiple, multiple quests. Through the beta tests I've gotten a character up to level 16, and only 
 had to do very minimal grinding. For the most part there is always some quest for you to give your 
 attentions over to. Makes the game insanely fun, and a serious time killer. You can sit down to 
 this game and before you know it, you've blown 3 hours.
  
  2. PVP, whether you're on a pvp server or not you still have the option. Whether dueling or just 
 want too take your horde character and go wail on some alliance characters or vice'a'versa. Even 
 in PVP servers, as long as your in a friendly zone pvp cannot be forced upon you.
  
  Blizzard has done a great job with this game, and I plan on spending a long time in it. Although 
 I think there is more people on launch then expected, so if you have yet to get your copy, you 
 may want to wait a few days so the load balancing can be figured out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netherscourge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2004 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard Entertainment's "World of Warcraft" successfully accomplishes what most other MMORPGs 
 have failed to do without having to totally redefine the genre. It takes what came before it and 
 masters everything to give players an fully immersive, fun, online multiplayer experience.
  
  Fans of MMORPGs will notice a few things that WoW does that the other MMORPGs don't do. Let's 
 break it down by category:
  
  Graphics: Most MMORPGs go for the detailed, high-poly realistic graphics and player models. They 
 use boring Earth Tone colors with bland landscapes that you can see looking right outside your 
 window everyday. WoW's landscapes are made of lush and rich fantasy scenery with vibrant colors, 
 exotic plantlife and lots of original ambient wildlife. The player models are smooth and colorful. 
 Needless to say, WoW has it's own very unique style that other MMORPGs can't seem to achieve. It's 
 not Half Life 2 or Doom 3 calibur, but most people are thankful it's not.
  
  Sound: The game's music, sounds, audio and voice-emotes are all top-notch. It does not have the 
 complete spoken audio dialogue that Everquest 2 offers, but it is overflowing with ambient sounds 
 - more then enough to make you want to keep the game volume on instead of one of your favorite 
 CDs. The combat sounds from clinging metal, blunt-force smashes and arcane spell effects are fully 
 complimented with a great in-game audio array.
  
  Interface: Simple, helpful, accessible. You can drag anything in your inventory or your skills/spells 
 into the UI bar along the bottom of the screen for easy access. It's not intrusive or complicated 
 in anyway. WoW also allows for custom User Interfaces. An interface called Cosmos is available 
 for free from a fan site which bascially just re-arranges the UI interface. More of these custom 
 UIs are expected from other fan sites and is a tribute to the flexibility of the games UI system.
 
  
  Questing: WoW is by far the best MMORPG at handling a quest system. Every major area of the game 
 is loaded with quests. From basic gathering quests, to delivery quests, to boss-kill quests, to 
 linked-quests covering large areas - you name it, WoW has it. But the most important thing about 
 WoW's quests is the quest system itself. Many of the quests are related to each other and the requirements 
 to complete these quests can be achieved in the same areas. You can also have up to 20 active quests 
 at the same time. So you can go into a town, talk to all the quest-giver NPCs, gather up to 20 
 quests, and then go off and take care of your quests without having to keep running back and forth 
 to the towns. The quest-giver NPCs are all marked with exclamation points over their heads and 
 when you complete a quest, the NPC you need to talk to will be marked with a big yellow dot on 
 your mini-map. WoW's quests are also HIGHLY rewarding and usually do not require much grinding 
 at all. I've never seen a quest ask for more then 20 of any 1 item or kill count and the average 
 number is around 10. To make things easier still, you can share quests with other people who are 
 also doing the same quests. If you form a party with them, then every kill counts for everyone 
 in the party and gathering quests will yield an item for every member of the group. It is by far, 
 the most consolidated and rewarding quest system I've ever seen for any MMORPG.
  
  Combat: This game is just plain fun to fight in. Every class has a stereotypical role (Priests 
 Heal and Ressurect, Warriors Tank, Mages Provide Ranged Support, Warlock and Hunter Pets Aggro, 
 etc...) but every class is also fully capable of soloing on their own. The Combat system itself 
 is pretty typical of most MMORPGs, where you click to acquire a target and the auto-combat system 
 initiates. But you can interrupt the auto-combat by selecting when and where to use your skills 
 and spells. Some classes need to build up "rage" to use some skills. Mages rely on a mana pool 
 to use their spells. Theres a good balanced system to make sure no class has a clear advantage 
 over another and in PvP combat a good strategy can just as easily win you a match as having good 
 gear would.
  
  PvP: Nothing is more exciting then playing on a PvP server and forming a big Raid Group of over 
 50+ players and then storming into an enemy territory to cause some trouble! Or for some fun, you 
 can challenge your buddy to a freindly duel, where the winner reduces his opponent down to 1 Hit 
 Point. Blizzard is also working on a PvP reward system and a recently revealed Battleground instanced 
 system where teams of players can fight against each other on a live, active battlefield with destroyable 
 buildings and seige weapons - definately something to look forward to in the coming months for 
 quality end-game content.
  
  Death System: Blizzard didn't want people to be afraid to have fun or try an impossible challenge, 
 so they implemented a non-punishing Death System. If your character dies at the hand of an enemy 
 (or falls off a steep cliff, or drowns...) you will take a 25% durability loss to your equipped 
 items and you'll have to run back to your corpse in a ghost form from the nearest cemetery. The 
 big thing here being there is NO gold loss and NO experience loss, ever - so long as you run back 
 to your corpse. If you don't feel like running back to your corpse, you can talk to a spirit healer 
 in the graveyard and take an EXP loss to revive your character right then and there.
  
  Items: What would a MMORPG be without any loot? Well, if you liked all the items that you could 
 get in games like Diablo 2, then WoW will just make you drool some more. There are THOUSANDS and 
 I mean THOUSANDS of items in the game. Many you can get as quest rewards, many you can get just 
 from mob drops - and even more you can make on your own with the Profession (Trade Skills) System. 
 You can upgrade your existing weapons and armor with enchantments. Just flipping through the strategy 
 guide and glancing over the pages and pages of item possibiities is a little intimidating, but 
 very enticing. There are common items, uncommon, rare, exceptional and legendary items of all types. 
 And the Weapons and Armor all have a unique look to them - espeically the rarer ones, so if you 
 are lucky enough to get ahold of one and equip it, your character will have one awesome looking 
 arsenal!
  
  I could go on for hours about this game, but I'd much rather be playing it! This is the best MMORPG 
 available to date and I don't think any other MMORPG even comes close to what WoW has done for 
 the genre. It has set a new standard. It's immersive style, highly addictive gameplay and generously 
 rewarding quests make it the best ever IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ridzilla2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2004 4:33 am PT
Review:  EverQuest was my first MMORPG. I have never found an MMORPG that can even compare to it. Once I 
 got my hands on WoW in the beta, I knew this would fulfill my needs for a good MMO. 
  After about 50 hours under my belt (open beta) , I am very satified. The leveling pace is perfect. 
 It doesn't feel like work, it's actually fun, unlike most MMO''s. 
  Gameplay- Top of the line, not much more you could ask for in an MMO.
  Graphics- Decent. I really 
 like the use of the graphics, the style is just right for the WarCraft series.
  Sound- Very good. The music fits in very well with the environment.
  PvP- Although I've only 
 been on a few raids, I can tell Blizzard is moving in the right direction. Although it isn't quite 
 there yet, it definately has the potential to be.
  
  This MMO is definately worth buying. It is easy to get into, even if your new to MMO's. Buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runstalker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Some guy said in his WoW review:
  "The major problems are: 1. security - the online hackers are as easy to find as trees in the word 
 of warcraft, the security settings are powerful but fairly easy to get around, I was hacked within 
 10 minutes of being onine. 2. lag - overloading your CPU may be a problem unless you just got a 
 PC, you will lag, other people will lag and you may even freeze, although not a problem that can 
 be easily fixed, its a huge problem when it coes to really enjoying the game to its full potential."
 
  
  You were "hacked within 10 minutes"? Your CPU may get overloaded "unless you just got a PC"? Honestly, 
 and forgive my candor... why bother posting a review if you have no idea what in god's name you're 
 talking about? Even if I translate what you've said into English, it's completely inaccurate. It's 
 false and misleading.
  
  Anyway... let's talk about photo-realism in games and when it's important. It belongs in racing 
 games, sports games, certain first person shooters -- absolutely. But honestly, what would be the 
 point of playing the art form of video games if there was strictly one goal: To achieve photo-realism? 
 That's right, it would be pointless. Better to obsess over live action films, perhaps. I digress; 
 Warcraft's art style has always been 'cartoonish' and in World of Warcraft it lends the game one 
 of the most cohesive presentations of any game in the genre.
  
  MMO players once complained about the experience grind. World of Warcraft gives you motivation 
 and rewards you at every step. The goals are clear and the quest interface is well conceived. The 
 quest writing is good, the lore is rich and completely in line with a post-Frozen Throne plot progression, 
 and the quests are fun. Ultimately, your experience gain has constant motivation and within that 
 system (for Warcraft fans especially) the narrative is enjoyable.
  
  This is a great, big seamless world. Crank up the anisotropic filtering in game, and dial your 
 video card's anti-aliasing up. I defy anyone to deny the wonderfully consistent art design on display 
 and the must-have-in-this-genre zoneless environment transitions. There's tons of content and gameplay 
 here for solo, group, and guilded players. They've implemented an excellent and intuitive UI for 
 any situation. 
  
  Most importantly: Charm. Once again, Blizzard doesn't rewrite the rules of a genre per se, but 
 they absolutely soak their version of the standard in personality, class, and ease-of-interaction.
 
  
  A definite MMORPG success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 23, 2004 8:34 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:43 pm PT
Review:  After the plethora of second rate MMORPGs that have come to market lately, especially from a large 
 corporation that shall remain un-named, finally we get an MMORPG that is both beautiful and engaging.
 
  
  There is so much I could say about this game, but I want to keep this review short so you can go 
 see for yourself!
  
  The graphical style of World of Warcraft may not be to everyones taste, but it undeniably embodies 
 the beauty and creativity of high fantasy. The world feels alive with all its beautiful colors, 
 and its flickering, glimmering detail.
  
  Graphical character customization could be better. The options here are a little limited, but still 
 enough to create a character you can feel good about. A wide variety of clothing options in game 
 help alleviate this a little, but hopefully this is something Blizzard will improve after retail
 
  
  The sound is just incredible. From the amazing musical score to the creaking, stomping of the ent-like 
 protectors in the Elven lands, its all there.
  
  The user-interface is very easy to use, and detailed tooltips make sure you are never lost wondering 
 what something is used for.
  
  Quests in this game are wonderfully compiled. Each quest is weaved together from multiple tasks 
 that REVEAL a STORY as you complete each stage. Thats right, I said a REVEAL a STORY! As in I 
 want to complete this part of the quest to see what happens next. Quests are beautifully written 
 in a true role-playing style that really absorbs you into the game and makes you feel like you 
 are affecting the world itself. As quests progress, they also take you into new parts of the world 
 as you become ready for them, giving you even more of a sense of accomplishment and adventure. 
 Pay attention other MMORPG developers who have forgotten than MMORPG still has the letters RPG 
 at the end!
  
  As well as being able to play above land, the game features the amazing ability to play underwater. 
 Sunken ships and sea creatures adorn the seas for more questing and adventuring.
  
  The class system is very well put together. You choose a class when you create your character, 
 and as you level you can learn new skills from your class trainer. These skills are extremely varied 
 from one class to another, and blizzard have made sure that each class has some very cool skills 
 to utilize. You also get to purchase talents as you level, which helps you to enhance your skills 
 and differentiate your character from others of the same class and race. In addition, each race 
 also gets fixed racial traits from the beginning (such as increased dodge change for elves etc.) .
 
  
  PvP still needs some work, but there is a strong foundation for Blizzard to build upon after release, 
 which is exactly what they plan on doing with battlegrounds. The two sides of Alliance (Good) 
 and Horde (Evil) form the basis for PvP. There are two types of server regular and PvP. Both have 
 the ability for player vs. player, but only on the PvP server can you potentially be attacked while 
 questing (though only in enemy, or contested territories) .
  
  I only tried trade skills at a very basic level, but they seemed very well implemented with both 
 gathering professions (such as mining, fishing, skinning etc.) and production professions (such 
 as smithing, tailoring etc.) . Also there are service professions such as enchanting and first aid. 
 Any character can take 2 primary professions such as those mentioned, and an unlimited number of 
 what are called secondary professions such as cooking and fishing.
  
  I must say this is the only MMORPG I have played where I have had so much fun playing the game, 
 that I forgot all about leveling. I truly felt drawn into a world of fantasy and adventure.
  
  Blizzard have injected the RPG back into the MMORPG genre and spiced it up with creativity 
 and great gameplay. They have kept of the best parts of the existing genre and made the other parts 
 even better. With ambitious plans for the future, from a developer we can trust to do the right 
 thing, this game will only get better and better.
  
  I for one cant wait to step back into the World of Warcraft!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2004 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the lucky people to beta test WOW. I must say after playing other MMORPGs I never 
 thought I would ever get into one. That has all changed. What makes W. O. W so different? Great and 
 continuous story, nice player faction vs. player faction, superb graphics, great missions, mounts 
 (At the right level you can buy a ride to use anytime you want. This will help you get around a 
 lot faster, and it is permanently yours) , crazy and original spells, exclusive rest feature so 
 you don't have to play all day and night to level. If you skip a day, you come back with a nice 
 XP bonus for the next hour or so to help you catch up with those all nighters. Most of all NO DELEVELING!!! 
 When you die you can run back as a ghost to your body and revive yourself. Your weapons are slightly 
 damaged, but you can repair them at almost any vendor and at revival your life and mana are at 
 half strength, but recharges as you rest or eat. That's all. No XP loss + No money loss + No attribute 
 loss = No fun lost. I could go on but this game is too massive to point out all the good stuff. 
 Try it for yourself and see what everyone's talking about. I don't give perfect scores easy, but 
 this one deserves no less. 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GollumOnline
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 23, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        World of Warcraft User Reviews 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will 
 Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //    
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
