-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World War II Combat: Road to Berlin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/worldwariicombatroadtoberlin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can almost laugh at how terrible the whole thing is.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful game design.
 Primitive graphics, stilted animation, and limp sound.
 Poorly implemented online play.
 Looks and feels unfinished.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.0, 3.7 Review (s)
User Score: 3.7, 189 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Direct Action
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Apr 3, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If America's participation in World War II was as frustratingly terrible as this game, all of Europe 
 would be speaking German today. 

  Every once in a while we run into a game that is almost completely devoid of redeeming qualities. 
 When that game happens to be in a crowded genre like a first-person shooter set in World War II, 
 it casts an even darker pall on an already horrible product. World War II Combat: Road to Berlin 
 is just such a game. Road to Berlin is an utter failure from top to bottom, offering ugly, drab 
 graphics and terrible sound that match the low quality of the gameplay and game design.  

          It's hard to find anything to like in Road to Berlin.     

  There are 10 missions in 
 Road to Berlin's very brief campaign. In each of the missions, you're given a primary weapon like 
 a submachine gun or sniper rifle, a pistol, and an explosive weapon such as a grenade. You'll explore 
 various locales in the European theater, such as a German air base, a submarine pen, and hardened 
 bunkers, as you kill dozens of Wehrmacht on your way from point A to point B. It sounds like any 
 other WWII shooter, right? Well, on the surface it does, but somehow the game designers couldn't 
 even manage to get a game theme that has been cloned dozens of times to work well. First of all, 
 there are absolutely no health packs that you can pick up -- the only thing you can loot is extra 
 ammunition for your weapons. This makes the game harder than it needs to be, as you need to be 
 able to get from the start of a mission to the end without dying. The missions aren't particularly 
 long, and you can absorb a decent number of shots. But any mistake you make means you have to start 
 over at the last checkpoint, which promotes a trial-and-error approach to the missions where you 
 try to memorize the locations of all the enemies.  

  And speaking of checkpoints, the save system in the game is flawed, as well. Each level is broken 
 up by a few checkpoints that you can start from if you die. But if you happen to reach a late checkpoint 
 with only a smidgen of health left, you may find it impossible to finish the level at that point. 
 The game saves only your last checkpoint, and there's no manual saving, so that means you could 
 find yourself forced to start the entire level over again if you accidentally trigger the last 
 checkpoint with too little health. Further adding to the frustration is the inability to pick up 
 or change weapons. You'll start some levels with a sniper rifle, which is so poorly implemented 
 that it takes you out of zoomed view each time you fire, and it takes far too long to load in the 
 next bullet. When you get into close-quarters situations on these levels, there's no way to pick 
 up a different weapon, and so you're stuck with trying to shoot at close range with the sniper 
 rifle or just using a pistol.  

  If the core gameplay were any good, some of those inherent design flaws might be forgivable, but 
 this isn't the case. The mechanics of moving and shooting in Road to Berlin are downright terrible. 
 The movement of your character just doesn't feel right, nor does the movement of enemies, who sometimes 
 appear to be sliding across the ground like carnival shooting-gallery targets on rails. Level design 
 is boring and uninspired, and whether you're outdoors or indoors, everything has a drab, gray and 
 brown look. Plus, the guns don't handle very well. For example, the automatic weapons spray too 
 wildly, and aiming down the iron sight of your weapon doesn't seem to improve your accuracy much, 
 if at all. The worst part is that it's often hard to see anything. Enemies will begin shooting 
 at you from the very limits of your visual range so that they're just specks in the distance. The 
 threat reticle that was broken in the Xbox version of the game seems to be working properly in 
 this version, but that's cold comfort for a game that would have been considered primitive even 
 five or six years ago.  

          Not even the most enthusiastic WWII game nuts should subject themselves to a game like 
 this.     

  Road to Berlin looks and sounds about as awful as it plays. Environments and characters are laughably 
 blocky-looking, and the level design is boxy and uninspired. You'll see vehicles like trucks, tanks, 
 and half-tracks, but these don't even have articulated wheels or treads. Details like these are 
 instead crudely drawn into the textures. The sound also does little to inspire. All the guns sound 
 the same, like sharp firecrackers instead of real weapons. There's a bit of voice narration before 
 each mission, done by a bored voice actor who phoned in the effort, and there's no real music to 
 speak of. Road to Berlin includes online multiplayer action for 16 players, in modes ranging from 
 deathmatch and last man standing, to capture the flag, king of the hill, and VIP. The server browser, 
 if you can call it that, simply finds a server for you to play on, without giving you a full menu 
 of servers to choose from. It's as though the developers lazily tried to emulate the Xbox Live 
 style of quickmatching, as opposed to the PC style, where you can browse from a list of available 
 servers. It doesn't make much difference, though, as any online game you find is liable to be full 
 of bots, with maybe one or two other human players. The netcode is so awful that you'll find yourself 
 teleporting back and forth, with hit detection that's frustratingly poor even at modest latencies. 
 There's offline multiplayer action against computer-controlled bots, but just like the single-player 
 aspect, multiplayer action in Road to Berlin is horribly dull. The bots don't exhibit much strategy, 
 making beelines to the enemy flag in capture the flag or just running around randomly in deathmatch 
 mode, and you can't play against the bots in king of the hill or VIP modes.  

  Calling World War II: Road to Berlin just another in a long line of uninspired World War II games 
 would give it far too much credit. In a way, Road to Berlin isn't a WWII game at all, as you'll 
 spend more of your time fighting with the poor game design than you will fighting against Germans. 
 And, when you're done with that, you'll probably find yourself fighting the urge to snap the disc 
 in two and throw it out the window. Avoid this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fruittopiaboy
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Alright so the game is horrible, but i gotta say its kinda addicting i would'nt say it is a waste 
 of money , and if you think about it you will probably laugh and think about ''hey atleast its 
 not cheeseier than ps1 games, i can tell you that. But yeah i gave this about a 5.0 cause i kinda 
 enjoy'd the game but still stuck on some lvl's.
  :) Oh yeah theres one more thing !!!
  i forgot to say this game han't been play'd multiplayer in a while. I'm thinking because its probably 
 old and doesnt have as much fun like i see it is, :) FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
 
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
 
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY-
  FRUITTOPIABOY- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjanamidzic
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  WARNING: DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! It's boring, short and you have no teammates. There's only one 
 teammate in first mission. All soldiers have the same face. (a very ugly face) . Even your teammate 
 has the same face like all German soldiers. Weapons are designed awfully. You can't improve your 
 health. Graphics is very, very, very, very, very, very bad. Graphics is better in freeware games 
 than in WW II Combat Road To Berlin. This game should cost 0,50 or maybe 1 dollar not 14 dollars. 
 When you reach a checkpoint with a little health remaining you will always restart from checkpoint 
 with that much health left. That makes game hard to play, but I used cheats when I played this 
 game. I hate this game and I feel sorry for everyone who bought this game. One of the worst PC 
 games I ever played. Call of Duty 2 is much, much, much more better than this terrible game.
  
  Sorry for my bad English, I'm from Bosnia and Herzegovina. :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  One just gets the urge, sometimes, to do things that make no sense at all. To do things that had 
 been warned against time and time again. But I just had to. I had to play World War II Combat: 
 Road to Berlin (Road to Berlin) . And it is a very poor game. Yes, it is a budget game and I wasnt 
 expecting cutting edge quality visuals, sounds and programming. However, a real lack of atmosphere, 
 a ridiculous checkpoint system and by the numbers insipid gameplay of the genre that has been 
 done infinitely better not only in contemporary times but in years gone by capitulates the game 
 into the depths of woe.
  
  In Road to Berlin you play as Stephen Moore (sorry to all the Stephen Moores out there, but even 
 the heros name is bland) , a covert operative nestled behind enemy lines during World War II to 
 identify and render inoperative the best of the best in Vengeance Weapons being developed by the 
 German war machine. The game actually details that the end of the war is nigh and it seems the 
 purpose is to stop the weapons falling into the hands of the Russians than to have them used by 
 the Germans. What it all amounts to is ten levels of first person action fare in war-ravaged Europe 
 (or a representation of such) taking on the Germans, for the first time in gaming represented in 
 blue uniforms. Youll shoot, find keys, flick switches, destroy heavy artillery and even take photographs 
 of the arsenal of weapons through trains, bunkers, fortresses and across open terrain, up to the 
 finale of disabling the ultimate vengeance weapon.
  
  The graphics are very ordinary, lacking in quality, definition and style. The actual look may 
 have passed muster at the turn of the century but not in 2006. There is a reasonable attempt at 
 recreating a war-torn environment and the missions crawling through urban ruins are well mapped. 
 But it just looks so dated. I note the words blocky and boxy in the main reviews and quite 
 simply there isnt a better description. There is a lack of definition across the board with cloned 
 soldiers, vehicles that look more like statues and environments that dont have any sort of definition 
 or life. Even the vengeance weapons, when cited, are a letdown. They are poorly defined monochromatic 
 flying machines or submarines that dont have any redeeming features. No definition, no shine or 
 any other quality to make these important (in the context of the game) structures look realistic 
 or imposing. Also expect to see plenty of clipping and structural inconsistencies as well.
  
  Sounds are actually a little better. The title music is an attempt the Medal of Honor approach 
 and whilst its not annoying, its actually quite simplistic if you take the time to sit and listen 
 to it. The weapons discharge a generic sound when fired and there does not appear to be a lot of 
 difference between the classes. Youll hear the enemies yell at you from time to time, and there 
 is some voice acting at the start of each mission and the end which is rough but acceptable. Its 
 budget sound work, but not disastrous.
  
  The gameplay is basic run and gun with a number of shortfalls. I may as well get the infuriating 
 checkpoint system out of the way. There is no quicksave, which is fine, but there is only one 
 save block of your previous checkpoint. So when inch your way past that point with single figures 
 health and a number of skirmishes to deal with, there is no choice but that restart the whole level. 
 Its incredibly frustrating. The play is standard FPS fare, but for a warzone, its a pretty desolate 
 path that is taken, with enemies mainly spawning two or three at a time at various points.
  
  The weapons, with the exception of the sniper rifle, have no feel at all, with it almost feeling 
 random as to whether you are on target or not. Expect to be rolled by the spawning enemy on more 
 than one occasion and expect to be shot through walls and from mighty distances from the enemy. 
 Theres a difference between realistically challenging and downright frustrating. The ultimate 
 irony is the enemies routes are scripted, so youll rote learn your way through the levels, even 
 with minimum health. Two levels deserve mention for being better than the rest. The third level 
 where the sniper rifle is put to good use in a thoughtfully laid out map where pot-shots and close 
 quarters combat is experienced. And the final charge, complete with countdown, with a number of 
 enemies to deal with is the first time there is a sense of atmosphere and exhilaration. But in 
 the main, the rest is in equal parts a dreary and frustrating trudge through generic WWII environments 
 with spawning soldiers and mandatory tasks. Its been done several times before, and so, so much 
 better.
  
  Even with the cruel checkpoint system and the random nature of the gunnery, it should not take 
 more than half a dozen hours to complete the ten levels. There is multiplayer, apparently, and 
 although I didnt check it out, I dont think Im going out too far on a limb to suggest its probably 
 not overly patronised. I actually first saw the game last year for $AUD30 and had it in my hands 
 before deciding to do some research. Which Im glad I did. I ended up finding it for $AUD10, which 
 isnt much but theres so much better available for that. Its hard to recommend purchasing this 
 at all. And to think there's a second game in the series.....
  
  I accept that World War II Combat: Road to Berlin is a budget game and that we should not expect 
 the same production and programming qualities from the mega-titles. They are never meant to compete 
 against them. However, they do need to compete with titles 2-3 years old as that is the price bracket 
 and its here where Road to Berlin comes up short. Its not competing against COD 2, Half-Life 
 2 or Oblivion, but it is against Call of Duty, Return to Castle Wolfenstein and Medal of Honor 
 in its own genre alone. And it comes up short. Its a game that comprehensively misses the mark 
 in style, gameplay and substance. Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthendri
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I sure wish I had read the reviews before I purchased. This game is terrible. I won't buy any more 
 games from the makers of this game. They obviously do not know what they are doing. It appears 
 as though they wanted to cash in on solid WWII games like Call of Duty and Medal of Honor. I have 
 been ripped off. I can't even come up with 100 words to submit this review. All I can say is don't 
 buy this game. In fact don't ever buy any game from groove games. I am going to their web site 
 to tell them how terrible this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  The good thing is that I laughed at how much this game sucks!
  The bad thing is bad graphics, bad game design, isn't as good as I thought and dumb animation.
 
  
  It should be illegal to sell a game like this. Need I say more? I will anyway there are ten missions 
 in this game which I got rid of pretty quick because I'm good at just about any game (except racing) 
 this game seemed harder then it needed to be. As I got killed about 10 times. This isn't a great 
 game not even a great game. It goes next to my Bomberman game in the buried games of the year. 
 It says Here lies the worst PC game I ever played in my life If you find this game in my grave 
 leave it or destory it more. So just do that for me two thumbs down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  My initial impression of WWII Combat: Road to Berlin was that, although the games actual combat 
 mechanics would likely be just as subpar as similarly underdeveloped budget titles historically 
 tend to be, some effort was made to give the player a chance to wield or, at least, blow up some 
 of the more fascinatingly obscure German war toys straight out of My Tank is Fight! However, 
 the reality is that the game places the player adjacent to a few high-minded machines, but offers 
 little to no interaction; I caught a glimpse of an ominous submarine just offshore, stole a peek 
 at what mustve been a Horten IX batplane as it hurtled down a runway, and set some explosive charges 
 on what I believe was a P. 1500 Monster cannon. Aside from forcibly decommissioning the artillery 
 piece, snapping a photograph of each invention is about as hands-on as Road to Berlins World 
 of Vengeful Nazi Wonders conceit gets. The remainder is just what I expected  a shooting gallery 
 comprised of moronic enemy AI and overly familiar battle sequences  but with a horrifyingly unfriendly 
 checkpoint system that reduced the RtBs questionable quality to splinters.
  
  Judging from the number of names listed in RtBs credits, more than one person on the Direct Action 
 design team must have agreed with the idea to remove all health packs while leaving the enemies 
 so scantily coded, they are actually preternaturally brilliant marksmen. I would like to think 
 that at least one designer stepped forward and confirmed that trying to play through a meat-grinder 
 of a game using more rote memorization than skill and experimentation is the exact opposite of 
 fun. First, Ill take quicksaves over checkpoints any day. Failing that, I would like some chance 
 at redemption should I find my progress involuntarily captured with a 32% health rating and two 
 or three more heavy-duty encounters to go. Im not one to give up on a difficult game, and Im 
 only slightly less likely to fall back on a god mode dependency, but I can say that the former 
 was certain if not for the latter.
  
  I derived some enjoyment from RtBs settings. The games ruined cities and hilly outdoor environments 
 were blocky but reasonably adorned with rubble, foliage, and the like. Winding my way through destroyed 
 buildings was somewhat fun even though every corner might conceal a brutally one-sided firefight 
 followed by a hideously inconvenient save point. I warmed to the game whenever its open-air sections 
 accorded the convenience of long-range potshots, only to cool considerably whenever an enemy spawned 
 from thin air directly behind me.
  
  I really dont mind the low production values found in budget titles as long as the gameplay is 
 reasonably fun, the setting is interesting, or the art and level design is endearing. None of those 
 three aspects matter a whit if the games creators assume  very incorrectly  that I want to replay 
 entire sections of each level over and over until I overcome every obstacle just right. Thats 
 the only reason I can think of for Road to Berlins ridiculous checkpoint system. I can forgive 
 the fact that the fantastical war machines that drew my attention to the game never put in much 
 of an appearance; I never really expected to hijack a Nachtj&auml; ger or set the infrared sights 
 of a Vampir-powered rifle against its makers. At the same time, I also didnt expect a game born 
 of such simplicity to frustrate me to the distant limits of tolerance. Like the man says: avoid 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoak
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Rough around the edges, and value production game-play; sure -- but bottom of the barrel "2.0" 
 worthy of nothing but criticism; I'd say not. 
  
  In fact the two Groove Games World War II Combat game titles do have a few nice things to recommend 
 them: they offer a modern version of the Unreal Warfare engine with nice textures but keep to low-poly 
 design that will let these games run very nicely at higher render settings on older PCs; which 
 is is especially valuable in multi-player for slower computers.
  
  WW II Combat: Road To Berlin, and WW II Combat: Iwo Jima are no where near as hard to look at as 
 the deplorable screenshots offered here -- even the slowest system will be able to enable at least 
 4x Anti-Alias, and higher texture settings then see here on GameSpot.
  
  The games also offer some nice play features like ironsights some simple mod and map making tools, 
 ride on very well documented Unreal Engine script so a lot of tweaking and even modding is possible 
 to those inclined, and offer a nice suite of multi-player play mods...
  
  These are "Value Games", that will sell for a fraction of premium titles that can and too often 
 recently deserve more critical and harsher reviews then they get... And too often as in this case 
 "Value Game", small, or independent Developer gets unfairly reamed by the press as in this case.
 
  
  I'm not recommending anyone run out and buy WW II Combat: Road To Berlin, or Iwo Jima tomorrow, 
 but if you love WW II genre games, have an older PC and would like to be able to play a game with 
 features like ironsights, multi-player game modes like KOH, CTF and TEM; and either of these titles 
 are going cheap in a store near you -- there is fun to be had, just don't set your expectations 
 too high and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamondlod
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game to see if it was really as bad as Gamespot claimed. I wondered if the editors 
 were being a little overzealous in their terrible review of the game. I thought to myself: "Self, 
 since this was created with the Unreal engine, how bad could it look?" I had tried Direct Action's 
 first XBox game called "Combat: Task Force 121" and it really wasn't all that bad. It was no Beyond 
 Good And Evil, but it had its moments. However, Gamespot bashed it, so I thought Road To Berlin 
 might be worth a shot.
  
  WOW was I wrong: The only people who should be more ashamed than the developers are the Gamespot 
 editors for giving it a rating of 3 in graphics instead of a 2 or a 1. I can think of three big-rig 
 racing games with bad grammar that have better graphics than this game. Escape From Rungistan for 
 the Apple //e had better graphics and more WWII thrills than this game.
  
  Then there's the checkpoint save system. OUCH! I stumbled into a bit of an ambush and my health 
 was very, very low. So I just decide to stop moving and just let myself get killed so I could restart 
 from the last checkpoint. Then I notice that as I cruised to a stop, I triggered the next checkpoint 
 save. The game saved with me at about 3% health, and since there were no health packs, I had to 
 start the level over completely because it would have been impossible from that point to finish 
 the level.
  
  The controls are awkward, the movement feels fake, the vehicles look like the tanks from Battlezone 
 (the 1982 version - not the recent remake) , and the enemies seem to magically float on some version 
 of the force (and I double-checked - this isn't a Star Wars game) .
  
  This is not the game you're looking for...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opacic_A
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  One of the most buggiest games ever made, the graphics follow suit, which are horrendous, they 
 might've been good back before CoD came out, but they are incredibly obsolete. The actual gameplay 
 (if you could call it that) is stale and repetitive to boot. Buying this game will make you cry, 
 literally.
  
  On top of that, the voice acting, wherever put in, is incredibly bad. This game is an insult to 
 the REAL soldiers of World War 2 and the various campaigns, I really hope that the developers had 
 alot of trouble making this, so they can disband and move to EA or something, where their little 
 talent will still make them money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is complete crap. The Graphics are crappy, the sound is dull and The game is very short. 
 The game is very buggy and the AI is so bad that allies shoot you. the levels are boring, MP is 
 dull, and to top it off they expect you to get past every mission with out any kind of healing. 
 They didnt even try on this game. It sounds like the xbox version is worse but i have a hard time 
 believing that.
  
  This isnt even worth being a value game. for the same price you can get the original COD or allied 
 assault or get a steam account and play dod. just not this.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
