-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Poker Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/worldpokerchampionship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 An absolutely abysmal list of features makes this the worst possible poker value.
 Painfully conservative opponent AI Who checks with a flopped full house?!?.
 Ugly graphics that most flash games easily put to shame.
 No online multiplayer whatsoever Even Yahoo! Poker lets you play against people online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.2
Critic Score: 3.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 176 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: ImaginEngine
Genre: Casino
Date:     Jun 25, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the developer was out to break the game of poker, then it succeeded masterfully. 

  ValuSoft's World Poker Championship -- not to be confused with the Xbox and PlayStation 2's World 
 Championship Poker, The Travel Channel's World Poker Tour, ESPN's World Series of Poker, Fox Sports' 
 American Poker Championship, or any of the other roughly 800,000 different poker franchises currently 
 flooding the market -- is hands down one of the worst ways you can spend $20 for your PC. Poker games 
 exist all over the Internet. Hundreds of Web sites offer some iteration of the game of poker, and 
 nearly all of them feature Texas hold 'em, the most popular poker game out there right now. Texas 
 hold 'em is clearly supposed to be the draw in World Poker Championship's package. However, unlike 
 the umpteen number of different poker games available for free on the Internet, in World Poker 
 Championship, you can't play against other people. Your only option is to go up against 20 of the 
 most dumbfoundingly stupid computer opponents ever programmed in a poker game. Consider also that 
 you'll have to put up with a total lack of play modes, ugly graphics, and audio that roughly equates 
 to needles being shoved in your eardrum. Plus, you'll have to endure the fact that you'll have 
 to pay $20 for the privilege of suffering through all this. The end sum is a game so far beyond 
 not worth it that it almost feels like it ought to pay  you  $20 to play.  

          World Poker Championship boasts that it features advanced poker AI. If 'advanced,' means 
 'lobotomized,' then sure, we'll agree.     

  World Poker Championship begins and ends with four available poker games: Texas hold 'em, seven-card 
 stud, five-card draw, and Omaha hold 'em. You begin the game with a single available playing room 
 and relatively low stakes. As you earn money playing these assorted games, you'll unlock new rooms 
 with significantly higher stakes. And that's really all there is to it. There's no career mode, 
 no ability to create any sort of a persona for yourself... nothing. The multiplayer is just as weak, 
 if not weaker. Again, there's no online play in this game, which is completely insane in this day 
 and age. Every free Internet poker game in the world has online play, so how can you possibly release 
 a retail product that's completely devoid of it? And, as if to add insult to injury, the only multiplayer 
 feature in the game at all is LAN play. Right! Because poker LAN parties are all the rage. At that 
 point, why not just buy a deck of cards and  actually  play poker with your friends? Now there's 
 a thought.  

  It might be easier to swallow the total lack of online multiplayer if the single-player gameplay 
 weren't so patently awful. The game features 20 different opponents, all with incredibly clever 
 names, like Betsy Lotz and Hans Goodman, and all with their own supposedly unique artificial intelligence. 
 The back of the box bills the CPU players as the world's best and most challenging. These are lies, 
 all horrible lies. In fact, even finding truly notable differences in the play styles of  any  
 of these hack-job players is nearly impossible. In Texas hold 'em, the one thing the CPU seems 
 especially adept at is betting strong (too strong, in fact) before the flop and then folding on 
 the puniest of bets if it doesn't make a hand on the flop. You'd think that after dumping $500 
 pre-flop, the CPU might stick around after a $20 bet. But evidently not. Other times, the CPU will 
 just play superconservatively, even when it's made a hand. We can't tell you how many times we 
 had CPU players check their ways all the way through a hand, only to find out they flopped a nut 
 straight, or three of a kind, or any good hand that beat us soundly. Guess the CPU must have thought 
 we had a hand, what with our $10 bets.  

  What's even more painful is that hold 'em is obviously the game the developer put the most attention 
 into. The AI for games like five-card draw and seven-card stud is so ridiculously predictable that 
 you should have no trouble just blowing your way through each game totally unscathed. The computer 
 opponents will raise when they have something big, and they'll check when they don't. That's it. 
 If the opponents were capable of bluffing, we never saw it. Furthermore, these games also include 
 multiple, major interface flaws. Five-card draw, for example, doesn't even bother to let you know 
 how many cards your opponents are drawing. Anybody who's ever walked past a poker table in their 
 lives knows that half the strategy to five-card draw is knowing how many cards your opponents take. 
 So in World Poker Championship, you're basically playing the game completely blind. And in all 
 games, your opponents are denied the opportunity to muck their hands at the end. The game always 
 shows your opponents' final hands, which is totally insane, since half the strategy of  any  poker 
 game is the ability to prevent your opponent from knowing if you were bluffing or had made a hand. 
 So, basically, if the developer was out to break the game of poker, then it succeeded masterfully. 

  The only conceivable remaining reason someone might be inclined to pick up this train wreck of 
 a poker game would be because of its supposed graphical interface. Maybe you're not interested 
 in the generally simplistic interfaces of online poker games and want to play against colorful 
 CPU characters in seedy poker rooms. Well, despite the fact that the game seems to suggest having 
 both of these things on the back of the box, the reality couldn't be further from these claims. 
 The graphics are very weak, consisting of flat, unmoving opponent characters that literally cycle 
 in and out on a rotating track, like one of those target shooting games at a county fair. Everything 
 has a jaggy, nasty look to it, and the game's interface just looks sloppy and confusing.  

          The fact this game includes LAN play, yet no online play, is like some kind of cruel joke. 
     

  Believe it or not, the audio is actually worse. The developer has gone out of its way to find the 
 two most obnoxious people on the face of the planet to "commentate" gameplay. However, their commentary 
 actually consists of roughly three phrases, which are repeated to a painful degree and delivered 
 with such false enthusiasm that you'd think a gun was being placed at their temples during the 
 recording sessions. And, apart from them, there really isn't any other audio at all, save for a 
 couple of bad MIDI soundtracks and the occasional shuffling of cards and chips. Bland hardly describes 
 it.  

  By now, you should be convinced that the last thing on Earth any poker player should do is pick 
 up a copy of World Poker Championship. But just in case you missed the point altogether, here's 
 a very simple and concise pair of equations you can use in everyday life. Poker on the Internet, 
 complete with online play, usable interfaces, and a wide variety of poker games (all of which are 
 thoroughly unbroken) , costs you nothing. World Poker Championship for your PC, which is devoid 
 of online play, a usable interface of any variety whatsoever, and thoroughly functioning poker, 
 costs you $20. Do the math, and the answer should become abundantly clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: baronck
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  By redefining the rules of reality, World Poker Championship is hand down best FPS game EvER! Life 
 is like a box of chocolates, youll never know what youre going to get. The same thing can said 
 about poker. In this case this game, ValuSoft (once known as Blizzard) has constructed yet another 
 masterpiece which will challenge World Of Warcraft in its online play dominance!
  
  While there is no On-Line play, my imaginary friends and I do enjoy playing this game with a 
 wacky and intelligently (spelling?) Group of Computer AI. They have as much wit as your dear aunt 
 Sally who has been dead for 14 years now....
  
  Four Aces Beats a Pair? Not in this Masterpiece! THIS IS NOT FOR YOUR EYES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzo1
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is positively the worst piece of poker software that I have ever seen. Ever. It seems to have 
 been written by someone with only the vaguest notion of the *rules* of poker, never mind anyone 
 who actually knows how to play the game well. If only Valusoft had tested their software for half 
 an hour on a decent Texas Hold 'em poker player they might have realised basic stuff about the 
 rules like: The big blind should get to bet when everyone checks (s/he doesn't in this game) , not 
 everyone shows their cards after every hand (they do in this game) , etc. etc.
  
  Given that the authors don't understand the rules of poker, it's not surprising that the "advanced 
 poker AI" is just laughable. The computer players are just dumb and boring - they are very conservative 
 and will mostly fold when bet at *except* pre flop when they will call almost any amount (irrespective 
 of your previous behaviour or how much money is already in the pot) ; so the authors had no clue 
 about what ingredients make for intelligent poker play (e. g. calculation of pot odds, opponent 
 modelling etc.)
  
  Overall this is just a cyncical attempt by Valusoft to cash in on the poker craze and steal your 
 money. Don't let them away with it! Do NOT buy this game!! You have been warned!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horshacked
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 5, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  If I could rate this a negative 1, I would. I bought this on impulse - thought to myself, "It has 
 to be at least as good as Hoyle, Bicycle - two vastly better titles - it cost the same, what the 
 heck, $20 is nothing". First warning sign when I opened the box - CD insert graphis in black and 
 white. Next warning sign, Installer mearly copies from the CD to your target folder. Play the game 
 - your worst fears are relized, "I've been ripped off!". 
  I would have had more fun wiping my a** with a $20 bill and flushing it down the toilet. I cannot 
 believe that retailers stock this game. Valuesoft is clearly a rip-off artist company. Avoid this 
 game at all costs - and never ever by any title by Value soft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 13, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  Hi there, I'm Andrew Hale and you're here to read my review on World Poker Chamopnship for the 
 PC. This game is 20 dollars and it is broken, it is pathetic, it offers absoultly nothing .. it 
 is terrible its a terrible game to buy. Whats funny to think about is that internet poker is free 
 and it not broken and this is 20 dollars and its broken.
  
  So if you don't believe me lets do a comparison between the 2, whats good about internet poker 
 .. and whats terrible about World Poker Championship. First off all the game looks ... atrocious, 
 the character models are 2 D dont move much, the cards look terrible, its just awful. Also, on 
 the interent you can play online, its easy its fast and its not broken! In this game .. there isnt 
 any online play so the company is literally stealing your money from you. And if you do by some 
 chance want to play this game with a few friends, you must do it by LAN play. And with CS, Starcraft, 
 it would be a miracle if some idiots played this broken game of poker over LAN play. Also, the 
 AI is awful, the opponents are either way to conservative or bet like crazy .. there just awful 
 opponents ... there terrible. Also on the interent you can have your own background music and relax 
 and have fun ... with this game you listen to the brainless opponets say the same stupid things 
 over and over again. 
  
  So, if you like poker and you want to get broken poker ... then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you just have to sit back and appreciate the magnitude of a game's failure, as much as 
 the success of others. Surely in a universe where Metroid, and DMC 3, and Resident Evil 4 exist, 
 so must there be a balence. It's games like WPC that provide that balence, and remind us of our 
 humanity. What am I getting at here? This game, is worthless. There cannot be a single person on 
 earth, who would not prefer to play poker with friends, or online (for FREE) , than use this game. 
 I don't pretend to understand WHY a company would spend real money on this, but here we are. To 
 the developers of this game, I would simply like to hold my hat to my chest as I bow my head, and 
 tell them "You Fail At Life."
  
  There should be a score LESS than 1, to denote a game which has literally NO value at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navygent
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  My buddy and I went to buy this at Target, the game box looked promising, for $20. I took it home, 
 put it on my PC and was immediately disappointed, the game is so bad it's amazing it even got released. 
 Target won't take the game back, but I've emailed the company requesting a refund but no word from 
 them yet. It is obvious that the company knew it was garbage because they didn't even bother to 
 add a manual or the usual items, nor include copy protection. It's a file basically burned onto 
 a cd. 
  
  If playing poker on a merry-go-round with repetitive commentary is your thing, then this is the 
 game for you, otherwise, do yourself a favor, avoid this game, you'll thank me. Watching paint 
 dry is more exciting. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintball24
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2004 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, play poker against a computer should be done anyways. I'm not sure why I bought this 
 game. I guess just didn't think or something. Really, this game was the worst game I ever played. 
 The computer knows your what cards are in your hand, so they know how it counter them. I will never 
 play a poker video game ever again. I'm looking to sell this game for maybe a couple bucks of ebay. 
 I completely recomend play poker only against other humans. I always play poker at www. partypoker. com. 
 It's a cool site. You should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ay_Cee
Rating: 2.7
Date: Sep 20, 2004 11:20 pm PT
Review:  To make a good poker game, all you really need to do is concentrate on what fundamentally makes 
 poker fun - the challenge of playing against different poker styles, progressing through tournaments, 
 and playing assorted poker variations. After that, you just need to wrap those fundamentals with 
 a system to keep the game entertaining and replayable.
  
  This game does none of that. There are only four poker variations here, albeit they're the most 
 popular. And you'd better be ready to stare at the screen while the other players at the table 
 play their turns. The game provides no options for gameplay speed. As a matter of fact, the only 
 options you get are, 1: Turn on/off sound effects, and 2: Turn on/off music. The 'color commentators' 
 have two or three catch phrases, and they use them over, and over, and over again.
  
  The gameplay itself is horrid as well. You change your bets by either pressing the arrow keys to 
 increment your wager, or by clicking the increment arrows on the screen. You can't just type in 
 your bet and click, or click on different chip denominations. And if you decide to go All-In, 95% 
 of the time everyone else will fold. Seems like veryone else at the table played very tight - and 
 on top of that, all the bets seemed scripted. Of all the hands I played, I only got my All-In called 
 once. It takes forever to build up your income.
  
  What I was hoping for most in this game was some sort of tournament play or ladder system. The 
 only way to actually progress in the game is to build enough cash up to move to a new set of tables 
 that requires you having a higher amount of starting cash.
  
  All in all, this was a petty attempt at cashing in on the recent skyrocket of poker popularity, 
 thanks to the World Poker Tour and Texas Hold-em. Don't waste your time, money, or patience on 
 this game. Hoyle does a much better job, and even they don't quite get it right. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
