-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Racing 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/worldracing2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive car damage.
 Decent selection of tracks and race modes.
 Several improvements over the original.
 PC version has better graphics than the Xbox version and supports online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Even with the improvements it's not fun.
 Incredibly frustrating gameplay.
 Poorly designed menus.
 Boring presentation.
 Below-average audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 144 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Playlogic
Developer: Synetic
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Aug 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World Racing 2 makes a couple of key improvements on its predecessor, but it's still a substandard 
 effort. 

  World Racing 2 is the sequel to the poorly received World Racing (also known as Mercedes-Benz World 
 Racing) , which was released in 2003. Bland visuals, run-of-the-mill gameplay, a restrictive car 
 license, and a poor sense of speed were just a few of the original game's many problems. The changes 
 made in World Racing 2 demonstrate that the developers were aware of the criticism that the first 
 game received, but many key issues have gone untouched, and none of the changes make the game more 
 enjoyable.         Poor controls mean you'll frequently end up like this.     

  It's almost as if Synetic actively looked for ways to make the game less fun while World Racing 
 2 was in development. Right off the bat, you'll find that the menus are unattractive and difficult 
 to navigate. Far and away, the game's biggest problem is that it suffers from an identity crisis. 
 It can't decide whether it's a simulation or a pure arcade racer. The car will feel slow and heavy 
 one minute, but just seconds later, the slightest bump will send it careening. While you can make 
 a few handling and braking adjustments, they don't have any effect other than to make drifting 
 a little easier. The game is playable using just a keyboard, but unless you're eager to accelerate 
 the onset of carpal tunnel, you'll want to use a controller. While a controller might save your 
 hands from cramping, there's a noticeable lag between when a button is pressed and when the action 
 occurs onscreen. This makes the already sloppy controls even more unmanageable. All of the race 
 modes employ catch-up artificial intelligence, like an arcade-style racer does, but they're also 
 completely unforgiving, much like a sim is. On the one hand, the catch-up AI keeps you close no 
 matter what. On the other hand, just bumping a single object on the side of the road could mean 
 you won't have enough time to finish a race. One unlucky break on the final lap means you're probably 
 going to finish dead last, and unlucky breaks are a common occurrence thanks to the random traffic 
 that has a habit of coming out of nowhere mere feet from the finish line.  

  Along with the unlucky breaks, the game has a habit of being late in giving out time-sensitive 
 information. In off-road races, the game uses arrows to guide you from one checkpoint to the next. 
 As you pass through a gate, the arrow is supposed to shift direction to guide you to the next point. 
 Unfortunately, the arrows don't always change directions fast enough. Often, the next gate is a 
 90-degree turn from your current position and hidden from view. So, by the time you see the arrow 
 and make your turn, it's too late to make it to the next gate. Trial and error, not skill, is the 
 main strategy necessary to win some races.  

  The game's two main play modes are career and free ride. You'll have to spend most of your time 
 in the career mode, since it's the only way to earn "speedbucks," the in-game currency that is 
 used to unlock cars and tracks in other modes. There are a number of race styles, including standard 
 races, timed events, knockout races, drift, rally, waypoint, and sometimes a combination of events. 
 Aside from the ability to earn speedbucks, nothing about the career mode is compelling. You don't 
 have rivals, you never improve your abilities, and you have no freedom to choose your next race. 
 In fact, if you can't beat a race, due to the unfair way they're often set up, you can't skip it. 
 The free ride mode is easily the highlight of the game, though that's not saying much. You can 
 pick any car you want and drive nearly anywhere you desire, but the payoffs for exploring are limited. 
 For instance, because many of the game's scenery objects don't have solid geometry, you can't drive 
 off the road and land on a submarine, since your car will clip right through it. If, however, you 
 want to run over cows or push jets off of an aircraft carrier, you can do those things.        
    This car wasnt cool when it first came out. Its even less cool now.   

  While speedbucks are the only compelling aspect of the career mode, they're also another aspect 
 of the game that is unforgiving to the point of cruelty. Speedbucks are awarded in a similar fashion 
 to the "kudos" in Project Gotham Racing, in that they are awarded for exhibiting skill and fair 
 driving tactics during a race. You earn speedbucks for passing cars, taking shortcuts, driving 
 on two wheels, and catching air. Conversely, you lose speedbucks if you ram opponents, cut them 
 off, hit a wall, or press the back button to return your car to the track. The system is unfair 
 because the game is set up such that many snafus are unavoidable. Also, it basically penalizes 
 you twice for making mistakes. In addition to losing time because you just drove off a cliff, you're 
 assessed a financial penalty. Drift races, while not a significant part of the career mode, are 
 so frustrating that they deserve special mention. The game awards and takes away drift points on 
 a seemingly random basis, penalizing you for drifting off the road even if you don't hit anything. 
 These races often require dozens of attempts to master. This frustrating aspect of the game has 
 been well documented by many different players, who have posted complaints about the game on message 
 boards since the game was released. At the very least, the developer should have included some 
 kind of halfway-decent tutorial in the game, though these races probably should have been less 
 infuriating in the first place.  

  The roster of 90 cars is slightly smaller than that of the original World Racing. Whereas the vehicle 
 roster in the first game featured Mercedes-Benz exclusively, World Racing 2 now includes automobiles 
 from a variety of manufacturers, including big names like Volvo, Lotus, and Alfa Romeo and lesser-known 
 outfits such as Rinspeed, Wiesmonn, and Westfield. The number of vehicles is slightly misleading, 
 however, as many are merely slight variations from one another, differing only in paint scheme 
 and horsepower. The new game offers more courses to race on -- a total of 160 across Italy, Egypt, 
 Miami, Hawaii, and Germany. While these numbers are technically truthful, there's some sketchy 
 math behind them. Many courses vary only slightly from one another. Furthermore, the game counts 
 mirrored tracks as original courses.  

  Those hoping that the game would at least put forth a strong multiplayer component are going to 
 be disappointed. Online play is included, but it's strictly bare-bones. You can choose from only 
 a few different race types, and just six people can race at a time. Most of the people currently 
 playing online hail from the UK, making lag a significant problem. The Xbox version of the game 
 features downloadable content, but the PC version doesn't have any official support for additional 
 downloadable content. LAN play is supported, but the gameplay options are limited. The only available 
 multiplayer option is a basic split-screen mode.  

  Without question, the visuals are better on the PC than on the Xbox, though they are still far 
 from impressive. The action on the track is faster than in the original game, but the sluggish 
 frame rate makes it difficult to feel any sense of speed. World Racing 2 is also missing one of 
 the few noteworthy features of the original -- the in-cockpit view. The quality of track design varies 
 greatly. Hawaii has an aircraft carrier you can drive on, complete with planes you can knock off 
 the side, and the ocean looks beautiful reflecting the sun and swaying palm trees. Then there are 
 locations like Egypt, which has you driving amid ugly radio towers and gas pipelines. The environments 
 look fine when viewed from the track, but the moment you go off-road and get a close look at the 
 scenery, the below-average textures quickly become apparent. The game's smoke and dirt effects 
 are poor as well. There are some nice visual touches, such as detailed car models, escalating vehicle 
 damage, and the ability to muddy up the car by driving through dirt and wash it off by driving 
 through standing water, but the moments where the game looks legitimately nice are few and far 
 between.         Car damage is the highlight of the game.     

  The soundtrack is also deeply generic, consisting of bland tracks that don't make any kind of audible 
 impression throughout the game. Thankfully the option to create a custom soundtrack is available, 
 making the lousy music the one bad part of the game you can successfully avoid. The engine sound 
 effects aren't particularly robust, nor are any of the other sound effects noteworthy.  

  There's no polite way to say it: World Racing 2 is a lousy racing game that tries nothing new and 
 isn't even slightly enjoyable. Even if you manage to look past all of its problems and find something 
 fun to do, the game will soon quash your short-lived joy. The PC may not be home to as many great 
 racing games as consoles, but there are still plenty of better, cheaper options than World Racing 
 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 7
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  Actual score: 8.3
  
  When it comes to racing games, its really dominated by a few big budget developers as some 
 examples are the Need for Speed series and Gran Turismo. However it seems the public is welcoming 
 newer developers like the recent Codemasters Grid however there is still a common element 
 that all of these games are Americanised. So I looked into the European market as 
 realistically they are the true champions of racing and considering the F1 is the second most watched 
 sports in Europe (soccer being the first) motivated me to search for a European developer specialised 
 in racing games. So World Racing 2 attracted me as it was made by Germanys Synetic GmbH 
 and better still, youll get to race on the famous and very detailed Hockenheimring.
 
  
  Straight off the mark, World Racing 2 looks and feels like a very ambitious project. Like most 
 racing games, there is that career and free play mode however whats impressive is that in 
 the career mode there are 72 races to complete whilst in the free play mode there are over 90 cars 
 to buy and 170 plus tracks to purchase. On top of this, World Racing 2 has a simulation, arcade 
 or a mixture of both styles of game play so new comers and hardcore enthusiasts will equally enjoy 
 the game. As a side note I selected the simulation with no break assistance and mixed between manual 
 and auto transmission and even used the keyboard for steering.
  
  Whilst free play mode tends to be the more favourable option, career mode is where the hard cash 
 is. The cash is in the form of speedbucks and depending on how you perform determines 
 the outcome; for example ramming your opponent will cause you to loose speedbucks whilst driving 
 on 2 wheels will increase and so on therefore the game encourages you not just to win the race 
 but to be tactful and daring as you possibly can; so you can say winning isnt everything 
 if you can pull off some very audacious stunts! But naturally winning unlocks more tracks and cars 
 and as expected at the start of your career you will be driving the slower types of cars (e. g. 
 the VW Golf and the Mercedes 300SL) and as you become more proficient the better cars will be unlocked 
 (including the marvel Mercedes C291 which can pull off over 400km/h) .
  
  Considering this is a European game anticipate European cars (e. g. Alfa Romeo, Mercedes, VW, Lotus, 
 Wiesmann and Rinspeed to name a few) . In addition there are six huge locations (Italy, Egypt, Miami, 
 Hawaii, Hockenheimring and World Racing 2 very own Race Center which is a mixture 
 of everything jammed together) and the styles of racing can range from drifting, average speed, 
 damage limits, waypoints, medals, knockouts or a combination of these (average speed, damage limits 
 and being in the top three for example) . On top of this the majority of the tracks really need 
 some tactical and well thought out planning than just driving (e. g. using the booster at the precise 
 right time or instead of zigzagging try and drive as straight as possible to gain momentum) .
  
  Sadly (and like many other racing games) the AI is not consistent. Granted that they are also 
 not perfect in driving as some will topple through gaps or make a total fool of themselves (e. g. 
 missing the bridge jump and tumble into the water below) however they have a remarkable ability 
 to catch up real fast. On the flipside, if you are having issues driving and not getting too far 
 behind the pack, the AI will slow down therefore you can catch up, so you can easily use this to 
 your advantage as in some races where you be able to literally dangle behind the pack and then 
 zoom past at the last second to take the crown. Beware that this tactic doesnt work all 
 the time (especially the catch me if you can races) and if an AI car suddenly spins 
 out of control theres going to be a good chance youll collide but dont let 
 that deter you as its part of the fun of racing.
  
  Visually World Racing 2 is very pleasing to the eyes. Considering the maps are very large indeed 
 everything on the map is drivable (as long you have the right car to do this) . That said (and especially 
 in the free drive mode) the game makes you really feel like youre actually there whether 
 its in Italy, Miami, Hockenheimring and so forth. The 3D images are detailed, the water 
 has a nice reflection and its good to see that the developers took great care in the presentation 
 of all the cars. Every car emulates like the real thing from the tires to the chassis and even 
 the position of the review mirrors. Personally my favourites are the Noble M400 (and its cousin 
 M12 GTO 3R) and the VW Nardo W12; seriously I cannot get enough of these two. To make things more 
 realistic, World Racing 2 has an excellent damage model thats very cool to take a snapshot 
 in the beginning of a race and then at the end and see what punishment the car has taken. Naturally 
 the more punishment on the car the performance will decrease (e. g. doors can simply fly off its 
 handles or in the worst case scenario the engine blows up) .
  
  Racing enthusiasts hopefully agree with me that sounds plays a very important part in any racing 
 game and thankfully World Racing 2 lives up to that standards  well almost anyways. The 
 general sounds like slamming through barricades, skidding and so forth is quite good however there 
 is room for improvement. The car engines dont really produce that oomph sound 
 and really is a disappointment considering what the entire package consist of. Yet the in 
 house music is a blast to boot as there are twelve songs and each of them worth listening 
 too as a standalone and really gets you going and thankfully World Racing 2 has a music manager 
 where you can add you own selection and mix them up to your liking; so bring on your best racing 
 tunes and believe me the better the songs the better the driving experience. 
  
  As explained above, World Racing 2 has a lot to offer  the many choices of races, cars, 
 tracks, career modes, music choices and so on therefore when it comes to value, youll get 
 your dollars worth down to the last cent. I know some racing games are a real pain when 
 you race the same track over and over again just to gain cash however this is not the case in World 
 Racing 2; considering there are over 70 tracks in career mode and each one feels totally different 
 to each other (e. g. the waypoints can be driving through a car park, skimming through a desert, 
 zigzagging through a busy part of a town or even climbing a mountain) boredom will not kick in 
 at all. To those who want to complete the entire game will take some serious time (I clocked at 
 115 hours but thats including everything  career and joyride and still counting) .
 
  
  Another sign of good value is the multiplayer aspect. Some games have this ghost 
 car image however not here  its free for all to slam, crash or simply boast and as 
 an added consultation prize there is a good modding community that has more cars (e. g. the Porsche) 
 and locations (The Swiss Alps and my backyard the good ole Australian Outback) . All 
 it takes is a simple download of an additional program and voila more driving mayhem. 
  
  That said, racing games have to be more than just racing around tracks if they want to live beyond 
 the ten minutes mark otherwise boredom can kick in rather quickly. World Racing 2 offers many different 
 elements of racing that tailors the hardcore and noobies alike with the many different types of 
 racing options (drifting, average speed, medals, knock outs, waypoints and so forth) and the gradual 
 learning curve is a sure attraction to any racing enthusiast. With a good modding community to 
 add to boot and as the saying goes variety is a spice of life and World Racing 2 
 definitely fits in that category  a sure winner so crash da car in the most spectacular 
 way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Bandie_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I like this game. But where is the Golf R32 which was announced? Is it possible to download it 
 separately somewhere? I wish a neer Version 3 will come up with more tracks, cars, and so on!
 
  
  Normally I play Car Race games with medium solution only to increase the game speed, to have a 
 getter and faster feeling in steering and so on.
  Increasing to a maximum is not possible for me because of the CPU Speed I have (2,4GHz) . When I 
 compare other games to World Racing2, I can play with more details the WR2 game to reach the same 
 result than with other similar games. So a pure plus for World Racing 2! 
  
  The newer PS3 race games are much nicer from the graphics view, but PC games needs a lot of PC 
 performance to do the same and I can't / won't buy a new faster PC every 2 years ;)
  
  Conclusion: WR2 is a good and funny Racer Game as it is.
  But Im looking forward to see a new 
 version of WR soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kendu10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  So here i start.
  I played this game somewhere 5 hours and i thinked thats great game but i didnt like that much.
 
  Because the loading page loaded so long and that maded me angry :S
  And the good one is that u can drift or whatever.: D
  So i give 8.5 because its good to play it 
 but it gets fast boring.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats 
 all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev.
  So thats all small rewiev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I like this series, and a I like this game.
  
  Graphics are so beauty white nice and clear effects and nice shadders effects, its lets the game 
 to an superior graphics level, and the car models are simple perfect.
  
  The sound: The car&acute; s engine isnt realistics... it could be better, but isnt bad.
  
  Sometimes 
 the controls are so hard, but its dont broke the drive experience in this game.
  
  I have an X360 and I have PGR3 and PGR4, I say... WR2 is more beauty, and enjoyable.
  
  this 
 is an arcade game white nice graphics, if you like arcade racing games, WR2 is good and fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepitko
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of potential, there are beautifully modeled racing locations, large selection 
 of road cars and off-road cars, only the ever-present flaws spoil it all. Everything is left for 
 the career mode so you earn Speedbucks to unlock tracks and cars. And career is the major fault 
 of World Racing 2.
  
  Handling in the career is just plain awful, because you cannot select from 100% arcade to 100% 
 simulation, like you can in Free Race mode. Career handling is preset to 100% arcade with something 
 called Arcade PLUS, which does not do anything as far as I can tell or it makes the cars even worse. 
 In this arcade setting, you cannot use keyboard because any little adjustment to the car's direction 
 slows you down, so you are always overtaken. You have the option of engaging the traction control, 
 which is useful with rear-wheel drive cars, but there is no ABS!! So, you have to brake very carefully 
 and again with keyboard its really hard. So youd probably want use steering wheel and pedals, 
 yes, but still when you get into a bend going uphill, the car just spins out of control.
  
  Career had potential too, you could trace some bits of story, and theres good balance between 
 off-road and on-road racing. But career is so frustrating, which makes it almost a chore not a 
 joy to play. You can get stuck in career, because the game does not want to unlock next race, even 
 though you completed the required races, so you need to go back and race again the challenges, 
 in which you did not earn gold.
  
  However, once you earn some points in career, you can finally go spend them on tracks and cars 
 in the Free Race. Here, you can select between simulation and arcade, obviously you'd want more 
 of a simulation, which makes the cars behave more naturally. Great thing is that each car has unique 
 handling.
  
  My most favorite part of the game was the JOYRIDE, which lets you freely drive around any location, 
 not a specific race itinerary. And with a steering wheel, after only short practice, you can power-slide 
 your AMG Mercedes round corners, which is great fun. Even when you get your car dirty or smashed 
 up (there is some level of damage) , you can stop at a Petrol Station, where your car is fixed and 
 there's even a car wash!
  
  There is even Split-screen Multiplayer, which cannot be found in most todays racing games. So 
 you get to play with your friends or a girlfriend, which is fun.
  
  All in all, World Racing 2 could easily have been a hit, only if it has been patched up a bit. 
 Even the flaws can be overseen, once you are in Free Race, which truly is quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Ok so i just played the DEMO. I know the full version will have lots more to offer. But here's 
 my problem. The demo could not keep my interest att all. When i started to drive through the bushes 
 with this big ass Volkswagen Taureg that's when i lost my interest. I was difficult and sorta impossable. 
 I just did not feel like trying again. I feels like a simulation the way it drives and i was using 
 a steering wheel. Did try it with my controller but that felt too akward. So i suggest getting 
 a steering wheel.
  
  Grahics are good someplace and not so wonderful other places. To be honest i doubt if i'd get the 
 full version seeing as the demo could not even rev my motor.
  
  Flatout 2 seems a better deal and offcoarse GTR2 much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  WR2 would be an amazing game, if everything that's in it would have been used.
  
  What do i mean?
  
  Look, they have really big locations modelled. Yet, most of the stuff 'on 
 the track' like bushes, trees, plants, whatever, doesn't even AFFECT the car handling. So when 
 you think, well, let's take a 4x4 and have a tour... you will be bored in one sec, it's like, you 
 are driving on asphalt all the time. And, yet so many cars, and so promising enviroment, the cars 
 handle crap. What a pity you can choose between 'arcade' and 'simulation' mode in free race, but 
 you can't in career - it's just arcade.
  
  Graphic-wise this game is fine, nothing special, water looks freaky, but for example the grass 
 looks brilliant. I also love how you can 'make paths' in the grass, once you drive on grass, it 
 will be pummeled on the ground.
  
  One thing that's annoying that WR1 had dashboard view, this one doesnt...
  at least there's still 
 damage.
  
  So what else? Music.. its annoying. Sounds? Average. Gameplay? Random. Sometimes you race, the 
 other time it1s just time trial, or pathfinder wtih a 4x4 which COULD be fun, but why it is not, 
 i explained it in the beginning.
  
  Overally, i was excepting more, since the 1st WR was great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
