-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Championship Poker 2: Featuring Howard Lederer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/worldchampionshippoker2featuringhowardlederer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smart artificial intelligence that plays any of the available poker variations quite well.
 14 poker variations.
 Fairly realistic character models and reaction animations.
 Upgrade points give some intriguing boosts to your game.
 Online across all platforms.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bluffing minigame is an interesting but flawed concept.
 Commentary and soundtrack aren't particularly listenable.
 Character-customization feature is weaker than in last year's game.
 PSP version is more expensive than the rest, despite not offering any differing content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Point of View
Genre: Casino
Date:     Nov 8, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World Championship Poker 2's offline play is the best you'll find amid this year's competition, 
 and the online play is still pretty engaging. 

  Isn't it a quaint thought to remember back to last year, when a game like World Championship Poker 
 could provide a fairly unassuming but playable game of console poker, and could be good simply 
 by virtue of the fact that there weren't 12 billion other poker games available on the market? 
 Yeah, well, those days are over. Marginal poker games are the new World War II first-person shooters, 
 and you can't walk past a bargain bin in a game store without tripping over the spillage of middling 
 card games for various platforms. But even with all that said, that doesn't mean that a poker game 
 can't still deliver the goods when done right -- it's just not done very often. World Championship 
 Poker 2: Featuring Howard Lederer does just that. Despite a changing of the guard for the franchise 
 to developer Point of View, the game bearing the Professor of Poker's name manages to improve in 
 a number of key areas over its predecessor, not the least of which is in the realm of artificial 
 intelligence. It's still got some presentational hurdles that you'll need to overcome to truly 
 appreciate it, but in a year in which poker games became the most groanworthy trend in the industry, 
 World Championship Poker 2 stands out as a diamond in the rough -- if only comparatively.  

           As you might expect, World Championship Poker 2 is yet another poker game for your consoles, 
 PC and PSP. But by Jove, this one's actually pretty good!     

  There's a bunch of games to play in World Championship Poker 2, including a multitude of draw and 
 stud variations. But of course, like all modern poker games, Texas Hold 'em is the star of the 
 show, and thus the game that has had the most focus put on it. But unlike a lot of other poker 
 games, these other games of poker don't play completely broken because of that focus. You'll find 
 quite intelligent players across the board in WCP 2. Opponents follow realistic betting patterns 
 that fit certain personality types. You'll encounter specifically aggressive, tight, and midrange 
 players, though none play precisely to type. Aggressive guys won't just go all-in on every hand. 
 They'll pick their spots just like everybody else, and create completely believable betting styles. 
 Computer opponents will check raise, fold good hands when they think they're beat, and even try 
 to bluff you now and again. Certainly, the system has its flaws -- you'll see questionable calls, 
 and even more questionable raises in certain situations -- but even with those issues, this is the 
 most realistic-playing poker game out there. Sometimes, it's even a little too realistic.  

  While realism is something poker games seem to be eternally grasping at, there's something to 
 be said for creating a game that snaps along at a brisker pace than your average card tournament. 
 Artificially creating action via dumb bets and calls definitely isn't the right answer, but when 
 you find yourself up against players this smart, it can be very, very difficult to get through 
 any elimination match in a timely fashion,  especially  if you're playing in a limit game. No-limit 
 games are, by nature, easier to knock people out of, since some moron can just go all-in with a 
 pair of twos and be on his way to the nearest bar five minutes later. In limit games, it's tough 
 to really milk large sums of chips out of opponents, unless you're in a rare situation in which 
 all the players involved think they have a made hand. What this leads to is matchups in which you 
 could find yourself playing in the same game for hours at a time. Maybe the answer is just to avoid 
 such matches, but the game's career mode dishes out plenty of these limit games, so you'll have 
 to deal with them eventually. It's not that they're not fun, but you'd better be willing to commit 
 some time.  

           Computer players play any of the available games quite smartly. No more endless strings 
 of checks and opponents you can bully to death.     

  If things like fancy AI and realistic pacing don't impress you, you might be swayed by a couple 
 of unique mechanical spins on the game World Championship Poker 2 offers. For one, as you play 
 through the game's career mode, you'll find yourself earning points you can use to upgrade your 
 game. No, this isn't some insidious method of cheating. Basically, these are just subtle little 
 things you can use to help measure the strength of your hand based on odds, detect specific tells 
 in an opponent's game, and the like. It's all clever stuff, and it adds a cool dimension to the 
 game you won't find elsewhere.  

  Slightly less inventive, but cool all the same, is the new tell/bluff system. World Poker Tour 
 did something like this earlier this year, but not to the same extent. Basically, whenever the 
 game feels like you've misplayed a hand or are generally doing something devious, a little circular 
 meter pops up. In it are two notches, red and black, as well as a yellow icon you can move around. 
 The circle starts spinning, and it's your goal to keep the yellow marker inside one of the other 
 marks as the circle spins. If you pull it off, you'll either give off a stalwart poker face, or 
 do some goofy theatrics to try and trick your opponent (depending on which marker you picked) . 
 Screw it up, and you'll do precisely the wrong reaction for the given situation, like, say, groaning 
 loudly right as about you're about to bet big on a bluff, or act excited as you check to slow play 
 a big hand.     

   

  The notion of making tells a specific gameplay mechanic is really a good one, but here it's just 
 not fleshed out enough to be useful, and in fact it's more of a detriment to the multiplayer game 
 than it should be. AI players will just choose to either react to or ignore your gesticulations, 
 but when you're playing the game online, people will basically know you're doing the minigame because 
 you'll have to pause for five seconds to do the thing before you can bet. One solution might be 
 to just wait five seconds before betting every time, but even when you're finished with the game, 
 it's not tough to identify what's just gone on. The reactions are so extreme, and not particularly 
 varied, so it's not tough to tell who's doing what and why. It doesn't completely ruin the online 
 game or anything, mind you. There are plenty of times where the minigames won't even come into 
 play. It's just annoying when the game gives you away. Then again, your average online poker player 
 probably isn't terribly perceptive and might not even notice. It's just something to watch for. 

           The whole tell/bluff minigame is conceptually neat, but it's more of a hassle that it 
 ultimately needed to be.     

  Features wise, World Championship Poker 2 includes all the requisite options, and does all of them 
 fairly well. The career mode is a mostly enjoyable endeavor, letting you build a bankroll you can 
 use both offline and online. The weird map system the mode employs to shuffle you around the world 
 to its different tournaments is a little odd, and really none of the big card rooms or casinos 
 seem remarkably different from one another, but otherwise this is a pretty good career mode. The 
 online play is available on all four platforms, and the PlayStation 2 version includes the now 
 obligatory EyeToy support. There's nothing exactly remarkable about the online play, really. It's 
 got all the different game types, some basic stat tracking, and of course, the silly bluffing minigame. 
 We also did run into a couple of hang-ups here and there while playing online, specifically in 
 heads-up games. We'd jump into a room against one player, play through a hand, and then when the 
 hand ended, the game would soft crash. The opponent would think it was our turn, and we'd see a 
 screen that made us think the opposite. This exact issue happened on both the PC and PSP versions 
 of the game, so it does appear to be something of a cross-platform issue. However, it only happened 
 a couple of times, and for the most part, our online play experiences were issue-free across all 
 platforms.  

  One area where World Championship Poker 2 has improved (though not remarkably so) is in terms of 
 presentation. Between the character models, casinos, and voice acting, you'll find yourself far 
 more impressed with what the game manages to do with its graphics and audio. The character models 
 are definitely the most improved of the bunch, with far more realistic builds, mannerisms, and 
 movements. The trade-off for that is that the character-creation tool featured in this year's game 
 is much less customizable. There's only a scant list of clothing and physical attributes to mess 
 with, so you won't have much luck trying to create that perfect version of yourself. There are 
 also some weird animations here and there; things like card dealing still look quite odd. With 
 each of the different personality types you can pick for a character comes a different voice, and 
 for the most part the voice acting isn't bad at all. It's cheesy, and the lines do get repetitive, 
 but the snarky jabs and excited victory exclamations in this game come across as the least obnoxious 
 of any poker game out there. The announcer that commentates during games is still pretty robotic, 
 and the cheesy swing music that plays in the background during games kind of sucks, but thankfully 
 you can turn both of them off, should you get tired of them.  

           The pro players are represented better in this game than in just about any other game 
 featuring pro players -- though that's not necessarily saying a lot.     

  No matter which version of World Championship Poker 2 you buy, you'll be getting effectively the 
 same experience across the board. The PSP game is the only one that stands out a little differently, 
 since it generally runs a bit slower than the other three versions, and also inexplicably costs 
 a little more than all the other versions. But apart from these quibbles, it measures up to the 
 console and PC games just as well.  

  If you're the kind of person that'd rather just pick up a deck of cards and call some buddies up 
 for a quick game, World Championship Poker 2 won't do an awful lot to get you into the mind-set 
 that playing video game poker is the way to go. But for those who do enjoy console, handheld, and 
 PC poker, WCP 2 is simply the best there currently is. That might not sound like a ringing endorsement, 
 considering the quality of the competition, but really, it's got the smartest offline game, a perfectly 
 serviceable online game, and a style of presentation that, while not anything to write home about, 
 does what it needs to to stay out of the way of your enjoyment. There's fun to be had here for 
 the poker enthusiast, and fun that comes without too many caveats.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brackuss
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Man all i want to play is texas hold em but they got dumb games like pineapple and poker games 
 i have never even hrard of. TAKE IT FROM ME BUY A DIFFRENT POKER GAME YOU'LL THANK ME LATER . The 
 career mode forces you to play these stupid games. And promises you a pad of your own. This game 
 could not be any dumber. Items can be bought for you pad but why waste you money on something that 
 you will never use. In the first week you have like 1000 dollars and in week 4 they offer to let 
 you play in a tournament that is a 50 k buy in. Between week 1-3 you ight make 3k does this not 
 make asny sense please give me any feedback but if you want a recommendation i would rather bang 
 my head against a wall than to play this game. Wish i hadn't opened the package 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetxshots
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Who ever thought of a game that would encourage young kids to go out and buy three or four sets 
 of cards to jus gamble their allowances? Well atleast in that case they can play withother easily. 
 Where as this game limits players to the comfortable level of playing with AI and sure you enough, 
 you get to a point where the AI becomes easy to beat, and you see your self puttin $100,000 chips 
 at every hand... very realistic. Producers should try and limit the number of poker games, get together 
 and release one amazing game, instead of 100 small games and each with a small good part. WIth 
 the game the most enjoyable part was losing 'cause simply it doesnt happen to much and adds diversity.
 
  graphics arent the best but than again what do i expect of a POker game? the way it is, is that 
 its ran mathematically, where a in real life poker and other card games are really luck, shoot 
 if it wasnt for luck and the idea of winning, these pokre games would've been nowhere, so all these 
 producers can also credit all the tragic strike of mother nature, leaving people in the state of 
 depression leaving them to see the best way to make money.... gambling which is a wrong image. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirebbal
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The first hand experience with the game is quite pleasant. It provides an interesting offline gaming 
 experience.
  
  But being myself a professional software developer, I just cannot forgive the presence of a bug 
 like the one that several game owners have reported. I just experienced it myself after a few hours 
 of playing.
  
  The bug? If you play large tourneys (  200 players) you'll have a crash before completing the tournament 
 . Minimal QA tests would have catch that before RTM.
  
  In the realm of software development, if you can reproduce a bug, you can fix it.
  Since this 
 problem is also present on platforms such as PS2, it makes it even easier to reproduce and fix 
 (no need to figure out a particular hardware config) .
  
  This bug alone removes most incentive to play the career mode.
  
  If there was a rating for 
 the game developers, I would give them a big zero.
  
  WCP2 is still playable, as long as you avoid large tournaments, and because of that, I will probably 
 play from time to time, but I would not recommend buying the game, until you see a downloadable 
 patch for that easy-to-diagnose (and therefore, fix) bug. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fourofakind
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  I cant believe the **** that write reviews. I dont think anyone should write reviews about a 
 product they know doesnt interest them or they know they dont like. It will just end up being 
 twisted to try and make people think your own way and will more than likely have no constructive 
 criticism and will be completely useless to everyone.
  
  One of the reviews below by thisisthisone makes out like he knows about poker but saying the game 
 needs better graphics and sounds so you can hear or see if they are bluffing. Whats that all about, 
 in my experience it is only complete amateurs that have tells like scratching their ear or tapping 
 their fingers when theyre bluffing. Most of the game is knowing your hand rank, knowing how to 
 calculate pot odds, your table position and how you and other people bet which you could work out 
 if all the people were replaced by stick men that never moved.
  
  I have played this game for a short while now and think that it is pretty good and worth a go. 
 I think the AI is quite good and I also like the way you have to build up from nothing so it gives 
 you just that bit more reason to keep playing for. The graphics probably could be made better but 
 not for the reasons above (this is not an essential and I dont think it would improve the game 
 play) . I still dont think that it compensates for real cash** games between you and your mates 
 or on a proper poker room on the net as you can notice how different you and your mates play when 
 there is real cash** on it but if your low on cash, get easily addicted to things or not very good 
 at poker but like it then stick to this. You cant go far wrong.
  
  ** Anything wrote about real cash games is of my own opinion and can not be used as a reason or 
 an excuse for any one else to take part in any real cash games. If you have a problem with gambling 
 then please seek professional help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rantumscoot
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  1) Loading is very slow and repetitive. You have to load a number of times to get to a game in 
 the "career" section.
  
  2) You can't save multiple sessions of the game. It is set up to only overwrite the current data 
 or not save at all. You cant save the game in the middle of the tournament. The frustration of 
 this is compounded by problem number 5.
  
  3) Characters have limited comments that they make. In over 48 hours of play time I've only heard 
 about a dozen different phrases from different characters.
  
  4) I question the random dealing of the cards. I once had an exact replica of a hand dealt to me 
 and my opponents as in another game. Statistically the odds of this are infinitesimal.
  
  5) THE WORST PART --- The game has crashed on my at least 5 times during large tournaments. With 
 no way to save the game during the tournament I've lost up to 5 hours of play time in a single 
 tournament when it crashes. Very frustrating to say the least. 
  
  6) I haven't gotten a call back from the manufacturer about the programming problem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcunited2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I love watching poker on the tv and playing it, now i can play it on the computer and its auwsome. 
 The graphics are excellent and the voice acting is great although sometimes it can get a bit anoying 
 if your losing :p The gameplay is good there is every kind of poker you can think of ranging from 
 everyones favourite texas hold em to pinapple. It a great game for you poker lovers and its fun 
 playing online with your poker buddies. And the good thing is if you lose you dont lose your own 
 money. Oh and the last thing the A. I in the game is just spot on unlike other poker games where 
 they are as dumb as rats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageTrickster
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  The opponent A. I. is very realistic, as it gets harder as you progress, but not the card dealings 
 like most games, its just harder to bluff and exploit the good opponents.
  
  There's every type of playing poker what i know of in this game, not just the same old Texas Hold'em 
 (even though it is the best way to play poker IMO) .
  
  Graphics are what you expect - nicely put together but not exactly working off the Doom3 engine.
 
  
  The sound is annoying although the commentary isn't great it's that bad, The character scripts 
 are so repetitive and very annoying. The sound effects even irritate me.
  
  Its def the best poker game out there and soon as you get used to its flaws its quite immersing 
 on the same lines as a golf game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeski
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  The game in and of itself is compeling and easy to play. Controls are not hard to learn and the 
 fun of playing poker is right in your computer. If you do love playing poker and have been playing 
 these games ever since they started coming out then this is the best one yet. If, on the other 
 hand, you are a novice and this is your first poker game ever and haven't even played with your 
 friends then it still is a great game. The tutorial shows you everything you need to know and the 
 rest of the game will be just as fun. Although it has its drawbacks here and there it isn't a bad 
 game at all.
  
  Once you start off you have to make yourself a character so that you can immerse yourself in the 
 world of poker from small buy-ins and relatively next to nothing winnings to grand pots that will 
 be hard to win. You have a few choices of the skin color, how your face will look. hair, facial 
 hair, glasses, hats, gloves, rings, etc. There isn't all that many for each but it should satisfy 
 even the ones who want to make themselves in exact likeness. From there you either go to the tutorial 
 or straight to the career mode where your game with pros will official beginning. 
  
  The tutorial basically teaches you all the rules of poker by playing a game with you and showing 
 you step by step what to do when and what to do when you don't have good cards. It is helpful but 
 relatively boring so going straight to the career is much better because even if you lose a couple 
 of times in the first game you can play it as much as you want because magically everytime you 
 lose the $200 that was the buy-in he somehow earns a new $200. Like working at the carwash, finding 
 money on the floor and so on. 
  
  The career is pretty well set up and allows you to play a few kinds of poker not only texas hold 
 'em. The world is 2D and not fun to explore since its basically a map of the world with a few places 
 to play poker, a place to change your looks for a few bucks, a pawnshop, and finally your own home 
 which will be upgraded as you win games. AT your house you hold weekly poker games for your friends 
 with small buy-ins and small pots. 
  
  However, good this game is it still lacks the enticing gameplay which is expected of a poker game. 
 During your turns you are sometimes forced to play minigames. They are basically two points rotate 
 around a circle one having the name Bluff and the other Poker Face. Times counts off and you have 
 about 4 seconds to get those one of those two names to zero. It isn't especially hard and yet the 
 two points rotate once to the right and then all of a sudden change to the left. You play these 
 minigames if you have a strong hand or a weak hand. However, the AI is completely oblivious to 
 this even if you go all in and don't get one of the two and your player shows he has a weak hand 
 the AI will still fold. So in actuality this minigame is hopeless because it neither helps you 
 or harms you. 
  
  The AI as I mentioned before isn't all that briliant. The catch phrase are very repetetive and 
 many of the other "people" you play against have the same catch phrase as you such as "I won? I 
 was suppose to lose." or "Call me next time and you'll win." Also no matter what you do the AI 
 won't know whether you have a weak or strong hand and will act as if the minigame never happened. 
 Furthermore, in playing for larger pots it is much easier to beat the AI than it is in playing 
 for smaller pots because in the smaller pot everyone is cautious while in bigger pots most of the 
 time one or two players will go all in and even if your not playing they will eventually eliminate 
 themselves. 
  
  Even with some of these drawbacks it is still the best poker game out there of course except real 
 poker. It's an easy game to pick up and play but soon will bore you and you will go on looking 
 for a new and exciting adventure or action or shooting ame. But it's still worth a try if you want 
 to learn to play poker or simply are an enthusiast and must have this installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttomm1946
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Hi
  
  great poker game and as for the little moron who said this is an adult game... what the hell is 
 wrong with that...... there are adults that post here like me... it's not just for kids that haven't 
 worked a day in there life, who think an intellectual challenge is Frogger or Pacman.
  
  This has a worthy AI to help sharpen your poker playing skills..... that's inportant and refreshing 
 with so many lame poker games around... this has a real challenge involved with it...... this is 
 a pretty darn good poker program. could use a little graphics and sound enhancement but otherwise 
 a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroup34
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a good poker game. The people that rated it 1 and 4.8 clearly have no understanding of 
 poker and clearly need to spend their time playing shootem ups. The fact is the more you play poker 
 the more you understand and can enjoy the game with appreciation. The grafix do not need to be 
 fantastic for poker and they are more than adequat in my oppinion. Have not played the game a great 
 deal at the moment but the gameplay appeared good. I personally prefer World Class Poker with T. 
 J. Cloutier as I can get more rounds of hands in a given time and learn more. With this game you 
 have to wait for the animation which slows down the number of dealt hands per hour, although it 
 is more entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clooterous
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  SSJ4-SaGohan, and some other idiot claim this game sucks because it is simply a card game..... 
 they say theirs no violence so its bad they are true morons. Only if your an adult will you like 
 this game? LOL you guys are so damn dumb you think a game needs violence to be good -- thats the 
 most childish thing ive ever heard of in my life. Both of you should be shot over and over and 
 over and over again. Grow up and try to expand your mind past mindless violent games and porn. 
 ****** Losers. Poker rules. Dont be mad because both of you probably are horrible at the game so 
 you gave up after 15 minutes of playing like the idiots you are. 
  Dont ever let these kids attempt to write a review about ANY game because they are obviously to 
 young and stupid to understand the real meaning of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is boring. Even my dad says that this game sucks. Who ever of thought that poker could 
 actually fun? This game is all about a card game. Nothing cool about a card game. No violent or 
 any thing. All you do is pick a card fold and what ever command you do, and throw it to the table. 
 Does this game sounds fun even? Like it might interest an adult. So why is this game even in Gamespot? 
 Gamespot has cool game like DBZ games, LOZ games, and other great fantastic games that is better 
 than this poker game. I'm telling you that this game has nothing fun about. Do not buy this game 
 unless you are a adult guy who does not have any game at home, or a birthday or Christmas present 
 for ADULTS!!!!
  
  That is all I could say about this game for now. I might be back to review this game again. But 
 until then I have one word to say out loud.
  
  CIAO!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisisthisone
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  this game sucked on many levels. you will hate this game unless you are one of those ppl that like 
 to watch the world poker tour or whatever it is called I on the other hand hate with every pashenit 
 red blood cell in my body. there is more to playing poker then just some hoyle cards and chips 
 its about understanding your opponent and knowing what you do when someone dose something out of 
 the ordinary or starts messing it up. I think the game would be a lot better if they put really 
 good graphics on it and good sound because that way you would be able to call someones bluff or 
 know when to raise. All and all to me the game was just a better another version of what I play 
 when I am dropping some browns off at the super bowl. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
