-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Series of Poker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/worldseriesofpoker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Scotty Nguyen is in it.
 Decent player models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pushover AI.
 Bad commentary.
 Fails to capture the pageantry of the World Series events.
 Pro players are badly represented.
 Career mode has somewhat of a pointless feel to it after a while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.7, 5.8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Genre: Casino
Date:     Sep 13, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lacking engaging AI, a particularly good interface, or any online play whatsoever, World Series 
 of Poker is a miserable failure on the PC. 

  The World Series of Poker is... well, the World Series of poker tournaments. The multiday, multistaged 
 tournament of all comers in the poker world, be they pro or amateur, is the grandest of grand poker 
 events, culminating in a several-days-long main event where thousands of players test their Texas 
 Hold 'em skills with the hope of taking home the bracelet and millions of dollars in cash winnings. 
 But you wouldn't know any of this by playing Activision Value's game take on the World Series. 
 The console versions of World Series of Poker were middling but mostly OK representations of the 
 game, but they didn't necessarily represent the pageantry of the tournament itself. The PC version 
 of the game manages to get neither right. For some reason, World Series on the PC is a completely 
 different game from the console versions, with worse artificial intelligence, a completely different 
 (and in some ways worse) interface, next to no character customization options, and no online play. 

          Sure, it's got some pros, but what kind of a World Series is this without Johnny Chan?!? 
     

  Games included in the World Series of Poker package are Omaha, Omaha hi-low split, seven card stud, 
 seven card stud hi-low split, razz (seven stud lowball) , and, of course, the Cadillac of poker 
 itself, Texas hold 'em. The bulk of the single-player experience comes from the career mode, where 
 you're given the opportunity to create your own poker persona. Unfortunately, you can only do this 
 via some generic base character models, and you can't customize them at all. After that, you're 
 given $10,000 and sent into the lion's den. With that money, you can begin buying your way into 
 any of the ancillary WSOP tournaments to build your bankroll, or you can just dive headfirst into 
 the main event.  

  The progression of the career is a bit stagnant but not altogether bad. The main problem with it 
 is that everything you do feels fundamentally the same. Whether you're in a $1,500 razz tournament 
 or the main event, the presentation and feel of the game never really changes. There are a few 
 invitational tournaments you can check out where you'll play against mostly pro players, but even 
 they don't break up the monotony very well. Not to mention that the game boasts only a small number 
 of real-life pro players, such as Chris "Jesus" Ferguson, Scotty Nguyen, Men "The Master" Nguyen, 
 John Phan, and Max Pescatori -- and none of them display their trademark personalities in the game. 
 Unlike the console versions, at least in the PC game they don't jump up and down while wildly gesticulating 
 when they win. Instead, they'll occasionally toss their arms up in victory.  

  The console versions of World Series featured reasonably solid AI that made a few boneheaded plays 
 here and there, but mostly it played the game pretty straight. The PC version's AI is much less 
 laudable. For the most part, it doesn't make any boneheaded calls, but it's also entirely too easy 
 to bully the hell out of your opponents by just raising all-in all the time or generally just raising 
 well past what's qualified for your hand, especially before the flop. Even the pro players will 
 rarely bother to check you unless they have a fully made hand, and even then it has to be a monster 
 for them to bother. This sucks a lot of the fun out of the game.  

  Sadly, World Series of Poker on the PC lacks the PS2 and Xbox versions' online component for some 
 inexplicable reason. Online play isn't exactly the hardest thing in the world to include in a PC 
 game, and the lack of it here seriously hurts the quality of the package. Without it, World Series 
 pretty much just ends up being another generic PC poker game without a multiplayer component, of 
 which there are an awful lot already.  

  At the very least, the PC version of the game does look somewhat better than the console games, 
 and it looks better than most PC poker games, for that matter. When playing the game, the camera 
 takes a first-person view. From your end of the table you can simply look over the other players. 
 And when your cards are dealt, you click on them, causing your player to cautiously look at the 
 cards with his or her hands covering them up. Unfortunately, the downside of this angle is that 
 the camera never moves. You never get any camera shifts that show the reactions of other players, 
 so basically you're stuck with this one stagnant shot the entire time. It also bears mentioning 
 that the character models and animations are better here than in the console games. More detail 
 has been put into the players, and while they still move a bit jerkily, at least they have some 
 natural movements. The dealer animations, though, are still awful. The general interface of the 
 game is kind of cluttered, and it's often hard to really tell what you're supposed to click on 
 and when -- at least in the early goings. You get used to it, but the interface lacks the sleekness 
 of its console counterparts.  

          Insert "Rounders" quote here.      

  Official WSOP commentator Lon McEachern lends his voice to the proceedings, but his usual sidekick, 
 Norman Chad, is nowhere to be found. As grating as Chad is during the TV broadcasts, his brand 
 of painful self-denigrating humor would be vastly more welcome than the schlub who replaces him 
 here. McEachern himself is bad enough; he's only got around a dozen or so canned comments, none 
 of which provide any real insight. The rest of the audio doesn't consist of much more than the 
 flips of cards, clatters of chips, and what have you.  

  Lacking engaging AI, a particularly good interface, or any online play whatsoever, World Series 
 of Poker is a miserable failure on the PC. If you really want to experience a game that feels at 
 least marginally like the real-life World Series, pick up the Xbox or PS2 version. If you just 
 want a decent game of PC poker that actually has multiplayer, there are a million other, better, 
 and often free options at your disposal.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cdtrichard
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  By far the worst poker game I have ever played. I would be better of playing a game of go fish 
 with my kids. The computer version always seems to freeze up and crash at the worst times. The 
 AI is terrible. They make some terrible calls and will even raise hands when there is no way they 
 can beat you (dead hand) . I would not pay a penny for this game. Go online and play ESPN poker 
 or some where else where you are at least playing against real life boneheads. The graphics are 
 better than most free online games but still could have been much betteron the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallicaFan2005
Rating: 3
Date: May 27, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  I thought this game had potential when I first started playing. The presentation was pretty cool 
 and I liked the feel of things. Quickly however many faults started pouring through the broken 
 dam. The audio is hideous, along with the announcing. The players make the same motions over and 
 over again making everything seem scripted and dull. 
  
  The biggest downfall of the game is it's stability. On my PC the game crashes in every tournament 
 I play after the first one. I have heard that others have had the same problem and on the official 
 site it is noted as a soundcard issue corrected by updating drivers. My drivers are up to date 
 and it still crashes. I downloaded the patch and got no relief and have yet to be able to contact 
 customer support so I just gave up.
  
  For $20 this game would be acceptable if it would run correctly. I would not buy this game as it 
 is known to be unstable and not worth it when there are better alternatives out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Poker as many people are nowadays as Poker continues to grow and grow. Poker games 
 though havn't been that impressive yet anyway. Some of the hands are dodgy too because i got two 
 rocket pocket hands one after the other which is basically 1000000 - 1 odds. I think next years 
 edition could be promising but will need to improve alot for me to buy it. All in all a good game 
 but not a great game. I'm sure the people at Activision will be looking at improving this game 
 alot for next years edition which i'll be looking forward to see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donkeymullet
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The World Series of Poker is known as the holy grail of the poker world. The PC version isn't part 
 of the poker world at all though. This ISN'T the holy grail of poker games, instead, it is a lowly 
 game which will quickly work its way to the bottom of the bargain bin. 
  
  Its appalling graphics and ridiculous commentary are strongly overpowered by the astoundingly bad 
 gameplay, cards seem to be pre-determined so that your opponents can hit that miracle card on the 
 river. And their poker strategy is terribly confusing. One hand I played I raised before the flop 
 with two kings and had one caller, funny enough it was one of the "top" pros of the game Chris 
 Ferguson, who in real life is an outstanding player, but not in this game. I flopped 3 kings and 
 Ferguson checked and so did I. On the Turn he checked, I bet, he called. On the river he went all-in 
 and I called. He turned over just a King high (10-4 in his hand) . So not only did he make a terrible 
 call pre-flop, but he also went all-in without so much as a pair.
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maroisc
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  I won't talk about graphics, because I don't care about graphics, and commentating ( turn it off 
 ) .
  
  I am a poker player. And this game ain't poker. I have played it for a month or so (coincidentally 
 I have been screaming at my monitor for that time too) and here is what I found:
  
  Players seem to think that a pocket pair (a low one) is so great they need to call up till the 
 end. Who does that?!
  
  They always assume you are bluffing, which make them follow you till the end, no matter the amounts, 
 if they have at least a pair of 3 on the table. Who does that!?
  
  The Game seems to know when you have a solid hand. most of the time, if you have a solid hand pre-flop 
 and sometimes flop, everybody drops. 
  
  The percentage of possible straights in the community cards are exceptionnally high. 
  
  When 
 a player is chasing one card, it *always* miraculously appears on the river.
  
  To ensure that the professional players in the game are good, they seem to have been boosted with 
 luck. They have great hands and their cards get out 80% of the time. 
  
  The other tables in the tournaments are not played, the game just decides who's winning. So each 
 time a player is eliminated at your table, the other tables are refreshing, until there are only 
 9 of you left, at the final table, and the other players arriving have eliminated their complete 
 tables in five minutes gathering some six-seven digits amounts in chips, and... you guessed it 
 right, most of them are the pros. 
  Well, there is one thing determining who wins at the other tables, and that's *your* table. You 
 see, from the 30something characters in the game, they can only have one seat assigned to them, 
 because they are not 3D, they're 2D and from one angle only. That means Ferguson will always be 
 seated at the same place, Long will always be seated at the same place. So if that place is not 
 available, they get eliminated... poor them.
  
  Poker is cards, and cards are random. This game is not random, therefore it has an edge on you. 
 And I hate games that prefer the  to the harder 
 
  
  If you want to improve your game, that's not with the poor quality of playing this game offers 
 that you will. 
  
  If I would be a pro featured in this game, I would not be happy to be associated with .... that 
 stuff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: etsuperstar
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has an absolute lack of anything. Even the graphics, which aren't all bad, are lacking, 
 especially considering the 1GB+ install space required. It's about time that one of these multi-million 
 dollar companies realizes there is a market out there for a good poker game that gives you all 
 variations of poker, and for sanities sake actually puts some effort into developing the AI. Within 
 my first two games I figured out how to win nearly every table, despite the fact there is an awful, 
 awful lot of pocket pairs floating around, as much as three to four sets in a 10 person table, 
 repeatedly. Am I the only peron in the world tired of hearing the announcer saying the same thing 
 over, and over, and over, and over... This game is a joke; I wondered when it only cost $20, but 
 I gave it the benefit of the doubt due to the install size and the fact Activision has suprised 
 me in the past. But, after less than an hour I knew, just another $20 down the crapper... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX220
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  The interface options are lacking, what options?! Ah!
  
  It crashes if I have the graphics set on high, and is apparently standard operating fun, included 
 as a bonus until patched?
  
  Example of design flaws:
  
  A simple CALL button would be a great start, seriously, it doesn't just let you easily call a bet!!! 
 You have to select call, then the amount, even in LIMIT, where if you are just CALLING, it's one 
 amount only possible at that point and time in the hand!
  
  It's a pretty embarrassing effort, don't waste a penny on it.
  
  -RX220
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
