-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Soccer Winning Eleven 8 International
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/winningeleven8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 563 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Feb 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World Soccer Winning Eleven 8 International is undoubtedly Konami's best soccer game to date, thanks 
 to a number of quite dramatic improvements made both on and off the field. 

  Konami's Winning Eleven games have never been able to boast the official licenses and superb presentation 
 that are such integral parts of many other sports games, and as a result, the series has earned 
 its great reputation solely on the strength of its realistic gameplay. World Soccer Winning Eleven 
 8 International not only marks the first time that (an unfortunately limited number of) licensed 
 club teams have appeared in a Winning Eleven game, but also the first time that the series has 
 appeared on the Xbox. Released in Europe as Pro Evolution Soccer 4 toward the end of last year, 
 World Soccer Winning Eleven 8 International is undoubtedly Konami's best soccer game to date, thanks 
 to a number of quite dramatic improvements made both on and off the field.  

          The training mode offers plenty of ways to hone your skills.     

  The PC version of 
 Winning Eleven 8 is essentially a slightly enhanced port of the PlayStation 2 game released earlier 
 this month. The most noticeable differences between the PC and PS2 versions are that the PC game 
 benefits from improved visuals (thanks purely to the maximum resolution of 1280x1024) and adds 
 online play to what was already a package offering great longevity. It's not all good news, though, 
 because the game's menus and tutorials frequently refer to the PS2's X, square, circle, and triangle 
 buttons (only the colors of them have changed) . Furthermore, the online play, although a welcome 
 addition, could not have been implemented more poorly. The only way you can connect to another 
 player online is by exchanging IP addresses and then entering into a host-client relationship. 
 There are third-party downloads available (such as PES4 Launcher) that let you match up with other 
 players from around the world, but finding opponents with an acceptable ping (one that won't make 
 the controls feel frustratingly unresponsive) can occasionally prove difficult.  

  Regardless of whether or not you're familiar with previous Winning Eleven games, the first thing 
 you'll want to check out in Winning Eleven 8 is its surprisingly deep training mode, which, like 
 everything else, can be reached via menu screens that are both far easier on the eyes and far easier 
 to navigate than those found in previous entries in the series. The training options in Winning 
 Eleven 8 are divided into four subcategories: beginner training, free training, situation training, 
 and challenge training. Beginner training not only teaches you how to perform all the basic moves, 
 but also does a great job of explaining the sport itself, the roles of the different players on 
 the pitch, and even the offside rule (via a series of texts, diagrams, and demonstrations) . Free 
 training lets you take control of a team on a field where the only opponent is a goalkeeper. Situation 
 training teaches you how to use some of the more advanced controls to make you more effective at 
 dribbling, passing, shooting, attacking, and defending. Challenge training is basically an opportunity 
 for you to put what you've learned to the test in a series of increasingly difficult trials. It's 
 so rewarding that you'll want to successfully play through everything it has to offer at least 
 once.  

  The challenge training mode comprises no fewer than 40 different trials for you to complete, and 
 it will test your skills in eight different disciplines: attacking, defending, dribbling, short 
 passing, manual passing, free kick long passing, free kick shooting, and ball possession. All the 
 challenges on offer are played using exactly the same controls and camera angles as the rest of 
 the game, but they require you to perform very specific tasks. The dribbling challenges, for example, 
 require you to navigate your way through mazes of cones within a time limit, while the free kick 
 challenges have you aiming at increasingly smaller targets. Every time you beat a challenge, you'll 
 gain access to a more difficult one, in addition to being awarded a number of "WEN points" to spend 
 in the WE-Shop. WEN points are one of the many new features in Winning Eleven 8. Specifically, 
 they can be spent to unlock additional content, such as stadiums, classic teams and players, ball 
 types, player-edit options, camera angles, and a sixth difficulty setting. Completing the challenge 
 training is the easiest way to amass a large number of WEN points early on, but you'll also be 
 awarded a small number every time you play a match, regardless of the outcome.  

          The master league career mode boasts a number of innovative features.     

  When you're 
 not playing Winning Eleven 8 with friends (the PC version can support up to eight players on a 
 single machine, or two on a LAN or online) , you'll most likely be managing a team in the "master 
 league" career mode, which this year introduces a host of great new features to what was already 
 a winning formula in previous Winning Eleven games. The first thing you'll notice about the master 
 league, before you've even chosen a team to take control of, is that you're no longer forced to 
 manage the exact same squad of fictional no-hopers, regardless of which team you opt for. That 
 option is still available, of course, but you can also choose to start your career in charge of 
 a team that comprises the players you'd expect it to in real life, thus making winning games a 
 lot easier. However, raising enough money to pay wages becomes a bit harder. Once your career gets 
 under way, you'll find this year's master league to be an incredibly deep and engaging gameplay 
 option in which every player on your team is in a constant state of change.     

  The behavior of every player in Winning Eleven 8 is determined by a rating of 1-100 in no fewer 
 than 31 different attributes, as well as by any of 23 specialized skills that each might possess. 
 The attributes system isn't radically different from that found in previous Winning Eleven games, 
 but what is new is the role-playing-game-style character development that every player goes through 
 as your career progresses. At the end of every match, you'll automatically be taken to a development-sheet 
 screen where you can see which of your players has been awarded experience points and how those 
 points have affected any of his attributes. Every time a player accrues 100 experience points for 
 a particular attribute, his rating for that attribute (which might be top speed, shooting accuracy, 
 or team work, for example) will be increased by one point. Only players who actually participated 
 in the match will be eligible for experience bonuses, and the number of points that can be received 
 is more dependent on age than anything else.  

          The players on your master league squad are in a constant state of change.     

  Very 
 young players in Winning Eleven 8 are generally less skilled than those in their primes, but they're 
 quick to learn and can improve noticeably over the course of just one 14-game season. Older players, 
 on the other hand, will actually start to lose skills as they near retirement age, by which time 
 you'll hopefully have managed to sell them to other clubs. The new age and experience system works 
 incredibly well, because whereas previous Winning Eleven games let you both build your dream team 
 and stick with it indefinitely, Winning Eleven 8 forces you to constantly evaluate and change your 
 squad, since retiring players are removed from the database and promising youngsters invariably 
 replace them. Signing big-name players for your team is still very satisfying, of course, but in 
 addition to the huge transfer fees and wages they'll invariably demand, you'll now also have to 
 take their ages into account.  

  As you've probably guessed, you'll be spending a fair bit of your time wheeling and dealing on 
 the transfer market in this year's master league, which is, no doubt, why Konami went to the trouble 
 of including player search options that put even those in some soccer management games to shame. 
 You'll find a quick search option that automatically selects a number of players that are ready 
 and willing to play for your team, as well as a talent search option that lets you search for 14 
 different "types" of players (such as dribblers, ace strikers, or defensive leaders) . Additionally, 
 you'll find an advanced search option that lets you narrow down your short list by fine-tuning 
 just about every parameter imaginable. As in previous Winning Eleven games, you also have the option 
 to look for new players to sign simply by checking out other teams' lineups, though this really 
 isn't a very efficient use of your time. In short, finding the player that you're looking to sign 
 really couldn't be any easier (assuming that he exists) , although convincing him to play for your 
 team is occasionally much more challenging than you'd imagine.  

  At other times in your master league career, you'll have to make the tough decision of  not  playing 
 key members of your team, either because their "condition" ratings are low or because they've not 
 been rested for a number of matches and have accordingly accumulated fatigue. The condition rating 
 in Winning Eleven 8 works the same way it did in previous games, with different-colored directional 
 arrows used to indicate five varying player states. A player in poor condition (indicated by a 
 blue arrow pointing down) will definitely not perform as well as he would if he was at his peak 
 (red arrow pointing up) . So, again, you're forced to constantly evaluate your players so you can 
 alter your starting lineups accordingly. One of the more unusual options in the master league lets 
 you "regulate" your entire team's condition by kicking a ball around for 20 seconds or so before 
 going to a match. This results in the overall improvement of most of your less-well-conditioned 
 players, while your better-conditioned players often drop slightly in overall gameplay performance. 
 The master league mode can be played indefinitely, and you're also able to use the squad you assemble 
 in matches outside your career.  

          The referee's presence on the field adds very little to the game.     

  And how would 
 those matches play out? Well, they'd be incredibly realistic. As a result, it's highly unlikely 
 that you'd ever score the same goal twice. And while one of you sings the praises of the new on-the-pitch 
 referee, the other would almost certainly be cursing him for making some poor decision or another. 
 In truth, the referee on the field doesn't add anything significant to the game other than representing 
 a focal point for your frustrations after a dubious offside decision or after a questionable judgment 
 that awards a penalty or playing advantage to the opposition. Like the CPU-controlled players in 
 Winning Eleven 8, the referee exhibits great artificial intelligence (if you can use "referee," 
 "great," and "intelligence" in the same sentence) , but since he's only human, it's not uncommon 
 for him to make mistakes from time to time. Dubious refereeing decisions are a big part of soccer 
 in real life, of course, so this isn't a criticism so much as an observation... and a warning.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: slavenL8
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The game contains good graphics and excellent gameplay, but the one thing I don't like is the licensing. 
 Regardless the game is great. Over the years, Winning Eleven has tried to get licenses from international 
 teams and clubs. The following leagues are included in series: Serie A, J. League Division 1 and 
 2, La Liga, Eredivisie, Ligue 1. As you can see there are not enough leagues and for that reason 
 I do not enjoy playing the game. If the game can't get any good leagues than they should try to 
 get some other leagues.
  
  But the game is worth playing due to the fact that it contains good GFX and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DatDude02
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing fifa 2005, thinking that it was Something Good .... i was delightfully surprised to 
 experience this V-V-V-VERRRRY beautiful game..... Ok , Let's be real.... the GAMEPLAY is not 100 
 %, no, it's not.. It's ReALLy good though. IT does have alotta flaws like.... # The loose ball, 
 PLENTY times, just go straight to cpu teammate, or out of play. ( I've seen the ball go straight 
 through my player (front to back) but somehow reacts to the very end of his shirt , which then 
 goes straight towards cpu ...&amp; gets a clear shot. ..... Whenever there's a fumble between cpu 
 &amp; my player, if the ball ever touches my feet, it usually bounces off further than it should... either 
 out of bounds, or to an opposing cpu player. my 1-touch is horrible # Numerous times ... team after 
 team, these guys fowl me in the penalty area (at four &amp; up stars) ...... I get the penalty... but 
 i feel like the cpu programming is so set , that EVEN WHEN cpu completely takes out my player without 
 ever touching the ball, they still don't even get a yellow card.
  
  # Why does my defender keep 'MAKING WAY' FOR THE OPPOSING TEAM TO SCORE ??? they ( my wing players) 
 even run way further leaving my center defenders to play catch-up to an about to score FW who've 
 beaten the Offside trap!!!...... way to go....@$$ holes.
  # my team is to defend my goal from a 'Corner kick'..... whenever cpu's player &amp; my player 
 collide to header the ball.... cpu always fall to their feet fumbling in the correct position &amp; 
 direction to get a clear shot at goal while my defender either falls to his feet fumbling in the 
 opposite direction of the ball, or falls on the ground.... (THIS IS CRAZY)
  
  Honestly, all in all, the game play -even with all it's flaws- IS still really IMPRESSIVE. IT is 
 WAY BETTER THAN ANY OTHER SOCCER GAME to date...
  
  Graphics..... Eehhhh...... It could've been better.
  SOUND........ I'm content with the sound.
 
  I love the look of mode select
  I hate to have to build each player's skill manually in Master 
 
  
  All In All, Those of you who mostly just care about the gameplay of these soccer games (Like ME) ....... then 
 YOU're gonna have a GREAT 2 years with this game .... I still play . still room for improvement 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  The best football game
  
  Pro Evolution Soccer 4 in Europe, Winning Eleven 8 in America. There isn't anything different between 
 the two apart from the name. In the game there are no licenses for a lot of leagues, but there 
 is an edit feature so that you can rename teams and players. A major licence this game has is the 
 Liga Espanola (The Spanish league.) and the Serie A. (The Italian league.) This has helped silence 
 some of the concerns from some gamers. This game has changed lots since the last game and it is 
 for the best. 
  
  When you first boot up the game, you will want to dive into the training mode, which explains the 
 main controls of the game, along with the actual rules of football. This explanation is in-depth 
 so you won't be confused while you are playing. The training mode consists of lots of drills that 
 show the new and old skills, you will be surprised by exactly how many controls there are and the 
 controls are easy to access and control. 
  
  If you can complete most of the challenge training you will gain some points that you can spend 
 in the shop. You can purchase items such as teams, stadiums, players and ball types. Some of the 
 options actually influence some of the modes. This we will come to this next. 
  
  There is a revamped master league this time, (Basically a career mode.) In this mode you can now 
 choose your team and raise funds to pay their wages and buy more players. The spending is controlled 
 and you will need to play through a lot of seasons before you get to have a "dream team." This 
 master league will be the bulk of your gameplay and while it doesn't sound like much, it is very 
 engaging and deep. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer feature that works as well as before, making the game great for tournaments, 
 parties or even a quick game. The players also gain stats over time if they are young or lose stats 
 if they are old. This is a great concept as you can either pick to train a young team or have an 
 excellent old team. 
  
  As you progress you will have to plan for each game. The game has a stamina level now and the more 
 you play your players the more tired they get and they are more venerable to injury. This makes 
 you spend a lot more time on the formation screen, which can take a lot of time but is very good 
 at boosting your game. 
  
  The main gameplay in the game is great, the game keeps you from blowing out all of your opponents 
 and you never score the same goal twice. The AI is good and they mark well, they attack well and 
 the keepers are very good. The game keeps an emphasis on reality and it is almost impossible to 
 score from miles out. You will need to play tactically and plan your moves and runs. The referees 
 in the game are also very realistic as they make bad calls, this can be frustrating but adds to 
 the realism. 
  
  All in all this game blows out any of the Fifa series as it has actually changed during the development 
 period. You should buy this regardless of your views on football.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krudo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 4 in Europe, Winning Eleven 8 in America. There isn't anything different between 
 the two apart from the name. In the game there are no licenses for a lot of leagues, but there 
 is an edit feature so that you can rename teams and players. A major licence this game has is the 
 Liga Espanola (The Spanish league.) and the Serie A. (The Italian league.) This has helped silence 
 some of the concerns from some gamers. This game has changed lots since the last game and it is 
 for the best. 
  
  When you first boot up the game, you will want to dive into the training mode, which explains the 
 main controls of the game, along with the actual rules of football. This explanation is in-depth 
 so you won't be confused while you are playing. The training mode consists of lots of drills that 
 show the new and old skills, you will be surprised by exactly how many controls there are and the 
 controls are easy to access and control. 
  
  If you can complete most of the challenge training you will gain some points that you can spend 
 in the shop. You can purchase items such as teams, stadiums, players and ball types. Some of the 
 options actually influence some of the modes. This we will come to this next. 
  
  There is a revamped master league this time, (Basically a career mode.) In this mode you can now 
 choose your team and raise funds to pay their wages and buy more players. The spending is controlled 
 and you will need to play through a lot of seasons before you get to have a "dream team." This 
 master league will be the bulk of your gameplay and while it doesn't sound like much, it is very 
 engaging and deep. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer feature that works as well as before, making the game great for tournaments, 
 parties or even a quick game. The players also gain stats over time if they are young or lose stats 
 if they are old. This is a great concept as you can either pick to train a young team or have an 
 excellent old team. 
  
  As you progress you will have to plan for each game. The game has a stamina level now and the more 
 you play your players the more tired they get and they are more venerable to injury. This makes 
 you spend a lot more time on the formation screen, which can take a lot of time but is very good 
 at boosting your game. 
  
  The main gameplay in the game is great, the game keeps you from blowing out all of your opponents 
 and you never score the same goal twice. The AI is good and they mark well, they attack well and 
 the keepers are very good. The game keeps an emphasis on reality and it is almost impossible to 
 score from miles out. You will need to play tactically and plan your moves and runs. The referees 
 in the game are also very realistic as they make bad calls, this can be frustrating but adds to 
 the realism. 
  
  All in all this game blows out any of the Fifa series as it has actually changed during the development 
 period. You should buy this regardless of your views on football.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moutazgh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:      
     
     
    
   
   
 .....
      
     
     
    
   
   
   
 
       
    
     
   
  
      
     
     
    
   
      
     
    
    
    
    
     
     
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greymon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  Since winning Eleven 3 the problem of this game was Graphics
  Until Winning Eleven 7 on Playstation 2 Graphics and players shapes was Improved ,But it didn't 
 look that good...
  Now Winning Eleven 8 has became famous football game because
  The gameplay is the best for Other football games ,maybe the graphics of this game is not
  Good 
 as FIFA but for gameplay I always Chose Winning Eleven
  Another thing, in winning Eleven 4 on playstation there was a playing problem : the goal score was 
 so easyThat when
  I play With my Friend the match often ends 7-1 or 8-7 (of course I always beat him) 
  and that 
 is not resonable for a football game
  But in Winning Eleven 7&8 the match ends 2-0 or 3-2 and that is resonable
  Last thing : the technical 
 and play formation is great too like 
  marking players , attack and defence levels, players position....
  
  in total this game is 
 a great football game that will not make you bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pKillerMax
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 21, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Winning eleven 8 is the follow up to the beloved winning eleven series and is a sequel to winning 
 eleven 7 International. Speaking of WE 7, I spent more than six or seven months with that game, 
 playing every day until my eyes hurt. Thats how much I LOVE WE 7. But lets move on to Konamis 
 latest soccer game, Winning Eleven 8!
  
  Gameplay:__ I couldnt be more disappointed with how WE 8 plays. Its absolutely a let down from 
 last years superb game, WE 7. Yes, the passing system has been improved which gives the game a 
 realistic look to it but other than that, the game seems like a rush job. Konami changed the formula 
 that made WE 7 so great and replaced it with some official kits and a few eye candies here and 
 there. Defending in WE 8 is a joke! Every time you tackle to get the ball from the opposition team, 
 the ball bounces off your defenders feet and goes somewhere else. This almost happens all the 
 time which is really annoying. The other thing that really annoyed me throughout the game was the 
 crossing system. Its super unrealistic! First of all every single player can cross the ball into 
 the box with their both feet and the ball always gets a weird curve to it. 
  The goalkeepers have been improved since the WE 7, but now they can make some stupid moves that 
 will make you want to break your controller. For instance, I was playing against my brother the 
 other day and I shot a slow ball from 35 meters away with schools left foot aiming at his goal, 
 and all his keeper did was watch the ball pass by his feet into the net. IT WAS THE MOST UNREALISTIC 
 SCENE I HAVE EVER SEEN IN A KONAKI SPORTS GAME SINCE WE 4! 
  
  Graphics:__ The graphics havent changed much from last years game. There are a few nice additions 
 where as players clothing gets dirty when they perform a slide tackle or when they have been fouled 
 and fell onto the ground. And the ball looks whole lot better now. I can say the soccer ball is 
 the most realistic thing in the game. The players look life-like and the stadiums are well done. 
 If there is something ugly about the graphics, it would be the crowds. When looking at them from 
 far enough, they look OK, but when you get closer, all you see is animated black pieces of crap! 
 
  
  Sound:__ The sound in WE 8 is pretty good and thats about it. The only thing Konami improved in 
 this section, is the commentary. Its much better and less repetitive now. The crowds sound pretty 
 good and the background music is again OK. Nothing special here...
  
  Value:__There are still a dozen modes you can play like the league mode, cup mode, and the popular 
 Master league mode. These modes are really nice and could be really enjoyable, but the gameplay 
 ruins the experience. And there is also a decent training mode where you can almost learn everything 
 about soccer and WE 8.
  
  The bottom line: Winning Eleven 8 is a good game that will more likely appeal to the new comers 
 with its in-depth training mode than to the hardcore fans who were looking for a BETTER game than 
 WE 7.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The long waited WE8i is here.
  And this time, it includes Italian, Spanish, Dutch licensed teams.
  If you are familiar with 
 previous WE series, you will find many aspects of the game are still similar in many ways. Exhibitions 
 matches, Cup tourneys, League matches (including Master league) are all here. What you'll notice 
 different than previous of the series will be Training mode. The training mode is now surprisingly 
 deep. It can benefit both beginner to the series and hard-core WE fans.
  
  Gameplay has been tweaked a bit from WE7. This time you'll notice that ball physics has gone through 
 more haul than before. You'll really feel that the ball is a separate object on the field from 
 any player's feet. If you are a WE7 player and thinking 'it was always that way with ball physics', 
 you'll feel the difference when you try WE8 for the first time. This really forces players to slow 
 down and plan their attack. You can't expect to have the ball under your feet and run down the 
 opposing field to score. Any disruption from opposing players can really make you struggle to keep 
 your control of the ball. 
  WE8 includes referee on the field this time, and once you're used to it (ok, it's just a ref not 
 opposing player) , it is a nice added feature to the game.
  
  WE8 also has better graphic than previous series. Even though the crowds still look like paper 
 dolls, the official league players are instantly recognisable. The stadiums look very impressive 
 as well. However, the biggest improvement is added to animations. The players really come to life 
 this time. Every movement is quite convincing when attacking, defending even when fouled. FIFA 
 fans always felt the series had advantage over WE series when graphic are concerned, but this year, 
 WE looks and plays better than FIFA2005.
  
  The sound of WE8 is still on the par with rest of the series. You can expect about the same sound 
 quality from the last series. Commentary is still done with same people (Trevor Brook and whatshisname) 
 and it sounds about same, even though it actually fits the situations on the field better this 
 time.
  
  It is a real shame of Konami to include half functioning on-line play this year. You can play on-line 
 only via LAN or direct ip connect. There is no on-line player search menus. There are player created 
 mods you can download to help searching for on-line opponents though.
  
  Even with limited on-line functionalities, WE8 is still hands down soccer sim of the year with 
 it's great gameplays and all the options which extends it's already great values (US $29 @ Gamestop) . 
 If you enjoy the sport of soccer, do your self a favor and give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  
  Winning Eleven 8 is the new addition to this international series. The game is great and has tones 
 of immersive functions and options. You can play in a cup tournament, league, master league, exhibition, 
 practice, friendly and the ever so fun online play. To cut right down to it, if you are looking 
 for a soccer game to purchase, this is the one. Winning Eleven 8 has tones of features to customize. 
 It seems like a fantasy soccer game but with the addition of actually playing a soccer match. The 
 game runs very well with no slow-down or frame draw-back. The best thing about the game is that 
 it is in one word; adaptive. If you are a novice soccer gamer, player or even if you have never 
 played soccer before, this game can easily grow on you. 
  
  The game offers detailed functions for hardcore fantasy league seekers and delivers enough quality 
 for the average gamer. The game has very quick loading times so you wont be able to grab a snack 
 in between load times as in, for example, Battlefield Vietnam or other load suckers. Not only 
 is the game immersive but it is fun to play. I just bought the game and have explored the games 
 content and am not even close at identifying all its underlying features. 
  
  The menus in the game are very simple and are easily understandable. You will rarely get lost or 
 have to back-track because I found I rarely made an error in my selections. The game has some nice 
 looking cut-scenes before a match of soccer starts. There is an introduction of both teams and 
 the stadium is highly represented as well. The game is playable at many difficulties and can even 
 get quite intense on the easier difficulty setting. Regardless of the difficulty level, the game 
 is still fun and delivers an ultimate package of soccer excitement.
  
  The gameplay is highly adaptive. I found no difficulty in controlling the players or scrolling 
 through the menus. The players are highly responsive to your demands. If you have the PC version 
 of this game you will definitely need a joystick because the keyboard will not get you anywhere. 
 I use a PS2 joystick for my computer so it feels very familiar to me. The buttons in the game are 
 pressure sensitive and you must aim where you wish the ball to go. There are various passes and 
 different types of shots that you can master to deliver the ultimate punch to your arsenal. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good as well. It seems like there is a limit to the ability to create 
 a realistic-looking soccer game. FIFA and WE8 deliver on an equal level of graphic prestige. The 
 game does not look totally life-like but does any other computer game? The fields have many shadows 
 and look different at varying times in the day. The graphics in general are well done and do not 
 take away from the overall prestige of the title.
  
  The sound is okay. There is nothing special but nothing bad about it either. I like the menu music 
 and the commentary is very well done with little repetition thus far. You can hear the ball being 
 hit when you pass it or kick it at the goal and the crowd really makes their presence known.
 
  
  Overall the game is perfect for any soccer fan. The game has many more functions then FIFA 2005 
 and the game is very easy to learn and enjoy. What I didnt really like is that some club teams 
 do not carry their real-life counterparts names (Arsenal! Best team EVER!) . I dont know about 
 you but I think anyone might get confused with only flags to determine the hidden team beneath. 
 WE8 is the best soccer game on the market right now due to its immersive options and ability to 
 establish a high degree of fun and enthusiasm behind the net. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
