-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/worldofwarcraftwrathofthelichking/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hundreds of interesting and varied quests.
 Death knight class is a lot of fun to play.
 Great-looking environments.
 Dungeons are now accessible to all players.
 Your actions have an impact on the world around you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some character and item models are recycled.
 No content for new players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,843 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 13, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The second World of Warcraft expansion doesn't do anything for new players, but there's plenty of 
 great content for anyone who's reached at least level 55. 

  Four years and well beyond 10 million subscriptions after the release of World of Warcraft, Blizzard's 
 phenomenally successful massively multiplayer online role-playing game is barely recognizable as 
 the same game that sold almost a quarter of a million copies in its first 24 hours. The game has 
 been in a near-constant state of evolution since 2004, and up until last month, the steady flow 
 of new features and improvements had all been patched in for free, with only one exception: the 
 Burning Crusade expansion pack that's required to play Wrath of the Lich King. The recently released 
 second expansion pack doesn't boast as many back-of-the-box bullet points as its predecessor, and 
 it doesn't offer  anything  for new players, but if you're still playing WOW or you're looking 
 for an excuse to get back into it, this thrilling new adventure is not to be missed.  

  All of the new content in Wrath of the Lich King comes with a character-level requirement. You 
 can't play the new death knight hero class until one of your existing characters reaches level 
 55, and you can't attempt any quests in the new Northrend continent until you're at level 68. The 
 most significant exception to this rule would have been the new inscription-crafting profession, 
 but that ended up being patched in shortly before the expansion's release alongside new talents 
 for every character class in the game, an Xbox Live-style achievements system, barbershops, an 
 extremely useful in-game calendar, and numerous user-interface improvements. There's new content 
 for low-level players, but you don't need the expansion pack to get it.  

           Mounts and vehicles feature in a number of the new quests.      

  Regardless of where 
 you choose to start your Wrath of the Lich King adventure, it'll quickly become apparent that considerable 
 effort has gone into making the new content compelling. There are still plenty of fetch quests, 
 and there's certainly no shortage of non-player characters looking for heroes to kill a certain 
 number of whichever species or faction they have a beef with. Liberally sprinkled in among those 
 genre requisites, though, are some quite different challenges that not only add some much-needed 
 variety but, in some cases, also do a great job of immersing you in Warcraft's rich lore. Previously, 
 WOW relied on you reading the briefings that bookend quests for its storytelling, but in Wrath 
 of the Lich King, it's often the quests themselves that get the job done along with a handful of 
 in-game cutscenes. You might go into the expansion not knowing your Arthas from your elbow, but 
 after questing in Northrend for a while, you'll inevitably gain some understanding of just why 
 the world of Warcraft needs so many heroes.  

  Playing through the death knight's starting area also exposes you to some interesting Warcraft 
 lore, and doing so is recommended even if you have no intention of playing the new class beyond 
 that point. It's only fair to warn you that death knights can be tough to put down, though; not 
 only are they very powerful and fun to play, but they also start at level 55, they get a free epic 
 mount, and they're fully decked out with great-looking blue (rare) gear by the time they leave 
 their starter area at level 58 or so. It's unfortunate that you need to gain another 10 levels 
 playing through Burning Crusade content before you can accept any quests in Northrend, but the 
 death knight is such a powerful class with so little downtime that you can get through it relatively 
 quickly. Players sticking with their nonhero classes will almost certainly feel compelled to tell 
 you that your new death knight is overpowered at some point, and they're right, at least as far 
 as leveling and questing is concerned. The death knight is also one of the more complex classes 
 to play well, and unfortunately it's too soon to comment on how they fare in player-versus-player 
 scenarios.  

           Death knights look overpowered from day one for a reason.      

  When your death knight or one of your preexisting characters reaches level 68, you need to get 
 yourself to Northrend as soon as possible. Not only is the new continent epic in scale and more 
 impressive-looking than any of the game's previous locales, but it's also bursting with hundreds 
 of quests to complete for the numerous new races and factions that you'll encounter there. To give 
 you some idea of just how many quests there are in Wrath of the Lich King, you need to complete 
 at least 875 of them to unlock the questing achievements scattered across all eight of Northrend's 
 major regions. There's so much new content that you could conceivably level two characters from 
 70 to 80 without having to repeat many of the same quests, though some of them are so good that 
 you'll want to.  

  New in Wrath of the Lich King are numerous quests in which you complete objectives at the controls 
 of a mount or vehicle. Quest-specific rides include dragons, mammoths, airplanes, bipedal mechs, 
 and even a giant. The controls are slightly different for all of them, but they're never complicated 
 and they're always clearly displayed onscreen as soon as you climb aboard. Another gameplay mechanic 
 that's used frequently in new quests is phasing, which lets you see areas of the world differently 
 from other players. Similar to how the world appears in gray scale when you die and have to run 
 back to your corpse as a ghost, phasing quests often apply some kind of visual filter to the environment 
 and let you interact with NPCs in different ways. Wrath of the Lich King takes this idea to a whole 
 new level. By completing certain quests, you trigger dramatic changes to the environment that are 
 the same for all players who have completed said quest, but for players who have yet to do so, 
 the world still exists in its original form. Whether this is achieved though technical wizardry 
 or just straight-up magic is unclear, but its integration is seamless, and it's incredibly satisfying 
 to feel like your actions are having a significant impact on the world around you.  

           Dungeons and the huge bosses inside them are more accessible for casual players than ever 
 before.      

  However, not every quest in Wrath of the Lich King is so fulfilling, mostly because the vast majority 
 of them simply aren't challenging. When accepting a quest, you rarely have to question  if  you 
 can complete it; you just need to figure out  when  you can fit it into your jam-packed hero schedule. 
 There are quests for which you need to group up with other players, but even these aren't nearly 
 as challenging as similar offerings in the pre-Lich King game. It's no secret that Blizzard wants 
 to make content that's accessible to the vast majority of WOW players rather than just to those 
 in elite raiding guilds, and in this regard the new expansion is undoubtedly a success, but at 
 times the new content feels a little  too  easy. There are a dozen new dungeons designed for five 
 players, and every one of them can be beaten in about an hour by a reasonably good group. To get 
 your hands on the best loot dropped by bosses, though, you need to play through those same dungeons 
 on the heroic difficulty setting, which makes all of the enemies tougher and is available only 
 to players who have hit the new level-80 cap.     

   

  In addition to the heroic-difficulty dungeons, there are a handful of larger "raid" dungeons for 
 groups of 10 and 25 players that are designed to cater to more experienced players. The challenge 
 ramps up considerably in raid dungeons, and if that's still too easy for you, there are achievements 
 you can unlock by, for example, defeating bosses in less than three minutes, with a small group, 
 or without letting a single player die. Some of the achievements in Wrath of the Lich King come 
 with tangible rewards such as titles and tabards, and a few of the most challenging ones earn you 
 mounts that can't be obtained any other way. So if you're an elitist, don't worry, there are still 
 plenty of opportunities for you to distinguish yourself from the crowd.  

           Wintergrasp's siege warfare offers some of the best MMO PVP to date.      

  If you're 
 more interested in player-versus-player encounters than in quests and dungeons, Wrath of the Lich 
 King has you covered, too. There are a number of PVP-oriented quests scattered throughout the world 
 for which you can earn experience, honor, and gold on a daily basis. There's also a new attack-and-defend 
 battleground that incorporates siege weapons, and then there's the icing on the PVP cake: Wintergrasp. 
 Large enough to support battles between hundreds of players simultaneously, Wintergrasp is a region 
 that exists solely so that the Horde and Alliance can fight for control of a large fortress in 
 a battle that rages for up to 40 minutes every three hours or so. The goal for the attackers is 
 to knock down the walls of the fortress using siege weapons, get inside the keep, and activate 
 a titan orb (read: large glowing ball) within the 40-minute time limit. The goal for the defending 
 faction is to stop them. When enough players show up to make the battle worthwhile, it's arguably 
 the most fun you can have in Wrath of the Lich King. Unlike traditional WOW battlegrounds, Wintergrasp 
 is designed in such a way that even players who haven't reached level 80 yet can contribute, and 
 if your faction is underrepresented on the battlefield, you'll automatically receive a buff that 
 keeps things competitive.  

  Besides being a blast, there are plenty of incentives for participating in the battle for Wintergrasp. 
 The faction that controls the fort gains exclusive access to rare-item vendors and to a small one-boss 
 raid dungeon. Furthermore, while your faction controls Wintergrasp, every dungeon boss in the expansion 
 will drop Stone Keeper's Shards, a form of currency that can be used to purchase powerful items, 
 in addition to their regular loot. A similar feature was introduced in the Burning Crusade expansion, 
 but the associated PVP goal wasn't as fun, the shards dropped in only a handful of dungeons, and 
 the items that you could exchange the shards for weren't nearly as desirable.  

  Among the usual assortment of rare items, epic items, and exclusive PVP mounts that you can exchange 
 your shards for, you'll find a number of items that look identical to armor and weapons that you 
 might have used in 2004 but that are actually very different. These "heirloom" items are unique 
 not only because they bind to your account rather than to an individual character, allowing them 
 to passed around, but also because they can be used at any level and their stats scale appropriately. 
 Heirlooms are a great idea for anyone who has a high-level character and is looking to start a 
 new one, though it's unfortunate that they look so dated and generic alongside newer items.  

 
           300 shards for a low mileage war mammoth mount is a bargain.      

  In fact, the look of most of the non-epic armor pieces and weapons in Wrath of the Lich King is 
 disappointing. If you've spent any amount of time acquiring good gear in Burning Crusade, then 
 you're probably heading into Northrend wielding a wonderfully ornate weapon or two and dressed 
 to kill. That gear will likely last you for a few levels, but inevitably you'll have opportunities 
 to upgrade it as you progress. Is that sword made from two pieces of stone held together with string 
 really more powerful than your blade that looks like it belongs in the hand of a god, though? Yes 
 it is. Armor items in Northrend have a similarly improvised feel, and to make matters worse, it's 
 entirely possible for you to upgrade them several times en route to level 80 without ever getting 
 an item that looks different or that isn't the exact same model with slightly different coloring. 

  The armor and weapons are an acquired taste at best, but there's no disputing the fact that their 
 design is very much in keeping with the rugged nature of Northrend itself. The continent's harsh 
 environments are inhabited by half-giant warriors, woolly mammoths, and plenty of other creatures 
 whose appearances suggest that they're well-equipped to survive there. A few of the models are 
 recycled and showing their age, but as always, the quality of the animation breathes life into 
 them and makes their rudimentary geometry easy to ignore. Northrend's environments are more epic 
 and detailed than any that have appeared in World of Warcraft previously, but it's the believability 
 of the behavior of the characters and creatures that makes them really come to life. For example, 
 bears have always featured in World of Warcraft, and they don't look any different now than they 
 did four years ago. Nevertheless, it's only in Wrath of the Lich King that they've learned to fish 
 for salmon and to be protective of cubs. Similarly, herds of animals can be fascinating to watch; 
 males will fight each other and are the first to respond to any threat from players, whereas females 
 and their young will flee at the slightest hint of danger.  

  Adding significantly to the appeal of even Northrend's most foreboding environments is an original 
 soundtrack that, when appropriate, is every bit as grand as the scenery. Having an orchestra play 
 alongside a male voice choir in the background while you ride on a fire-breathing dragon high above 
 the snow-capped mountains of Dragonblight feels truly epic, and the rustic Celtic-sounding fiddle 
 track that plays in the less fantastical Grizzly Hills region as you round up horses or hunt for 
 bears is equally appropriate and even more impressive.          Fact: This is a gnome rogue in 
 disguise for a quest.      

  If you're in a position to enjoy what Wrath of the Lich King has to offer, then let's be honest, 
 you're probably doing so already. The expansion's launch was successful enough that players on 
 high-population servers had to wait for hours at a time to log on, and the most common complaints 
 were simply that some quests were difficult to complete because so many players were trying to 
 do them simultaneously. The queues are mostly a thing of the past, and now that things have settled 
 down Northrend is an absolute joy to explore. If you're not level 68 yet, we suggest you double 
 your efforts and hop on a boat or a zeppelin there as soon as possible.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (132 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Wrath of the Lich King is the gandest expansion expansion I've ever played. Such rich gameplay, 
 such rich graphics and such rich end-game content. Blizzard have learned from their previous expansion 
 and they have showed it on this expansion. 
  
  WotLK has a new class: The Death Knight. It's a hero class which means it must be strong and it 
 is and available to all races but you must have a character over level 55. It's very unique to 
 any of the other classes and is available to all races.
  
  The PvP of WotLK has undergone a massive improvement. The new PvP zone Wintergrasp is a much improved 
 battleground than Eye of the Storm, 2 new arenas and Strand of The Ancients another battleground. 
 PvP has been much improved in this expansion and PvP fans will be very happy.
  
  The scenery is also quite spectacular and is amazing. It feels so real and you'll be awed. Also 
 there have been lots of end game content including raids, dungeons and instances. 
  
  Overall with WotLK WoW is now the best MMO ever now. Now with great PvP , great PvE WoW is balanced 
 and now everybody should be playing this. I've never seen such a good expansion ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher70
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  WoW (world of warcraft) is an enjoyable game at first. You can get weapons and armor upgrades through 
 simple quests. however don't expect any cool cut scenes after the first one until your level 75 
 or higher. The story is told through text aka quest log. i won't miss lead you the game is a lot 
 of fun if you are new and into RPG games but can get frustrating especially when playing alone. 
 an example is if you are fighting a specific type of mob (bad guy) and a random mob comes strolling 
 by now you have 2 to fight and if one runs into a group of any type of other mobs you have 4-6 
 on you. might not sound like a big deal, sounds like fun even, but when u are trying to complete 
 quests to progress the game it can be quite aggravating. Blizzard could have added a bit more style, 
 like having different type of mobs fighting each other instead of always the player. interacting 
 with other players can be fun in groups of 2-3 people. larger groups can cause a fight at times 
 when everyone wants the same drop. As far as chatting goes there are alot of RUDE people in this 
 game that will refuse to help you and watch you die cause they want to kill what you are killing 
 and they don't get credit til you die or it respawns, and seeing that you dieing is faster then 
 a respawn you get the picture. However, everyone in the game isn't rude there are some decent people 
 playing that will help.
  
  Gold, Gold, Gold. everyone needs gold for everything from getting new skills to buying new armor 
 and weapons at the auction house (AH) . the best way to get gold is to get agathering" ability 
 like mining, herbalism or skinning, and just sell it. 
  
  a lot has changed over the years and not all for the good. take the GM's for example they used 
 to actually care what you have to say, you would get to talk to someone. Now you get some lame 
 e-mail stating they have received your message and are currently looking into it.
  
  When you finally hit level 80 your rewards are gold and some cheap piece of armor instead of XP. 
 If you are not raiding or pvp-ing then there isn't a whole lot left to do. i guess start from level 
 1 again as a different class or choose the opposing faction.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothTDL
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said. World of Warcraft receives so much hate from those 
 who expected more and yet so much love from the growing population. Considering how many players 
 world wide (over 10 million players) , it should be a pretty easy choice if you are deciding to 
 jump in.
  But just because everyone's doing it, does that mean you should too? 
  
  So what does WoW offer you may ask? Apart from the great story itself, WoW's game play is remarkably 
 smooth and the controls themselves are easy to learn. Everything about the game is crisp and clean, 
 which is why it appeals to so many right off the bat. The graphics aren't the greatest and may 
 be a little cartoon-like, but that's also what separates this game from others.
  
  As far as content goes, there isn't very much offered for lower level characters, then again there 
 isn't much for high levels either. What carries this game through is the strong community of players. 
 Being in a populated server can definitely improve the game experience, however let me say that 
 although there are very nice people in the game, in my experience, the majority of the population 
 are some of the grumpiest people on the planet.
  
  If you are looking for a new MMO to jump into, this is definitely an option. However, consider 
 how much money you will spend getting the core game along with the expansions, you are looking 
 at roughly $90, apart from the monthly fee itself.
  
  - Seph - Hours Played - 6,311 (Xfire)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipTheJacker420
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Been playing for 3 years and i will not be paying anymore for a game that is every un balanced. 
 the new expansion is beyond brutal. Ounce you power level to 80 you basically spend the next2 months 
 getting gear pveing. Since the PVP side of this game is a complete failure. I have a 80 holy pally 
 and 80 DK which are at the moment the OP classes. But the game lacks any direction to balance pvp. 
 They let you pve your PVP gear which means if you find there PVE BORING and recycled since that's 
 all you do from level 0 - 80, then you have nothing to do at all. There BG system is broken since 
 most matches are so one sided - Loging into a bg you have 40 -10 depending on a server and the 
 bg. but almost all bgs are plagued by this. 
  
  The GMs are smart mouthed and offer no answers to why they cannot make simple changes when the 
 forums are full of people asking for simple changes that can be fixed in a simple small patch.. not 
 a 3.1 patch that should have been out at the start before the area season even started. Most have 
 been waiting for this patch from day one to fix balances and add the fact you pay 50gold a shot 
 to re spec your character.... its really pathetic.
  
  Nah, don't even start paying a sub for this game. If you have no life and nothing better to do 
 with your time then i guess go for it...
  
  But if i could get the /played = 1y3month22days on my main pally
  /played2months12days on my 
 DK - Back and take the $200 plus in sub costs over the last couple years i would have saved myself 
 the pain of dealing with a company who is bent on recycled content. You will be just another # 
 to them.
  
  PVE = Same exact thing over and over and over.
  
  PVP = Broken, don't even bother. You can PVE all the top PVP gear. If you don't PVE your PVP gear 
 you don't stand a chance doing arenas.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been a WoW player for 3 years, I spent most of my time playing wow.
  Blizzard has made yet another boring expansion, people give it 1.0's and 3.0's, but in my opinion 
 thats being a little too harsh.
  It's decent, vehicle combat, destructible enviroments, it's all boring.
  Please play something 
 else, please please.
  This game will suck you in, it may be fun sometimes, but it's VERY, VERY addicting. Is that a good 
 thing? er, no. Not in my opinion. I don't know why im still playing this game; but, it's decent 
 enough to play.
  Old wow players will either be diassapointed or happy for this new expansion
  If I were you, 
 I would wait for more opinions to spill in.
  15.00 a month? Thats nothing.
  Wotlk is fun at first, but boring after a while, so think about buying this game first.
  
  
 -fallofman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Four years and 10 million subscriptions later, Blizzard has become the face of Massively Multiplayer 
 Online Role-Playing-Game scene. This second expansion to Blizzard's jewel, may not be fresh enough 
 to bring back certain retired players, but Wrath of the Lich King will more than provide hours 
 of more entertainment, community, friendship and frustration.
  
  Barely recognizable from the original World of Warcraft, WotLK has been constantly changing. With 
 new races and classes added in the expansions, it's become clear that Blizzard's writers are not 
 afraid to change the lore as they see fit. This may not please certain lore purists, such as myself. 
 While certain things must be changed to preserve balance, purists may not appreciate the drastic 
 changes to the original story lines.
  
  This time around, WotLK takes players from Outland and bring's them back to Azeroth, on the Northern 
 continent of Northrend, the Lich King's home. Level cap raised to 80, Northrend introduces nine 
 new zones, with over one thousand quests to boot. Even with the changes to the lore, the writing 
 has significantly improved. The same grinding quests exist, but a number of vehicle quests have 
 been added to keep things fresh. These are surprisingly well crafted, but will make players wish 
 there were more of them.
  
  Perhaps the greatest achievements of the improved writing is the involvement of the Lich King in 
 many quests in Northrend. Players unfamiliar with the fusion of Arthas and Ner'zhul into this dark 
 king will learn of his betrayals, lust for power, and arrogance. Most quests involving the Lich 
 King directly also has full voice acting, a most welcome addition into the World of Warcraft. 
 
  
  A more notable addition to World of Warcraft is the new class; Death Knight. Familiar to players 
 of past Warcraft games, Death Knights are the Harbingers of death, the servants of the Lich King. 
 Previously, Death Knights were fallen and/or corrupt Paladins and therefore only human; in WotLK, 
 the Death Knight has been open to all the races of the game. Named a "hero" class, DK's start off 
 with a brilliant instanced introduction in an area called Acherus. The Death Knight can play the 
 role of melee damaging, or tanking. Death Knight's are well built, and particularly powerful in 
 player-versus-environment combat.
  
  In addition to the better quests, added zones and the new class, WotLK has many new releases, an 
 Xbox-Live system of Achievements with actual rewards, barbershops, and a refined interface to name 
 a few. One thing that is noticeably missing is new additions to low level areas; thus making new 
 characters a chore to level again. A number of new dungeons and raids are available however, with 
 more promised to come in future patches.
  
  Player versus player combat is often the highlight of MMORPG's for certain players, particularly 
 those unable to raid. This is where World of Warcraft's greatest issues come to surface. Most matches 
 on particular Battle-Groups are predominantly owned by one of the factions, Alliance or Horde. 
 This will cause much frustration to those on the losing end of the PvP. Arena also retains its 
 issues, with certain combination's being completely superior or inferior to others. 
  
  Taking a page out of Warhammer Online's books, WotLK also brings a PvP zone into the mix. Named 
 "Wintergrasp", this region hosts battles for the control of Wintergrasp Fortress every two and 
 a half hours. This battles can truly be called epic, with hundreds of players fighting in clusters, 
 controlling workshop territory, and siege weapons destroying walls and buildings. World of Warcraft 
 servers however, seem unable to handle large conflicts like these smoothly, and most players will 
 suffer lag. Faults aside, people flock to this event every chance they get, as its a refreshing 
 alternative to Battlegrounds. 
  
  Wrath of the Lich King's success' and popularity echo throughout the gaming world. If you have 
 played the previous installments to this intensely popular MMO, chances are that you are playing 
 them now. For players bored of Warcraft or MMO's in general Wrath of the Lich King may not be enough 
 to draw you in, but for WoW addicts, there is plenty reason to stick around. Northrend's foreboding 
 environment is an absolutely joy to explore, and with the added niceties and fixes here and there, 
 Wrath of the Lich King is more than enough fuel for the WoW addicts soul. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoPfyren
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  I like wow and the expansion TBC, but wrath of the lich king is a big step in the wrong direction, 
 blizzard is not hiding that they now put the focus on the casual players, but as many have notices 
 the difficaulty dossent even represent that, this game is not playable (meaning clear every pve 
 encounter in the game) by a 3year old kid burning on a sugar rush.
  
  70-80 aproxemetly 20hours play if you take it slow and some how enjoy the game.
  
  when you 
 hit 80 people go straight for herorics, no keys or atunement needed big FAIL, this is combined 
 with a diffficulty were a healer and a tank can solo it.
  
  Raids, same as herorics epic gear aint needed and you will killed event though half the group die 
 on the fight...
  
  previus raiders will have fun doing 1fight in the game sathirion +3..
  
  The only thing this game adds is that your afk time will now be spend in dalarn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:47 am PT
Review:  This expansion is everything that wow players wanted, since pretbc wow. I personally think that TBC 
 killed wow because, old school players didnt like space-cow items and such, game became boring and 
 people started to leave, but when king returned it just became better and better
  
  Wotlk brings one of the best things in warcraft lore to the game,
  Northrend the place where 
 lots of lore famous thing happened
  a beautiful place with gorgeous graphics, and overall awesome lore.
  
  Quests are best since 
 pretbc it feels like Warcraft again, dragons and stuff. I think all lore fans will enjoy this for 
 long time.
  
  Graphics are good better than before
  Soundtrack is awesome simply epic, it carries you in the game.
  
  In short a Masterpiece that 
 returned king to his throne, and we are all glad about it :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-relorder90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  After the epic MMORPG World of Warcraft came an expansion named The Burning Crusade
  which included 2 new races the Alliance Draenei and the Horde Blood Elf, Also new item sets for 
 level 60 or 70s.
  After the expansion TBC came an expansion called Wrath of The Lich King which includes nothing 
 for new players but a LOT for players from 55+ The Level Capacity went from 70 to 80
  which is good if you are a bored level 70 . New Mounts, New Quests, New NPCs and ofcourse a new 
 Hero Class The Death Knight ! Many Epic Items are added too . The DK Hero Class is available to 
 all races and starts at level 55 at Northrend. Most of the DK Quests are fun too.
  New Dungeons and a new Profession Inscription which allows you to create Glyphs which improve various 
 abilities . New Spells which make your characters more powerful !
  To Sum Up I believe that the WoTLK expansion is good but could be better . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamewize
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  3 years ago World of Warcraft was new, the competitor in the flock of new MMOs that had been released. 
 Ever since its creation there has been a massive rating war with the gaming community.
  
  Why? WoW is the most successful MMO to date, probably even the highest-grossing video game series 
 ever created. Many may feel threatened by it, many may just plain hate it for reasons known best 
 to themselves. Whatever the case I ignored all the naysaying myself and tried it.
  
  Now, I had been through virtually every other MMO out there; Everquest II, Guild Wars... You name 
 it, I probably tried it. I loved WoW the moment I started it. You may too, just try it. It will 
 not be for everyone. There isn't, wasn't, and never, EVER, will be a game that pleases everyone. 
 But for me, this is the game I may always play, it's a game I always find fun and interesting. 
 It's a relaxing casual experience so yes, Hardcore and Extreme Interest players need not apply.
 
  
  I implore you to ignore the downraters, and take even the upraters with a grain of salt. Those 
 who hate the game may possibly be honest players who did not like the game, They may be Other MMO 
 fanboys who have never even touched it, or else people who didn't play past level 10, there aren't 
 a whole lot of ways to tell. 
  
  Just try the game for yourself and DECIDE for yourself, don't let others guide your interests. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigo88
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game become worst then ever, the original WOW was great ,alot of fun and relative easy to get 
 some good stuff but now become just a waste of time for nothing.
  After 3 years playing it`s the first time when i`m really bored.
  What is the point spending 
 days on game ,doing"daylies" quests and for ,a crapy mount, a epic boots this is ridiculous. This 
 is an example of how to make money ,Blizzard make money using cheap addictive methods on players.
 
  Another big problem in this game ,if you enjoy to play alone i told you something, you never get 
 any good items. Those items drop only in instances and battleground. You need to have some gangs 
 in game "guilds" interacting with rude players.
  At the end i want to say just this ,thanks Blizzard for WOW: Wrath of Lich King ,it`s the kick 
 in my back for give up and get a life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  For the new game or person into Wow or mmorpg's this game is like the Bomb! Heaven just dropped 
 on their desktop. Finally been one of the millions playing in this new unexplored virtual world 
 for crazy fun. 
  
  But for the seasoned player; witch he had to run many instances from level 1-60 1-70 1-80. This 
 game gets old. Because not only do you have to get better gear but you have to compete with your 
 guild mates for gear. You pretty much have to work in the game to get there. You have to get good 
 gear before you get new gear. Sounds weird right? but it's true! You can ether fight in arenas 
 or do none high level instances to get gear or join pubs. Also the person that spends more time 
 in the game and knows what to do ends up top.
  You have to give up some outside life for wow. If you don't got much to do outside it's Ok! but 
 for the others that have to go to work or work on keeping friendship's solid by having conversation 
 and other priority's, the game becomes HARD. Because you need time to play wow. 
  
  Now for the economic player, the game is just sucking your money up! $15 for 1 month $30 for 2 
 months and cheaper if you buy for a year witch ends up been $12 or something close to that.
  Not only that buy you have to pay for the first WoW then the Burning Crusade then Wrath of the 
 Lich king. Not only that but if you don't got the time to play wow much you are just giving away 
 money and any issue that comes your way you Blaze up! You don't like the admins when something 
 happends or your account gets stolen and crap or game crashes do to an unknown graphics problem 
 or something like that. Usually your computer needs an update or firewall fixed to allow to play 
 WoW , a third party program not allowing your wow to work right and out of date hardware... tons 
 of stuff! 
  
  Also another thing for the Economic player, such as people who can't work yet or don't work yet 
 and it takes a lot of begging or Surprise gift or just a privileged to get a wow time card to play, 
 it adds more frustration.
  
  Timely player: So this is the player which has very little wow time. This could be most of the 
 adult players but also the young ones. There are players from ages 5 to 70 in WoW. Seriously, Ive 
 heard and talked to them. Lol a 5 year old called my friend a noob on Ventrilo using his Dad's 
 pimped out lvl 70 before Wrath of the lich. Funny stuff. So back on subject! This player ether 
 works a lot and has a social life going or has priorities in life, everyone should have one. For 
 example people from college, they need to spend more time on their work because, we study hard 
 to play hard. Cuz failing that College with that $8,000-$120,000+ college loan blows up on you. 
 Also for adult workers who have to travel long distances to get to work, this game is Hard. You 
 spend your sleep time playing this game and you get frustrated when you find no groups to run an 
 instance during that time or before you go to work. So you end up with same level... same gear 
 ... no progress... just wasted time Looking for people to do an instance or a quest or something 
 else. Also people that have fun things to do on Saturday and Sunday this game hits hard. Usually 
 there are raids on those 2 days. People responsible to their needs on Sunday's that need to go 
 to church have to miss out on some raids. Taking your daily dose of blessings is way better then 
 raiding. For people that have Saturday totally free! They want to relax and go watch a movie and 
 stuff not play on the computer and do a raid that might not even form or is unknown what time it's 
 going to start. It kicks you in your no nos lol. 
  
  Also the timely player spams a lot "I GOT A LIFE YOU JERK!" when he gets called a noob or other 
 stuff by other people who had the time to get Sparkly purple and orange gear and weapons with enchants 
 and adored by the people in wow saying "WOW your awesome! Sweet Sword! Sweet enchant! Wow where 
 you get that! Wow his armor is alive!
  your THE WT_ pwnage! 
  
  Also the timely player mostly comes to the dark part of WoW: Buying Massive amounts of Gold from 
 international sellers. Yup other people Lich of WoW and make money. All they have to do is level 
 up some characters or get gold for people and that's easy! Specially when you get 20 people playing 
 wow and gathering up money. 20 people with 100gold every 5 minutes. That's 2,000 gold. Some even 
 make more! Rare drops and stuff. 
  
  Gold Farmers-Gold Sellers: They also have guilds and man they are elite! That's why wow can't always 
 find them to get them banned or other. With the money already made before wow bands them. Buying 
 wow again is just a small scratch on the wallet. They have Time cards and other stuff loaded. Should 
 one account fail bam another rises. You can see a Gold seller by the wow hot spots: Major towns 
 - Mail boxes -Auction Houses - Battle ground entrance - Starting area.
  
  Scammers location: Major starting point usually. Their message: "Want to get to level 70 fast? 
 with the new hacking tool it works!"
  "Want tons of money fast! go to this site"
  "Go to this site for Wow cheats and hacks"
  
  Results of following their tells: Loss of account 
 - Banning of account (you got punk'd) - Credit card theft - Cookies - Viruses - Special programs 
 that read everything you type after you log into a bank website with (https) so they just read 
 what you typed in your keyboard. It should read like this:
  https. yadayadabank. com hasrf124
  Lazyboy2095
  nopasswordlol
  "clicks account statement"
 
  http: googlemail. com
  Lazyboy2020
  Iforgot
  
  Hi sharon e-mailing you again for that house you wanted to sell...
  
  yada yada yada my account... 
 my social is this... i got this new TV.
  (So when this is all done or not this all gets sent invisible to the underground market and Bam, 
 they have ways to spend $50,000 in seconds or take your identity. Everything is next to them and 
 at their disposal! even make a copy of your credit card if it has no chip)
  
  Full servers: Yes, most servers are full but Blizzard is always adding new ones to play on. So 
 sometimes when there is an event your server might be full but you can still get in, it just takes 
 3-20 minutes to get in. Those minutes go fast if you watch some tv lol.
  
  Connection issues?: Most people in wow experience "laggs and laggers" or Super fast internet speed 
 players witch go in circle's around you and land 2 hits before you can land one. Usually you will 
 see "Target not in sight" "Target is not infront of you" "There is nothing to attack". 
  
  Now the laggers; some laggers get lucky! They seem like they teleporting all over the map and other 
 players are unable to land a hit. Like if he is cheating. Some servers are closer to home then 
 others and the closer to home are the best for those with limited internet speed. Those above 30gigs 
 of net speed who cares right? lol
  
  At the end, it's your choice for trying out the game or buying the game. You can read or watch 
 videos or look behind the box. Just read the manual or read the rules on realms or tems of policy 
 so you don't get shocked when you get banned for spamming "Alliance sucks" or "Blizz Sucks" or 
 "Naga stole my bike" or "Chuck Norris once swallowed a full bottle of sleeping pills and he only 
 winked" or scamming people with "You got a gift for 100gold or more in a C. O. D letter" (C. O. D a 
 letter saying Cash on delivery, which you pay when the letter or package gets to you) " Also what 
 ever you do don't make a guild saying "Barack Obama big black cockus" Caucus (Cockus) .
  
  Also Online Interaction varies, you are connecting with all kinds of people of different social 
 and religious life. From the High end of society to the Low low low. So you might get treated like 
 trash in the open chats. Also don't forget young players who just discover your Mama's jokes and 
 your Ugly jokes and more play, so not everyone is a cool strong character ready to save the world 
 of warcraft. But like always try to respect each other. It does wonders in WoW. 
  
  PS: Free for any one to copy this article, my comments are not to insult people or Blizz. They 
 are an insight on the big World of Warcraft and common issues and problems that I have dealt with 
 and experienced with other people over a few years. Most admins are nice but some are just jerks 
 and don't tell you why you have to change your name or been banned and cut you off from the world 
 during an instance without giving you a chance to ask or even reply! They got a program that they 
 can set on do not reply.... "you need to make a petition to talk to a GM" . Good luck and have 
 fun.
  
  Spelling errors not checked
  Everything is not reviewed 
  So make the best of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  WoW is by far the best MMO to date, but this game receives a little more hype than it deserves, 
 possible overrated publicity or blind sided fan boys keeping it alive? 
  
  The game is fairly easy to progress through, and most of the content in the game is wasted cause 
 of the new expansion, which offer better rewards through questing and defeats the purpose of doing 
 old content dungeons.
  
  The WOTLK content is extremely easy too progress through, and offers no challenge too veterans 
 players what so ever, and the requirements for your computer to run WOTLK isn't worth it, cause 
 the graphics never been worth while to invest into anyways, just obtaining the minimum to play.
 
  
  Overall my review stays the same, and that is it the best MMO out to date, but it also the most 
 overrated. Take advantage of the free trail before you invest your time into making a level 80 
 toon, cause too some it a waste to level too a end game level, just to quit at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schneevs67
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I had been playing WOW since a couple of months after it's release.... stopping a few months before 
 TBC came out and picking it up shortly after it's release then again playing untiil this summer 
 when it again became stale. I decided to pick up the Lich King and give it another try. At first 
 I was inpressed with the new area, the new and innovative quests and the new Deathknight class. 
 After going through all the new zones and getting my 70 toon to 80 within a couple of months (playing 
 the Deathknight for about 10 levels) the game again started to become stale and struggling to hold 
 my interest. Also it seems like they 'dumbed' the game down to appeal more to the masses for instance 
 the crafting recipes have become too simple and unimaginative. The grind of doing dailies, running 
 instances over and over again for gear and rep again left a sour taste in my mouth. I still have 
 another month left on my subscription but I doubt I'll find the interest to play. I've left for 
 a game that has a deep story, a great overall more mature and cooperative community , and fun innovative 
 quests and crafting that hold your interest. I've also been playing it since a couple of months 
 after it came out. LOTRO ftw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birthofastar
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is complete garbage! Before I even get into the review I want to note that this game 
 is broken. If you do purchase the expansion just be prepared for server crashes, restarts, and 
 appologies from Blizzard stating that the realms will be down for 4 hours or more while they fix 
 issues with the new content. Heck, even if your playing on the old "content" you still will be 
 sitting at your computer looking at the Sign on screen. 
  
  
  I wish Blizzard would work on making new and interesting game content, rather than putting a new 
 paint job on the same old house. The new world looks the same as the old worlds. Just a few design 
 differences. Nothing truly out of this world or note worthy. The new PVP battleground was nothing 
 to brag about. Picture Alterac Valley with a fortress you defend. The new PVP gear is just a new 
 and even more horrible grind. PVP armor is 60K a piece and there are 5 pieces to collect. Enjoy 
 having no life and spending hours farming the honor needed for those sets. Not to mention enjoy 
 trying to earn those points fighting against the horrible class balancing that Blizzard makes an 
 attempt to fix every new patch. 
  
  
  The real killer is that Blizzard almost forces you to buy the expansion. All the old cities are 
 just about empty now. Shatterah is a ghost town, better yet Outlands are like a barren wasteland 
 now. All the previous battle grounds are now 70+ , so if your decked out in that PVP armor enchanted 
 to the teeth good luck getting swated by people 9 levels higher than you. The only BG that seems 
 untouched is the Alterac Valley (which is 61-70) . Mostly what you'll find are bunches of 60's and 
 few 70's as most accounts have moved on and leveled, level some games noticably uneven (20 to 40) . 
 There are new arts and crafts for you to learn, and world PVP is still boring as ever. Invade a 
 city and be prepared for 90 Gaurds to spawn and wipe you. 
  
  Aside from,10 new levels, some new items and trades, a new area to run around in (which looks more 
 like a missmash of the previous games rolled into one) , there really isnt much to do. Blizzard 
 has the greedy idea to keep you playing longer they should at more levels, but once you hit the 
 cap, they give you little to do afterwards. Usually it's one of 3. Raid, ARENA, or make a new character. 
 You'll eventually end up with the same problem you had last game. Decked out in the best armor 
 and bored as hell with nothing to do. Like I always argued with people, Blizzard needs to work 
 on adding fun and exciting game content, not regurgitated ideas from yesteryear. 
  Overall the Wrath Of The Lich King is nothing new or worth buying, unless you just want to hit 
 80. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The wait is over and now we finally have something to do with our characters that have been sitting 
 at level 70 for over a year. Wrath of the Lich King gives us a level cap raised to 80, a new land 
 to explore, and another character class to play. This new expansion doesn't revolutionize World 
 of Warcraft, but just adds bits and pieces that improve on an already great game. However, if you 
 had given up on the game because of any of it's particular faults, this probably won't bring you 
 back.
  
  The new land of Northrend is a worthy addition to the game. Just reading through it description 
 in the manual, you would think that it would be nothing more than a frozen mountain range similar 
 to the Alliance area around Ironforge, but there is actually quite a bit of variety. Not just between 
 zones, but even within each zone itself. Just in the first one, there are at least five geographically 
 different areas. Many of the quests are more story-oriented, which I preferred. Players that just 
 want to rush through and get to level 80 as fast as possible may get annoyed by this because there 
 are several scripted segments that you must watch before you can continue some quests. These scenes 
 are cool, but I would venture a guess that well under half of the game's population actually pays 
 attention to the storyline. These scripted segments may also get repetitive when playing any additional 
 characters through the new areas. More vehicles and mounted weapons have been added to some of 
 the quests. One had me firing a cannon from the deck of a ship while another gave me full control 
 of a makeshift tank. These features wouldn't hold up in an action game, but they do a lot to spice 
 up the gameplay here. The graphics may not noticeably look better, but all it will take is a quick 
 run through any of the starting areas to see how much things have improved. The style hasn't changed, 
 but everything looks more vibrant and detailed. There are a large number of rehashed enemy models 
 from the original game, but not as many as the last expansion. The game still stands up well against 
 it's competition, which is impressive since it is still using the same graphics engine it started 
 with over four years ago. Basically, if you are still playing your level 70 character, you have 
 every reason to pick up Wrath of the Lich King.
  
  The other major addition is the new class, the death knight. Unlike the other classes, the death 
 knight starts at level 55 and cannot be created unless the you already have at least one other 
 character already at that level. The death knight is basically a warrior with stronger abilities. 
 They are mostly a melee class but have some fairly devastating special attacks. What makes them 
 different is their use of runes. Each has three types of runes and two of each type. Most special 
 attacks use a rune of their corresponding type and then the rune must go through a short cooldown. 
 It doesn't take long, so by the time you use the last of your six runes, the first is ready to 
 go again. As you level, stronger attacks may use multiple runes at one time. The death knight has 
 some of the strongest attacks, can wear plate armour (the best in the game) , and can even heal 
 themselves. All this makes me wonder if they might be a bit overpowered, since no other class is 
 so well rounded. There won't be any way to know for sure until more people reach level 80 and I 
 begin to see them in some PvP action. As for right now, I can tell you that my friend with whom 
 I usually quest with was fighting just as effectively with his level 68 death knight in basic gear 
 as he was with his level 70 hunter in full battleground and arena gear. The death knight starting 
 area is, by far, better than any other starting area in the game. Every quest is very important 
 to setting up the return of the Lich King and the entire segment has a very epic feel to it. It 
 is slightly disappointing that it ends with you being dumped into Orgrimmar without any direction 
 to go from there. All you can do at that point is head over to Outland and work your way up in 
 levels. This is disappointing for two reasons. First, most everyone is tired of Outland by now 
 and wants to jump right into the new area. Second, since the expansion came out, Outland is basically 
 empty of other players. I flew around the main city, Shattrath, on a Saturday afternoon and I didn't 
 see one other player. Both of these things could have been avoided if the death knight began at 
 level 65 instead of 55.
  
  There are still a few existing problems that should have been addressed. The first thing I ran 
 into was the ridiculous respawn rate just outside of the starting area. The enemies are rather 
 close together and once you kill two or three, the first is already reappearing. Once outside of 
 this area, the respawn gets more manageable. Another major issue I had was that less than one hour 
 into the new area, I was sent on a boar hunting quest. Either Blizzard is running out of ideas 
 or it is some kind of inside joke with the developers, but there is no reasonable excuse as to 
 why we have a quest to go kill boars in nearly every single zone of the game. There is also the 
 return of the quests where you must collect an item that you would expect to be found on every 
 enemy of a certain type, but it only drops off of one out of every five or so. These are really 
 the only problems most people have with the game, but it is disappointing to see that they have 
 persisted through two expansions.
  
  One more thing to keep in mind is that this expansion has no content for anyone under level 55. 
 The last expansion encouraged people to start new characters from level 1 while also having an 
 added area for high levels. In Wrath of the Lich King, you can't get any of the quest in the new 
 area until you are level 68 and the new character class is only available to high levels. If you 
 are just starting out with the game, there is absolutely no harm in holding off on this expansion 
 until your character has made it into the sixties.
  
  Wrath of the Lich King is basically more Warcraft. If you didn't like it before, you still won't. 
 If you can't stop playing, you'll still be hooked. If you quit playing just because you ran out 
 of things to do, then this will give you plenty of reasons to start up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inextremo88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  After beeing "clean" for 4 months me and some friends decided to get back to wow..
  Wotlk is a nice addition to Wow.. ofc after Burning Crusade even Sh** shines like gold.. but well.. 
 
  Let's break this review in some parts.. 
  
  Leveling:
  What I like pretty much and think is a must for every mmo out there, are the interactive quests.. 
 It's great to not have to kill 50 boars.. or get heads from Murlocs that drop one every tenth or 
 so.. but to have to steal a dragon, ride it and kill it's elite master.. or escape on a horse and 
 beeing chased by vampiric monsters.. or even meet the Lich King itself on a flashback of an epic 
 battle.. 
  Tbh it's the first time that I remember something from the lore..
  In Addition the xperience gained by the quests feels exactly right.
  
  What I miss is PvP leveling.. 
 Nothing can beat PvP leveling of Warhammer Online.. and if you 've tried it out you don't won't 
 to go back to pve lveling.. 
  
  But Anyway it's cool that Blizz tried to make leveling fun and give the players the feeling that 
 they are part of the lore.. and it sure does a huge difference.. 
  
  Improved Graphics:
  Wotlk is said to have an improved engine.. with high quality shadows, new fire effect, and some 
 other shader effects..
  Well it does, but beside the shadows nothing else is worth mentioning it.. Ofcourse Blizz has a 
 high skilled team that put together the best they could and they where allowed by the engine and 
 it's the best you ever have seen in Wow.. 
  But, there is always a "but", the all around performance has gotten very bad.. On an AMD x6000+ 
 3.0ghz with 2gb ram and an ATI HD3850, on a resolution of 1280x1024 and everything turned to high 
 you get less than 30fps on open area.. which is weird cause this system runs Crysis on HIGHEST..
 
  If you ask me.. Bad coding... 
  
  Sound:
  New Theme Song, and in some cases Voice-over are helping to build some nice atmosphere.. But tbh 
 when playing I still prefer Itunes over any game music.. but this time less than in BC :p
  
  End Game:
  Pretty much the same.. Ofc there are some new instance a New Arena season that 
 just started, and some new bgs, the same couch with a makeover...
  
  So in general Wotlk is the best addition to WoW, ofc as I sad everything is better than BC.. Till 
 now (not 80 yet, as I like it to take things easy, and enjoy the ride) the leveling experience, 
 with all those new interactive Quests is interesting , more like an bad made solo arcade compared 
 to solo games, but new to MMOs and it surely adds to the atmosphere..
  What is missing, is PvP leveling, a better performance, and a hard push to bring ORvR and epic 
 battles to life.. 
  
  The reason i din't give it more points is.. because $Blizzard$ has the $MONEY$ and the employes 
 to do better than that.. Ofcourse they don't really 
  have as long we don't push them.. and ofc 8.5 is more than enough.. just being nice.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limp_Laky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  To start Wrath of the Lich King is by far the best of WoW so far so unfortunately that means if 
 you are just starting you have to go through all the old content which is not a bad thing at all 
 because vanilla wow hooked a good chunk of people. 
  
  Graphics: WoW has been said to have way too cartoonish graphics, but I love them and Wotlk just 
 makes them even better. Better armor models and world environment. That said character models and 
 some monster graphics could have used a revamp considering the charecter hair models are looking 
 really outdated, especially all of the original race hair models. 
  
  
  Questing-starting at level 68 you can begin questing in Northrend which all in all is a grind, 
 BUT the good side is this time around the quests are interesting. There are a lot of quests where 
 you are doing things against the norm like wearing a murloc suit and helping a small group a murlocs. 
 The quest system was revamped and you really get more out of it because they are a lot more fun 
 and a lot more rewarding even if the gear is crap at the end of the quest. Thats the main complaint 
 off the boat or zepplin is that all of the quest rewards are tuned for if you are in greens from 
 outland so if you have any gear at all you wont be seeing much gear till 75 or later. Some people 
 started heroics in their t5 or t6. The other thing that I enjoyed is the phasing of the zones. 
 Early on players wont see this much but icecrown does a lot of this. Players wont even be able 
 to get to the ebon blade quartermaster till they complete a good chunk of quests that phase in 
 an outpost in northern icecrown. The downside is it can cause a small amount of weird lag in a 
 couple zones. This will most deffinatly be patched out in the future. 
  
  PvP- Wintergrasp is the main achievement when it comes to pvp in wotlk. It is an outdoor zone in 
 northrend where every two and a half hours a battle is waged over control of the fortress. While 
 your faction controls it you can buy pvp gear and do a quick raid that will drop either pvp gear 
 or tiered raiding gear. Also in dungeons you get Stone Keeper Shards that allow you to buy gems 
 and enchants and a mount! works out well. The new battleground is basically a mini wintergrasp 
 so its entertaining. Siege weapons are huge in wintergrasp and the new battleground so get used 
 to em. They are fun and not too powerful against charecters it makes you mad. There are also two 
 new arenas that are more about skill than running in circles around a pole, so that is a welcome 
 addition. 
  
  Raiding- Currently there are a few raids. The wintergrasp raid, Naxxramas, Obsidian Sanctum, and 
 The Eye of Eternity. Each raid now comes in 10 and 25 man flavors and are tuned down so its a much 
 easier start to the raids. This is something hardcore players are bemoaning but good news is next 
 raid is just a few months away so either way a challenge is coming. All are very good raids and 
 all but naxx are 1 boss encounters. All well built and Obsidian Sanctum adds a new twist with what 
 blizzard calls a hard mode. There is Sartharion the main boss and 3 drakes that you either kill 
 which is easy or leave 1-3 up each helping him during the boss fight making it harder each time 
 and adding more loot and even a mount into the mix. 
  
  Dungeons- Now here's my little rant and its a plus and minus. There is no more grinding to get 
 to heroic dungeons YAY! and BOOOO cause now everyone that hits 80 in half 70 epics wants to run 
 the heroics for phat lootz. This can work if you are in a very good group or a guild group or something 
 along those lines unfortunately the average pug wont be able to clear heroics unless you have replaced 
 most of that 70 gear with 78+ gear. Its easy with a few dungeons and crafting so please be nice 
 and do a few dungeons before heroics it will make me happy and odds are you wont get booted or 
 yelled at like I've unfortunately seen and experienced    
  Death Knights- The first hero class is here! once you have a level 55+ you will be able to make 
 one of these bad boys on the realm of that 55+ toon although very soon it will be on any realm. 
 Death Knights are awesome alts. They are completely overpowered till they hit the late 70's where 
 they tune down to match all the other classes. They are still a new class and are a little over 
 powered in pvp and dps right now but are being balanced quite a bit very soon. Death Knights are 
 like the caster mixed with the warrior mixed with Bruce Willis. Basically you can tank or dps with 
 big weapons and can summon undead and the lot. Its not as overpowered as it sounds and you get 
 an awesome starting zone to boot so its worth at least checking out. I'm not going to go too far 
 into them right now because its far too soon to see where they will be in the next few months due 
 to patches and class balancing.
  
  Overall- WoW has come a long way and is a much better game, there is little doubt that it will 
 be some time until they are dethroned and until that day WotLK will keep many happy and more goodness 
 is yet to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9.5 Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 8.0 Overall: 9.0
  
  Ive given WOTLK a 9.0 b/c of the new additions that has changed the game completely. For one of 
 the new features is the class the Death Knight, you can only have 1 per account; and you have to 
 have a level 55 to create one. You can spec the DK in Frost, Blood and Undead. Frost is more of 
 a tank, who can get in instances pretty quick, b/c of the high demand of tanks now days. Blood 
 is more of a PvP (Player versus Player) spec. Undead is more of a leveling and a DPS (damage per 
 second) spec. They also brought in actual storylines, which makes the game a lot more interesting. 
 Again here are the Races and Classes you can choose from.
  
  Classes:
  Rogue: Stealthy / fast-killing type/ uses poison to slow down, or have a DOT (damage over time) 
 on a person
  Mage: Uses Arcane, Fire, and Frost spells to kill, and to protect them from damage
  Paladin: 
 A holy/healing/tank; can heal, or tank, and is easy to level
  Hunter: toon that uses ranged weapons (bows, guns, etc...) and has a pet that can DPS (cat) or 
 Tank (Turtle)
  Priest: Either a healer or a DPS that uses spells to heal, prevent damage and do damage
  Shaman: 
 Uses powers (mostly lightning depend on wat spec you choose) and totems to either heal or kill
 
  Druid: Is a shape-shifter that can turn into a Bear, Cat, or a bird. (goes like that in order) 
 can tank, heal, or DPS. Is a perfect instance runner
  Warrior: is a toon that can take damage and do even more damage. Can grip 2 two-handed weapons 
 (if you fully spec in Fury) , can tank, or dps
  Warlock: Uses DOTS and Demons to kill. Can DPS, is the easiest class to level,
  
  Races and 
 what classes they support (every race can have a DK)
  
  Alliance:
  Draenei: Warrior: Paladin, Hunter, Priest, Shaman, Mage 
  Gnome: Warrior, Rogue, Mage, Warlock
 
  Night Elf: Warrior, Hunter, Rogue, Priest, Druid
  Dwarf: Warrior, Paladin, Hunter, Rogue, Priest
  Human: Warrior, Paladin, Rogue, Priest, Mage, 
 Warlock
  
  Horde
  Orc: Warrior, Hunter, Rogue, Shaman, Warlock
  Undead: Warrior, Rogue, Priest, Warlock, Mage
  Tauren: Warrior, Hunter, Shaman, Druid
  Troll: 
 Warrior, Hunter, Rogue, Priest, Shaman, Mage
  Blood Elf: Paladin, Hunter, Rogue, Priest, Mage, Warlock
  
  WOLTK has also introduced a new 
 land called Notherend, its lvl 68-80, and its where the Lich Kings Army is at. This is an addicting 
 game, and very fun at the most. This is the best MMORPG right now, hope to see one in 2 more years! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duhhhhhh
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:24 pm PT
Review:  It met most of my requirements but it still feels like the same game Ive been playing. It's wow 
 so i can't of expected a huge difference but i was hoping for a bit more. Still love the story, 
 the war craft story in general is great. Cut scenes are much appreciated and the new gear, badge, 
 and arena gear is great all in all a great expansion and if your a fan of war craft you should 
 pick this up. Kinda upset that certain characters are dieing but they all have to die sometime 
 they cant just live on forever. My pally is 80 along with my death knight witch i started right 
 when in came out and i think there pretty balanced and play right with every other class. Glad 
 that there's 2 starting area's now instead of the 1 in BC. Vehicle combat is fun and new along 
 with the new Bg and global pvp area. Haven't really played with the destructible building or anything 
 yet but it seems like it will be fun. I've done all the raid currently implemented and there not 
 to hard or easy i think there just right. All in all if you play wow you should pick this up at 
 your latest convenience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  So Blizzard decided to release a new expansion for their multimillionaire franchise of Warcraft 
 and after alot of waiting we have this great, wait I think it should be dissapointing game. Blizzard 
 lately thinks more about money than their players and they are making more and more expansions 
 without caring what their customers think.
  
  Graphics: A little improvement from Vanilla WoW and BC but its not that great, overall is the same 
 graphics as the old games
  
  History: Same lore, Arthas the Lich King wants to kill everyone and now the Alliance and Horde 
 attack Northrend for defeat that menace but alot of important people in the lore will die, seeing 
 that Illidan, Kael and Vash are alredy dead they will kill now Anubarak, Kel Thuzad and Arhtas.
 
  
  Gameplay: Same but now with the arena system and alot of classes imbalances PvP is broken, now 
 the best (overpowered) classes for arenas are Death Knight, Rogues, Ret Paladins are the only classes 
 that can win arenas, it was dissapointing seeing their mistakes in bc Blizzard only got worst the 
 situation in Wotlk.
  
  Sound: Between good and bad, at least the bosses quotes arent bad but Kel Thuzad got a new voice 
 actor and it is by far the worst mistake that Blizzard could have done to the Lich
  
  Overall: The game adds new stuff to the WoW universe and it is initially fun grinding from 70 to 
 80 or starting a DK but after you hit 80 it gets boring, easy heroics, raids are boring and pvp 
 is only about arenas now, not even Wintergrasp or Strand can save the pvp system, Inscription isnt 
 also that great and the Archivements are a way for try to do some stuffs but again isnt that great. Blizzard 
 once again shows that a good company becomes a bad company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMUK
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:17 am PT
Review:  Lots of people have been making a fuss over this lazy 2nd expansion to WOW.
  
  Firstly, set in a zone that players already have (Eastern Plaguelands) , the Litch King expansion 
 clearly proves that Blizzard have run out of ideas. Quests are the traditional pointless 'go and 
 kill me 20 of xxx' and the totally boring story of the Litch King means that as the new Death Knight 
 class, you must complete all the tedious quests first, before setting off to your Alliance/Horde 
 locations.
  
  Personally, I would love to see pvp improved upon but this was a missed opportunity as the expansion 
 introduces a new profession - Inscription to the game. At least players now get the chance to customise 
 their abilities more.
  
  Overall, this is just another lazy attempt with all the old stuff being recycled into new with 
 different colours. Its about time Blizzard woke up and kicked their minions into be more creative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so, Blizzard's gigantic mmo is still doing even greater than i had personally imagined back 
 in the days when the game was still in closed beta and i was a Warcraft 3: TFT nerd. And that's 
 great for Blizzard, it brought a genre once considered to be just as nerdy as DnD (sorry DnD players) 
 to be as mainstream as The Simpson's (well, a few years ago anyway, before it started sucking) 
 or Family Guy (although that show was only funny in its first three seasons) ..... but anyway, just 
 about everyone who didnt know what an mmorpg was 5 years ago is playing WoW and proclaiming it's 
 the greatest mmorpg ever made.... even though they probably havent played any other mmo's...
  
  This expansion pack finally picks up the story of Arthas, who we havent heard much about lore 
 wise since the end of TFT. Though, lore-wise, the whole death-knight as a playable class thing 
 doesnt make much sense (but really blizz doesnt care too much about lore, and i dont blame them, 
 look at how much money they rake in) so, lore aside, the expansion pack brings in a new class, 
 which is over-all fun to play, and has a great starting area. And then there's a few parts of the 
 gameplay which were shamelessly stolen from Mythic/Warhammer online.... who shamelessly stole it 
 from the xbox 360 console (achievements, if you have no idea what im talking about) but is relatively 
 minor and enhances the gameplay without changing it too much. This game is really just what you'd 
 expect of a mmo expansion, nothing dramatically changed, but enough to come back to the game if 
 you've left it (like myself)
  
  My major gripe is that the game still takes little actual player skill, as it relies too much upon 
 gear. I know blizzard wants to make people feel like theyre being rewarded for doing raids, but 
 come on, the reward shouldnt turn them into unstoppable hulks who can only be hurt by other people 
 who spend all their time raiding. This is why i wish there were time machines that could take me 
 back to the days when DAoC (the best mmorpg ever made, imho) was still populated. The game had 
 raids and had good rewards, but items didnt make you invincible like they do in WoW, you had to 
 have actual Skill to win fights.... that and they did RvR (battlegrounds in WoW) before WoW even 
 came out, and did it Better than WoW ever has. Unfortunately, Mythic (the people who made DAoC) 
 messed up when they made Warhammer Online by dividing the player base too much, among other reasons 
 (see my review of it for more details) so basically, players like myself are stuck with few options.... 
 play a mmo that has a small amount of players, or play a game which takes little actual player 
 skill, both of which are horrible choices. over-all this expansion pack wont do much to bring people 
 like myself back to the raiding grind-fest that WoW has become, but will likely keep those who 
 like raiding entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duhmissy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  From my exsperince the game can be very challanging. The other great thing about the game is the 
 rare items you can recive after completing a quest. It is true that the game does not offer any 
 thing for a lower player. Witch for me can be a good thing, cause it gives me some cool things to 
 look forward to. I watch my roommate play the Death night. And the ability he has is totally off 
 the hook. I cant wait for the day were I get to level 55. Out of all the games that I hve played 
 World of Warcraft is the best yet. I also love the fact that you can link up with other players 
 of different levels to play. I even got my partner interested in the game. I think its really cool 
 when my son and I get together and go on to do quest. I also cant wait to learn PvP, Dungon raids. I 
 also like completeing achevements to earn points to buy stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gecko-boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:52 am PT
Review:  The new expansion to World of Warcraft has been an outburst of amazement to fans across the globe. 
 After the truely great success of the 'Burning Crusade' expansion we really didn't think things 
 could get better, but they did, and its going to continue! Now raising the amount of online players 
 to 11 Million WoW has set records for the 'best online game in the world!'
  2009 is a great year for Blizzard as already they have released this outstanding expansion to WoW, 
 Diablo III and Starcraft II. wow!
  
  Wrath of the Lich king (WotLK) offers us many new regions, activities and tonnes more! One of the 
 Main attractions is the brand new continent of Northrend, which appears North (obviously...) of 
 Azeroth, inbetween the Eastern Kingdoms and Kalimdor. It is made up of nine new regions. They being 
 Borean Tundra, Howling Fjord, Scholazar Basin, Dragon Blight, Grizzly Hills, Wintergrasp, Zul'Drak, 
 Storm peaks, Chrystal song forrest and Ice Crown
  
  Where to start?
  
  Well there are two possible starting areas; Borean Tundra and Howling Fjord.
  Each of them include 
 their own *new* creatures; for example Borean has to offer new specie of Undead and Dragonflight, 
 Wooly mammoths (not tameable) , Rhinos (Tameable, Exotic) .
  The Howling Fjord however will introduce you to Iron dwafs, the Vrykul, Storm Giants, and a new 
 specie of Wendigo and giant. Clearly, 'creature-wise' Howling Fjord has more to offer, But Borean 
 Tundra (in my opinion) has more 'fun' quests and cool gear! Traveling from the boat in Stormwind 
 City harbour will take you to Borean, taking the boat from the wetlands takes you to Howling Fjord. 
 
  
  Dungeons List Location
  The Nexus (69-72, goup of 5) Borean Tundra
  The Oculus (80, group of 5) Borean Tundra
  Eye of Eternity (80 Raid 10/25) Borean Tundra
  
 
  Utgarde keep (68-72, grp of 5) Howling Fjord
  Utgarde Pinnicle (80, grp of 5) Howling Fjord
  
  Azjol-Nerub (72-74, grp of 5) Dragonblight
 
  Ahn'Kahet (73-75 grp of 5) Dragonblight
  The Obsidian Sanctum Dragonblight
  (80, raid 10/25 man) 
  Naxxramas (80 raid 10/25 man) Dragonblight
  
  Drak'tharon Keep (73-75, 
 grp of 5) Grizzly hills/Zul'Drak
  Gundrak (73-75, grp of 5) Zul'Drak
  
  Halls of Stone (77-70, grp of 5) Storm Peaks
  Halls of lightning (80, grp of 5) Storm Peaks
 
  Ulduar (80 raid) Further info unavailable
  due patch 3.1
  
  Icecrown Citadel, Ice Crown
  (80 raid, Due patch 3.3) own
  
  The Violet Hold (75-77, grp 
 of 5) Dalaran
  
  There is also a new wing in the Caverns of Time introduce by WotLK
  Also new in Northrend is a new capital city: Dalaran. Just like the Stockades in Stormwind, or 
 ragefire in Orgrimmar, Dalaran has its own dungeon aimed at level 75+; The Violet Hold. Just like 
 Shattrath, Dalaran has portals to every capital (even Shattrath!) and has no Auction House.
  
  So thats Northrend and now, onto our next big attraction of the expansion;
  WoW's first hero 
 class: the Death Knight!
  Here are some facts about the DKs
  
  -You must have a level 55 or above character on a realm to creat one
  -They start on level 55
 
  -They can tank and wear Plate armour
  -They get a free 100% increase mount at level 58 (DK quest)
  -They are exceptionaly strong, horrible 
 to fight one, but great to play one!
  -you can only have ONE Death knight per server
  -You start off with 4 additional 16-slot (i think) bags.
  -You start with full uncommon plate 
 gear, you complete DK quests to get your rare Death Knight gear one-by-one
  -They look cool =P
  -Their talent paths are: Blood, Frost and Unholy
  -They can summon a Ghoul 
 which fights for you (learnt from trainer at level 58)
  -Their 'star' move is called 'Death Grip'; It pulls the targeted creature towards them at high-speed!
 
  
  And loads more cool stuff they can do!
  
  New Profession: Inscription
  by gathering herbs and 'milling' stacks of 5 of them, you will create pigment used to make ink 
 to inscript scrolls, glyphs and more!
  
  Achievements
  Now; in the style of Xbox live achievements, you can take you game further! Scroll through different 
 achievements and attempt to complete them, such as killing Dungeon/raid bosses, doing certain things 
 in battlegrounds, the possibilities are endless! For some achievements you recieve prizes, such 
 as exlusive mounts, names (e. g Explore even continent in the game and receive a prize such as an 
 exclusive mount, names e. g: ! and loads more!
  
  ...
  
  Level Caption is raised to 80!
  Destructable buildings!
  Siege Weapons!
  New Profession: 
 Inscription!
  Changeable Hairstyles!
  New Dances!
  New Quests!
  New Dungeons!
  New monsters!
  New Items!
  New Raids!
  
  World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King
  
 
  "All that awaits you... is Death. Only then, will you understand... You've been following in MY 
 footsteps all along..."
  
  The Lich king is here...
  
  
  
  A definate 9.5 if not 10
  
  Thanks for reading
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicDoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  I picked up the new expansion to World of Warcraft, The Frozen Throne, and when first getting into 
 Northrend I found it to look very nice and a good upgrade from content pre-Wrath. The quest chains 
 where very fun and had alot of depth and story to them that made them more enticing and had me 
 wanting to do more. After I got all the achievement for doing the quests for each respectable area 
 in Northrend I started doing heroic's and getting ready for the raid content which tends to be 
 my bread and butter of the game. But entering into 10 man Naxx for the first time, I was somewhat 
 let down but the rinse and repeat of old content. And the difficulty level was sub-par considering 
 I was going in with T6 and Northrend Rares and having no problem meeting the requirements for all 
 of the content. I'm not saying all the raid content is easy though, Sartharion with Drakes up and 
 Malygos are by no means simple fights, but thats only 2 encounters out of the entire expansion 
 that actually require a little more thought then the normal "Tank and Spank". Yes, the 25 man versions 
 of the raid content gives a little more bang then the 10 man, but not a whole lot considering past 
 content (Everyone knows Sunwell Pre-3.0 patch was no joke) and I'm hoping with patches to come 
 they produce something more fulfilling for the PvE players of the game because sadly, most guilds 
 finished all the content within a few weeks of release which was unheard of in The Burning Crusade. 
 
  
  My overall report is that it is a must have for people that play World of Warcraft, and although 
 some of the content is somewhat lax, the game is still pleasing and addicting as it was before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarckArchon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  The idea of the game is good but it was put into practice.
  Things i liked:
  -The Death Knight a superb new addition
  -Vehicle System (do not used to often)
  -Very rare 
 but Epic Quests
  -Dungeons with cool Enviroments
  
  Things i didn't like:
  -Most quests the same: kill, gather, deliver etc.
  -The new Graphic engine may cause some problems 
 for some PC's which before they didn't had problems 
  -New zone is "L A G Y", too many players, too much graphics
  -Again just lv too 80 then Heroics 
 and Arenas and even for populated servers very hard too find a raid group and reaching the raid 
 and hard to defeat the bosses which require Well geared players just too withstand 5 hits (9 for 
 tank guy) 
  -And the most important is it doesn't help the new guys only inscription, Barber Shop and Achievements 
 and that's just about it
  
  For high level guys ho rely like this game buy this expansion if you want 15$/month (ohh and you 
 need TBC too) but the World of Warcraft has just lost its magic, and i didn't found better MMO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This is an expansion that is only for higher level players and those who have played the game. 
 If you dont have a Level 55 or higher character in this game, you wont get anything out of it. 
 Yet, if you do have a Level 55 or higher character, then this is a MUST BUY for any world of warcraft 
 fan. You will most likely want to make your Death Knight character right away because of its unique 
 starting area and level of 55. The death knight is a great installment to the game as it is a paladin 
 like class that has gone all BAD @SS. The death knight will summon armies of ghouls to fight by 
 your side, suck enemies into their grasp, and heal themeselves by pwning others. Yet, once your 
 done with the Death Knight starting area, you will quickly be thrown back into the Outlands and 
 the Outlands gear. Its funny how the starting zone gear for the death knights can look like high 
 end level 80 raiding gear, yet be decent level 60 raiding gear. Once you get tired of the Outlands 
 grind you can make your way to Northrend at level 68. The quests in Northrend are much more exciting 
 and unique then those of Outland or Azeroth, and sometimes require you to kill hundreds of enemes 
 while driving tanks into infested areas of enemies. It really doesnt take that long to get to level 
 80, as quests seem to pretty rewarding in their xp. The only problem I have had with quests is 
 running out of them. Once i hit about level 78-79, I had trouble finding quests in Northrend, and 
 ended up having to run instances queit frequently which was kind of dissapointing as it is not 
 quicker that questing. This wasnt an all bad thing as it allowed for me to really experience all 
 of the dungeons available in WOTLK. Unfortunetly when you hit level 80, there really isnt anything 
 great that you get besides new abilities. It would have been nice if they came out with a new level 
 80 mount, or level 80 only power/ablity. So once you hit level 80 it will feel alot like Burning 
 Crusade in the sence that your back to PVP and PVE content, and trying to get through it. The best 
 part about this game is surprisingly the grind to level 80, and experiencing all the great new 
 quests.
  
  Oh ya, one more thing... FOR THE HORDE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidhberry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes, WoW is old, over 4 years old now. Of course this latest expansion is more of the same. What 
 are they going to do, create an entire new engine to run the game on when there's 11.5 million 
 people subscribing to the one they have? If you didn't like it 4 years ago, you won't like it now. 
 But if you're like 99% of the people who've tried it, you were hooked within the first 5 minutes. 
 Maybe even 5 seconds, like I was. Maybe you've even swayed away from the game and quit playing 
 for a year at some point over those 4 years, like I did. But the same thing will always hold true 
 for World of Warcraft: if you enjoyed it then, you'll enjoy it now. And if you've never tried the 
 game, there's no better time than now, and I think the popularity of this game speaks for itself 
 that this is a game you don't want to NOT try.
  All that being said, the latest expansion Wrath of the Lich King does 2 major things for the game. 
 The first is increasing the level cap to 80 and providing a new continent to reach that level, 
 Northrend. The second is introducing the new class, the Death Knight. Northrend is filled with 
 new zones full of quests you've probably seen before, I. E. go gather X or go kill Y. There's also 
 some you haven't seen, like one where you gain control of a Steam Tank and lay waste to some scourge 
 using a pop-up interface unique to that vehicle. The new zones are wonderfully designed, just like 
 the rest of the hugely beautiful world of Warcraft. 
  The Death Knight is overpowered right now. The class, instead of using energy or mana, uses Runes. 
 There are 3 different runes, blood, frost, and unholy. Each of these 3 types of runes acts almost 
 like it's own energy ticker, similar to a rogues abilities. An ability will cost "1 blood rune" 
 or "2 frost runes", and then that specific rune will have to re-charge before you can use another 
 ability from that rune's tree. The 3 talent trees, also blood, frost, and unholy, are invested 
 in to steer your Death Knight towards one or more of the runes you want to be the most powerful. 
 These separate runes' abilities can all be used independently of each other and in rapid succession, 
 making the Death Knight capable of high sustained DPS as well as high burst damage. Not to mention 
 the wearing of plate armor makes the DK a very viable tank if needed, as well.
  The bottom line for WotLK is the same as it was for The Burning Crusade: If you like WoW, you like 
 WoW, and you should play it. If you don't like WoW, you're nuts, so let us who do enjoy it be and 
 I wish you good luck in finding a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desdarien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft the Wrath of the Lich King. The newest of the two expansions from Blizzard has 
 hit the shelves sold over 2.8 million copies within the first 24 hours. Many people went out and 
 bought WOW Wrath of the Lich King just to get a taste of the new area Northrend and of course the 
 much awaited Death Knight. The Death Knight the first hero class that Blizzard has released is 
 just as powerful as they look. With the Blood, Unholy, and Frost specs to chose from you can take 
 your Death Knight down the path of a 
  Tank or even DPS. Now if the Death Knight is not quite what your looking for then do not worry, 
 you can now bring any of your other characters to level 80. This expansion also now adds heroic 
 for you to do in the new instances. Now how is it that players get to Northrend is it like Burning 
 Crusade with Shattrath? To get to Northrend it's simple just go to Stormwind City for now there 
 is a new area open Stormwind Harbor. You can also travel to Northrend by going through Menethil 
 Howling Fjord. 
  
  So that is just some information on the new WOW so here is my review. 
  
  WOW: Wrath of the 
 Lich King obtains a 9.5/10.0 only because even as great as it was it just fell short of perfect. 
 With the new expansion out and everything that was updated the game still had its minor issues. 
 But overall it earned every sale that it did and is recommended to any player that used to play 
 WOW or, anyone playing any other online MMORPG. WOWWLK has brought back many players and has brought 
 back every bit of entertainment that WOW used to bring to every player when it had originally came 
 out. I would say this is a must have at least until you hit 80. And of course the Death Knight 
 is a must play but better make sure you have a level 55 on your account and of course on the same 
 server you want to make the Death Knight on so good luck. Play and get your game on. 
  
  desdarien 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To me, Burning Crusade was a disappointment. It was a solid expansion with some appreciated new 
 features, but it wasn't exactly what I was hoping for. Wrath of the Lich King turned out to be 
 just what I needed in an expansion and does just that, it expands on the pre-existing gameplay 
 rather than just make it easier for everyone.
  
  The graphics are what you should all be expecting by now. That beign said, they did receive some 
 touch up here and there. The textures are more noticable and they implemented shadows. The shadows 
 are nice, but far from necesary in a game like this. The problem witht the shadows are that they're 
 poorly optimized. I turned them on to high from being off altogether and they cut my framerate 
 in half. Now, onto performance. Wrath of the Lich King runs smoothly on just about any computer. 
 It was even running fine on my eight year old Dell. My new computer, a laptop with Windows Vista, 
 3GB RAM, 260GB HD, Nvidia 256mb 8600 GT Mobile, and a 2.4 Ghz Core 2 Duo processor runs it on mostly 
 high settings with shadows off at 60 frames per second. 
  
  The music is great as always. Blizzard is known for their fantastic soundtracks, and they didn't 
 skimp out here. It's as epic as ever, with a sense of folk thrown in to enhance the feeling of 
 the lonely north. It's realy great, anyone who was a fan of previous music in the series should 
 like this just as much.
  
  The game-play is where Wold of Warcraft has always shined above the rest. Blizzard still retainded 
 that classic game-play and made some beneficial changes surrounding it. The game is still easy 
 like Burning Crusade, possibly even easier, but it doesn't matter as much here because there's 
 so much more to do. There's a bunch of new factions with rewards that are very worthwhile, a ton 
 of new dungeons that despite their lack of difficulty are still fun to run through and quite creative, 
 heroic versions of those dungeons, 10 and 25 man raids, heroic versions of those raids, and lots 
 of PvP. For PvP there's a new battleground where you essentially play attack and defend, which 
 is a lot of fun. There's also at least one new arena that I'm aware of but I ahven't had the chance 
 to play on it yet. Then there's the addition of Wintergrasp, a world PvP area of attack and defend 
 that not only loads you with honor, but awesome rewards as well like mammoths and leveling weapons. 
 Not to mention your side gets an experince bonus if you're in control of Wintergrasp. Blizzard 
 also added in the new spells and talent trees, and despite all the whining I think they're pretty 
 cool. There's the new hero class, Death Knight, that anyone who has a level 55 character can create. 
 I can safely say that they are over powered. avng said that they're a ton of fun to play, extaordinarily 
 easy to level, and their storyline that you get to play through is very well done. There's the 
 new profession, inscription, which is cool but somewhat useless at the moment. Blizzard also implemented 
 an achievement system, which is almost exactly like the Xbox 360 achievements except certain achievements 
 give you rewards like tabards, titles, and mounts. They also greatly improved the storytelling 
 this time around and make you truly feel like you're a part of it. This where another new feature, 
 phasing, comes in. It makes the world around you change depending on whcih quests you've completed 
 and so on. So what you do really affects the game world. Blizzard loaded this expansion with so 
 much new content, no one in their right mind can complain.
  
  What a fantastic expansion pack, it's truly amazing. If you already play WoW you probably already 
 own this. If you don't, I suspect there's nothing I can say to get you to play. This is a great 
 expansion, anyone who was doubting or suspicious can rest assured. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadder
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Brought with spunk and a bit of know-how, Blizzard has put out its best game yet. It screams "New" 
 yet doesn't take away from the aspects of the original World Of Warcraft. It has sparked the interest 
 of millions, and millions more to come. The combination of a new environment that is put well put 
 together, plus a hole new class of character to play gives you a great incentive to play this amazing 
 game. Brings out the true story of World Of Warcraft, and never ceases to surprise you after every 
 turn. There is nothing like this to compare to. After playing it for a few minutes you are immersed 
 in a world entirely controlled by you. This has definitely raised the bar for, not just MMORPGs, 
 but also for gaming in general. This expansion has brought a new light to something that was brilliantly 
 made to begin with. It is, if you will, The "Lich King" of MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomahawkZA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The two weeks preceding the laaunch of the WOTLK expansion were plagued with inconvenience to players 
 with lots of downtime as Blizzard prepared for the roll-out. The wealth of new playing experience 
 and the seamless integration has added to the existing wealth of game content. New harbours provide 
 access to the new areas and from level 74 the new capital city of Dalaran becomes accessible. Grand 
 scale battlegrounds and several new instances have been integrated. There are many choices of play 
 style for leveling including questing (completing tasks) , grinding (Indiscriminately killing anything 
 that moves) , instances (Special leveling dungeons) , dailies (Special assignments that can be repeated 
 each day) and any combination of these. Players get to customize their player even further (Get 
 a shave and a haircut) and new Glyphs (Inscriptions stored in a new ability boost interface) . Several 
 new factions await the player to find them and build reputation. Player versus player is handled 
 in Battlegrounds and in Arena. Battlegrounds tend to be larger and typically are about territorial 
 control or capturing flags. Arena is a small battle area and the action tends to be fast and furious. 
 The game has progressed from huge to massive. Any regular WOW afficionado will concur that leveling 
 is only the prelude and the game only starts once a character has maxed out on levels. The graphics 
 have been beefed up a bit and Vista 64 support has been a welcome enhancement. All other games 
 old or new pale in comparison to the immersive and highly social World of Warcraft. Interaction 
 with other players via guilds, groups, raids, chat and the auction houses creates a social dynamic 
 revolving around a virtual economy deeply embedded in rich lore which unfolds as players progress. 
 The story differs depending on choce of allegiance (Horde or Alliance) , race and class. Chosen 
 professions further customise the experience and ensure expansive variety. This game has etched 
 itself as the definitive bechmark against which all other games will be measured. The best game 
 ever produced has just got even better and offers millions of hours or durable entertainment in 
 a believable living and breathing mini-universe that always keeps players pushing to get the next 
 achievement or upgrade. WOTLK is immersive, compelling and feature rich and once it has bitten 
 it is hard to put it aside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteares
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Wrath of Lich King is honestly, a pretty nice expansion pack considering the travesty that WoW, 
 on a whole, has become.
  
  Here's what I like:
  
  -Death Knights. While I haven't really gotten into serious DK playing, I like their feel. I like 
 that they are somewhat similar to my beloved Ret Pally except they have all the tools that Ret 
 Pallys should have, and should have had, since, oh... lets say the infamous patch 1.9....*sigh.
 
  
  -Northrend. Yeah, it's not Zangermarsh or Terrokar but it's nice. It looks good. The graphics upgrade 
 is nice... not great, but nice. The enemies look somewhat fearsome, though overallI still think 
 that Blizzard could really do some better design. It's for the masses, so you have to expect a 
 lot of 'rehashing'.
  
  -Cool Talents. Titans Grip Rox. Divine Storm Rox (until it got nerfed to physical only damage... but 
 it's still cool) .
  
  Here's what I hate:
  
  -Rehashing. The game is still the same grind. It's the same kill stuff get stuff. It's the same, 
 spend an hour getting ready for raids and traveling to raids. (I have admittedly become really 
 used to private server 'fast travel' systems. Oh... it is AMAZING how much better it makes the game!) 
 It's the same awfully fake looking trees/grass.
  
  -Pallys. Yeah, Ret is pretty awesome now but now, it's doing the facerolling we complained about 
 that was done against us for years while Prot has taken a slight hit to DPS for raids and Holy 
 has pretty much lost all viability for raids. Oh, and we still dont' have a viable pull spell. 
 JUDGEMENT DOESN'T AND SHOULDN'T COUNT!
  
  -Battlegrounds. They're awful. And you have to grind them which just increases the awfulness of 
 them. The rewards and AFKers are awful. It's a sad replacement for what should be awesome world 
 PVP.
  
  -Blizzard's idea of balancing. It has been noted that Blizzard's dev team lead by Kalgan, notoriously 
 hated by the Palading community, is balancing the game towards Arena 5v5 gameplay. The result. 
 Insulting cries of 'NERF' this and that.
  
  -Cool Talents for all the classes. Yeah...*cough... some of you guys got the short end of the stick 
 (Holy Pallys...*cough) .
  
  Overall, the game is nice, the replay value is based on what you can tolerate, but the rehashing 
 for $15/month is just WAAAAAY too much to spend on a game... especially one that is on it's way 
 out graphically wise and one that is essentially becoming more and more like Diablo 2. The game 
 overall, is simply not fun anymore. The amount of work and time required for end game content is 
 still ridiculous but that's what MMO's are right? Wrong. MMO's are supposed to be fun. WoW lost 
 it's fun factor for me a while back and WoTLK didn't succeed in regaining it as far as subscription 
 WoW goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr67
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  If you liked TBC, you're gonna love LK. Otherwise, prepare for more of the same old WoW.
  
  The new zones are great, visually they are much nicer and sound much better than anything seen 
 in the game before. The quests are mostly the same as before but the hubs are very well though 
 out. Daily quest are also back, if you loved the same kill x, collect y every day, you're in for 
 a treat. However, the thing that disappointed me the most about northrend the new mobs. Some are 
 new, many are re-skins and most are a childish variations of human/animal. For example, wolf people, 
 walrus people, spider people, bull people, giant people, etc. 
  
  There are many new dungeons to enjoy throughout the leveling process as well as being left with 
 little other choice than to farm them on heroic for badges and rep when you reach 80. The raiding, 
 well, it's more casual friendly than ever before, otherwise, for better or for worse, its the same 
 as TBC. The first hero class is here and for the most part, its a good addition to the current 
 ones.
  
  For pvp fans, there is a new bg map to farm along with the other ones we've gotten sick of playing 
 for the past few years. The new vehicle combat is very basic but it has its moments. Lake wintergasp 
 is very disappointing as a pvp zone but those new to mmos will probably get a kick out of it. Arenacraft 
 continues to dominate the pvp scene with more glorified duels of severe class imbalance on several 
 brand new (and tiny) maps.
  
  Overall, LK is a disappointment for those looking for new and exciting things to do in WoW but 
 at least the casual crowd will have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlklein
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay very similar to the original and first expansion, adds a new battleground that has a different 
 feel but takes the focus away from the player abilities and puts it on vehicles provided equally 
 to both sides.
  
  The new class, the Deathknight is remarkably unbalanced. It is as if Blizzard designed a class 
 to draw new players to the game by allowing them to quickly defeat characters that have been developed 
 laboriously through the two previous game packs. Overall class balance is very poor with the Deathknight 
 and Paladin dramatically stronger than other classes.
  
  The arena format continues to dominate the pvp scene with arena achievement limiting the quality 
 of pvp equipment that can be accessed. This would work if it was not for the balance issues. The 
 80/20 rule is in full force. 80% of the top teams are composed of only 20% of the classes. If you 
 are not a Deathknight, Paladin, or Rogue your chances of earning the best quality equipment are 
 slim. Thus the overpowered classes get the top notch equipment resulting in a "rich get richer" 
 environment.
  
  Overall, the weakest game design I have ever seen come out of the Blizzard team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkc4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  depth and updated visuals to make the game seem brand new. I have played World of Warcraft since 
 launch back in 2004 and I must say that this expansion revitalizes my interest in this already 
 epic game. They have added different styles of quests, new creatures, and dungeons that blow away 
 most of the originals.
  
  The size of the new content is huge and offers a ridiculous amount of things to do whether you 
 are 70 or 80. The additions they have put in place for the professions were also done really well.
 
  
  I do not have a level 80 Death Knight (the new class implemented) but I did create one and do the 
 entire starting zone. The class seems very fun and I can see why so many others are sticking with 
 them.
  
  If you have previously played Warcraft and enjoyed it, then there really is no reason why you should 
 not get this. There are other MMO's out there but I don't think any match up to overall depth of 
 WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAYDAYcomics
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  first all i want to say this expansion is great! It offers so much that crusader and 1st WoW didn't 
 offer. For example the quests engine is really good, All you WoW players know that the quests before 
 this expansion were so monotonous because they were all quite the same type ,but WTLK introduces 
 new types of quest that do not get boring and will keep you happy till you hit lvl 80! The quests 
 in WTLK only make up a small part out of the huge amounts of fun that u will be getting out of 
 WTLK! You will enjoy the amazing landscapes, building, improved models and graphics, creatures 
 and cool new features. Yes i know, blizzard had to make this expansion great in order to keep WoW 
 alive for so long and maybe get more people to play WoW. But we must give them some credit, this 
 expansion rocks! And i am pretty sure you angry reviewers are disappointed of the graphics; maybe 
 because it cant compare to todays games, or its no huge improvement from the older patches, expansion 
 and main game. But we must remember this is one massive MMO. if blizzard had to make the graphics 
 look amazing in the whole of Azzeroth the game could land up to be over 100gigs! And then many 
 people would not be able to play WoW: ( So my conclution is... BUY THE EXPANSION IF U DID NOT YET! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  well by now if you're a WoW fan you've already gotten WotLK long ago so i'm not going to be deconverting 
 anyone. But maybe some of you who are waiting might save your money
  
  anyway I've leveled 2 charcters to 80 and I am pretty much done with northrend, the thought of 
 leveling another character through there makes me ill. It's just the same old stuff i've been doing 
 for 4 years of WoW, go to X kill wolves, collect Y number of pelts , return to quest give, sell 
 green loot to vendor. Same old faction rep. grind system, same old pvp zones. ok 2 more have been 
 added but it's too little too late, i've had 3 years of running nothing but mostly alterac valley. 
 and we are still doing AV at 80.
  
  
  Now I realize it's the nature of the beast to have repetitive quests in an MMO but it's just not 
 enjoyable anymore. The many side story quests to 80 was still interesting but for me i'm done. 
 There's also still some classes like warlocks which I played that are particularly broken but the 
 devs. seem unwilling to admit it which kills your desire to play a game you invested so much time 
 in
  
  WoW will always have new people but most of the people I started playing this game with no longer 
 play. WoW is like a turnstyle sure there's 11 million playing but you wonder how many people have 
 cancelled. Unfortunately there's not really any mmo's that can compete so people will stay be playing 
 WoW since there are no alternatives.
  
  I'm still a blizzard fan but for me this game just doesn't offer much anymore.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdragon0488
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  After about a week of the release I picked up the new expansion to World of Warcraft, The Frozen 
 Throne, and when first getting into Northrend I found it to look very nice and a good upgrade from 
 content pre-Wrath. The quest chains where very fun and had alot of depth and story to them that 
 made them more enticing and had me wanting to do more. After I got all the achievement for doing 
 the quests for each respectable area in Northrend I started doing heroic's and getting ready for 
 the raid content which tends to be my bread and butter of the game. But entering into 10 man Naxx 
 for the first time, I was somewhat let down but the rinse and repeat of old content. And the difficulty 
 level was sub-par considering I was going in with T6 and Northrend Rares and having no problem 
 meeting the requirements for all of the content. I'm not saying all the raid content is easy though, 
 Sartharion with Drakes up and Malygos are by no means simple fights, but thats only 2 encounters 
 out of the entire expansion that actually require a little more thought then the normal "Tank and 
 Spank". Yes, the 25 man versions of the raid content gives a little more bang then the 10 man, 
 but not a whole lot considering past content (Everyone knows Sunwell Pre-3.0 patch was no joke) 
 and I'm hoping with patches to come they produce something more fulfilling for the PvE players 
 of the game because sadly, most guilds finished all the content within a few weeks of release which 
 was unheard of in The Burning Crusade. 
  
  My overall report is that it is a must have for people that play World of Warcraft, and although 
 some of the content is somewhat lax, the game is still pleasing and addicting as it was before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adasen
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  January 08 and word of wotlk was in full hype mode, and why not? The biggest mmo on the planet 
 was releasing another expansion and deserves good publication. So like everyone else I jumped onto 
 the hype waggon and followed the launch closely. It seemed like blizzard had taken into account 
 what a lot of players wanted this time round so the hype grew and everyone started to get real 
 excited about the release.
  
  13/11/08 I'm stood outside a shop at 12am waiting for them to open the door so I can get a C. E 
 copy, run home and do a few days play without sleep.
  
  2am, I'm in bed thinking about what I could of spent the money on instead. Yep, bored within the 
 first 2 hours. 
  
  In the morning I give it another go and start to have a deeper look around at whats to offer. I 
 start a Death Knight and play with that untill about level 74. Same old stuff. I get bored and 
 switch back to another character, start playing that and realise I'd have to do the exact same 
 quests all over again if I want to run with this character. Boring!! I go back to the death knight 
 and after about the 200th 'get me a couple of dozen wolf furs' quests I give up and go off to play 
 other things.
  
  So what's different from TBC? Nothing really. Same old graphics, quests, plot, mobs, characters. 
 All with a different paint job and skin. The enviroments have been copy pasted and re coloured 
 with a few new bits thrown in to make it look fresh. The new spells and actions are old spells 
 and actions revamped. . . The game play itself is . . . well it's the same! there is nothing new. 
 Still no solo endgame play. If your not in a good solid 'I know what the other guy is thinking' 
 guild then you'll not be able to play wotlk's top end instances. 
  
  There is really not much I can say about any of it tbh that others haven't already.
  
  Get 
 it if your a die hard wow fan. If not you'll be wasting your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lollers22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Four years and well beyond 10 million subscriptions after the release of World of Warcraft, Blizzard's 
 phenomenally successful massively multiplayer online role-playing game is barely recognizable as 
 the same game that sold almost a quarter of a million copies in its first 24 hours. The game has 
 been in a near-constant state of evolution since 2004, and up until last month, the steady flow 
 of new features and improvements had all been patched in for free, with only one exception: the 
 Burning Crusade expansion pack that's required to play Wrath of the Lich King. The recently released 
 second expansion pack doesn't boast as many back-of-the-box bullet points as its predecessor, and 
 it doesn't offer anything for new players, but if you're still playing WOW or you're looking for 
 an excuse to get back into it, this thrilling new adventure is not to be missed.
  All of the new content in Wrath of the Lich King comes with a character-level requirement. You 
 can't play the new death knight hero class until one of your existing characters reaches level 
 55, and you can't attempt any quests in the new Northrend continent until you're at level 68. The 
 most significant exception to this rule would have been the new inscription-crafting profession, 
 but that ended up being patched in shortly before the expansion's release alongside new talents 
 for every character class in the game, an Xbox Live-style achievements system, barbershops, an 
 extremely useful in-game calendar, and numerous user-interface improvements. There's new content 
 for low-level players, but you don't need the expansion pack to get it.
  Regardless of where you choose to start your Wrath of the Lich King adventure, it'll quickly become 
 apparent that considerable effort has gone into making the new content compelling. There are still 
 plenty of fetch quests, and there's certainly no shortage of non-player characters looking for 
 heroes to kill a certain number of whichever species or faction they have a beef with. Liberally 
 sprinkled in among those genre requisites, though, are some quite different challenges that not 
 only add some much-needed variety but, in some cases, also do a great job of immersing you in Warcraft's 
 rich lore. Previously, WOW relied on you reading the briefings that bookend quests for its storytelling, 
 but in Wrath of the Lich King, it's often the quests themselves that get the job done along with 
 a handful of in-game cutscenes. You might go into the expansion not knowing your Arthas from your 
 elbow, but after questing in Northrend for a while, you'll inevitably gain some understanding of 
 just why the world of Warcraft needs so many heroes.
  Playing through the death knight's starting area also exposes you to some interesting Warcraft 
 lore, and doing so is recommended even if you have no intention of playing the new class beyond 
 that point. It's only fair to warn you that death knights can be tough to put down, though; not 
 only are they very powerful and fun to play, but they also start at level 55, they get a free epic 
 mount, and they're fully decked out with great-looking blue (rare) gear by the time they leave 
 their starter area at level 58 or so. It's unfortunate that you need to gain another 10 levels 
 playing through Burning Crusade content before you can accept any quests in Northrend, but the 
 death knight is such a powerful class with so little downtime that you can get through it relatively 
 quickly. Players sticking with their nonhero classes will almost certainly feel compelled to tell 
 you that your new death knight is overpowered at some point, and they're right, at least as far 
 as leveling and questing is concerned. The death knight is also one of the more complex classes 
 to play well, and unfortunately it's too soon to comment on how they fare in player-versus-player 
 scenarios.
  When your death knight or one of your preexisting characters reaches level 68, you need to get 
 yourself to Northrend as soon as possible. Not only is the new continent epic in scale and more 
 impressive-looking than any of the game's previous locales, but it's also bursting with hundreds 
 of quests to complete for the numerous new races and factions that you'll encounter there. To give 
 you some idea of just how many quests there are in Wrath of the Lich King, you need to complete 
 at least 875 of them to unlock the questing achievements scattered across all eight of Northrend's 
 major regions. There's so much new content that you could conceivably level two characters from 
 70 to 80 without having to repeat many of the same quests, though some of them are so good that 
 you'll want to.
  New in Wrath of the Lich King are numerous quests in which you complete objectives at the controls 
 of a mount or vehicle. Quest-specific rides include dragons, mammoths, airplanes, bipedal mechs, 
 and even a giant. The controls are slightly different for all of them, but they're never complicated 
 and they're always clearly displayed onscreen as soon as you climb aboard. Another gameplay mechanic 
 that's used frequently in new quests is phasing, which lets you see areas of the world differently 
 from other players. Similar to how the world appears in gray scale when you die and have to run 
 back to your corpse as a ghost, phasing quests often apply some kind of visual filter to the environment 
 and let you interact with NPCs in different ways. Wrath of the Lich King takes this idea to a whole 
 new level. By completing certain quests, you trigger dramatic changes to the environment that are 
 the same for all players who have completed said quest, but for players who have yet to do so, 
 the world still exists in its original form. Whether this is achieved though technical wizardry 
 or just straight-up magic is unclear, but its integration is seamless, and it's incredibly satisfying 
 to feel like your actions are having a significant impact on the world around you.
  However, not every quest in Wrath of the Lich King is so fulfilling, mostly because the vast majority 
 of them simply aren't challenging. When accepting a quest, you rarely have to question if you can 
 complete it; you just need to figure out when you can fit it into your jam-packed hero schedule. 
 There are quests for which you need to group up with other players, but even these aren't nearly 
 as challenging as similar offerings in the pre-Lich King game. It's no secret that Blizzard wants 
 to make content that's accessible to the vast majority of WOW players rather than just to those 
 in elite raiding guilds, and in this regard the new expansion is undoubtedly a success, but at 
 times the new content feels a little too easy. There are a dozen new dungeons designed for five 
 players, and every one of them can be beaten in about an hour by a reasonably good group. To get 
 your hands on the best loot dropped by bosses, though, you need to play through those same dungeons 
 on the heroic difficulty setting, which makes all of the enemies tougher and is available only 
 to players who have hit the new level-80 cap.
  In addition to the heroic-difficulty dungeons, there are a handful of larger "raid" dungeons for 
 groups of 10 and 25 players that are designed to cater to more experienced players. The challenge 
 ramps up considerably in raid dungeons, and if that's still too easy for you, there are achievements 
 you can unlock by, for example, defeating bosses in less than three minutes, with a small group, 
 or without letting a single player die. Some of the achievements in Wrath of the Lich King come 
 with tangible rewards such as titles and tabards, and a few of the most challenging ones earn you 
 mounts that can't be obtained any other way. So if you're an elitist, don't worry, there are still 
 plenty of opportunities for you to distinguish yourself from the crowd.
  If you're more interested in player-versus-player encounters than in quests and dungeons, Wrath 
 of the Lich King has you covered, too. There are a number of PVP-oriented quests scattered throughout 
 the world for which you can earn experience, honor, and gold on a daily basis. There's also a new 
 attack-and-defend battleground that incorporates siege weapons, and then there's the icing on the 
 PVP cake: Wintergrasp. Large enough to support battles between hundreds of players simultaneously, 
 Wintergrasp is a region that exists solely so that the Horde and Alliance can fight for control 
 of a large fortress in a battle that rages for up to 40 minutes every three hours or so. The goal 
 for the attackers is to knock down the walls of the fortress using siege weapons, get inside the 
 keep, and activate a titan orb (read: large glowing ball) within the 40-minute time limit. The 
 goal for the defending faction is to stop them. When enough players show up to make the battle 
 worthwhile, it's arguably the most fun you can have in Wrath of the Lich King. Unlike traditional 
 WOW battlegrounds, Wintergrasp is designed in such a way that even players who haven't reached 
 level 80 yet can contribute, and if your faction is underrepresented on the battlefield, you'll 
 automatically receive a buff that keeps things competitive.
  Besides being a blast, there are plenty of incentives for participating in the battle for Wintergrasp. 
 The faction that controls the fort gains exclusive access to rare-item vendors and to a small one-boss 
 raid dungeon. Furthermore, while your faction controls Wintergrasp, every dungeon boss in the expansion 
 will drop Stone Keeper's Shards, a form of currency that can be used to purchase powerful items, 
 in addition to their regular loot. A similar feature was introduced in the Burning Crusade expansion, 
 but the associated PVP goal wasn't as fun, the shards dropped in only a handful of dungeons, and 
 the items that you could exchange the shards for weren't nearly as desirable.
  Among the usual assortment of rare items, epic items, and exclusive PVP mounts that you can exchange 
 your shards for, you'll find a number of items that look identical to armor and weapons that you 
 might have used in 2004 but that are actually very different. These "heirloom" items are unique 
 not only because they bind to your account rather than to an individual character, allowing them 
 to passed around, but also because they can be used at any level and their stats scale appropriately. 
 Heirlooms are a great idea for anyone who has a high-level character and is looking to start a 
 new one, though it's unfortunate that they look so dated and generic alongside newer items.
  In fact, the look of most of the non-epic armor pieces and weapons in Wrath of the Lich King is 
 disappointing. If you've spent any amount of time acquiring good gear in Burning Crusade, then 
 you're probably heading into Northrend wielding a wonderfully ornate weapon or two and dressed 
 to kill. That gear will likely last you for a few levels, but inevitably you'll have opportunities 
 to upgrade it as you progress. Is that sword made from two pieces of stone held together with string 
 really more powerful than your blade that looks like it belongs in the hand of a god, though? Yes 
 it is. Armor items in Northrend have a similarly improvised feel, and to make matters worse, it's 
 entirely possible for you to upgrade them several times en route to level 80 without ever getting 
 an item that looks different or that isn't the exact same model with slightly different coloring.
 
  The armor and weapons are an acquired taste at best, but there's no disputing the fact that their 
 design is very much in keeping with the rugged nature of Northrend itself. The continent's harsh 
 environments are inhabited by half-giant warriors, woolly mammoths, and plenty of other creatures 
 whose appearances suggest that they're well-equipped to survive there. A few of the models are 
 recycled and showing their age, but as always, the quality of the animation breathes life into 
 them and makes their rudimentary geometry easy to ignore. Northrend's environments are more epic 
 and detailed than any that have appeared in World of Warcraft previously, but it's the believability 
 of the behavior of the characters and creatures that makes them really come to life. For example, 
 bears have always featured in World of Warcraft, and they don't look any different now than they 
 did four years ago. Nevertheless, it's only in Wrath of the Lich King that they've learned to fish 
 for salmon and to be protective of cubs. Similarly, herds of animals can be fascinating to watch; 
 males will fight each other and are the first to respond to any threat from players, whereas females 
 and their young will flee at the slightest hint of danger.
  Adding significantly to the appeal of even Northrend's most foreboding environments is an original 
 soundtrack that, when appropriate, is every bit as grand as the scenery. Having an orchestra play 
 alongside a male voice choir in the background while you ride on a fire-breathing dragon high above 
 the snow-capped mountains of Dragonblight feels truly epic, and the rustic Celtic-sounding fiddle 
 track that plays in the less fantastical Grizzly Hills region as you round up horses or hunt for 
 bears is equally appropriate and even more impressive.
  If you're in a position to enjoy what Wrath of the Lich King has to offer, then let's be honest, 
 you're probably doing so already. The expansion's launch was successful enough that players on 
 high-population servers had to wait for hours at a time to log on, and the most common complaints 
 were simply that some quests were difficult to complete because so many players were trying to 
 do them simultaneously. The queues are mostly a thing of the past, and now that things have settled 
 down Northrend is an absolute joy to explore. If you're not level 68 yet, we suggest you double 
 your efforts and hop on a boat or a zeppelin there as soon as possible.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomyDoomDoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  It's hard when one goes into a WoW game - hard in the reason that you have you distinguish what 
 has been before. Sure you have your regular 'collect & gather' quests, escort quests, the deplorable 
 sense of endless grinding when soloing - and the ever sense, that there's so much more. Such is 
 Blizzard's latest inception of the ridiculously successful World of Warcraft. Having waiting with 
 baited breath for this game to come in to work, only to be told I can't buy it until launch date, 
 I have grinded mobs, honor & XP just to anticipate the new world that is Northrend. I feared, however, 
 that when I stepped upon the Borean Tunra that my experience would be more of the same Outlandish, 
 regular and nonsensical grinding despair that had encompassed my previous ten levels. However, 
 again - you get to a certain point in WOTLK that you feel like there is something new awaiting 
 you - something better, something that actually belongs to the world that you've known since Orcs 
 & Humans. Sure, you've got the regular old grind and gather and report and so on quests..... but, 
 there's something more that's going on here. Something that, when you know you've reached the right 
 level - you'll reap the rewards.
  
  I spent a couple of hours with my lvl70 BE Pal before I decided it time to kick in with the real 
 worth of the expansion.
  
  A Feckin' Death Knight.
  
  When starting a Death Knight - one must remember, don't expect the usual when starting a character. 
 Since most people, by this time, have already started said class - I feel it pointless to introduce 
 the talents, specs and benefits of this 'exclusive' class.
  
  Essentially, if you're new to the game - score a character to 55 (or 58, I can't remember, I just 
 know that both expansions have a level fifty requirement) At this point in the review I was trying 
 to remember a quest that required me to gather anything in the 50 numbers...... Hillsbrad Foothills 
 came to mind.
  
  Anyway, I digress. The Death Knight would seem like a breath of fresh air at first, (indeed, the 
 exclusive intro area, quests and those that proceed are quite possibly the best in MMORPG history) 
 - yet the Death Knight just offers another class. It isn't a hero class. It's just another class. 
 A hero class WOULD be one that is OVER POWERED - save that the Death Knight isn't. You could enter 
 Alterac Valley with different specs as a DK and you'd expect to own, yet that would be immaturity 
 in WoW. Such is expecting the DK to be an over powered class. As purpose to my own experience in 
 WoW - I've downed several DKs in Alterac solo, (many in one battle) , as a Retadid with basic gear. 
 So, if you fear that DK's are over powered..... then don't. In fact, embrace them just as another 
 class.... because that's all they are...... and that is the only downfall with WOTLK.
  
  Though, far be it for me to crap upon the game for this one gripe. The game is so immersive - yet 
 only for players who have reached to level required..... which is where it stumbles. It would have 
 been far better if lower level characters were acquired for...... yet, I don't think Blizzard gives 
 a **** about them anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryii
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Quests. That is what makes this expansion better than the last, better than the original. Everything 
 flows from zone to zone. The content is very well thought out and is tailored for the player. Each 
 zone is unique and tremendously fun to play.
  
  Raiding is great. No longer do you have to be in the "top guild" to see the end game (Naxxramas) . 
 Instances are fun and plentiful and don't take an entire evening to clear.
  
  For those complaining about content for new players, I call that ridiculous. If folks are new to 
 the game, they have all the old world and BC content to see. This expansion it targeted at the 
 high level folks. This is what it should be.
  
  Finally we have achievements. These are a nice look at what you've accomplished in game. Think 
 your done with an instance? Try to run it on Heroic. And after that, look up the achievement for 
 it. There are plenty of different things to try and complete for each zone.
  
  They've set the bar again with this one. I look forward to the future patches and future raids. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red259
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Simply stated if you enjoyed WoW in the past you should check out this expansion. There are people 
 giving this game 1s which is just misleading. It seems the harshest critics are those who are big 
 into PvP. I'm not one of those, other than an occasional foray into the battlefield. If you want 
 PvP and that is ALL you want then there are probably better games out there for that. However, 
 if you are like me and enjoy PvE, or a mix of the two, then you will notice that Blizzard has made 
 some very nice improvements. The quests are much more interesting than they have been in the past 
 and the environments do much more to immerse you into the world. I also rolled a death knight and 
 found it to be more fun to play than I had anticipated (the starter area/quests for death knights 
 is especially entertaining) . The achievement system is a nice touch and the number of new quests 
 that have been added is just overwhelming. These facts coupled with an environment that in some 
 cases actually changes as a result of your successful completion of a quest I feel is a strong 
 step in the right direction by Blizzard. If you enjoyed WoW in the past I highly recommend you 
 try out the expansion and not rely on the negative reviews, which seem to be people with an axe 
 to grind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  WoW has, all along, been about character development. Whether you are into PvP or just into PvE 
 does not matter, you're working to develop your character and build it to a new level, a new set 
 of skills, to handle a new set of challenges.
  
  With recent changes, culminating in WotLK, Blizzard has done some things that invalidate months 
 (literally) of character development and made changes that cross the game, basically making it 
 easier (in some ways) or just changing it completely.
  
  With that said, WotLK is still a good add-on. The writing is solid, the quests are engaging, the 
 phasing is at least interesting, and the general atmosphere is "fun."
  
  Worth having, if you're still playing WoW, but not a reason to go back to the game if you had gotten 
 tired of it or left because of recent changes. Not that the changes are "good/bad," they just don't 
 fit my style.
  
  Sj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graavigala
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Its been almost 4years since I started playing WoW and Ive been on and off few months at a time 
 to have just a little break, and Ive even said that this is the end, no more WoW for me. But Ive 
 always come back to have more fun with the vast world of Azeroth. 
  
  When Burning Crusade came I didnt have that big of WOW-effect on me as the "vanilla-WoW" had. BC 
 was nothing more than just 2new races and 10more levels for me. The Outlands were tedious and horrible 
 place to be. I know some people love Outland and yes there are good places to be and great story 
 to follow, for those who are actualy interested in it, but it pales in comparission of Lich King.
 
  
  Nortrend is beatiful. Simple as that. The landscapes are thing to marvel in all its beauty. The 
 mobs, especialy the Vrykul are one of the awesomest races/mobs there is in the whole game. The 
 models in the game, NPCs, have been done to new heights and they start to look like something from 
 this century instead of 10year old game. Makes you wonder why they havent added new models for 
 your characters because the the new models, which are more detailed than ever, dont make great 
 if any impact to your computers perfomance. 
  You still look like hero/villain from 90s comic books with your spandex armors. Also huge ammount 
 of the games new armor models are being recycled all the way trought the game. Shoulder items that 
 you receive all look excatly same from the first Quest rewards in Borean Tundra to the final quest 
 in Frozen Throne. That eats up the feeling of getting anything new in the game when everything 
 is just pure copy+paste.
  
  Overall the expansion is hit. WoW has taken hold of me again just like it did when it was released. 
 Northrend is great place to explore and do quests and follow the epic journey from Howling Fjord 
 to Frozen Throne all the way to Lich King!
  Little more new instead of just recycling old and this would have been the greates expansion ever. 
 Now its just great and fun to all WoW veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  WoW got big by blizzard fans. And most of all marketing. Did a great job at the time of release 
 for an epic mmo that was one of a kind. There not a person out there who can say theyre a gamer 
 almost that doesnt know about it so if they never tried a game like this of course they are going 
 to try wow first and probably love it at first. But if you havent I would seriously recommend an 
 rpg that u can solo and has meaning all the way through. 
  
  The game is so big now that reviewers are scared to give it lower ratings when they know the game 
 has nothing new as far as purpose to offer besides generic and stale quest with dull story if any 
 story to the whole game. And they continued it here. Now people are finally starting to see that 
 blizzard is offering nothing new and killing atleast 10 million mobs without a true (no real story 
 for your character) purpose other than lvl 80 can do nothing more than suck unless blizzard has 
 your mind right where they want u. But more of the same so they can get more of the same out of 
 your money. Millions of active accounts because of what ppl have invested and havent deleted there 
 account they just stop playing. 
  
  If some for a second stop taking the game so seriously for a second and dont compare to other mmos. 
 (I know that can be hard to do when u invested but look a game is only worth it when it really 
 fun not just a game otherwise u putting money into someone elses pocket when u can be playing something 
 that really fun again) Play another mmo dont compare just play it and get into the game. I guarantee 
 u will find a mmo that fun and has purpose that is not trying to steal ur money.
  
  Wow draws everything, presents everything, as cool as they can even if it makes no sense so u will 
 want to play it. No rules long as it interest u. What said is the game is the same now as it was 
 at release no major improvements in fun from expansions but just more polished. 
  
  I have nothing against this game or blizzard. I never played diablo but wanted to. But it is try 
 blizzard is doing the same so I probably wont. Cartoony graphics a cheap trick to get as many ppl 
 as they can to run it on there computer so they can make money. But its games with good graphics 
 that can run just as good as wow.
  
  Maybe something has happened to blizzard. Maybe all the money has changed the company with new 
 ppl get in on the company. Either way they should be ashamed of themselves for finding ways to 
 keep the money rolling in but doing the same thing in terms purpose and quest and most of all fun. 
 It stop being fun when u keep doing the same thing without the since of purpose at all times because 
 everything is so generic. Ashamed that with all the money and loyal fans they offering them nothing 
 but same dull generic quests and no lifetime subscription but keep taking the same amount of money 
 year after year.
  
  This game is about to be dead if they keep this up. For those ready to move on do so im sure ur 
 starting to see through it or atleast some of what im saying even thought it but went with the 
 crowd. MMO tip look at mmo expansion that came out right after this one and offer a lifetime subscription 
 if u into pve its the best one to date. It wont have higher reviews by critics but will be slightly 
 lower in score because they are scared rate it higher because of sponsoring from blizzard. But 
 read the review and u can tell they are way more excited about it. And look at the user scores. 
 Its a great company who innovative at adventure and gameplay and story. And one of the best (if 
 not the best and i played a lot of mmos) mature helping community in a mmo. That doesnt need publicity 
 and to make a great game reel in players its just great and keeps getting better. Definetly not 
 trying to just take your money. 
  
  Its your decision. And I dont hate WoW by any mean just hate what its been about for a while now, 
 ways to keep u playing and so they can keep u paying. (Not necessarily have fun all the way through 
 but grind for levels only and do dull quest with no real meaning) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I started WoW on release day.
  It doesn't even feel like Blizzard is trying anymore. This x-pack is not even as good as the last, 
 which left a lot to be desired.
  
  It's been a long ride, but WoW has not evolved for a while and I think it is about time to get 
 off this slowly sinking ship rather than continue paying for Blizzard to be self indulgent.
  
  WoW is still better than many MMOs still, but the newness is long gone and this x-pack has 
 not rekindled my desire to keep playing. If the same old grind still appeals to you, you might 
 find something worthwhile here, but if you are like me, you have seen it all before, over and over 
 again, and a new coat of paint doesn't change that fact.
  
  It's time Blizzard moves on to new things instead of continuing to keep the bloated WoW franchise 
 afloat. Diablo III, starcraft II, World of Warcraft II, World of Starcraft - there is plent of 
 room for them to do something new instead of keep sticking IVs in the arm of WoW to keep it going 
 a few more pointless years.
  
  Give us something new guys, not the same old thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremy_w24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Wrath of the Lich King brings all the things you'd expect from Blizzard and delivers it in epic 
 fashion. The new zones are huge and the death knight class is worth playing if only for the starting 
 zone.
  
  Now I've heard lots of complaints that the content is too easy. Let me just say that when was leveling 
 supposed to be difficult? I play a level 80 priest currently and after stepping into a heroic dungeon 
 for the first time, I was satisfied with the difficulty. Granted regular dungeons are pretty easy, 
 but this allows more people to see more of the content and challenge themselves further into the 
 progression of the storyline.
  
  Storyline? Yes this time the Lich King interacts with you all along the way, each dungeon contributes 
 to the progression and nothing seems out of place. There also were some minor graphical updates 
 that make the game pop even more. 
  
  Sure vehicle combat was added, but I have to admit it didn't really amaze me until a certain quest 
 in the Storm Peaks and I'll leave it there. While most of the vehicle quests are very simple, I 
 can see the possibilities for the future.
  
  Overall if you already own a level 70 character, I would find the $40 for this expansion. If you 
 are considering playing for the first time, buy the battle chest before getting this expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightchen
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  From the few levels I have gained in NR (Northrend) so far I have been disappointed with:
  
  Flying mounts were dropped for all players until 77 except druids at 71.
  
  Quests aren't 
 difficult but they are spread out (especially since flying mounts are down *) .
  
  *Flying mounts- two good purposes for making NR that way is for less ganking, and people don't 
 just go and kill key npcs easily. (if they left flying mounts in people could just fly to the "bosses" 
 so they would have had to put all the bosses in caves which is a pain as well.
  
  They made a lot of professions not as evenly balanced so people are interested in them still.
 
  
  I haven't leveled all the way to 80 yet with a toon because it doesn't intrigue me all that much. 
 From what I have heard there really isn't a whole lot set up for 80's, I could be wrongly informed.
 
  
  The graphics, assortment of original (ish) quests, and story line is pretty good so far.
  
 
  So I give it a 6.0 due to it being a exp aka it uses old ideas still and because bliz didn't inform 
 or take a good enough consensus from more players on little things that slowly build up with enough 
 of them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shamil_Liadon
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Not that a single review by anybody -- including Gamespot -- matters, but this expansion really doesn't 
 add anything exciting that wasn't already there before and just reskinned. All of the PvE encounters 
 are a joke as always, dumbed down and all beatable with level so-so- level 70 epics and 75+ blues. 
 There is more to collect and waste your time on, which I'm sure many players actually spend their 
 time doing. The PvP didn't have much of a change, you'll just have to spend about 4 months getting 
 all of the new level 80 epics. The game didn't change, everyone that plays just has Stockholm Syndrome 
 and doesn't realize that they are the ones getting screwed over.
  
  If you aren't already playing this game, it is worth playing for about six months, don't get me 
 wrong. I have played the game stop and go for about two years, all from midnight to six. Just don't 
 get sucked into thinking every new expansion is brilliant -- most aren't. They are just ways to 
 get you to sink more time and money, there is a reason many people get burned out after each expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's been waiting for the day to come when Wrath of the Lich King would be released and now 
 it's finally here. The greatest thing about the new x-pack is the level cap being raised to 80, 
 yes I, and many others, absolutely hate leveling but it changes the game up and makes everything 
 fresh. Everyone now has to level. If you came in late during BC, like I did, you now have ample 
 opportunity to get up with the rest of the people.
  If you love PvP, a new BG was added called Strand of the Ancients. It rewards a lot of honor and 
 is quite fun. The new PvP set hasen't been released yet but I'm sure it's going to be awesome when 
 it does, so now's the time to build up that honor.
  The second best thing about the x-pack is the Death Knight class. They are extremely fun and do 
 tons of damage, they actually make leveling in the same area fun. However, seeing as how DK's start 
 off at level 55 and you only have to have a level 55 character to make one, everyone has a DK. 
 I can't wait to get my shot at leveling mine and see where it takes me, whether I'll switch over 
 to it or stay with my current main.
  Overall this x-pack is great and is definitely a must if you play World of Warcraft, because if 
 you don't get it, you don't have any fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomboomkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Succeeds topping everything you've come to love about the game. Although questing gets tiresome 
 even with the creative new additions, for 15 bucks or so per month this is best entertainment you 
 can get.
  
  The story is wonderfully woven and multi-faceted, environments beautiful, music grand, community 
 flawless. What more can you ask for for your daily escape? Raiding or pvping or maybe just doing 
 achievements? it's up to you, and there is new content galore for everyone to sink teeth into.
 
  
  The story is wonderfully woven and multi-faceted, environments beautiful, music grand, community 
 flawless. What more can you ask for for your daily escape? Raiding or pvping or maybe just doing 
 achievements? it's up to you, and there is new content galore for everyone to sink teeth into
 
  
  Yeah the game really really rocks. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  8 points just for the Death Knight. You dont have to be a pro to play one and lvl but you need 
 to become a pro if you want to play it to its potential. The starting area for this class is amazeing 
 and it gives you a glimsp into the future of Northrend and what is about to come. Even iuf you 
 dont plan to do a Dk to lvl 80 i would suggest lvling through the starting zone to know the villians 
 you will face later and know who that person is. The adding of storys through out this xpack is 
 awsome and you shouldnt miss a single quest.
  
  Not much I could say bad about this but it be dumb to just give it a 10 when i havent even made 
 it to endgame yet.
  
  My Dk is 75 and in Dragonblight, I started in Northrend at 68 and ran 
  Nexus 3 times and Utgarde 
 Keep 2 times, Did all the quests in Howling Fjord and in Borean Tundra and almost half done with 
 Dragon Blight. and it just gets better and better,
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosStar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The second expansion to the award-winning MMO World of Warcraft strikes gold on all accounts of 
 the word.
  
  Graphics - 9\10, renewed system, environments are beautiful, new armor is great. -1 point for being 
 a bit dated.
  
  Gameplay - 10\10, absolutely the most fun I've ever had in an online game, raiding or instancing 
 with some buddies is amazing and the new content is a joy!
  
  PvP - 10\10, with the new quests in the Grizzly Hills, Lake Wintergrasp being amazing fun, and 
 the new battleground allowing you to use siege weaponry, there couldn't be anything more to ask 
 for!
  
  Playability - 10\10, you can hop right in and grasp the game quickly, but mastering it can take 
 years.
  
  Sound - 10\10, the new musical score is absolutely breathtaking, I'd listen to it even if you don't 
 like the game.
  
  PvE - 10\10, as expected from the true king of MMOs.
  
  Sorry Warhammer, but your days are numbered. Blizzard has pushed the final nail into the coffin 
 here. I'm prepared for the downranking, so let it begin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh2blonde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Loreheads will love this expansion, for those that don't already have it. The narrative is more 
 immersive than ever before. With phasing, in-game cutscenes, and a more focused story, lore is 
 better than ever before. Completionists can also get behind the Achievement system, and Northrend 
 has PLENTY. Instances are also shorter and snappier, so casual players like myself who have to 
 balance college, work, and play time are more able to access endgame content. There have been complaints 
 that the new content is too easy, but I think part of it is the level of experience players have 
 after 4 years along with a justifiable urge to make most content accessible to everyone who pays 
 for it while still making it enjoyable, a goal I feel Blizzard has achieved. So there's loads to 
 keep the average player busy and even more coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  When Wrath of the Lich King was announced, I wasn't really that excited for it. I wasn't planning 
 on buying it, but as the day got closer and they started telling us about more new features, I 
 was getting more and more excited. Finally, the day came and I bought it. Here are my opinions:
 
  
  --Graphics -- 
  
  The graphics engine for WoW is getting a little out dated, but it still looks great. The new land 
 of Northrend is a huge improvement from Outland. Not the same old color used over and over for 
 the terrain and walls. This time, Northrend is really colourful and it's great to look at!
  
  8/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  The gameplay has stayed basically the same. You have your character 
 that runs around doing quests, gaining levels and getting gear. In this expansion, many new features 
 have been added like siege weapons, level 80 cap and WoW's first "Hero Class", the Death Knight. 
 I find that the Death Knight is one of my favourite classes. Their spells are cool and you need 
 some strategy to use them, so it takes some sort of skill. However, it is easy for them to get 
 too overpowered. The Death Knight's starting place is actually very, very fun to play in. I'm not 
 going to spoil anything, but it involves wars, killing people while flying through the air and 
 even fighting fellow Death Knights. Overall, the Death Knight is a great addition however, there 
 is way to many Death Knights playing. So if you are trying to look for a party for level 58-70 
 raids/dungeons, 99% of the people are Death Knights. 
  
  Northrend's quests and dungeons are also somewhat better then Outland's. I find that Northrend's 
 quests are better because of different varieties. In Outland, most of the quests consist of killing 
 a certain amount of things or collecting items. However in Northrend, some quests consist of controlling 
 tanks to blow up undead armies or flying through the air on a dragon, fighting people in your way. 
 Overall Northrend   Outland
  
  9/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Blizzard has fixed their old mistake and has given all the new areas and loading screens brand 
 new tunes. They are just as good as all the others and they all fit in nicely with each area they 
 are in.
  
  8/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Obviously, the Lich King has been introduced into the game through this expansion. He is finally 
 sending his armies against Azeroth and it's up to you and everyone else to stop him. He even tries 
 to send his Death Knights against Azeroth, however once he betrays them, the Death Knights follow 
 their own path to take the Lich King down. There is a lot more to it, but it's nice to finally 
 see Arthas in WoW.
  
  9/10
  
  --Overall -- 
  
  I find Wrath of the Lich King was a superior expansion to the Burning Crusade. The Death Knight 
 class is fun to play and Northrend is a lot more fun then Outland. However, I think this expansion 
 should be the final one. Too many people are complaining about this expansion, so less people are 
 playing. If Blizzard wants to keep making money off this, they should end the expansions with this 
 and continue on with their regular patches or maybe they can even stop making patches and just 
 make the game FREE.
  
  8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Chonks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I felt that The Burning Crusade didn't add a whole lot. Jewelcrafting wasn't all that entertaining, 
 you could level ridiculously easy from instances from 60-67 or so, and a lot of the places you 
 went just weren't all that appealing to the eye.
  Wrath of the Lich King, however, is an engaging land of marvel that is fun to just run around and 
 explore.
  The lore is much more definite than BC, and it is well laid out and all quests feel in place. I 
 am a little disappointed in the weapons and armor, though... many of them are just copied straight 
 from the last two games (as far as appearance) . Also, the rares from Trash Mobs seem to drop far 
 too often (usually 2-4 per run) .
  Inscription is the newest profession, and while it is more engaging than jewelcrafting, it's still 
 not all that original, and the ability to create Scrolls is... well, not engaging. Glyphs, however, 
 are. There aren't enough of them, I feel, and they should have been a little more thorough with 
 the glyph system.
  All in all, it is definitely an experience, and a huge improvement over the last expansion. I have 
 a feeling that this will easily hold us off until the next release.
  
  Exact Rating: 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Might just be the shortest (if I don't count The Legacy of Ykesha for EQ1) and easiest expansion 
 to any MMO, ever. 
  The 'easy-mode' in this expansion borders on the criminal. There is no challenge anywhere (really) 
 and everyone is running around solo. Why? Because you can and its often much faster than running 
 round with friends. Now and then you come across a 3 or a 5 man quest mob, and if you're not a 
 Warlock or Paladin or whatever, good luck in soloing that. Thats about the only time you 'need' 
 help. 
  
  My fear that the expansion wasn't going to be that spectacular started upon arrival in Boeran Tundra 
 (Boring Tundra) . After countless of 'Kill 10 this' and 'Kill 10 that' "quests" I just had to move 
 my ass out of there or go insane from the mind-numbing grindfest, the absolutely perverted overcrowding 
 and the imho, pretty boring scenery.
  Howling fjord was next in line and it was actually a slight upgrade as sceneries go, the 'kill 
 10 whatever' quest grindfest was exactly the same however.
  
  As levels 'flew by' (not really) I was asking myself a couple of questions.
  1. Why are all (999 
 of 1000) quest-rewards utterly useless and goes straight to the vendors?
  2. Is it really impossible to come up with something different as far as gameplay go, for levels 
 70-80? We've allready done countless of questgrinding hours in the Barrens, Tanaris, Terokkar forest, 
 Eastern and Western plaguelands... to name a few. Do we really have to play the 'noob gameplay' 
 again?? It's like being lvl 1 again.. only that you got descent gear and you know the game-mechanics, 
 and frankly.. that stinks.
  3. What do people who think this is a super expansion see that I don't? I have no clue.
  4. With 
 this much FedEx quests, we really need faster mounts.. much faster.
  5. How come I'm still playing... AND paying for this? Nothing else to do comes to mind.
  
  
 
  Me and my friends have mowed through allmost all instances (dungeons) and the only time there 
 was any challenge at all, was when the bosses was like 4 levels higher than us or we did a bad 
 pull and got 2-3 group of mobs on us. This will probably get 'better' when all of us are 80 so 
 we can start doing them on 'heroic', but if they are as easy as the Burning Crusade heroic instances... probably 
 not.
  
  Sounds and Graphics. It's Blizzard. Solid (but mostly butt ugly) graphics and ok to great sound.
 
  Content and gameplay. Well, to me 5000 'kill 10 snakes' quests isn't content. It's just 'stuff 
 to keep the masses at bay' while Blizzard comes up with something more... solid.
  Death Knight. The new class. Seems to be abit different than other... then again.. the same. Pretty 
 cool addition nevertheless, and the startquest series for them is actually great... even super 
 compared to the rest of the expansion.
  
  For those of you that enjoy hours of grinding with almost no or absolutely no challenge and in 
 overcrowded areas, look no further. This is the expansion for you.
  For everyone else fed up with playing games on 'easy mode'... eh, try something else. Stop playing 
 MMOs all together mayhaps, because if this is the future for MMO's, we're doomed.
  This is not the expansion you've waited for. If this continues to be more dumbified than it allready 
 is, we will be playing it on the X-box the next expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaldir
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King is a great game!
  It made me want to play wow again, after some moths away, and is the best expansion for wow made 
 so far.
  It has tons of new quests, and this time, different, and interesting quests. Blizzard has added 
 much more humor to the game, and this makes it much more fun to play. And the new places, in Northrend 
 looks amazing, and is much more detailed than before.
  
  Well, as with the vanilla World of Warcraft, and The Burning Crusade, the history is taken from 
 Warcraft 3 (Also made by Blizzard) , and this time it's about the lich King, Arthas, who wants to 
 take over the world with his undead army. You're the one who's going to stop him!
  
  The graphics in the game has also been improved, and looks astonishing! It is as before, cartoon-like 
 graphics, but it has been improved. It also has much new, and better music, and sound effects. 
 Like, now more NPC's (Non-player-characters) actually make sound when they say something.
  
  New and interesting NPC's and mobs have been added, and there are as expected a lot of undeads 
 in Northrend.
  
  All in all, it's a great game, with good gameplay, graphics, sound/music and storyline, it deserves 
 a big, clear 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix32623
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Wrath is a well deserved upgrade to the World of Warcraft. It brings us to the continuation of 
 the story of WC3 where Arthas became the Lich King and now hes awoken from a slumber to bring death 
 to the living. New features, like the Death Knight, are revolutionary to the game because they 
 do something (even though other MMOs may have done it before) new, but put their twist on it. Northrend... 
 okay maybe its just another Outland, but it has something that makes it 100x better, the quest 
 content and lore are very interesting, quests that have you use the new siege weapons to complete 
 objectives are very creative and unique, as well as the addition of the in-game "wrathgate" cinematic 
 and these new epic battles. Such battles, like the battle in "The Light of Dawn" make your character 
 overpowered and have you rush into battle with many NPC and player Allys. Also there are overlooked 
 additions, such as more voiceovers, every time you see the Lich King, he has full voiceovers, as 
 well as the dungeon and raid Bosses.
  
  There are also new additions technically, like the improved shadows system that tracks your shadow 
 and mimics it with your character. And the classes each got buffed and balanced in their own way 
 through new talents and the re-design of old talents and abilities.
  
  Though i am only at 73 so far, and have a 62 Death Knight, i believe that most of the content has 
 made itself present to those still leveling to 80. Overall Great expansion, more than i would have 
 asked for, and VERY MUCH worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone! Today I will be reviewing WOTLK!! Time for THE LIST 0.0
  
  Graphics: Ok so we all have gotten a feel for WOW's graphics, and really with this new exp. they 
 haven't changed much. It looks to me that they seem to have been ramped up a little bit more and 
 it is noticible at some points. The new areas do look very much more real then the past BC and 
 such. Which I really like. Overall graphics get a 10 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: With all this new stuff in WOTLK its great to see new hours of gameplay to be had for 
 us casual gamers. Not these people that rush thro everything just wanting to complain to blizzard 
 that there isn't enough to be done and they want more. Thos people can screw off they rushed its 
 their fault. Ok back sorry about that. Lich King has introduced the new hero class the death knights. 
 Well since I got hacked over the summer I had to rush and get one guy to 55. Now I have my dk and 
 he's level 66 as of last night a little slow I know but hey school sucks. So far the dk seems to 
 be op, I have fought just about everything other then a warlock, and it takes just about nothing 
 with the unholy spec. ANTI MAGIC FTW! Once I get to 70 I will begin the new areas and the new instances. 
 From what I'v seen of other people, the new places seem to have a very wide quest area. One area 
 can have 100 to 150 quest which is nice. Naxx is back and thats the only reason I want to get to 
 80 =D. That place and ALL its gear has always looked badass. Overall for gameplay so far 10 out 
 of 10!
  
  Overall: Alright for WOTLK I will give it a 9 only because I haven't been able to try the new instances 
 and areas but the DK is just too awesome for any lower. Another reason is that I'v heard the new 
 raids are way to easy for some people that is. Thanks for reading. MC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onnipotente
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  La Blizzard colpisce ancora e porta su gli scaffali un espansione di WOW veramente ben curata in 
 tutto e per tutto.
  Ambientazioni stupende, caraterizzate da una grafica migliorata e che migliorer col tempo grazie 
 alle patch, nuove magie, nuovi mostri, nuovi dungeon, armi, armature e tantissimo divertimento.
 
  Chi ha giocato alle precedenti espansioni rimarr colpito, chi iniziera a giocare solo con questa 
 espansione rimarr a bocca aperta.
  
  Un gioco online che ha segnato una nuova era del gioco. All'uscita nei negozzi, il gioco  stato 
 letteralmente spolverato dagli scaffali esattamente come era successo per il primo capitolo che 
 per il secondo. 
  
  Un gioco online che ha coinvolto nel suo mondo pi di 10milioni di player e che continua ad avere 
 nuove adesioni.
  
  In conclusione un espansione che  un gioco completamente nuovo,
  dove poter passare il tempo per divertirsi in compagnia e anche in solitario, un prodotto che non 
 pu mancare nella propria videoteca di player online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: All_that_is_Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is what every expansion should be. It adds plenty of content and the DK is amazing. This 
 expansion will keep you entertained for months to come. Anyone who has given this game back scores 
 obviously hasn't played the game and is trying to make it look bad. You will not regret buying 
 this game. This expansion is worth more than plenty of full priced games on the pc and consoles 
 alike. I would give the game a perfect 10 but everything has its flaws even if I haven't found 
 any yet. I hadn't played world of warcraft in months and I am glad I returned, I was a little wary 
 of starting to play again but it was worth it. I can't wait to see what blizzard will throw at 
 us next, they are one of the only developers what can give you perfection time and time again. 
 This game is worth every pennie you pay, hell I would even pay full 60 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Well first... i used to be a fan of this game... used to be addicted so to say.
  
  When the first expansion came out, a lot of people loved it for the wrong reasons. While the game 
 expanded possibilities for pve players, the pvp ones were ruined. But the pvp players had no choice 
 but to play because everyone just got used to the game.
  
  Second expansion simplifies the game so that even a 8 year old can play it, this isn't something 
 done for the players, this is to make more money. The pvp hasn't improved AT ALL since the very 
 first expansion. Someone might say it did, but the pvp was just simplified so that hardcore pve 
 players could join. Once again everything was done fore pve players because they are the majority 
 of the game. Yes new Battlegrounds came out and flying mount battles, but that isn't pvp, it is 
 just some feature of the game that you use once and YES it HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE.
  
  To be honest the game doesn't offer anything new, just more items and more dungeons to be completed. 
 Its not something worth of getting, the game is exactly the same.
  
  WOW has lost many fans through out the last year, but gained many more young players. They are 
 focusing on marketing the game to kids under 16, that's why the game is simplified and as i said 
 even an 8 year old can successfully play it.
  
  HUGE waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakahu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  New expansion is quite nice, seeing as we now have the inscription added and some of the racial 
 passive/active skills have been made more useful which gives quite pleasant game itself.
  
  Of course the best part is the revamped talent trees, and in all honesty they've became way better, 
 now they are more thought over and really work as help to the player, then vice verse, as it was 
 beforehand.
  
  Gonna make it short - the new class DK are well nice, but too overpowered from my point of view. 
 Seeing as they are almost perfectly all rounded and has a bit from almost every class from before. 
 And for the time being that isn't exactly the most pleasant thing out there for those around them.
 
  
  As for rating it, I would have gave a pretty 10, but seeing as DKs are quite a bit overpowered, 
 so a 9 it is from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scveng
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Feral Druids Perspective
  
  Being a Feral Druid, I was never clear on my role. I wasn't able to distinguish if I was a Tank 
 or DPS. Someone might say that, "that is your role, utility". I argue there really wasn't a role 
 for feral druids in The Burning Crusade (TBC) . Instead we were ping-ponged back and forth between 
 Tank and DPS, never really gaining an identity.
  
  For the most part, I enjoyed TBC. I could actually pick feral and be feral in raids -- feral was 
 now viable. That said, as feral, what was I? Tank, DPS, Mixture of both?
  
  First when I heard Blizzard was going to, for all intensive purposes, split the feral tree in two, 
 I had my doubts and concerns. What Blizzard did was weigh the tree down with distinguishable Cat 
 and Bear talents paths which made players have to choose between one or the other. Theoretically, 
 you could, possibly, still attain a "hybrid" build, but if you wanted to be a "Main Tank" or "Leet 
 DPS", you have to spec appropriately. My first thought was, "we're utility, will this hurt our 
 raid viability?" Short answer, no. For example, as DPS spec, I can off tank rather effectively 
 still, and as TANK spec, I can still DPS respectively, so, we still have great utility.
  
  What we have NOW that we didn't have back in TBC was the ability to be amazing at both our roles, 
 given the correct spec. I CAN be leet DPS and off tank "ok", or, I can be a great TANK and DPS 
 "ok". 
  
  IMHO, I like that choice. I like topping the DPS charts. I enjoy that with a simple respec (and 
 the correct gear) , I can tank any boss in the game. Wrath of the Lich king opens many doors for 
 the feral druid. And I enjoy exploring them.
  
  My opinion? WotLK is the best thing that has happened to wow from a Feral Druid's perspective. 
 Great job blizzard! /golfclap
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikarz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I can only say it's the same game, but different. Different in a way that will make you come back 
 and play just a little more. Come back to experience a Death Knight being born. My main is a level 
 72 warlock as of now, but, the real fun for me is my Death Knight. If your bored with a caster 
 as I was, then this x-pack's Death Knight just might be your ticket to become addicted once again. 
 The DK, seems to be somewhat overpowered, whcih makes questing a real breeze. The origins of the 
 Death Knight itself is an awesome opening sequence of quests and story. The armor and capabilties 
 of the DK, are just awe inspiring, and will force you to relive the quests that you now know by 
 heart, if you've developed more than a handfull of characters in the Burning Crusade. As for leveling 
 your mains to 80, it's a test of patients, and grouping with friends that will get you there quickly. 
 Farming and grinding takes way too long, and the 1.5 million points to level are a long road. there's 
 plenty to keep the experienced player coming back, and the noobs quite happy. Just remember to 
 explore your skills in fishing, cooking, and of course, first aid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagrom_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Very nicely done. Very easy to play solo. Elites come down almost too easily. The zone are very 
 nice and the first couple are HUGE! The quest lines are interesting and the cinematic from Dragonblight 
 is sweet. Rep comes easily and there are some very nice rewards. The Death Knight is an awesome 
 and fun class. I am seriously considering switching to it as my main as soon as my main hits 80.
 
  
  Some things are lacking, but nothing major. I would have liked to have seen the Dual Talent specs 
 included in this xpac and seen better gear. I have T4 and have not replaced any of it even at lvl 
 75. I also would have liked to have seen an option to start ALL characters at lvl 55 now. Starting 
 at 1 and going to 80 is a bit absurd now, even with the increased speed of leveling. People do 
 not want to go do the old zones and quests all over again. Really, all characters should have the 
 option, like the Death Knight, to start at 55.
  
  Overall, A-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Some people are giving this expansion pack a hard time. They seem not to understand the concept 
 of what an "Expansion Pack" is or means. They're reviewing it like it's supposed to be a new game 
 with revolutionary game play and graphics. *shakes head*
  
  Oh well. Of course, for the rest of you who understand what this game is supposed to entail, if 
 you like WoW then you're in for a treat. I love this expansion pack. The new levels, monsters, 
 dungeons, quests and Death Knight class all come together to make an outstanding "Expansion" to 
 what was already a great game.
  
  Is this game going to change your opinion about WoW? No. If you think WoW is boring, repetitive, 
 cartoony, just for kids, lacks PVP, Lacks depth, just a grind fest and so on and so forth. Well, 
 just keep on truckin'. If you enjoyed WoW and it's last EP "Burning Crusade", then this is a must 
 have. WOTK adds alot more of the same things that captivated you before. Once you step into Howling 
 Ford and take a look at the breath taking scenery, a sense of awe comes over you. 
  
  This game has all the polish you'd come to expect from Blizzard. Even if you just play up until 
 you hit level 80 then quit, I think it's worth it. There's alot of interesting quests with a great 
 story. Plus all the new areas are really cool.
  
  Great game. More of the same, but that's a good thing! :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanisk89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, Burning Crusade blew.... and I mean it reaaally blew. It however did add many things 
 that made WoW a bit more interesting (flying mounts, new races, "new" classes) but generally the 
 horrid story and just general lack of actual seriousness really made it feel like a slight joke..... Everything 
 was very recycled so pretty much if you wanted to raid just learn the first few bosses because 
 everything else will be exactly like that but with a different name.
  
  However then comes Wrath of the Lich King that kicked Burning Crusade in the balls, threw it to 
 the side and essentially curb stomped the horrid story for a much more traditional Warcraft lore 
 rich story. If you've played Warcraft III and Frozen Throne you'll immediately start noticing many 
 throw backs to that story. It really is the aftermath and the continuation of Arthas Menethil as 
 the Lich King. Throughout the quests in Northrend you'll keep seeing the Lich King there or at 
 least his minions roaming about. It really feels like Northrend is THE battleground for the scourge 
 now and while I haven't seen the fight against arthas, I can only hope it's as epic as it has been 
 doing the quests in Northrend, which by the way are WAAAY more varied than they've ever been.
 
  
  You'll be flying on dragons, shooting things in tanks, defending against wave after wave of enemies 
 and generally you'll notice there's a lot more to mix up the experience besides just "Pick up 30 
 bear butts and bring them to Bippy McBearhumper". Also daily quests seem to be more plentiful even 
 during your journey up to 80 so even while leveling you have boosts in XP from doing those dailies 
 every day (but you don't have to by any means) .
  
  Also Wrath of the Lich King saw the release of the ever infamous Death Knight that people have 
 either adored or hated... there's really no in between with it. Many figured there'd be so many 
 Death Knights no one could heal.... well in outlands after you level you Death Knight from 55 to 
 about 58 or 60 that's true... it's hard to find anything but Death Knights but as you get up to 
 70 and head to Northrend it's much easier to find groups, where it honestly matters. The leveling 
 speed between 60 and 70 has been increased (about 30% according to blizzard) so quests alone should 
 get you to 70 fairly easily in Outlands so you can get to Northrend where the real fun is. 
  
  Death Knights are very interesting tanks implementing Blizzard's new idea with the Death Knight 
 talent trees having it so you essentially can spec however you want in each tree and still be able 
 to main tank, off tank, dps or whatever. Many think frost is the ONLY tree to tank in but it's 
 not at all. My level 75 death knight with some proper tank armor (lots of stam, defense, parry 
 etc.) specced as unholy has done just as good if not better at mitigating damage compared to a 
 frost death knight. I really like what blizzard has done with the class and it certainly has promoted 
 people to at least try out some tanking. The shortages in tanks should start to subside...... or 
 at least one can hope.
  
  Overall Blizzard really out did themselves and I look forward to what they'll release in their 
 usually extensive updates. The World of Warcraft has finally gone back to it's roots and brought 
 people back in as one of the most immersive MMO's to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattzone0872
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of hype about this expansion initially. And to be honest, I was hyped up... maybe 
 that was why my expectation for this game was high. And unfortunately, the game kind of tumbled 
 down from that high expectation. You will pretty much see a lot of the same. There are some new 
 things such as dungeons but it feels like a been there done that kind of deal.
  
  Bottom line, if you are a hardcore player, you won't find much of a challenge from this expansion. 
 But if you are a hardcore fan, you will find satisfaction with this new addition to the WoW franchise.
 
  
  And just a side note: Like mentioned above, I am hoping that Blizzard will not screw D3 up (which 
 I am kind of afraid due to this new expansion of WoW and a number of the people from the original 
 team of Diablo are not with Blizzard anymore) . The Diablo series has a dark gothic feel to it which 
 I think drew a lot of fans in. But with what they revealed so far, so I am crossing my fingers 
 that something will be done about that once they have finalized D3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kralimarko
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I wish I could say that this expansion is exciting and worth playing as the original WoW and the 
 BC but it is not. It is boring as filing your tax return. I have 3 level 70 characters and I barely 
 made myself to level up one to level 73.
  
  Game content: I hoped I will venture in some exotic and fresh places and I will encounter new interesting 
 creatures. Instead of that I got smaller continent than the BC's outworld and very few original 
 new models. As some other reviewers have said, tons of old models are re-skinned and thrown back 
 in the game. Recycling of old content is all over the places. More than 60% of the new continent 
 is covered in snow and mud. I am sorry but this not fun - I don't care that it is Northrend - I 
 still want a variety.
  
  Difficulty: The game is now very easy - I can kill monsters 8 levels higher than me without a swet. 
 This might be considered good thing since it reduces the pain of grinding. 
  
  Graphics: Visually the game looks virtually the same. There are 2 big differences though:
  - 
 Nice and more realistic shadows
  - It is definitely slower. For a first time I saw WoW running at 15 fps (check Dalaran) . With BC 
 I had rock solid 60 fps in almost all areas.
  
  Music: Top notch as usual. 
  
  Sound: Annoying sound effects for the death knight voice-overs and their mounts. The rest is OK
 
  
  PVP: It seems that Blizzard really have tried to refresh it. I am not sure about the end results. 
 May be I am the only one but the siege machines feel very clunky to me. This is not a FPS but I 
 expected more.
  
  Bugs: The game is crashing sometimes if you switch too often between it and Firefox. This might 
 be a graphic driver issue so I can't blame Blizzard for sure ... But unfortunately there are some 
 broken quests that you just can't finish and this is clearly Blizzard's fault. I contacted GM and 
 I got the standard reply: "We know about this and we are working on it". Again: not fun.
  
  I think Blizzard clearly focused their main efforts somewhere else - may be in Starcraft 2, Diablo 
 3?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortaleclipse
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  After some of my friends who are loyal WoW players like myself I decided to give WOLK a try. Hoping 
 for new exciting fealings in the PvP and PvE realms of it. Well sad to say that none were improved 
 that much. The PvE has the same old stroyline with that same type of quest you have to do. Like 
 everyone else i saying which 100% true, kill 10 of these things or go find X player to rescue. 
 Its nothing new and its the same fealing I had 6 months ago playing BC. 
  
  Now im praying for what is my main point of interest in the game PvP. The new map does deliver 
 new elements such as siege weapons which throw a twist. That I do enjoy but nothing in the game 
 feals epic. It a 10 min round that after its done nothing has changed but you gained some honor 
 points whihc now has a cap at 75k WTF. Serious blizzard, kinda sad. ]
  
  The new class Death Knight like everyone else has asid brings new things to the table, some enjoy 
 some dont. Decnert expansion but not impressed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro_Impulse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I used to play WOW when I was fresh out of high school. I played for about a year and a half, off 
 and on, every few months. But then I realized... world of warcraft is quite literally exactly as 
 it seems... and entire world where you invest all of your emotions, time, money, and mind! WOW 
 isn't a game... it's a lifestyle! See, my dad always said, "You spend too much time playing video 
 games!" bleh! bleh! BLAAA!! But you know what? I can't stand the amount of time consumption that 
 WOW takes up. Videos games are a passtime hobby. Some people like to hunt and fish, and they do 
 it A LOT. Others like to go out, and they do it A LOT. Us gamers; we play games, and we do it A 
 LOT. But most of you who play WOW, it's your life...
  
  Anyway, my friend is a WOWaholic: he started playing about a year or two before I started. Anywho, 
 his obsession has increased tremendously since he started playing. At first, he was "busy" every 
 weekend, because apparently he played WOW from Friday to Sunday. Then, he stopped answering his 
 phone as much. Then it progressed to, "Sorry dude, I have a raid that night at 7." WTF!!!! Holy 
 crap... now it's in his schedule!!! It's beginning to spread! Consuming him! Corrupting his conscience!!! 
 And then he simply forgot to speak English entirely! Everytime I talk to him, he talks in WOW language, 
 and makes WOW jokes, and I seriously can hardly understand him anymore! I just smile and give him 
 a thumbs up. I went with him to the midnight release of the last expansion (forgive me for forgetting 
 the name of it) because that was the only way I could hang out with him! Haha!
  
  
  Also my uncle used to play it, and he quit so that he could keep his girlfriend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  This is a fabulous expansion. World of Warcraft is undeniably the best MMORPG thats ever been made, 
 and Lich King just made it better. Many complain that it doesn't add anything new, but thats fine, 
 because as a veteran WoW player, I know that new content is all they need to add. We all want new 
 cities, new gear, new classes and new levels to get to, and that's just what the game gives us.
 
  
  There are also a large number of people giving this game a 1 or a 0 because "WoW is stupid." First 
 of all, yes, it is stupid, its very stupid for so many people to spend so much time and money on 
 the game and waste their lives. Yes, its addictive and stupid, but that's a comment on society, 
 not on the quality of the game, and the quality of the game is unsurpassed in its genre. 
  
  The Deathknight is a really fun addition to the game. He plays similar to a warrior, but with 
 Warlock attributes as well, which, as any player can tell you, is a deadly and fun combination. 
 The starting campaign for the DK is also absolutely fabulous. You can get through it in an hour 
 or two, but don't rush it. The campaign introduces a compelling and interesting plot that you are 
 bound to enjoy. 
  
  Northrend is another fabulous addition. Its a beautiful continent, and seems (although i dont have 
 proof of this) to be a bigger one than Outland. Dalaran is a fun new capital and the quest to 80 
 is fun and engaging, as leveling has always been in WoW. 
  
  The Battleground scene has also been added to. The new BG (strand of the ancients) is an EXCELLENT 
 addition, especially with the more technical warfare. 
  
  Overall, Lich King is a perfect expansion to an already sound game. Don't listen to the critics 
 when they say that the concept of WoW is dumb, and therefor, the expansion is bad too. If you have 
 enjoyed WoW in the past, you will certainly enjoy this new addition; Two thumbs up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodlum1130
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is flawless. the New Heroic class is a monster. leveling is improved new weapons and 
 armor are outstanding and the extended storyline is very very involved. Great Job blizzard graphics 
 and effects are spectaculare and the world is running fast paced in HD. Could not ask for a better 
 game. A must for any fan or mmorpg or warcraft in general. Enter the realm of northrend to battle 
 the might lich king with siege engines and flying mounts and rebel from the power of the scorage 
 with the all powerful death knight class. Unlesh the power of frost, unholy, or blood on the world 
 as the war for the survival of the horde and alliance wages inside of Azeroth, The Outlands, and 
 Northrend. Viva La World of Warcraft
  
  p. s. Dwarfs need food to!
  
  Hit me up inside the game- Czarhoodlum Dwarf Hunter
  or my new Death Knight Motto Cop bring it 
 on artards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archeart
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing WoW on and off since launch. It's definitely been a love/hate relationship that 
 revolved around when my group of friends decided to pick the game back up. However, I've noticed 
 my enthusiasm has always peaked right around releases of major content. This is the first time 
 where a major content release has made me NOT want to play.
  
  Wrath is boring. It's boring, it's boring, it's boring. Up until about a week ago, I'd never fallen 
 asleep while playing a game. Thanks, Wrath of the Lich King, for helping me reach that little personal 
 milestone. I got two hours into questing in Northrend before I found myself asleep at my desk. 
 It's the same old crap you've done before, in environments that strongly resemble vanilla WoW (I 
 know, "BUT A FOREST IS A FOREST WAT DO U WANT FROM BLIZZ?!!11ELEVENTY" There's ways to not make 
 an environment feel stale just because it has trees and snow.) .
  
  Quests? Pretty much the same as before, except the word "frost", "scourge", "undead", and "frigid" 
 get thrown around a lot more. I get it. I'm in the cold part of the game. Thanks for all the hints. 
 Want to know if you'll enjoy questing in Wrath? Here's a checklist:
  - Your pangs of obsessive compulsive anxiety are somewhat quelled upon killing 6, 10, or 12 of 
 something.
  - You want to show solidarity with Sarah Palin by killing any and all mundane creatures that live 
 in snowy environments.
  - You've made it your lifelong goal to rid the stale, reskinned animal models of Azeroth of their 
 seemingly useless body parts so a quest giver can make a stew/weapon/magic potion/fantasy game 
 cliche with it.
  - Change scares you
  
  Now, the idea of phased content gets brought up a lot. I will say, I like this idea. When Fable 
 came out a few years ago, I got really excited at the idea of a world that changed based upon my 
 actions. It seems only natural, right? If I kill six hundred wolves, chances are I won't be seeing 
 many more wolves in that area, huh? Well, Wrath took this idea and used it. I will say, it can 
 be kind of cool from time to time, and I see it as a big step for MMO's. The only problem is that 
 it's pretty limited. Small outposts and certain isolated quest hubs are the main places where phased 
 content affects anything. The effect? You'll be rewarded for finally ending the threat of invasions 
 by Monster X, only to see a throng of Monster X patrolling outside of town in their standard, absent-minded 
 milling.
  
  To be honest, I've done a total of three instances. The Vykrul towers were pretty fun. I think 
 my favorite part of TBC was fighting the main boss in Ramparts for the first time and thinking, 
 "Wow. This feels pretty epic." The first instance in the new expansion doesn't feel quite as momentous, 
 but still has a few cool fights and pretty good pacing overall. The other instance was called The 
 Nexus, I believe. This killed the entire thing for me. And by thing, I meant my faith in video 
 game developers. I didn't see a single original NPC model in the entire instance. Reskinned UBRS 
 dragonkin, the ghosts from Tempest Keep, and a bunch of other bullcrap from assorted vanilla WoW 
 and TBC dungeons. How did Blizzard attempt to make this instance fresh despite using all old models? 
 Simple! SKIN EVERYTHING WHITE AND ICE BLUE. LOL R WE AT 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERZ YET?!
  
  It's not all so revolting, though. Death Knights are fun. The Ebon Hold quests can be pretty unique, 
 and the class skills are pretty entertaining. Coming back to life as a zombie, raising the dead, 
 and summoning rune weapons to fight for you are some pretty novel additions to the game. If you're 
 a fan of playing a necromancer in other games, you'll have a pretty good time with the themes of 
 this class.
  
  A few other tidbits:
  - Felt really easy this time around. Player DPS output and mob hit points didn't seem to scale 
 accordingly. Since this makes grinding a bit less painful, I guess it's a good thing, but I hope 
 this doesn't mean end game content can be burnt through too rapidly, thus leaving people with nothing 
 to do.
  - The armor we heard all that exciting talk of in Blizzcast? I believe the quote went "People will 
 know [from their gear] , 'Wow, they've definitely been to Northrend.'" Of course they will, because 
 they'll probably be wearing one of three oversized shoulderpad models that get reused throughout 
 the new quests. Lots more reskinning here. You start to wonder what all that dev time went toward.
 
  
  Still reading? Still wondering if you should play it? The simple answer: if you're addicted, this 
 will help WoW become your e-crack of choice for another year. Fear not, shut-ins of the world, 
 Blizzard has made you a big ,white blanket to pull over yourself called Northrend, and it'll keep 
 you safe from the big scary world out there for a little while longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off let me say ive got an 80 warlock allready so i know how the game is. its not that 
 good. its just ok. my first complaint is the gear. every new thing looks exactly the same! with 
 the exception of weapons. second complaint is, WAY TOO EASY. i died maybe once while leveling from 
 70-80, and i solo 95% of the ''group'' quests were they recomend 3-5 players. its a joke how easy 
 this was. Another, only one death knight per realm. and you need a 55 on the realm to have a death 
 knight. me and my friend share an account and when he found out he couldnt play as a death knight 
 he was so mad he stopped playing. if you want to make another alt. you have to start from 0 and 
 work your way through al the quests again, i would have liked it if they couldd have an option 
 to start you off at atleast 40 with another class. im bored with my warlock, but dont wana go thru 
 all the quests again to get to 80.
  
  alot of good things in it too. the dungeon variety is great, same with the quests. there very cool 
 just very easy. Also i actually like the graphics, unlike most wow haters. Cool new mount, fun doing 
 professions.
  
  as you can see the bad outweighs the good imo. but i like so many others will continue to waste 
 away to nothing grinding out raids and dungeons for cool purple gear! yay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrekim
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard never ceass to amaze me with their quality of product they keep churning out with each 
 successive release. Beginning with the Original Orc vs Humans , through the Diablo, Starcraft games 
 Blizzard always put quality before rushing a game to market, Wrath of the Lich King continues this 
 tradition hiting on all cylinders, from the New Death Knight Class ( The initial Quests that impliment 
 the new phasing technology are amazing to put it into perspective) to the content of Northrend 
 , musical scores and visuals. This would be a must buy even for the new to WoW player just to experience 
 the innovative Quests and Storylines that are so immersive that you are anxious to see the next 
 chapter . The bar was set very high for this expansion, with Buring Crusade being a very nice addition 
 to the original emmersed with lore from the RTS games and Blizzard exceeded even the most demanding 
 player . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Warcraft with Orc and Humas the first Warcraft title and the first of the RTS 
 games of the series. When World of Warcraft was announced I applied and alpha tested and even at 
 its very start it had promise. Fast forward to Nov 2004 and retail release of the game.... yes 
 it was amazing and everyone else that started playing it found it to be so too. Now here we are 
 4 years after its release. Not very often does a title release and still remain as popular as it 
 was when it was first brought out. But World of Warcraft has managed to do just that. The Burning 
 Crusade brought many wonderful changes and polish... With the arrival of Wrath of the Lich King 
 the game again gets a face lift. I had quit playing over a year ago I had came back to see the 
 Burning Crusade but was pulled away shortly there after. I had lost interest in the game due burnout 
 long hours of raiding just cooked me. After the last two MMo titles Conan and WAR they just did 
 not pull me in I felt along in a single-player game. Playing those two games re-ignited the fire 
 of wanting to play an MMO once again. I came back to Wrath of the Lich King and I must say so much 
 has changed and all for the better. It seems the devs are indeed listening to the people that playt 
 and it shows. Although the addon is for the upper end of the game level 68+ Northrend is just amazing. 
 As I found when I first played Burning Crusade all of those purples go bye-bye pretty quick in 
 short time while adventuring across the land. Although the addition of extra gold just to fly your 
 mount in Northrend kinda eeeked me I must say all in all its a great expansion that looks to offer 
 allot of playtime in the future. Loving my return to WoW and look forward to playing for quite 
 awhile to come. I rate this title a sold 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grezos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Tons of new content. New continent to explorer. New items. New enemies. New environments. New Dungeons. 
 A new playable class. Is it worth the $39 dollars? If you still enjoy WOW, you betcha!
  
  So far, I have taken my shaman to level 73 and explored much of Northrend. I have also tried out 
 a couple of new dungeons, and they are a blast. I also started a new Death Knight character (along 
 with a million other people) but I am having more fun exploring Northrend. I have been playing 
 WOW since the beginning and I don't see an end in sight for the game. There are more people playing 
 than ever and content is always being added. This expansion is well worth it. Get out of Outland 
 in into Northrend!!!
  
  Anyone that gave this game a low review needs to have their head checked. Blizzard tells you exactly 
 what you are getting when you buy this game. If you are already sick of mechanics and gameplay 
 of WOW then this expansion probably won't change your view of that. If you still enjoy WOW and 
 are looking for more to do, you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King introduces old time WoW players to new content that they 
 could only have hoped to have experienced before. This expansion pack almost feels like a whole 
 new game with all of the bonus material added to an already spectacular game. Wrath of the Lich 
 King raises the level cap up to 80, gives us the ability to create the first ever hero class, the 
 Death Knight, allows us to explore the continent of Northrend, and much, much more. 
  
  First and foremost, the level cap being raised gives players a new goal and more things to do. 
 There are new quests, new items, new instances and raids, new factions, new everything. But the 
 level cap for players isnt the only thing that was raised. Professions have been increased too. 
 So for those people stuck at the maximum level of their profession, you have something new to look 
 forward to, too. But the most prominent and obvious cap increase is your player's. By leveling 
 up to a new range of levels, you will acquire new spells, new items, and new friends along the 
 way. And that's not all, you might get an achievement here or there too. The areas in Northrend 
 are very well made, and are extremely visually appealing. The level of detail that Blizzard has 
 added to the key features of Northrend, such as ice, water, and trees, has been noticeably increased. 
 While you grind grind grind away, or perhaps are doing something more productive, why not take 
 a moment to look around at the world that you live in? Explore a little bit, take in the sights, 
 and just take a moment to actually see what's around you. Anyways, whether it's leveling your character, 
 leveling your professions, admiring the level of detail, or anything else, Blizzard has provided 
 you with more options than ever before, given us more of the same, but better, and many new things, 
 too.
  
  The Death Knight hero class is a big change to everybody out there. Being the only class in the 
 game as of now to start out at level 55, these warriors are probably the most powerful, and possibly 
 even overpowered class in the game to date. The Death Knight uses a rune system unique to their 
 class. Each Death Knight has two blood runes, frost runes, and unholy runes. Through talents, however, 
 (and a certain Blood ability) you can gain something known as a death rune, a rune that can be 
 used up as any of the three runes. Death runes are unique in that they can only be used once, before 
 reverting back to the original rune that they were converted from. Another interesting aspect of 
 the Death Knight class are its roles. A Death Knight can serve as a DPS class, a tanking class, 
 and even (sort of) a healing class. A group of five Death Knight im sure will not be uncommon, 
 and will bring a new feeling into the game. While some people will argue the difficulty of defeating 
 or playing a Death Knight, just keep in mind that practice makes perfect. Death Knights, like any 
 other class, are still a class, and take time to get used to. So if you're frustrated at first, 
 don't give up! This is one of the most exciting features in the expansion pack and shouldn't be 
 overlooked. But just keep in mind that if you plan on creating one of these, that you must have 
 a level 55 character on the realm you wish to create it on first. That being said, this is something 
 that I think is very interesting, and also just plain fun; and I hope that you will feel that way, 
 too. 
  
  The New continent of Northrend is also a big change for people. You will now be facing off against 
 some higher level, more difficult aspects of the game, but all of it will be new, and hopefully 
 enjoyable. The landscapes and monsters all have a distinctly different feel to them, and each also 
 brings a whole new feature to the game. The places you explore will range from a somewhat lush 
 and tranquil forest, to a snow covered land with vicious snowstorms and blizzards. A feature in 
 Northrend that also brings a whole new contrast to the game is Wintergrasp. Wintergrasp is the 
 first area in WoW history to be 100% PvP (player vs. player) . This place brings back the outdoor 
 PvP that old time Warcraft fans have so very much missed. It is like an outdoor battleground without 
 any particular goal or player limit. All in all, Northrend is a huge feature in the game, and should 
 definitely be visited by everyone at one point or another. 
  
  World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King is a fantastic expansion pack to an already spectacular 
 game. It brings you what you wanted, what you needed, and more of what you had. Bursting with new 
 content, this is something that every WoW player must have. Whether it's to do some serious end-game 
 raiding, some more hardcore PvP content, or just goofing off with all of your friends, this is 
 one box that should defnitely be on your shelf. While it does have some very obvious flaws, they 
 don't hinder the game's excellence enough to make it unworthy of your attention. "I tell you this... 
 for when my days have come to an end, you... shall be king." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  The quests are a lot more fun and better consistent storyline. The same unique, fun, addictive 
 grinding formula is still there. The "instancing tier" idea of the death knight starting area and 
 Ice Crown is new and refreshing. The death knights are awsome. There is so much to do and the graphics 
 are much better.
  
  It seems a lot of the so called "hard core" gamers whole are griping that Blizzard tailored the 
 exp packs more to "casual gamers". Well, some of us have to work for a living and raise families, 
 and dont have time to raid 24 hours a day. I would love to be a "hard core" gamer, but in reality 
 my work schedule and family schedule wont allow it, and I prefer more balance in my life. Heck, 
 most of my free time is spent playing WoW as it is. I actually like the fact the new 5 mans don't 
 take 4 hours to finish, and there is less fluff and more getting down to the bosses. Plus, its 
 nice to be lower geared and still be able to run in the new raids and not have to be part of some 
 "hard core" click to run them. After all, its a computer game that is supposed to be fun to all. 
 Its not a job or supposed to belong to only a few "hard core" gamers. I think its awsome Blizzard 
 is catering to us "casual gamers" more.
  
  The game is still super fun and exciting as always, and Wrath is a big improvement over BC.
  
 
  There are some issues, though. For one, I am still sick and tired of killing something around a 
 mining vein, and have ninj sneak in and take my ore while I am killing. Also tired of jerks who 
 have roll cheats and/or steal gear with "need" that someone else really needs, and tired of lootmasters 
 who support only their favorites in their click in PUGs. Blizzard needs to have more "smart auto 
 loot mastering" and make WoW more "ninj proof".
  
  Also, I would like to see separate Horde and Alliance cities in Northrend and the Outlands just 
 like the main land so there are more fun "PvP raids" to choose from.
  
  I also don't like having to wait to 77 to fly again. What they should have done is offered a higher 
 riding skill and more exotic, faster super mounts at 77 instead. Maybe offer boats at that higher 
 riding skill, too. The idea is to always progress - never go backwards. It would be nice if they 
 revamp the mainland to allow flying mounts - but Blizzard seems to claim its too hard to do. I 
 just like to see more consistency and a foward progression of mounts.
  
  Also, they should have added more heroic classes as well as regular classes than just the death 
 knight and more starting areas. Also, I think anyone who has a level 80 character should be able 
 to have the option to start a new character at level 55 or 60 as well.
  
  But the advantages far outweigh the cons. And overall Wrath is a great success to the WoW world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Well it has cutscenes and a backstory. You have to give them that. However, it's still the same 
 old garbage. Just once I wish Blizzard would concentrate on doing something other than forcing 
 a player to grind. There HAS to be something other than the same grinding gameplay. I'm done with 
 this. It's just 10 more levels of the same thing in fact, I'm insulted by the simplicity of the 
 environments and the landscape. 
  
  Unimaginable just begins to describe it. There's so much more they could do with this but they 
 refuse because they got people hoodwinked into inserting their egos into their characters. Now 
 it's death knights where you can now lord over everyone that you're a death knight.
  
  WoW really needs to decide if they want to be a pve game or a pvp game because it definately is 
 NOT a pvp game at all. There's no incentive to it at all other than gear. WOW is about acquiring 
 gear and WOTLK is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irelevent
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The game itself, World of Warcraft, is probably the best MMORPG on the market, however after a 
 year of a stale waiting period, i was quite dissapointed at the prospect Wrath of Lich King. 
 
  
  To be honest, it looked like the same game. Honestly, it was quite different than i would have 
 thought. I thought, that it would just have been another WoW expansion pack, same boring questing, 
 decent pvp, etc. I thought that because this expansion wouldn't offer new races, or *what i thought* 
 new content. I thought that they were basically making a Burning crusade, but in northrend. with 
 no new gameplay mechanics etc.
  
  In reality, the game had completely new stuff to do, it offers mount controls where you actually 
 have to aim at your target. Best of all, the quests are by far more Lore-based. you see arthas 
 quite a few times before even reaching 80. Quests are no longer stupid boring chains. they really 
 bring in lore, what i thought was impossible for an MMO. And the quests were'nt all kill quests 
 like Burning Crusade. Each one different than the last, you have the option of doing all sorts 
 of different things. 
  
  
  
  Replay-ability just like Burning Crusade, is a decent offering with a sort of annoying PVP option. 
 sure, there are arenas, and battlegrounds, but i still miss the original WoW. Where your faction 
 in that region would race or to attack an actual town. (Raids on SW, Goldshire, Crossroads, etc) 
 Those are the raids i remember, real momentous occasions, which sadly are still missing from WOTLK. 
 While content patches offer seldom but more raids, However, the game would still be rated as a 
 9.0, because thats what it deserves. 
  
  
  This game is extremely fun. If you actually have read the reviews that give this game anything 
 lower than a 6, they always digress into insulting "addicted" WoW players. And of course talking 
 about how it's "the same", with no real clarification on what "the same" means. My Review is based 
 of what i have played rather than what i thought of the game before i bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadeone8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  So far my experience has been great. The leveling was fun. In Burning Crusade and ESPECIALLY in 
 vanilla WoW it just felt disorganized. You had this huge beautiful world, with zone after zone 
 of the same old stuff. You helped people collect plant and animal part, clear out their farm, and 
 other simple tasks. Sure it got the job done, and often it was addicting... but it wasn't necessarily 
 addicting because it was fun.
  
  Original WoW was epic. The difficulty was high, the 40 man raids just seemed insane. The biggest 
 drawback was storyline... you were just kind of there. Sure you may have a full epic T3 char at 
 level 60. Maybe you beat every raid in the game repeatedly, but even if you finished Naxx, you 
 didn't really feel like a person in the world. You were no more unique than the NPC's walking around 
 town.
  
  When Burning Crusade came out I felt that it was was disorganized. If you are a lore nerd you knew 
 exactly where you were going, what you were doing, and why. It brought major players into the game 
 like Lady Vashj, Illidan, and others, but for regular players was just more grinding. If you really 
 delved deep into the WC3 lore you understood, but many players never finished the WC3 storyline 
 let alon TFT, so it just had a weak overall draw. On a good note the Arena system was implemented 
 and PvP became a blast.
  
  In WotLK however they enforce the story upon you with every quest. Arthas pops up continually in 
 minor "cutscenes." Your questing involves pushing back the scourge. It sucks you in right where 
 TFT left off. If you never played previous warcraft games you can easily get caught up by watching 
 cutscenes and reading your quest text. It really has a draw to it.
  
  Also the drop rates are greatly improved. I haven't had a single quest that gives me a headache 
 just from grinding mobs. For anyone who has ever played, it will feel fresh and most likely smoother 
 than either TBC or regular WoW. The quests are laid out in a nice order so that you don't have 
 much downtime. It is still a grind, but not one that makes you want to shoot yourself and give 
 up. Overall it just feels seamless.
  
  Whether you are new to WoW or a player since day one, you don't want to miss out on WotLK. It is 
 the epitome of what the game should have been since day 1. It was already addicting, fun, and a 
 great game. Now it belongs in the gaming hall of fame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyro_NE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Wrath of the Lich King is a pretty obvious purchase if you like World of Warcraft. If you've been 
 playing through the expansion up to this point you've probably already bought it or are thinking 
 about buying it. 
  
  For those who have been gone it's basically more of the same. More loot more quests more content. 
 It's actually a bit larger than Burning Crusade which is nice since it gives it a much more epic 
 scale. 
  
  Another part I enjoy about this expansion is the fact that a lot of the quests are dealing with 
 the main story and problem in Northrend, being the attack of the Scourge and Lich King. So it feels 
 a lot more meaningful and not like a laundry list of errands you are performing. 
  
  The quests also vary A LOT. There is a lot of vehical quests and a lot of variety to your typical 
 "go kill x monster x amount of times". These quests also tend to be very short when you do come 
 upon them or tied in with a larger goal so that you aren't JUST going out to kill said monsters.
 
  
  I have not seen every instance yet but the ones so far are much easier due to gear levels being 
 adjusted. Basically your epics from Outlands will last into 75 or so depending. Which leads to 
 some pretty blah instances at the start which can be disappointing for the die hard player but 
 new comers will be completely fine with it. Many instances are quite well designed with varying 
 paths or interesting aesthetics and boss encounters.
  
  One nice change is that there is now 10 and 25 man raids which allows more players to see all of 
 the content. For those who are not part of a larger guild or don't have the time to commit this 
 is great since you are doing all these quests which are inevitably leading up to the final encounter 
 with the Lich King himself and t's nice to know you might actually have a shot at the guy! Albeit 
 in a slightly toned down 10 man encounter.
  
  Several of the zones make Outland's look pathetic in comparison and the graphics have gotten a 
 nice new coating of paint. Mostly the textures are much higher resolution but this actually makes 
 a huge difference. Just look at any Outland's gear and compare it to a Northrend's green. Outland's 
 is just disgusting whether due to graphical qualities or just straight up terrible design. Exceptions 
 to the Bulwark of Azzinoth of course. :)
  
  So basically WotLK is more of the same but infinitely refined and friendly to the player than it 
 has ever been and in many ways this makes it a lot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorbidIsolation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  first of all, the new continent northrend is really awesome, lots of graphical improvements , the 
 quests are much more dynamic thanks to the new vehicle system, wrath of the lich king is the best 
 in the series! why? because , problems in the past have all been resolved in this expansion. new 
 ideas and mechanics have been implemented to give u a comfortable and enjoyable feeling to this 
 game. new ideas such as achievements really makes players want to complete them. introduction to 
 new currency instead of just badge of justice and pvp points is great too. and of course the new 
 death knight hero class really changes pvp and raiding strategies. the new profession inscription 
 is a very ingenius profession thats introduced in wrath of the lich king . 
  
  now the bad part ahhaha, i really feel that they could have introduced more then 1 hero class to 
 the game to make it more interesting because now u can see death knights running all over the place. 
 secondly , i dont like the fact that u have to do the raid 2 times to get different gear . one 
 in 10 man raid and on in 25 man raids . they could have introduced more raids instead of doing 
 the raid in different difficulty. 
  
  in my eye , i see this expanion as something that would be more rewarding for players who are lvl 
 70. if u are a new guy to wow. then u will have to wait for quite a while before trully experiencing 
 this expansion . for all those returning wow players, this is a must for u. all i can say is bravo 
 to blizzard for an outstanding expansion and hopefully wow will keep going for a few more years 
 then hahah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcarriere
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade was a good addition to Warcraft, but if felt disconnected and provided some 
 extra hours in front of the screen with 10 more levels, but overall the PVP content was average 
 and the playable races were welcome but not exciting.
  
  Enter the Lich King! This game not only brings some of the most beautiful lands to explore, but 
 a compelling storyline that drives you to take your game to the next level. The new PVP battlegrounds 
 is awesome! A D-Day style charge up a beach, with cannons and vehicles this is a whole new experience 
 for warcraft players.
  
  Northrend is simply amazing. The environment and storyline draw you in. Its as though you are playing 
 a movie.
  
  The new dungeons are really fun to play.
  
  Overall this is an incredible addition to an already incredible game. You will have a great time 
 driving forward to your inevitable battle with Arthas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofshapeir
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid WoW player, I felt giddy about the game up to its release. I got it on the day of 
 the 13th, quickly installed it, and at first just sat there. I thought to myself, "What should 
 I do? Create a Death Knight, or level my 70 Rogue in Northrend?" Well, I had heard great things 
 about WoW's new hero class, so I decided to try it out. 
  
  I stayed up until 4:00 AM playing. 
  
  The greatest addition the WoW universe is undoubtedly 
 the Death Knight. People label them as overrated, cheap, or overpowered. My personal opinion isn't 
 that they're such a great DPS class, it's just that playing them is so much fun, and you feel like 
 a badass while playing them. The starting quests for Death Knights are simply breathtaking: you 
 are The Lich King's servant and you are tasked with slaughtering humans and spreading the undead 
 plague across the land, until you eventually break free from his grasp and atone for your sins. 
 
  
  But of course, there is a whole new continent to explore: Northrend! Having only advanced my level 
 70 up to 72 since the release of the expansion, I can't tell you everything about Northrend. But 
 so far, from leveling in the starting areas, it is VERY fun. The quests are bigger and better and 
 the environments are gorgeous. The entire area feels like a battleground that you're part of, and 
 it is just magnificent.
  
  If you are a WoWer, you should already have WOTLK. If you have yet to jump into World of Warcraft, 
 WOTLK is worth it alone. This is the most epic addition to the Warcraft series to date, and you 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a hard one to describe. They new area, northrend, in my eyes is not better than shatt. 
 I also think that the Death Knights (dks as i call them) are very over powered. Lets start with 
 my predictions. I thought this game would ruin WoW... it was gonna be a cheap scam with an even 
 harder lvling system and people getting even more rude and pvp being filled with death knights, 
 but i was better than expected but it went down from there. I liked shatt more than dalaran even 
 tho i havent explored it much. I have a DK and i know that they will be nerfed within 2 months. 
 These things can hit netter than my super pvp geared rogue it hits 2k and my rogue hits .9. See 
 the difference? Also they start at the hardest of times. Maybe they should of been 30 with a normal 
 mount quest and some cool lvl 30 gear. I dont think you get much of a pleasent experence but a 
 hard grind. Then Northrend which i havent explored very long, is maybe equal in size, and the city 
 is almost identical with shatt, is very familiar. The city is nicer than shatt but, the area is 
 nearly the same experence. You do the accasional escort and loads of killing and looting. NO i 
 am not a hater. Im still playing the game. You can find me as errion at aggramar if you wanna challenge 
 me. This game just needs something new, but if i dont see that this happens i will not give a second 
 thought to not buying the next expansion. Can keep the new gamers for a while but the experenced 
 will find this repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darks1ayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I am a long time player, coming up on 3 years this December. 
  
  I don't have a whole lot of stuff to say about this expansion. It truly is more of the same, but 
 like my title says, its some of the most refined and polished more of the same this game has seen 
 yet. The environments are quite good and the Death Knight substory is quite engaging and is worth 
 making one just to see the plot details.
  
  Speaking of the Death Knight, talk about an interesting class. As near as I can tell (from my 8 
 hours spent with the class) , it is part Warrior, part Rogue, part Warlock, and part Ret Paladin. 
 Quite an mixture if I may say so myself. The class revolves around diseases that offer debuffs 
 and damage over time, along with melee damage that can be modified by the diseases on the target. 
 All 3 trees (Blood, Frost, and Unholy) specialize in different roles: Blood is an all out dps spec, 
 doing heavy damage and offers a tremendous amount of passive self healing. Frost is a survival 
 spec, giving more armor rating and health, along with some other tools that I suspect will be useful 
 for tanking. And finally, Unholy as described by my friend, is a "Control" spec, using the ghouls 
 and other tools to control your opponent. 
  
  Moving on, the graphics feel like they got a minor overhaul, with more detailed textures and longer 
 draw distances. The sound design is quite good, I would say the best we've seen yet. The music 
 is once again, fantastic. Very emotional and moving, if I dare say.
  
  Things that need work:
  
  1.) Crafting professions. Basically, with regards to tailoring and 
 blacksmithing, they "nerfed" them. The BoP sets are gone, and the BoP weapons are gone. I'd like 
 to see both of these back in the game in the next content patch.
  
  2.) Environment performance. I have by no means a slow computer (Core 2 Due e8400, 4GB DDR2. PNY 
 GeForce 8800 GTS G92, etc) , yet in the large zones, the game performance gets below the 30 frames 
 per second marker. if I had to guess, I'd say that the aging WoW engine is to the limit of what 
 it can display, and for the next (maybe final expansion) , a complete engine overhaul will be needed 
 if they want to continue to push environment detail and size.
  
  All in all, a worthy expansion to the world's largest addiction.
  
  Bottom line: If you hate 
 World of Warcraft, this new set of content will not make you like the game. But if you are an existing 
 player who enjoyed The Burning Crusade, then this is truly what that expansion should have been.
 
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  
  Sound FX: 8/10
  
  Music: 9/10
  
  Control: 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machineman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short - this is the best version of WoW so far. The attention to detail is amazing, 
 the graphics are eons above previous releases, the new quest mechanics are incredibly immersive, 
 and the storytelling is ubelieveable!
  
  There are alot of players who rush to the end game, but in this case, those players are the ones 
 being short changed. There is SO much to see and do while you level, leveling just because a byproduct 
 of being immersed in this world...
  
  Without giving too much away, the cut scene they've used with the Wrath Gate... Wow... just wow. 
 This truly trumps even LotR for storytelling prowess. You are face to face with the lich king, 
 no matter who you are, almost as soon as you step off the boat in NOrthrend.
  
  If you at all think this is "more of the same" you are in for a surprise.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  I am not quite sure why people that haven't even played the game are giving it bad scoring, just 
 form previous experience with wow that they played 3 years ago... 
  
  If its not your thing that's fine, just don't give bad reviews without any reasonable points, other 
 than "same old" or "blizzard suck" 
  
  I got the expansion on release, and have been enjoying questing with my friends and exploring the 
 new areas and dungeons, the graphics are good, the sound is amazing, and everything runs smooth, 
 apart from a few instances of lag here and there, but that's understandable considering how many 
 people are filling the servers up. 
  
  It definitely doesn't deserve to get a 1.0.. really.. the game is immense and so much detail has 
 been put into it, walk around a few of the new areas and you'll see what i am talking about. 
 
  
  If you're tired of MMO's then i wouldn't recommend getting it, because yes there isn't much that 
 revolutionizes, but there are many new things and experiences that make it worth getting. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgotNoGoodName
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  WoW WotLK is actually a better update than some people give it credit they play the first few minutes 
 and cant find a location or something but i find it really enjoyable. blizzard found a way to make 
 it feel like your actually changing the world from time to time and thats awesome. yeah its grinding 
 levels again... but thats just about the same as ANY RPG you dont play wow so everyone can start 
 at the same level and thats it. it takes time (if your casual about it like i am ALOT of time haha) 
 to get to high level and get into end game stuff sure but its fun. the graphics in it havent changed 
 too much but still noted that it has improved sides i like them.
  
  Death Knights are under appreciated as far as lore its as far as they can make it right now so 
 i understand only one new class im hoping for 2 new not hero classes in a later expansion thats 
 the only downside is one new class. but back on track the Death Knights lore is handled with care 
 so your product wont be showing any missing pieces or lacking substance. i enjoy this expansion 
 alot it was put together well and you get alot for hardly much of a download on your computer. 
 if you havent gotten this yet i suggest you do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  WoW is notorious for being the "MMO" that took the innovation out of "MMO"s while at the same time 
 being the one to give it life in terms of eager investors and games that try to copy it's success. 
 But to copy a flawed game will lead to only one path: to become a flawed game.
  
  Innovation that was granted by such games as Ultima Online and Everquest are long gone in lou for 
 the "casual" mmo of questing and grinding and more grinding. It has cursed the market by making 
 it so big that other games tend to copy it to try and match the success it has (with little additions 
 here and there that are different; but having slight differences means nothing if another game 
 that's free offers the same small thing that's different at which point you're just wasting money 
 paying for two monthly games) .
  
  But I digress, despite how flawed WoW is in general the expansion is what people are supposed to 
 be rating. It is unfortunate that in most cases I see people put in "10-20" hours along with their 
 reviews which means they installed (if they even bought it) logged on their characters, asked a 
 dozen questions, finally found a way to a ship, went on it, went to Northrend. Bah! I have to do 
 a quest! Same game!
  
  You're still playing the same game, genious people! It's well known; that's what an EXPANSION is. 
 Please do not capitalize on the obvious. What the expansion did bring was a great amount of new 
 quests, most seen towards higher levels, including but not limited to actually jumping off of flying 
 mounts onto another person's flying mount and killing them while watching their lifeless corpse 
 fall to the ground (In addition to their being quests where you meet your future self, air combat, 
 bear riding combat, transforming yourself into a worg/murloc and hunting whales, watching cinematic-like 
 scenes, etc) . Though I'll leave that for the quest section of this review.
  
  MUSIC:
  
  I put the music here first and foremost because it is.... Quite well done. They reinstated the 
 old orchestra to give a unique music for each new area in Northrend; it is a relaxing and soothing 
 sound that is quite dominate on the ears as opposed old and forgetable music that just floated 
 around a dreary area in the original WoW.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Northrend are absolutely brilliant; the colors, the flashing lights, 
 it is true eye candy. The characters still look like they're cartoons but to expect it to be any 
 different is, once again, not paying attention to the "expansion" label. The snow looks crisp, 
 the shadows are now fully interactive, the trees and the wilderness are all great looking. The 
 Northern lights are quite a nice addition to have as well. If they cleaned up some of the trees 
 in the original it would be a nice addition as well.
  
  
  From what I saw of the new armor there isn't anything new to be seen; it seems to be recolored 
 Tier 3 armor.... Though to be honest so few people actually got that that it still feels relatively 
 new. But in general I'm not impressed at all with what I've seen with regards to the new epic armor 
 thus far; then again I've only seen it from pictures on review sites and the like.
  
  
  TERRAIN: The new terrain in Northrend is awe-inspiriing.... It's true. The Crystal Forest in particular 
 is quite breath-taking. Though it seems to me that they went a little over the top what with colors 
 and flashy lights in general; but it's still quite funny reading peoples' comments about "looks 
 the same! blah blah blah!". Weeds out the trolls, I say. The amount of land that you're able to 
 see in addition to all ground units no matter how high up you are is quite impressive if you think 
 about it. That is, if you actually got to the point you have your flying mount in Northrend or 
 heck, even looked at the land around you when at a high point of some sort.
  
  
  DUNGEONS: No comment to date; it's nice that they are comparatively faster now but I'm going to 
 have to see end game raid dungeons before I formulate a review on it.
  
  
  PvP: No comment to date; not enough people at max level to see if it balances out.
  
  
  QUESTS: 
 The quests have taken to new heights in the new expansion; there are many that seem the same and 
 many that are quite new.
  
  The Horde side in particular I noticed a lot of the same stuff in the starting Northrend territories 
 VS. my Alliance toon. But in general there is a lot of new additions in terms of quests that people 
 who play for "10-20 hours" as I have been seeing will never see due to ignorance.
  
  I'm sure you've seen videos of flying combat quests, riding the bears in arenas for the mauling 
 quests, riding the dragons and jumping from dragon to dragon to kill their riders and then steal 
 their rides... Etc. But that's just the tip of the iceberg.
  
  I'll first start with the Death Knight; they took a new step what with your actions having an affect 
 on the actual world around you as you progress. If you Set fire to buildings and kill soldiers 
 you'll be transitioned to another part where you see the houses burned to the ground, corpses screwed 
 all about, and the results of your hard work. 
  
  You have to steal your horde by literally jumping on it at first then killing someone who is on 
 theirs and then steal theirs as well before you make it an undead steed.
  
  There is also a first instance of you using a fire breathing dragon to kill and eat your enemies.... 
 Though some might misinterpret this as flying combat - it isn't. It's an upgraded version of dropping 
 bombs that was in the Burning Crusade. There is actual flying combat as in air-to-air targeting 
 and firing of missles and such. It's really quite fun in a passing-the-time sort've way.
  
  As a death knight you're led to do horrible things. But some note-worthy things include:
  
 
  -Hijacking a ship and using it's cannons to bombard legions of elites.
  
  -Plaguing miners and watching them turn into your undead minions to follow you around.
  
  -Watch 
 as terrified villagers cower in fear of you, screaming out for mercy just before you cut them down 
 and hear the whisper of the lich king in your mind.
  
  -Torturing of Villagers with fixed dialog as you are beating them to death to try and get information 
 out of them (quite fun; "I'll rip the secrets from your soul!" Vishas style) .
  
  -Ride a dragon that eats mobs and burns things down to ashes.
  
  -Participating in a huge battles 
 where you have 10,000 (100+ on a screen at once) NPC undead allies against the entire Light's Hope 
 military and witnessing the fight of Turion Vs. Arthas and the birth of the Argent Blade.
  
  - Murdering a past friend of yours that tries to get you to fight the Lich King's control.
 
  
  To be honest I'd be here all night if I were just to review the Death Knights so I'll stop right 
 there.
  
  Some Northrend notable quests:
  
  -Dragon Riding/Hijacking and watching your murdered victims fall to their doom if not fully dead 
 (jumping from dragon to dragon in mid air) .
  
  -Bear boxing (fighting while mounted on a bear in a large bear pit and the like) .
  
  -Flying 
 Combat
  
  -Transformation in Worgs/Murlocs
  
  -Transformation into a King Behemoth Giant with all his power and HP.
  
  -Encounters with your 
 future self along with whitty remarks.
  
  (Fair well, ! Don't get us killed! ... And get yourself some better gear!) .
  
  -Actual cinematic-like 
 scenes for certain quests.
  
  -Beholding a scene where a battles was frozen in time; birds flying about, spears in mid air, dwarves 
 fighting giants. Quite breathe taking.
  
  -Watching scenes unfold as you complete quests; for example on the horde side you see a mini skirmish 
 between Sylvana's forces and the Lich King's forces. Arrows fly and become frozen in mid flight, 
 bodies are torn asunder, and souls are ripped from their chests. 
  
  -Viewing the NPCS live their lives in the war; on the alliance side you see lines of recruits being 
 signed in and telling what their profession is. They may be told to go to the front line or might 
 have a spot open for their position. It's just a nice little thing that gives you a sense that 
 there is a foreboding war about to happen; the recruitment sergeant saying that he has a quota 
 to meet with troops and such and has to send people to the front lines.
  
  When on the alliance side you are actually able to see WCIII in works as when you visit a nearby 
 village under attack by the undead you hear the town hall ringing and people yelling "to arms!".... 
 Then you see the peasant workers run to the town hall and then become armed with weapons and armor 
 and then fight off the undead raid.
  
  I'll leave the rest to be discovered to any interested parties as I know most people will be playing 
 and not reading if they have it.
  
  CRAFTING: The crafting process has changed significantly in terms of required reagents to make 
 items and the like; the way to get said reagents remain the same, however. What I mean by this 
 is that there are a lot of epics to be made with each craft now; most of them, in fact, are actually 
 bind on equip. Those who are blacksmiths, for example, are able to make a mace that gives +500 
 spell damage to give to one of their characters as it isn't bind on pickup that last time I checked.
 
  
  In addition crafting seems to have passive abilities now as well; mining, for example, now gives 
 +500 HP if at its highest level.
  
  Yet another example is alchemy; if you know how to make a potion it has double the effect when 
 you use it.
  
  The crafting is still flawed compared to the games of yesteryear.... But at least there is some 
 meaning to be maxed out now.
  
  WORLD PvP: They tried to inaugurate a new style of world PvP by adding a sort of faction conquering 
 and owning of an entire area; much like you would see in a RvR game. It seems quite fun to be honest 
 but it isn't required if you don't want to do it. It's a nice change from just trying to take over 
 towns like in the Burning Crusade but requires more cooperation in general.
  
  BATTLEGROUNDS: No comment as of yet.
  
  
  Truth be told, and I know by the amount of people 
 I see just giving thumbs down out of no reason if they see a high score, I'd feel guilty if I didn't 
 give this game at least a Nine with everything that is contained therein.
  
  It's all about integrity and honesty; I tried to find some bad points but all I could do was bash 
 the ineptitude of the game in general when I'm supposed to review the expansion. In terms of an 
 expansion it's one of the most content packed that I have ever seen on any genre of game. It's 
 addicting and time wasting; but gaming in general is a waste of time unless it is your profession 
 in some way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  It has been two years since the Burning Legion invaded Azeroth with the Burning Crusade expasion, 
 a few major content patches and two years later, the Scourge invasion must now be halted and the 
 Lich King Arthas defeated by the heroes of the Horde and Alliance on the vast frozen plains of 
 Northrend. For those not familiar with the story behind the Lich King and the importance of Northrend 
 to the WarCraft story, here is a simple low down of what happens in WarCraft III, which is initially 
 the same story line as the Burning Crusade and Wrath of the Lich King expansions combined to some 
 extent.
  
  Paladin and hero of the Alliance Arthas was sent to Northrend after the Lich King in an attempt 
 to stop the plague of the Scourge invasion that was upon the kingdom of Lordaeron. The Lich King's 
 servant Kel'thuzad is one of the minions used to lure Arthas into Northrend and after an attempt 
 to flee from the Scourge by his forces, only those loyal to him would follow him to his own demise. 
 In order to defeat Kel'thuzad, he obtained one of the legendary evil blades known as Frostmourne. 
 Despite it's evil power and warnings from his friends, Arthas chose to weild Frostmourne and in 
 doing so would corrupt his soul. After defeating Kel'thuzad, he would wander through Northrend 
 for 5 long years, being constantly haunted by the Lich King through the sword. In turn he became 
 a minion of the Scourge forces who would lay seige Lordaeron with Arthas leading the way, the murder 
 of the king of Lordaeron and the resurrection of the Lich Kel'thuzad at the Sunwell. Upon his return 
 to Northrend, the Death Knight Arthas would merge himself with the Lich King and take complete 
 control over the Scourge invasion.
  
  Wrath of the Lich King is a much larger expansion then Burning Crusade and unfortunately Blizzard 
 made some drastic changes to gameplay mechanics with the Echoes of Doom patch and changing certain 
 features of classes. This review is taken from the perspective of a Horde blood elf paladin, retribution 
 spec for PvE and PvP mechanics have not been tested yet. It is a long haul to level 80, questing 
 in a zone will most likely get you up 1 level if you do all the dungeons and their respective quests 
 as well. Some changes that were made, especially for retribution paladin's from a gear standpoint 
 have really impacted how players are going to gear and play their characters. This isn't such a 
 bad thing as it simplifies how you setup your own play style, however the previous way of gearing 
 up and how certain aspects like spellpower impacted your were just fine.
  
  There is a boatload of content here, 30 hours and I have only cleared 3 areas and not 100% either, 
 including a few of the early dungeons including The Nexus, Utgarde Keep and both 5-mans in Dragonblight. 
 You will come across Naxxaramas in Dragonblight as well, the old final raid of the original World 
 of WarCraft game makes a return as both 60 and 80 raids in both 10 and 25 man formats, each one 
 dropping certain kinds of loot, the 60 raid will no doubt be the original gear to some extent, 
 however new tokens and badges for your Tier 7 raid gear will drop here and there are a few rankings 
 when it comes to your T7 equipment, you will have to obtain 4 different token sets, both 10 and 
 25 man modes will have heroic settings, making it a raid you will have to run more then a few times 
 to complete. It seems Blizzard has toned down the amount of raiding and dungeon running that will 
 be involved in Wrath, there are 9 raids in Burning Crusade versus 4 in Wrath, 16 BC dungeons versus 
 12 for Wrath, however with the achievement system in place, running dungeons for the points is 
 going to provide somewhat of a challenge for the most hardcore players.
  
  All the professions have been extended, a few new things have been added like the Hog motorbike 
 and Magic Carpets, however gems from Jewelcrafting and the various other professions have not really 
 introduced anything new that is unique. The new capital city Dalaran is much smoother then Shattrath 
 was in terms of lag, even when there are loads of people in it the performance seems a fair bit 
 smoother despite it being the same size.
  
  The new hero class is the big feature of Wrath of the Lich King and is an odd one at that. Death 
 Knights are a unique class all to themselves, too bad it's not restricted in race because some 
 races just look completely stupid, especially the gnomes and tauren. Death Knights use a rune combat 
 system in conjunction with runic power, much like warriors rage which builds up from using spells. 
 The 3 talent trees work in conjunction and need to have points allocated properly in order to be 
 the most effective at a specific spec, for instance you can't be going unholy as the spellcaster 
 spec and have melee DPS talents allocated, it takes a fair amount of practise to get the talents 
 right.
  
  Overall there are an asinine amount of quests, including one that requires you to take back Undercity 
 after the Forsaken turn against the Horde. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord_rulz
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I saw this coming from the word go. When i first saw the new content available for WoW i was like... 
 Wtf is Blizzard thinking? or are they even thinking anymore? The bottom line is this new expansion 
 gives you **** all in the way of continuation of "enthralling" gameplay. Seriously think about 
 it.. A new Death Knight class.. WOW!!! and a new area... With the same repetitive crap as before.. 
 This looks like it will be fun lmao!!! Why cant they sit down and really think hard of creating 
 their own god damn idea's for once. FFS! Make a intuitive unique style to MMORPG instead of recreating 
 the same dog **** all the time. not to mention very similar to every other MMO title out there 
 in its category.. Oh and also wtf happened to a graphics update? Big woop they fixed up the trees 
 and textures a bit... I think the reason behind not taking on a new graphics engine is because 
 1. The hardware specs is the reason behind so many players anyways and 2. If they did upgrade the 
 graphics they would take toooo many risks in losing subscribers...
  
  But anyways in conclusion this is a load of crap.. Sent it back within the 2nd day.. Total Letdown 
 and well.. Blizzard you've lost your touch as far as im concerned.. Hopefully WoW dies out within 
 1-2years... Especially if its heading in the direction ive just mentioned.. Thanks for nothing 
 Blizzard.. Congrats on your junk.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EMOEVOLUTION
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game offers nothing new to World of Warcraft. Besides interface changes, and talent changes... 
 it's still the same game? 10 new levels. Big deal. This game is designed around one concept and 
 that's to gather loot. There is no value outside of that. PvP is horribly unbalanced and lacks 
 any form of competitively. I know because I got Gladiator all four seasons, and if I wasn't quitting 
 wow now I'd get it again.
  
  Does this game really have anything to offer anymore? Nope, it really doesn't. Find something else 
 to do with your free time. WoW has passed it's peak and that was 6 months into BC. It's time we 
 spend out time and money on other things. Stay away from this game. It's just a rip off to get 
 a few more bucks out of you. When you're playing a game that 4 years old. I don't know about you 
 but I wouldn't pay for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitchell89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft. The most succesfull MMORPG out there. WoW in itself was revolutionary. It had 
 the best PvE and eventually a not too shabby PvP came along aswell. Thousands of players ventured 
 into the Molten Core hoping to get their hands on one of those epic items. I was one of them. 
 
  
  Then along came The Burning Crusade which is not what I expected it to be. It had a weird sci-fi 
 feeling and it completely destroyed the Warcraft ambience. BUT on the other hand it gave us 2 new 
 races and some exciting new dungeons and lore.
  
  After a long time wait WOTLK has finally come and this time my friends, its trully a delight! This 
 is Warcraft! This is what warcraft should be like. The continent itself just screams out war. The 
 new class? Amazing, although its now probably the most played class. Siege weapons? A tremendously 
 welcome feature in PvP! Levelling has never been so much fun with a new variaty of quests. New 
 armor and weapons look trully like you are about to butcher someone, not like that laser, high-tech 
 TBC crap.
  
  In one line: This is THE expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Beautiful. Easy to use. So much content I could spend the next year of my free time working my 
 way through it.... but why?
  
  When I first started playing WoW I was blown away by the immensity of it all. Fast forward 4 years 
 and I find myself kind of burnt out on the grind, button mashing-in-sequence, Hunt for the "!" 
 and sprint to the "?".
  
  As engrossing as that was the first 3 years I played WoW, I find my self asking the question..."Why 
 has the game not evolved beyond quest grinding and loot hoarding?"
  
  What if.....
  
  WoW began focusing more on Player Faction vs Player Faction conflict. Not just PvP, but start developing 
 something where there is a larger goal than leveling and looting. 
  
  What if....
  
  You became a part of something larger than yourself in WoW? Your guild leveled as a WHOLE by what 
 you do collectively... (Great idea WAR!) 
  
  What if....
  
  As a member of a growing guild, you could literally help build your guild one brick at a time? 
 Introduce guild cities!! (Thanks AoC! Probably the only cool thing you introduced us to!) 
  
  At some point the quest/loot/gear/gold grind has got to evolve. It's wonderful how Blizzard 
 keeps feeding us more and more artistry and pretty things to look at. But how crazy would it become 
 if the next endgame content was not a preprogrammed bot, but the elimination of the guild master 
 from an enemy guild and pillaging that guilds vault for spoils and epics!
  
  I think the fact that WoW has become so impersonal because of the grind... it has lost a lot of 
 its magic.
  
  Don't get me wrong... I love to play, but I'm just not as emotionally involved as I used to be.... because 
 it's hard to immerse yourself into another Grind.
  
  But thats just me... I'll still play, but I won't roll marathon sessions like I did at one point 
 in time.... I can only grind for an hour or so now before I get fed up with the monotony of the 
 someness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argotto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I will start with the good. 
  
  The quests in Northrend are a lot more fun than that of Burning Crusade and to me, of even the 
 quests of the original game's quests. They are well designed to keep the player on track. The environment 
 is very impressive as well. I have not yet seen a zone I did not enjoy exploring and questing in. 
 As well as the new environments, the new 5 man instanced dungeons are exceptionally well done. 
 Not too much trash, get straight to the bosses which are fun to fight. New pvp system will be very 
 enjoyable compared to before. Many casual players will be happy.
  
  
  The bad.
  
  The lack of group quests in Northrend completely tears away the feeling of teamwork and cooperation 
 from the game. I have never felt so alone while questing as I do now, even though I am surrounded 
 by thousands. The dungeons do not give much experience at all, so unless you have quests going 
 in, there really is no point to doing them more than maybe once or twice. The raids were designed 
 to be by far the easiest up to date and provide absolutely no challenge. Overall, this game provides 
 no challenge and nothing new to experience besides the pvp aspect. 
  
  Game is fun, but for how long? That is the question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnaz71
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  First off, I have played wow since the beginning. I honestly believe that WoW is not a game any 
 longer it's a addiction. Why would anyone spend hours upon hours in a instance, grinding, etc and 
 be happy with it? With BC we thought somethings would change, it did. Blizzard saw that majority 
 of players were casual, the great 40man raids were gone with the new better 25mans. Pre BC you 
 would have to fight off people in your guild because there was 50-60 people who wanted in the 40man 
 raid. BC you had to beg plead with them to fill the 25. Life changes so do games. Well MOST games. 
 WoW has put in a lot of new content, new classes bu it's still the same game as it was at first 
 release. Maybe a bit more polished but the same game with the same goals -- Raid till your eyes 
 bleed in hopes of a new shiny purple pixel to put on your toon. Grind for rep, gold, materials 
 over, and over. Annoying quests where you collect 20 items and takes you 500 kills.. 
  
  Lich King adds 1 new class, 10 levels of questing/grinding. And yet again all those countless hours 
 of getting the best gear and wasted life. New Expansion same ol game, never ending story with WoW.
 
  
  If you are not at the point of where i am at, then you will still find WoW fun. If you are where 
 I am at then you know what I am talking about. Turn off wow and enjoy the new quest of RL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starpk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  I've been a WoW player since april 2005. Also, I 've been a major fan of warcraft 2 and 3. After 
 three years of playing WoW -with some long breaks in between- I eventually grew tired of the constant 
 grind, especially in the Burning Crusade. At times it felt like an action game where quests had 
 no substance. Also, being a fan of the Warcraft Lore, TBC let me down because it neglected many 
 of the major aspects of the franchise. 
  
  Wrath of the lich king is an expansion which finally addresses those issues and ultimately returns 
 WoW to its roots. As it has been said, the Northrend setting is gothic fantasy, in contrast to 
 the outland setting which is high fantasy. This means you 'll get to fight amazing viking-like 
 giants, dragons, and undead while listening to an epic soundtrack. It's worth mentioning that the 
 Lich King, Arthas the betrayer of lordaeron, makes his appearance early on in the game and this 
 will give you a sense of purpose. 
  
  You really must take your time to read the quests to fully appreciate it. Forget quest helpers. 
 Wotlk's quests are some of the best ever seen in MMoRPGS. You 'll get to ride tanks, you 'll fly 
 on magic carpets, you 'll ride a mammoth and have the ability to charge with it. You 'll even get 
 to play as a minion of Arthas if you play as a Death Knight and above all, you 'll have a sense 
 of purpose. You 'll know what you are doing and why. No more killing 15 boars to get some blood 
 samples that have no consequence. You are a hero and WotlK finally manages to make you feel like 
 one. 
  
  Lake Wintergrasp is an open world pvp area which will blow you away. You 'll command catapults 
 and tanks trying to bring the enemy gates down or you 'll play as the defenders who try to repel 
 the invasion. Dalaran is probably the most beautiful city of WoW (although a bit small) with greatly 
 detailed inns and houses which will be ideal for RP events. 
  
  Also, Blizzard introduces the phasing system, which means that depending on your actions you 'll 
 see changes in the world. For example, in the Death Knight intro quests you 'll eventually get 
 to destroy a village and set it in flames. This greatly adds to the immersion of the game. Of course, 
 the greater use of this is the events after the wrathgate quest line which will blow you away, 
 but I wouldn't want to spoil it for you. 
  
  The areas of WotlK are very detailed and you won't be getting bored of them. Each area is divided 
 into several sub-areas with different quests, landscapes and npcs. In contrast to TBC (take hellfire 
 peninsula for example which was a huge area which used the same ground textures across) , there 
 is a lot of variety in each area and each quest hub will feel distinct from the others. 
  
  Despite those great improvements, however, there are some downsides. The graphics engine is the 
 same that was introduced back in 2004. Yes, the areas of Northrend are better designed, but still, 
 if you zoom in you 'll feel like you are playing an old game. This also goes for animations which 
 are still as clumsy as they were in 2004 (although they didn't look that clumsy then) . With games 
 like Age of Conan, Warhammer Online, Dungeons & Dragons Online, Lord of the Rings Online and others 
 which have greater graphics, WoW falls behind. Also, the sound at times seems to be generic. Luckily 
 the soundtrack is excellent and though it is not as good as AoC's it does a great job of immersing 
 you into the game. 
  
  All in all, WotlK is the best expansion for the most popular MMoRPG ever. It remains to be seen 
 if the endgame will be interesting as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptuomo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Definetely all what MORPG should be. Everything done better than before. Who ever you are you need 
 to play this! Leveling takes fair amount of time and new dungeon design rocks. Only concern is 
 that are new raid instances enough challenging, that we will see later on. Leveling professions 
 seems to be a lot easier than before, that is not always a good thing. It still doesnt change the 
 fact that this is biggest game of the year maybe even best!
  
  Definetely all what MORPG should be. Everything done better than before. Who ever you are you need 
 to play this! Leveling takes fair amount of time and new dungeon design rocks. Only concern is 
 that are new raid instances enough challenging, that we will see later on. Leveling professions 
 seems to be a lot easier than before, that is not always a good thing. It still doesnt change the 
 fact that this is biggest game of the year maybe even best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slizergiy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  The 2 things that are going to catch your atention as soon as you take that first steep into the 
 lands of Northrand will be the the spectaculer views of each zone, and the music that acomanies 
 it. For thoes people who arn't in any rush and wish to just take a look around and listen to what 
 new music WoW has, its worth it.
  
  The new instences are going to give you pause for thought. Comming into a new zone with no clue 
 as to what stratages you need to come up with makes you have to fight hard to down the new bosses, 
 making things much more satisfying when you manage to down it.
  The new armour certinly has an apealing look to it (one such item has that polished bronze look 
 that just makes it stand out from even the Outland epics) .
  
  The Death Knight is a bag of fun, allowing you to do all sorts of nifty things that other classes 
 won't be abel to do, like dragging your aponent to you instead of you having t go to them.
  
  For a startes review, WotLK is awsome and once all the bugs have been sorted, you'll have plenty 
 of fun. Only things to watch out for will people the masses of poeple lining up to try and do the 
 same quest your doing (and posibly that iritating Level 80 Elete wondering around the starting 
 zones that you might have not spotted untill it's too late) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottw420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Even though changes like the overhauled class and game mechanics or the introduction of more robust 
 interface and graphic options affect all characters and players across the board, it's true that 
 most of the content in Wrath of the Lich King is aimed at veteran players. Since the launch of 
 Burning Crusade, though, Blizzard has worked on polishing the old-school content, and the trek 
 from 1 to 60 is both quicker and smoother. With Lich King, the journey from 60 to 70 will be similarly 
 sped up, and the brand new Achievement system is an entertaining diversion that old-timers didn't 
 have. Furthermore, the leveling experience - questing, discovering new storylines and exploring 
 new zones - has always been one of WoW's strongest points since the beginning, and that hasn't 
 changed. For a new player, the journey should be as fun as it's ever been. For everybody else, 
 the end-game at level 80 is better than it was at level 70 or 60, and getting there is just as 
 fun. Wrath of the Lich King is a tremendously more ambitious - and tremendously more successful 
 - expansion pack than Burning Crusade was, and feels like a return to the roots of Warcraft. It's 
 more WoW, but it's a better WoW in essentially every way imaginable. No game is flawless of course, 
 but Lich King is a title worthy of the Blizzard name and reputation. It might just remind people 
 why exactly there are eleven million people around the world playing the game today. The Kool-Aid 
 has never tasted so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misled_youth116
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  the expansion is finally here and some people seem to be disappointed. i for one love it, well 
 most of it. the death knight is barrels of fun, seems to be a little bit of each class all rolled 
 into one. right now they are over powered compared to the classes but you know they're going to 
 nerf them. they also opened a new area, northrend. 
  
  northrend really is just another area like all the others. you can use that flying mount that you 
 spent all the gold on, but only after u drop some more gold.
  
  there is also some brand new stuff. a couple new battle grounds and instances. you get to drive 
 a siege tank, so much fun, new flying missions, and some destructible buildings add something to 
 the game play experience. 
  
  but with anything new there is some bad as well. the game seems to have some new crash problems.... 
 lots of new crash problems, me and the entire guild i'm in seems to have regular crashes, and interrupting 
 game play in an online game is not a good thing. also the new found excitement has inspired many 
 new people to either return or start playing world of warcraft filling the servers leaving players 
 in a queue sometimes for over an hour, and while right now with everything being new this is a 
 problem i'm sure it wont be around for that long.
  
  if your a wow addict, or you've been waiting since the beginning for the death knight, run out 
 and get this. if u play just for fun when ever, you might want to wait for a little while, and 
 if you hate the world of warcraft, guess what it's not going to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FCB_2100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I will agree that everyone is entitled to his/her own opinion, but there are some flaws in the 
 arguments of those that bash this title.
  
  I would first like to point out that this is, indeed, an expansion pack, NOT a sequel. With that 
 said, although the graphics engine is cartoony and starting to show its age a bit, there is nothing 
 that can be done about it. As much as we'd all like this game to look photo realistic, it simply 
 cannot be done with a simple expansion. The in-game graphics will not drastically change while 
 this series is running on expansions, and that needs to be said so people stop expecting that to 
 happen.
  
  This game DOES add some nice new features for questing and raiding, not to mention the new Death 
 Knight class. An expansion pack, by definition, is more of the same with some new little tweaks 
 and added content. This is not a rebirth of a franchise and will not be something radically different 
 and new. If BC was wearing you down in terms of interest, please do your homework, read what's 
 going on in the beta MONTHS before release, and if you do not approve of the changes, avoid the 
 game, its that simple.
  
  Overall, this is a World of Warcraft game. It is not World of Warcraft II, it is just World of 
 Warcraft. It is the same game you bought years ago with new content, a new class and new baddies 
 to conquer. You should know already whether you will enjoy this game or not. It's clear that continuing 
 fans will find something fun about this game and for those of you who no longer like this game, 
 you have no reason to be buying this game and criticizing it the way you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickboy42
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who are giving it bad reviews either have not played the new content for very long, 
 or just aren't WoW players in general. There is almost too much new content to keep track of, so 
 the learning curve for the new talents, abilities, and instances might take a while. If you have 
 been an avid WoW player for a while, however, you won't have any problems jumping right into it.
 
  
  The new quests, both for Northrend and for the Death Knights are amazing, and absolutely the best 
 gaming experience WoW has to offer. I'm not much for raiding, but their new 10/25-man options seems 
 to make doing raids much more accessible.
  
  All-in-all, this game is an improvement in every single way to the past expansion. If you enjoy 
 WoW, you won't be disappointed with this game in the least bit. I know I wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  In few words and to the point
  ---------------------------------
  PROS
  -Some few new additions to the game 
  -------------------------------------
  CONS
  -Graphics 
 are still childish and look very unrealistic and old.
  -Nothing really new to the gameplay.
  -Very shallow as an rpg and gets repetive fast.
  -------------------------------
 
  CONCLUSION
  If you are one of the Hardcore fans of this blizz title who enjoys it just because of the battlegrounds 
 and of the shallow and repetive arenas in an online environment then this game is perfect for you.
 
  
  For the rest of us who really want something deeper, newer and something more intriguing and smarter 
 this title doesn't bring anything really significant new to the game.
  
  This is a very bad expansion to an already extreme hyped game series which is trying hard to convince 
 that it is an RPG 
  (Of course the real RPG veterans knows perfectly that WoW is not in reality an RPG... despite what 
 blizzard tries to categorize it)
  
  Lets hope Blizzard brings Starcraft 2 and Diablo 3 sooner because i had enough with their hyped 
 and shallow WoW MMO titles...
  
  Ps:
  I WANT MY MONEY BACK !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linexip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Its both, best in all warcraft history and in mmorpg history, i have never played a game with such 
 a living world (yah, i played guild wars, lotr and etc) . Tbc may be a bit disapointing, but well, i 
 have to say this game is on such a high level people just want more and more, and get disaointed 
 after they dont get it, but c'mon, find other mmo which is vene half good as wow?
  This time we dont get any new race, but we got awesom new class, a Death Knight, which represents 
 me a paladin-warlock mix, as you have 3 "stances" and a lot of debufs and melee fights, so if you 
 into something new, this is for you. Starting quest line is even greater than i imagined, you relay 
 "feel" how badass Arthas is, just last quest ,when you become good could be more interesting :) 
 Anyway, this is epic add for epic expancion!
  Northrend, so far its much better than TBC starting place was, again with a lot of Q, which arent 
 best ones, but i find them kinda interesting :) Still, many mmorpg's out there have "kill x creatures" 
 quests, specialy chinese games.
  Dungeons. So far The nexus is most intesresting for me, with elemental bosses, it was such a fun to 
 enter dungeon for a first time and without any idea what to do clean it!.
  Well, thats just few things which are on my mind at the moments, its worth to buy expancions, and 
 dont listen to others who says its time wasting and etc, its not yours foult they failed at life 
 and they think its wow's foult :) try it, just dont over-do it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  So far the quest lines have been very linear and very fulfilling. The first 10 hours just fly by 
 because there is never a dull moment working on all the quests at hand in the starting areas. 
 
  But WoW is still the same old game it has been for 4 years. If you liked it before, you should 
 still like it. The additions and new content so far have not made the high end 70 content out of 
 date, which is a correction that makes all the work everyone did at 70 definitely worthwhile. But 
 the game is very well balanced and the only complaint I have so far is that some quests have terrible 
 respawns and you spend 3-5 minutes waiting to complete a task while the majority of areas feel 
 like spawning grounds and mobs just spring up out of the ground while you are looting the body 
 of the mob you just killed. 
  All in all, no complaints so far. Worth the effort if this is your kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Wrath of the Lich King, Blizzard's second expansion in the thrillride entitled World of Warcraft, 
 a MMORPG by Blizzard, which puts you into a world with thousands of other people.
  This expansion opens a zone on the northern end of Azeroth for anyone lvl68 or higher, so if youre 
 not there yet, you should wait on buying it until then. You first have a choice between starting 
 zones: Hjord Fjord and Borean Thundra. if you were around when tBC (the Burning Crusade) launched, 
 they was 1 starting zone, which slow respawns, it was terrible. But Blizzard has learned from their 
 mistakes and now created 2 very large zones so there is a lesser chance of you waiting around to 
 kill a certain mob.
  My reviews normally just talk about gameplay itself, because that is the most important thing, 
 but if you must know, the sound/graphics are pretty much generic from tBC which a view minor upgrades, 
 but thats trivial.
  Then after a long painful grind: youre 80. what can you do? well you have various options, you 
 can start grinding out normal dungeons and heroics for easy badges and gear like tBC. it should 
 be mentioned here that heroics are A LOT EASIER than the ones from tBC, like I mentioned previously: 
 Blizzard learned from their mistakes.
  Entry level 10/25man raids. remember trying to fit 40+ ppl into grps for Karazhan 2 years ago? 
 dubely named the raid that killed vanilla wow guilds. Well this time around, Blizzard regenerated 
 Naxxramas from vanilla wow. which is a lot simpler than Karazhan ever was. good or bad? a lot of 
 people have different opinions on the matter, I think the first raid should be this easy, its an 
 introductory raid and it has the right difficulty.
  HOWEVER, you have 2 other raids introduced at launch, Eye of Eternity and Obsidian Sanctuary. After 
 a few days, Malygcos in EoE will go down no questions asked. Is it any wonder why SK Gaming/Nihilum 
 downed all these bosses 65hrs after the WotLK launch, it took them half a month when tBC came out. 
 there was more content when it came out, a lot more than what were seeing now, which is my only 
 problem with the game at the moment. its amazing what a 360 this game has taken since 2004. But 
 its still enjoyable and theres going to be a patch soon with another encounter.
  youve already bought this if you liked it. so the point of the review? i dont know. thinking about 
 getting back into WoW? nows your chance before raiding guilds start edging away from Naxx/Obs/EoE 
 so hurry to the stores! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber_sonix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  So yes, I'll admit it. I play wow every chance I get. Thats not to say that I log 50 hours weekly. 
 I love this game like I'd love my wife (if I had one) , kids, pets, and the rest of my family put 
 together. But its not really the game itself that make up why I love the game. Noooo
  
  Its the people I play with. If I was out there on my own soloing everything I wouldnt play past 
 level 30. I've been lucky to come across players who will help with any quest, enchant anything 
 free of charge, give me mats/regents if they have them. Of course I return the favor when I can. 
 The point I am getting at is that you CANNOT look at WoW and go.. this is a boring game.
  
  So, you're thinking.. this guys going to love the expansion pack. Well of course. But let me break 
 it down for you...
  
  the 70-80 grind:
  I purchased my CE edition from best buy launch night. I got to playing it around 12:40am. I went 
 to bed at 3:10 and I was half way through 70. My biggest worry was that the leveling process would 
 be very drawn out and boring (after all, I am a raider.. I am not used to being outside instances/doing 
 quests/ etc) . Luckily I can say so far that its been extremely rewarding lvling this time around. 
 The quests are pretty diversified and they frequently change the pace. Sure there are go kill 20 
 wolfs or whatever but those quests are good for leveling. Just not good for keeping the player 
 awake. Luckily I've yet to come across too many of these. The two starter areas really give you 
 a ton of quests to do.
  
  Overcrowding:
  A big fear of a lot of people was server stability. A few guildies were going to take a few days 
 away from wow because of this. Aside from a few (albeit long) queue times I've not seen any slow 
 downs, server failure, or any such things. They were setting the servers up the day before the 
 expansion but thats all I've known of. Kudos to Blizz for a smooth transaction. I also think that 
 the two starter zones are helping to alleviate this problem with having 1000 people in the same 
 area.
  
  New talents/class/items
  So this one I am just going to group together because I cant think of enough to group these into 
 different categories. The Death Knight is the first hero class... blah blah blah you've already 
 heard this. It will someday make a solid class once everyone is 80 and we're looking deeply into 
 tree setup gear. But right now they're kinda the thing to be. And of course with the X-pac come 
 a whole slew of items. Not just weapons and armor but regents, mats, recipies.. the list is about 
 as endless as you can get while still being reasonable. Money also seems to be inflated, so that 
 means theres money to be had for everyone. I've gotten just under 300g after only 1.5 levels worth 
 of questing and selling junk/greens. Not to mention all the stuff I just put on the AH. Getting 
 an epic flyer will soon be in my grasp.
  
  Instances/dungeons.
  I've yet to do any sadly. My raiders have opted to do one last kara run for exp instead of doing 
 UK or nexus. But as with previous instances I hear these are just as good. ANd I am sure before 
 I know it I'll have seen all the loot tables several times. But with the end game dungeons being 
 previewed and naxx at the end of the leveling rainbow, theres a lot to play for.
  
  Well, thats all I can really think of right now. Its a game for WoW players. I wouldnt reccomend 
 it if you're iffy on the game and are just starting the game. theres not much for you here. But 
 if you've been sitting at 70 for what seems like forever, GET THIS!
  
  Look out Arthas... we're coming for you!
  oh and as always... FOR THE HORDE :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfetones91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet ; if you are a Wow fan, Get this!! If not i think the only real thing to sway the 
 non-believers is the DK class. But i can't really comment on that as i have not made a DK yet, 
 I'm going to level to 80 first to sample the 25/10 man stuff. Also Wintergrasp should prove to 
 be revolutionary, for the PvP heads ther is the option of jus doing wintergrasp until 80 ( no queues!) . 
 Im looking forward to a few 80 Bg's but the main focus is PvE for me and i think the new option 
 to play all raids in a 10 man setting is a great new introduction. The lore, from what i have seen 
 so far, is a great continuation of the Warcraft story and all the lore-heads should be pleased 
 ( perhaps with the exception of the all-race DK) . I prefer the Northrend setting to Outlands, it 
 jus seems more like the old days and the return of Arthas is great!! Also the fact that you meet 
 Arthas immediately ( as a DK, from what i hear) is a lot different from the days where you didnt 
 see the top end boss unless u wer in a hardcore guild,.
  Overall i think this is a great addition to the WoW series but apart from the DK i cant see it 
 swaying the non-players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  For the amount of time I started playing, I pretty much knew where Lich King was headed as far 
 as new content. More vehicle based combat, which is basically the same aerial bombing quests like 
 in Hellfire Peninsula and Quel'Danas. except you're in control completely. Northrend is pretty 
 much another Outland, only that you can get there easier and not rely on a mage or waste your hearthstone. 
 And of course it looks different (and with a decent PC or laptop, it looks very beautiful) . Quests 
 are the same as well, kill X this and Y that. Go to this place and talk to such and such. Kill 
 this dungeon leader and get this decent reward. This mechanic for questing will never change, so 
 the people that complain about it might as well get used to it or quit right now.
  
  The fun part about this expansion is clearly the start of the Death Knight. For it seems for the 
 first time ever in WoW, you control the flow of the story with how you progress in the beginning. 
 Sadly, it ends way too fast, and you basically have to start the same grind you did with your main 
 with your DK at Outland once you hit level 58. 
  
  As far as the DK itself goes, it plays similar to a Paladin (but it sometimes plays like a Mage, 
 Warlock and Warrior as well) , but instead of Holy, Protection and Retribution spells, you have 
 Blood, Frost and Unholy. Instead of mana, rage or energy (Ghouls you control however, use energy, 
 then it feels like a Rogue at times) , you have runes and runic power. Runic Power builds up like 
 rage to use certain abilities, like Death Coil. Runes however are the main source of most of your 
 abilities and you have 2 of each type (Blood, Frost and Unholy) and evenually you'll have Death 
 Runes which is required for Death abilities. Each rune has cooldown, once you use a spell or ability 
 the rune (s) are used up untill it recharges. This prevents the DK from spamming their strongest 
 spells and abilities. 
  
  The major plus about a DK is that not matter what spec you choose, you'll be completely versatile 
 to any situation. Tank left the group? Have the DK tank with his/her plate armor and high threat 
 abilities. Need more DPS? DK can burst DPS, DoT and AoE. DK can also crowd control with his ghoul 
 minions. If you have a full group of DKs, expect to kill really fast.
  
  Overall, once the thrill of finishing the Death Knight questline is over, you'll ask yourself if 
 you done this before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kookykrapyboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  The levels are beyond expansive in this new expansion. And the Dungeons let me talk about the dungeons. 
 The bosses for the most part are easy peasy but the detail of the design is far beyond anything 
 Blizzard has put out prior to WOTLK. Though 1.5 million experince can be pretty daunting to get 
 to the first few levels there are a surpluss of quests and instances for you to retain more then 
 enough experince. The new gear and professions also look pretty good. Though being a miner right 
 now is a pain because it is difficult to fnd any tye of surplus of ore. All in all though I give 
 this game props for being able to not only expand on this already huge franchise but keep their 
 customers begging for more time and time again. And so far this game has been more then what i 
 have expected it to be!
  _-alohA-_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Islandbeats
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  This is just what an expansion should be and then some. More levels and skills for your current 
 characters to try out. As well as a new continent which brings back the traditional fantasy WoW 
 setting rather than being blasted off into space like the BC did.
  
  The addition of the Death Knight was done in a very smart and classy fashion. You begin in a starting 
 area designed specifically for your class which is filled with the most memorable quests that I 
 have seen in the game. They force you to do some horrible things but the cartoony feel of it all 
 helps soften the blow. It also helps that the class itself is extremely fun to play as.
  
  My only gripe is for new players is there really isnt anything there that makes getting the expansion 
 worth it. But that really isnt a problem becuase expansions are not designed to cater to people 
 new to a series because everything is already new to them. My advice would be to hold off getting 
 it until you reach at least level 55.
  
  Overall great expansion though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeOnYou
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Same boring thing like the BC expansion, good for those who want to lvl just 1 class to 80 for 
 the content then quit.
  I wish they could focus also on the pvp like they did with the pve.
  If you have doubts about 
 the pve well don't ... its very well put and you can see they really worked on that.... but..... the 
 pvp has the same mechanics that in my opinion was broken since The Burning Crusade Expansion went 
 live.
  You can see that they focused to much on the DK class since 80% from server has a DK now.
  WoW 
 should look at warhammer online abit and steal some pvp ideeas..... nothing to be ashame for if 
 you ask me since they copy/pasted all the things in WoW from DAOC.
  Again i'm not talking about the pve because Blizzard did a great job with the wotlk.
  Another 
 weird thing is the score this expansion gets from the so called proffesional game critics.... i 
 will not be surprised when i see from gamespot a 9.5 :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarltheafro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  First of all i'd like to start off with this: no game deserves a 10 rating as that would mean its 
 perfect, games that get rated '1 Abysmal' are usually not even played by their reviewers, or just 
 hated for other reasons.
  
  Why this game deserves a near perfect rating:
  This game is very inventive and completes the WoW arrangement, all that you might be missing in 
 the first two games should be in here, the PVP which dull and boring in its predecessors is greatly 
 improved, and there is a whole lot of new content but on top of that they've refreshed it all and 
 made one hugely entertaining rewarding game.
  
  Why this game is not rated perfect:
  Well, this game just isn't perfect, besides from it's bugs and balance problems which can all be 
 fixed in a patch, this game is not for everyone, if it was i wouldn't hesitate with my '10' score...
 
  
  What there is to do in this game:
  Player Versus Player (improved)
  Raids (no longer huge raids except from the newer bosses in the new content)
  Killing a vast 
 arsenal of new creatures
  New class and profession.
  And a whole lot more.
  
  "The scourge shall rule the world"
  
  The Good:
  Completes all that there was to miss in 
 WoW
  Just, amazingly fun
  Addictivity level has been nerfed
  The Bad:
  Addictivity level has been nerfed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametime919
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Got the game early btw. Lets get to it. I spent about 3 years in and out of WoW, selling various 
 characters, raiding BT, PvPing to 2k+.. all of it. I bought this because I am a dedicated blizzard 
 fan and to be quite frank WoW has been my all time favorite game. I have spent the most time in 
 WoW barnone compared to any other game I haveplayed, and I play them all... even consoles and portables. 
 Coming from someone who has seen all WoW has been through, this expansion was nothing more to me 
 than another slew of new places and things to do. The DK concept will keep you going for a bit, 
 but if your like me and have played WoW to the teeth, then a DK just aint gonna cut it for ya. 
 Sorry blizzard but this game has been goin downhill for a while. I just cant wait until this WoW-train 
 dies so blizz will be forced to develop a new MMO... but at this rate, I dont think WoW will ever 
 die... *sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Well World of Warcraft.. use to be pretty tough in some ways, took longer to level, raids were 
 much, MUCH harder and just more fun due to that, but they weren't overly hard, and just getting 
 gear while leveling and at 60 was just more entertaining and difficult. As well as the story being 
 loyal to Warcraft III. And well made.
  
  If you ask me, the game has gone downhill from it's Godlike status four years ago. I've been playing 
 for an extremely long time, but the only part of the game that has withstood time is the addiction 
 factor, it's just as addictive or more than it was than before, due to having more things to do 
 now, and the hype making you want to play more. You might say "Well that's your opinion". Yes, 
 it's my opinion that it's a fact that this game is no where near as good as the original concept, 
 but that's not to say the game is a complete loss, it's still decent and will appeal greatly to 
 a certain crowd, but that's also the problem, it appeals to a certain crowd and not multiple crowds.
 
  
  Let's look back at how it all started to screw up, people complaining the raids are too hard, not 
 even as many people as you think, especially about the old Naxx (Last Pre-BC raid) . It isn't even 
 as hard as you think. But people just loved to complain about it, many of the people never even 
 tried it. I've been there, it's tough, but not too hard, every raid back then required you to wake 
 up and use team work. The only boss in WoW that's hard enough to give you a headache is Saphirron. 
 The old version of course. So as people complained, the toned down the difficulty on some of the 
 later raid bosses in there, sure it helped a little, some people progressed a little further, but 
 it was almost a pointless ad-on to the game, it hardly changed progression, most people hardly 
 noticed it, but this was the beginning of something that would change the game for the worse.
 
  
  The next stab to this game would be of course The Burning Crusade expansion. Making raids so easy 
 they don't feel rewarding. Although I have no problem with the fact that it's basicly the same 
 type of gameplay, but seriously, who the HELL thought it was going to be a different game? Sure 
 you can change the boss fights and new types of quests which they DIDN'T change much. But that's 
 not where the problem really was. At first the expansion didn't bother me, Black Temple wasn't 
 out right away, so I was hoping that would be epic like Naxx was. But what I got from BT... Oh 
 God. I was so let down. Every boss is way too simple. And the final encounter, Illidan was horrible, 
 not only will his new voice actor give you a bursting headache. But once again, he was just.. take 
 a guess, too easy and simple, almost like Blizzard wanted to disgrace the character. So after tons 
 of raid groups downed him, and just as I'm about to stop playing Blizzard adds the Sunwell. It 
 was an upgrade from Black Temple, but that's not saying much. Still isn't anywhere near as cool 
 or difficult as Naxx. Kil'Jaeden wasn't very climatic honestly. These things coming from this new 
 expansion and recent patches fustrated me so much, how they could dumb the game down for a wider 
 audience, ruined it for people who liked raiding back in the day, and it got players who were still 
 hardcore, but just horrible at the game in teir 6. Incredibly stupid. You have nothing to show 
 for your time wasted in the game because everything is so easy to get. It's consistantly annoying. 
 Ontop of the Sunwell patch, they took away attunements to all raids. So because of this all people 
 did were Black Temple, Hyjal, and Sunwell. Talk about lack of variety. This patch had to be the 
 biggest stab to the game.
  
  Maybe the other problem was badge gear. Getting gear was so easy with this, all you needed to do 
 were heroics which were just, a damn joke, there ya go, you get badges, badge gear eventually became 
 as good as teir 6. Talk about plain stupid. The most insane patch was a few weeks before WotLK. 
 They lowered every raid boss' max health and damage dealt by 30%. Wow, what a joke. It's almost 
 like they want to celebrate success in making hardcore players quit.
  
  I can understand making a game for casuals, I have nothing againsts that, or casual players, but 
 at first the game was very well fit for both casual players and hardcore, they casuals didn't have 
 to raid, most didn't want to, so why just butcher it? And I think I know the answer: $Money$. The 
 game keeps it's current players addicted while inviting even more casuals to the game. To me, it's 
 just gross, because many addicted raiders become miserable from it, besides, doesn't Blizzard have 
 enough damn money? They hardly benefit the game anyway, and it's not like they're upgrading the 
 graphics at all, so really what the hell, they ruined the goodness they had, for the players of 
 course.
  
  Now that I'm done talking (Ranting?) about it's past screw ups you might want to know what I think 
 about this expansion? Well Blizzard has said that they are making the raids even easier, which 
 I can see cause the beta shows that. The new Naxx is amazingly easy, but I won't complain since 
 it's the first raid. Even on heroic, it feels like a joke. But I won't get into that. Heroic is 
 supposed to be BC difficulty level, just stupid. But the game does get better for casuals. But 
 of course ruins it some more for hardcore, so unless you like that Big Rigs feeling of "YOU'RE 
 WINNER" every time you do something, well knock yourself out.
  
  I honestly believe that someone at the Blizzard conferences said at a point "Okay guys! We're gonna 
 have bigger envirements! More Quests! And- oh- Any sort of challenge they game has, that's just 
 GOTTA GO."
  
  The addition of Death Knights is actually not too bad to be fair about it. They feel way over powered 
 for their level, but that could just be the gear you get so early, they seem not so over powered 
 in PvP at 80, from what I've seen in the beta. But yeah, you haven't heard anything about the PvP 
 yet. Not much to say. Pre-BC it was balanced but not majorly entertaining, BC unbalanced it a little 
 but it wasn't too much, still a little fun, arena was cool. WotLK is like... incredibly unbalanced, 
 that's putting it mildly. Didn't fustrate me too much but that's because I don't care about PvP. 
 You the reader, probably don't care either, seems most people want to Warhammer for PvP. My only 
 true complaint about Death Knights are their eyes, don't get me wrong, it's a good idea, but it 
 looks cheaply done graphicly. Also their voices.. kind of sound weird, another good idea but.. 
 sounds more like a robot than a evil being honestly.
  
  The new lands look great, something that hasn't gone away from WoW is the incredible design in 
 the envirements, another thing is the orchestrated soundtrack, sounds great and epic. Although 
 most people (Including me) just play with their own music on.
  
  Despite my major complaints, this is still a great game to just chill and play with your friends, 
 but still serves no purpose for the hardcore. It's definatly the easiest game I've ever played, 
 but it serves good memories, so if you're looking for some type of insane competition, this is 
 not the game for you, if you're looking for adventure, you might wanna check this one out but once 
 you're done leveling, the game feels more like a job than an adventure, but if you're maybe new 
 to MMOs or maybe gaming in general this one is pretty good. I also want to include that in order 
 to enjoy the game. You need to enjoy the people you play with, or else the experience is ruined. 
 And many, many people tend to create immature drama, most of the WoW foundation is like that, but 
 you can ignore it, most of 'em aren't very smart. The game is really addictive due to having plenty 
 of side stuff to do. But the game honestly doesn't deserve any higher than a 9 no matter what perspective 
 you're looking at it from. I didn't really cover the games basic play because if you're reading 
 this, you've probably already played this game, and if you've read this entire thing I'll be pretty 
 impressed.
  
  Overall the game is still an experience you might want to have, and if you just want some casual 
 play, this game may fit you very well. But it's far from perfect, but hey, 7/10, means that there's 
 still hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dracos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  OK lets begin
  
  This game has been very antipatied with over 11million and growing blizzard once again delivers 
 and fun, challenging game and they didnt pull any punches.
  
  This time around you have a chance to play as the first hero class, the death knight. This is a 
 very new feel for me since I'm use to a MM Hunter at first I wanted to keep my distance and try 
 to fight like I have known for so long. But cant do much good like that. The class is a very strong 
 powerful class. The opening stages of the DK is something i wish there was more of. The story behind 
 the DK's is pretty interesting to.
  
  Now a little bit about the 70+. Myself i have been caught up in my Dk so have really played much 
 of my MM Hunter. But what i have played is a little bit much to take in at first. But you quicky 
 fall back in line and start making Xp which takes for ever to lvl now. But still a fun time to 
 be had.
  
  From the very little bit i have played this game is going to be the most i fun i have had in WoW 
 in what seems like too long.
  
  I give it a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvyMarv
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has always provided quality titles and their recent expansion is no exception to the standard. 
 Being a fan of all games I suggest you give WoW a try. This expansion provides many new features 
 to an already ground breaking game. A special bonus is the emergence of a new class called Death 
 Knight which will play well with the other classes already established in the game. You will probably 
 run into some folks who dislike the game and to each his own but its definitely worth the time 
 to check out with some buddies and carry out some quests in the land of Azeroth for fame, glory, 
 and phat loot. 
  This expansion is worth it if you like fun but be prepared to pay a monthly fee of 15 bucks a month 
 which is not bad if you pass it off as seeing a flick every month and a bucket of popcorn. Also 
 be prepare to devote some time to playing but you can accomplish something every time you play. 
 So join the other millions of players across the world and join the most successful MMO in history 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlthecannibal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Is it 2008 or 1998? Why is it so hard to increase the graphics engine for people who have jobs? 
 This game hurts my eyes to look at. I was thinking Blizzard might increase a few things with the 
 game engine... i was wrong. It still looks horrid and plays like a old crappy ps2 game and yet 
 im sure it will receive a high score. This isn't a game anymore , because if it was it would look 
 a lot better and feature 2008 game play. This is more like a chat based game now. with all the 
 money Blizzard stole from us you would think that maybe they could give a little back? .... nope 
 same old stuff again. lemme guess next expansion will have 10 more levels and 1 new class?..
  
  Anyway if u have any brains at all you will give this game a poor rating so Blizzard gets off 
 their @SSES and does something new with this once great game.. until then do something positive 
 with your life and don't waste it looking at this turd. 
  
  To the people who are giving this game expansion a 10 don't fall for it . it's just more of the 
 same again and again from reused models to copy and paste environments. The only reason why people 
 may be giving this game a high rating is because they probably are playing on really old equipment 
 and would have to go out and work if Blizard ever increased the graphics engine, So i ask these 
 10 score givers ... whats so great about this expansion pack that it deserves a near perfect score? 
 do you work day shift in a cave? have you ever played any other games? .. anyway stay clear unless 
 you like outdated games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm sick and tired of all of the people giving this game low ratings because it's similar to it's 
 predecessors. Like I've said, if you like World of Warcraft and have gotten a character up to level 
 70, then you obviously like the game enough to appreciate the series. If you gave burning crusade 
 a low rating, then you obviously don't like the series enough to buy WOTLK so you shouldn't be 
 reviewing it. Utgarde keep is a great intro dungeon, very similar to Ramparts and Blood furnace 
 from Hellfire citadel. There's the expected power creep, but that happens every expansion and shouldn't 
 be a huge surprise. Howling Fjord is a very interesting area, and I'm looking forward to seeing 
 the varied landscapes that the box promises. Like I've said, if you like WOW then you'll like this. 
 But if you don't, then shut up and stop providing false reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I am a veteran of this game since November 23rd 2004. I didnt take to WoW easily in the early days, 
 but it became a guilty pleasure and slowly loved it until the 1st expansion arrived which was TBC. 
 Then the game started going down hill for me after reaching 70. After how many tier sets.
  
  I took a 1 year break from this game to come back and try Lich King with all its HYPE, you 
 know what, its all HYPE. Its TBC once again with a different wrapper and recycled monsters. This 
 game would be awesome if your brand new to the game, however me playing as long as I have, I was 
 hoping for something more innovating and the graphics still look like the same ones from 2004.
 
  
  I will ride out my subscription for a month, all I can say is, keep low expectations if you decide 
 to buy. Then you may enjoy it.
  
  Still a good quality game if you are a Diehard, but really nothing to write home about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  people i have heard talk about it that have played it either love it or hate it so its up to you 
 to decide which.
  personaly i love the graphics. i have played other games with "Better" graphics but i got bored 
 of those faster than wows. and yes it is highly addictive... very addictive in a years time i had 
 put 65 days into the game. so if your easily addicted to stuff you may want to stay away from wow. 
 but if not go for it. the community can be awsome. and pvp is optional, personaly playing with 
 1500ms latency pvp sucks worse than an industrial stength shop vac. but raiding and working with 
 others never gets boring. no 2 raid days are the same unless you want it that way. there is plenty 
 to do by yourself or with groups. if you dont find any friend it will get very boring though.
 
  
  the gameplay is very easy to learn but can be difficult to master for some. and the game is highly 
 modable for those who dislike the basic UI
  
  the ingame voice sucks though so try to find a guild that has a vent server.
  
  o and beware 
 of gold/account sellers spamming the trade/city channels.
  
  but over all i would give graphics a 10 since thier easy on the eyes and are decent
  
  gameplay 
 10/10
  the combination of factors that are dificult to quantify 8/10
  community 5/10-15/10 (it sucks on some servers and is awsome on others)
  lasting apeal 12/10
 
  
  if you agree with me or not fine, everyone has a right to thier own opinion about the game. but 
 dont hate it until you have tried it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghatio
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Like said, again WOLK is a nice expansion. But seriously it the samething all over again. Killing 
 the same damn monster over and over for all similar quest..
  There is nothing anything new that is really exciting, except for all the new pixal gear and new 
 dungeon.. to waste more time. Of course when they said they were gonna upgrade the graphic... I 
 was terribly disapointed again it looks like a 2004 game... To me it another waste of time and 
 im sure this game will be addictive again but to think all the time your gonna waste on on a recycled 
 game it not worth it.. I mean seriously there is way too much reskin, same monster all over. Comon 
 i was hoping some new model...
  Too much reskin.
  
  
  Anyway im sure you will all enjoy the game, but for me personally I dont like paying for something 
 that been recycled. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
