-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/worldseriesofpoker2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good online multiplayer.
 decent roster of pro players.
 odds-calculating tool is a handy feature.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Player behavior is fairly predictable.
 presentation is weak.
 bad commentary.
 Horrific default resolution and seemingly no way to change it.
 Some install and gamepad-support bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 3.4, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 92 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Casino
Date:     Oct 2, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The things Tournament of Champions does well aren't quite enough to make it stand out from the many, 
 many other poker games available. 

  The 2006 World Series of Poker has come and gone, with no-name TV producer Jamie Gold taking the 
 $12 million dollar top prize. But soon enough the WSOP Tournament of Champions will find its way 
 to ESPN, and alongside it you'll find World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions for the PC. 
 Like the regular World Series, this is a series of tournaments where players earn points and try 
 to make their way into a final tournament to take home a huge cash prize. Much like Activision's 
 previous attempt to turn the World Series into a video game, Tournament of Champions does a serviceable, 
 if unremarkable, job of emulating the event. This year's game does put a greater emphasis on its 
 included pro players, and the online multiplayer is certainly a draw, but the offline play is still 
 a bit mundane, thanks to off-kilter artificial intelligence and awful presentation.  

          Can't get enough poker? Neither can Activision, if World Series of Poker: Tournament of 
 Champions is any indication.     

  Like with last year's game, the focus of Tournament of Champions is its career mode. You begin 
 by creating a character, as you do in most poker games. This process is pretty by-the-numbers. 
 There are a decent number of facial and clothing customizations to choose from, and they aren't 
 all crazy and over-the-top like some poker games tend to get with their created players. The basic 
 progression of events in the career mode is simple. You start out at a home game against a few 
 generic guys, but lo and behold, your dealer for the night is Chris "Jesus" Ferguson. It seems 
 Mr. Jesus has lost some kind of bet and is now at your home game, scouting for talent to take to 
 the WSOP Tournament of Champions. Whether you win or lose this game, Jesus takes you under his 
 wing and sets you on the path to poker riches. There are four casinos with four events each for 
 the preliminary rounds, and then there's the final round at the Rio in Las Vegas. You try to earn 
 points in the various preliminary tournaments to move from one to the next. Wins give you more 
 points and cash, but you can earn points just by placing in the final table rankings at each tournament. 

  Along the way, you'll encounter a variety of pro players, including Scotty Nguyen, Men Nguyen, 
 Antonio Esfandiari, Phil Laak, Jennifer Tilly (yes,  the  Jennifer Tilly) , TJ Cloutier, Kristy 
 Gazes, Clonie Gowen, Andrew Black, and, of course, last year's champion, Joe Hachem. Each of these 
 pros provides some at-the-table dialogue, though it doesn't consist of more than a few token barbs 
 during and after a hand, as well as a few generic "check" and "I raise" statements.  

  The pros also don't play much like their real-life counterparts. Joe Hachem may say, "Pass the 
 sugar, baby!" from time to time, but you don't get the same flair from his actual play. All the 
 AI opponents play functionally the same. You'll notice that some AI players play fewer hands than 
 others, but that's about the only difference. On the surface, the player AI is reasonably intelligent, 
 if rather robotic. However, there are some issues with overaggressive betting, especially before 
 the flop. It's rare to see a table's worth of players fold around completely to a raise before 
 the flop. You'll see a bunch of reraises, even if the other players don't have anything better 
 than a king-eight off-suit. Table position doesn't seem to play into this. Once the flop comes, 
 it's easier to bully players out by raising heavily, but if an AI player makes a hand of any kind, 
 he or she won't quit unless you try to put the player all-in.  

  Tournament of Champions isn't a good poker teaching tool in the way that, for instance, Stacked 
 was. The game's load screens do occasionally toss you some decent nuggets of info that might be 
 useful to new players, but in-game, the tips that scroll across the screen are beyond obtuse. "Poker 
 is a game of position," says Chris Ferguson. Gee, thanks, Jesus! However, one thing the game does 
 offer that might be useful for non-video-game poker play is a tool that unlocks once you've played 
 a decent number of hands. By pressing a button, you can bring up a menu that shows you a wealth 
 of statistical data, such as what your pot odds are, based on the number of people already in the 
 hand; the odds of making a specific type of hand, based on what you have versus what's on the board; 
 which cards are your outs; and the percentage of hands you have played in and raised prior to the 
 flop. For those who find the more mathematical aspects of poker dizzying, this handy little tool 
 gives you a better idea of where you stand. It won't win hands for you, but it might keep you from 
 losing a few.  

  Most poker games live and die by their multiplayer components, since poker is inherently a game 
 best played with live people. The PC version contains the same suite of multiplayer modes as the 
 console versions, with online multiplayer for up to nine players. Hosts can set up sit-and-go tables, 
 as well as multitable tournaments, and you can play any of the available games, including hold 
 'em, Omaha, and several other basic poker variants. As tends to be the case with online poker, 
 the game is slow-moving. Offline you can use speed settings to blaze through hands, but no such 
 option presents itself with live players, so you may find yourself in a number of long, drawn-out 
 games. But if the slowness doesn't bother you, then you'll find the online play pretty good and 
 basically lag-free.  

  What drags Tournament of Champions down the most is its presentation. It's tough to make an exciting-looking 
 game of poker, considering that players at a poker table don't do much beyond shifting around in 
 their chairs and occasionally screaming wildly when they lose or win a big hand. The basic in-game 
 graphics aren't terrible, though they're fairly bland, and the game lacks the dynamic presentation 
 of one of the TV poker broadcasts. You'll also notice some ugly clipping issues with character 
 models from time to time. However, the most atrocious issue is the PC's default resolution, which 
 is insanely low, and there doesn't seem to be any option to change it. So what you end up with 
 is a blurry, jaggy mess that looks like the PSP version of the game blown up to epic proportions. 

  The PC version has some other annoying quirks to it, as well. The game won't load when you first 
 install it because a DirectX 9 driver is missing. There's a DX installer on the disc, but it still 
 never installs the correct driver, so you have to go track down the right driver on the Internet 
 before the game will even play. Another issue has to do with the game's lack of control options. 
 If you have a USB gamepad plugged in, the game defaults to that. However, with every gamepad we 
 tried, only two of the buttons worked and neither the directional buttons nor the analog sticks 
 could be used to sort through menus, meaning you basically can't do anything. You also can't use 
 keyboard commands with a gamepad plugged in. So, basically, don't try and play this game with a 
 gamepad, because it doesn't work.  

          Apart from some notable pro players and the WSOP commentators, there's not much about the 
 game's presentation that feels authentic.     

  The audio presentation is pretty unpleasant, as well. Though the developers did at least go to 
 the trouble of getting both Lon McEarchen and Norman Chad this year, they didn't give them anything 
 to do. They have maybe a couple of dozen lines apiece, and both repeat often. Norman doesn't have 
 many of his trademark jokes available, and Lon's play-by-play is badly stitched together, with 
 lots of instances of horrible shifts in voice tone and volume coming at random. The pro player 
 dialogue is at least delivered pretty well. Otherwise, a lot of background casino noise and generic, 
 slide-guitar-heavy music occupies the menu screens.  

  We're at a juncture now with poker games, where providing a decent online mode and a lengthy career 
 mode isn't quite enough to sell an entire package. With games starting to step it up in the AI 
 category, it's time for all poker games to get smarter and not rely on the same robotic AI routines 
 that don't emulate how people really play. And as far as presentation goes, it's not enough to 
 just trot out a bunch of pro players, some licensed commentators, and camera support and call it 
 a day. There's no shortage of games with similar features on the PC, so it's hard to look at this 
 one as anything beyond another middle-of-the-road entry for the genre. You won't necessarily go 
 wrong by checking out Tournament of Champions, but there are smarter, deeper, and considerably 
 better looking games available elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: heiny
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  i fhink its cool because all profs in the game... but thats the only thing. and you can play poker 
 for free on the net and with friend or at the bar and watach on the tv so we dont need a game like 
 this. my fafourite players are marcel luske and noa boeken cuse there from holland and me to: P 
 and i like ivys to. is this already 100 words theres nothing much to say about this game. so i 
 played poker online on everestpoker. net its very cool everytime you lose your money you get 100 
 chips back. my name on everest poker is heiny maby i can own you some time hahahahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The game has a bit sluggish. I think they focused too much on the animations from one player to 
 another. It is neat to some extent to see players stand up after putting all in, players sneezing, 
 etc.. But this and some other factors make the game sluggish to play. Unlike the Xbox 360 version 
 on the Arcade game, this takes time to play through. However, getting in games is quick and easy. 
 The open ended chatting is nice and seeing each others webcams is cool too.
  
  Voice in this game are annoying. You can turn them off, but you have to do so every time you restart 
 your Xbox 360
  
  I'd get this only if you truely have the time and patience to play though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcdsm032
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  let me start by saying that this game wouldnt be half bad if they released a patch to fix the bugs 
 and maybe give some graphical options.... there is no way to adjust screen resolution its forever 
 stuck in 800x600... so if you have a 10 monitor im sure it would look ok... also the player customization 
 sucks. there are very few options to choose from and a list of about 15 voices (most of them are 
 ridiculous) then the game crashes you finally man up and play the game and get somewhere and the 
 game freezes or crashes. it seems like Activision Value spent almost no time in testing or even 
 trying to develop this game. the AI isnt horrible but the rest of the game was so bad that i really 
 didnt even play it long enough to find out. i was hoping for a good solid poker game and this definitely 
 isnt it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davek93x
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a basketball game. It has NBA Licences with real life teams and players. it works out great 
 because its a sport and its fun to play as the people you see on tv. Its very action intensive
 
  
  Now imagine that with poker.. All the celebs you see on TV.. Playing.. Poker.. In a video game. 
 Cool for about 5 minutes. See.. We dont like them because they are pretty, we dont like them because 
 they can dunk a basketball. we like them for their wits, their attitudes, and obviously their skills. 
 None of those things could ever truely be transferred into any video game
  
  The thing about Poker Video games is that basically, its not a sport. Its a simple card game. The 
 dealer deals each player two hole cards, and 3 options; check, bet, fold. Then 3 cards are turned 
 over.. everyone does the same thing again. What makes poker fun is the competition, reading your 
 opponents and bluffing. Its pretty damn hard, nay impossible to add a human element that is required 
 for poker to be fun to a single player game.
  
  Multiplayer you say? Thats a laugh in itself. Wowsers i can see your virtual face.. Guess what 
 i can to to partypoker pokerstars absolutepoker and play multiplayer poker for free! the other 
 players are just as dumb in the free games anyway
  
  Id like to see a poker game that doesnt suck. though i doubt ill ever see it. Maybe one that actually 
 teaches you how to really play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panor
Rating: 1.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Say the computer is going to fold. The Ticker name is removed and then the visuals kick in of them 
 pushing the hand in. there is no suspense. Enough with the yawning. OMG. Announcers repeat way 
 way to much also.
  
  Game looks nothing like video's on gamespot. The game crashing for the fourth time on me today 
 is really frustrating. Poor programing. Takes you to long to fold but the speed settings are to 
 far and inbetween so you get speed poker or slow motion yawn fest.
  
  Sum this game up in 22 words you ask?
  
  Yawn fest, and not you at home. The players at the 
 table yawn about 9000 times a game. Yes all of them. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
