-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worldwide Soccer Manager 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/worldwidesoccermanager2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge database with information on thousands of players and staff across the world.
 Much better support for new players.
 Improved realism.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks a few licenses.
 Small range of stock phrases for pundits' potted match reviews.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 343 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Oct 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Football Manager 2008 moves the series on for old and new players alike. 

  Football Manager 2008 is one of those rare games in that it knows exactly what it's trying to do, 
 sticks to that plan religiously, and does it very well indeed. It places you as a fresh-faced manager 
 in charge of almost any professional team in Europe, with control over everything from season ticket 
 prices to your player's individual training schedules and match-day tactics. You can control your 
 team over as many seasons as you wish, with new young players being generated by the system to 
 keep it fresh until the next database update. You can play in an attempt to get yourself the best 
 management job you can, start as an unknown, or just for the glory of the team. It's entirely up 
 to you.  

           Licenses through the lower leagues across Europe add to the game's realism.      

 
  Every year the game gets fractionally better by drawing on input not from an isolated development 
 team working out what features they feel would be impressive, but from a massive range of sources 
 both inside and outside of the professional football world. Financial changes were influenced by 
 football league chairmen, transfer negotiations and options by agents, and the interface by a small 
 army of usability testers. The result in this year's game is not only still the gold standard for 
 sports-management games, but also a significant step forward for the series.  

  For once, this improvement isn't going to be noticed only by experienced players of Football Manager; 
 the usability and interface changes are aimed squarely at those who have never played the game 
 before, or who lost interest many seasons ago. In this vein, a significant amount of work has been 
 done this year to revamp the interface into a much sleeker "Web 2.0" style, as well as to add a 
 host of other usability changes based on extensive testing. The interface now has many more graphical 
 options and icons (rather than just imposing text lists) , and buttons are duplicated in sensible 
 places to minimise mouse movement and better relate to player interaction.  

  With a similar goal in mind, the new advisor system is likely to improve the experience of first-time 
 players. This is a contextual help system akin to Microsoft Office's infamous paper clip. It works 
 due to the fact that it is very easy to turn off in full or in part, given that it can be deactivated 
 on a topic-by-topic basis. This provides useful information on every aspect of the management process 
 as issues arise. It's clearly aimed at new players, but will be of interest to anyone who doesn't 
 feel as if he or she is quite making the best use of the wealth of available options.  

  Despite these changes aimed at new players, there has been no dumbing down of the game's depth 
 at all. The database has information on around 300,000 players and staff, and consequently the 
 option exists to see any match played in the match engine. This can give you tactical insights 
 into your future opposition, considering that you can go to any game to see firsthand who's likely 
 to give you problems, rather than just relying on the reports you automatically get from your scouting 
 teams.  

  One other feature that's been added as a result of player feedback is the ability set your own 
 pitch dimensions and react to those of clubs you visit. It's a minor change, but its realism is 
 indicative of the way the game works as a whole.  

  Another feature that is new this year and that will be of particular interest to first-time players, 
 as well as those looking for the challenge of managing in unfamiliar leagues, is the new coaching-report 
 system. You can now ask any member of your coaching staff to give you an overview of any player 
 in the squad, which lets you know instantly not only his best positions, but also how the player 
 fits into your squad, how he's viewed in terms of his current performance and prospects, and all 
 other aspects of his footballing makeup. However, the changes aren't just for new players. As happens 
 every year, the game has moved that little bit closer to reality; although it might not matter 
 to a first-time player that win bonuses are now done by squad rather than player (as in real life) , 
 it's the little touches that add up to the great game that is Football Manager 2008.  

  There are other little details that add to the overall feel. When the game is processing each day's 
 action, you're not presented only with a loading bar, but rather you receive updates on results 
 as they come in. You also get a selection of domestic statistics that might be of interest, be 
 they winning streaks, goals conceded, or other trivia. Whether such information is useful depends 
 on your playing style, but its presence is a nice touch. The game's news feeds are also good in 
 this respect. You get reports, as standard, on every competitive game in which a member of your 
 squad participates, with a round-up of the game and his performance, whether it's for your reserves 
 or youth team, or on any international stage.  

  Financially there's now more (and more detailed) interaction with the board than ever before. You 
 can negotiate funds for the season based on your expectations, but be prepared to face up to life 
 on the streets if you fall short of the story you've sold to your board. One neat feature in this 
 vein is the ability to move around the money allocated by your board for the season; if you're 
 underspending on wages but need to increase your transfer war chest, it's now possible to simply 
 move money from one pot to the other.  

           Board confidence and negotiation is a welcome addition this year's iteration.      

 
  It's not just the board that gives you feedback, either; this year you've also got the option 
 of hearing what the fans have to say. Although the fans can be rather fickle, and have a tendency 
 to carp on about seemingly insignificant matches for too long, their views do provide an indicator 
 of where your club should be, irrespective of the views you've presented to the board -- and keeping 
 them happy is key to ensuring revenue from ticket sales.  

  Nevertheless, the game is not without its flaws. The limited number of responses from announcer 
 pundits can grate a bit after a run of similar results, and you don't have quite the flexibility 
 in staff that you might like. For example, as a big club, you cannot raid a smaller club for its 
 manager to act as your assistant. Network play returns, but is generally untouched from last year's 
 game. Essentially, a human opponent can simply take over for one of the hundreds of other teams 
 being controlled by the AI. It's an OK feature, but not the sort of robust multiplayer functionality 
 you might be hoping for. This, along with the simplistic graphics (even with the interface's new 
 skin) , may be enough to put off the uninitiated. The match engine is still in near-2D, and though 
 some may say this adds to the game's charm, it is now starting to look very dated. Additionally, 
 Football Manager still almost entirely lacks sound outside of match days, and one feels that though 
 the game might not benefit from its own music, the addition of some optional sound effects and 
 a media-player remote would be welcome.  

  Overall, Football Manager 2008 is a worthwhile upgrade for long-term players, and a much more accessible 
 experience for those who have been put off by the scale of this truly massive game.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I love the previous versions of this game and am very very dissapointed in the latest installment. 
 Its sooooooooo frustrating and unrealistic. Dont even try and be a lower league club or medium 
 premiership team as you will just be whipping boys. Team talks are rubbish, 1 game mY Newcastle 
 team beat Chelsea 2-0 and the next game Wigan beats me 5-0. I was my beloved Dagenham & Redbridge 
 and signed players with huge stats and would have been League one at least but I get relegated. 
 I do the training and spend ages on my team but its so flawed and Bias.
  
  I have been told you can download a patch for this but it is unavailable from the official website 
 at the moment so it cant even be used yet. Why oh why did they make this game so difficult, its 
 so frustrating you feel like smashing your laptop and just turning it off because it feels like 
 the game is against you all the time. Perhaps if you choose to be a superclub it will be easier 
 but not all of us support barcalona, Man united or Real Madrid.
  
  This game is sooooo hard, trust me use a previous version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Football Manager 2008 is thew best Football Manager game that has ever been made. IT looks great 
 all of the menu screens are brilliant and well laid out. The features on the game outstanding. 
 You have the opportunity to manage the real players from real teams all over the world ranging 
 from La Liga to Argentina 2nd Division. It extradoary features are kool. YOu get given a budget 
 from your club -e. g Man Utd 10M you can try and buy players or sell them to extend your budget 
 although it quite difficult for smaller clubs to buy the bigger players -I am e4xperiencing this 
 with athletico madrid as I get bids acceped for some big names but they choose not to come : ( --b 
 Other than this I highly recommend this game -- I have rented it for a week and I loved it so much 
 I am getting it in juast 4 days time :)
  
  Hope this convinces you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  What can i say more about this beside the title? Its a game that you will be highly addicted to! 
 Football Manager 2008 sucks you in even if you aren't a fan of the series (like me, i wasn't!) . 
 You will be surprised by the amount of data that FM has, it is HUGE! But lets make a list on FM 
 2008
  
  The GOOD things:
  
  -Highly addictive game
  
  -Nice in deep options, manager talks, strategy and tactics
  
  -Huge database (leagues, teams, 
 players etc...)
  
  -Customization. Missing player photos, team kits and more? Just download from their site for free
 
  
  -Awesome game editor. Let your imagination go wild!
  
  -Constant Updates
  
  The bad things:
  
  -Some frustrating moments on computer AI (well it has to happen!)
  
 
  -it could have more manager talk options. Hope its added on FM2009
  
  
  Concluding, FM 2008 is one heck of a game. You wont see the time pass when you are playing it. 
 I recommend it for most people, even if you aren't familiarized with the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo_1989
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Another Season, Another Football manager game its time to waste your life on this game once again. 
 Yes thats right its time to get addicted again by this new release whether your managing Premiership 
 champions Manchester United or relgation candiates Sunderland you are in for a bumpy ride. There 
 is not vast difference between Fm 2007 and this version but if its not broke dont fix it i suppose, 
 you will fidn matches in Fm to be highly dramatic and it cant get more dramatic than scoring goals 
 in the last minute for instance again your most despised and hated rivals I. E LIVERPOOL ("S****) . 
 
  
  Micro managment plays a huge part in Fm for example comparing Strikers and telling certain players 
 to shoot more often because the stats say they are good at long range shooting can is often the 
 key to succes. The transfer market is easy to use and difficult and annoying to master but it takes 
 time just as eveything takes time with this game. One of Fm strong points is just how well it compares 
 to a real life season, Managers get sacked you will notice upsets and great combacks and you will 
 hear Managers slagging other managers off, you will notice just how The F. A have a go a you if 
 you slag referres off for making the wrong decsion.
  
  The AI in the game is superb matches takes place on the pitch just like they do in real life and 
 you will see every type of goal scored imaginable from 30 yard screamers to headers from corners 
 to own goals and messy scrappy goals all add drama to the matches, of course you will encounter 
 poor matches but as long as you win who cares right? Practice makes perfect in this difficult game 
 because if youre not used to managing games then by god you will struggle even with teams such 
 as Man u and Chelsea.
  
  Overall this is a managing game that should not be missed by anoyne as long as you are patient 
 and willing to put your time and effort into it you will be rewarded.
  
  COME ON YOU BLUES!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTs2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Championship Manager series at first and later Football Manager (the creating team left their previous 
 company and had to change the name of the game) is definitely the best game in the sports management 
 category. No surprise it has created a huge number of fans all over the world. It has been one of 
 the most addictive games in history as well and can lead you to the extremes. Therefore the hours 
 of gameplay can reach unbelievable numbers.
  As usual every year FM is released updated with all the latest changes of the new season: Transfers, new 
 statistics based on the latest performance of players etc. As usual thousands of people have anticipated 
 and rushed to buy the game at its very first day at the shops (had to check quite a few of them 
 to get it!) and as usual their wait has been worth the time! I know that FM appeals to a certain 
 kind of users: Those who are mad with football, mad with the managers of their teams for not doing 
 the right thing and want to take control of everything and make their dream come true. What dream? But 
 of course have their team be the best in the world and get every title and trophy it can lay its 
 hands on!
  If anyone is biased towards FM cause they thing its boring just give it a try. You'll be surprised 
 by the results especially when you look at the clock and realize its 6.00 am and you still want 
 more! Until next season... Viva FM 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizla2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Where shall I start?!
  
  First of all, this game is brilliant!
  
  It has all you need and is so much better than the other titles out there...
  
  It is so fun 
 that I am already in 2011, have stopped now for a while because I have exams now.
  
  But believe me, you will not be disappointed!
  
  This game is very enjoyable as well and will 
 make you play for the whole day!!!
  
  A great game which will keep you playing for 24/7!
  
  Overall, this game has everything it has to offer to the fans out there! I mean, manage any 
 club, I managed Real Madrid and after a couple of years, there were more than 10 international 
 clubs offering me a job for their country but I turned them down, and then decided it was time 
 for action to take place and managed FRANCE! (go zidane!!!) ...
  
  Believe me, you'll be very happy with this game, it's great fun!
  
  10/10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilko112
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  SI updated the match engine, which makes the game a lot harder, people have to put more effort 
 in the tactical part of the game now.
  
  There are dozens of good add-ons.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  
  Basically this is not a new game, but merely FM2007 with a lot of add-ons.
 
  
  Some of the improvements that are made are actually annoying in the long runs.
  
  When the game was released it was just one big bug-fest and people who actually bought it on the 
 day of release had to wait quite a while before they could play a bug-free game.
  
  SUMMARY:
  SI have been most successful in the past years when it comes to Football Manager. Every 
 game has been an improvement and kept people glued to the screen for literally days. It still is 
 that way although I heard people complaining that they had a hard time getting into it. Personally 
 I think that "not getting into it" is a consequence of the improved match engine. The game has 
 become to hard. You cannot raise money, buy the best players and sit back while your team keeps 
 kicking butt. Tactics need to fit your players qualities, and the Computer AI finds ways around 
 your tactic, so you need to be tweaking them a lot. Of course, having better players still gives 
 you an advantage, but it does not end there. A fine improvement for the tactical geniuses, a bit 
 of a bugger for the financial masters.
  
  I'm not going to whine about the horrible game skin. As soon as the game was released, millions 
 of half-decent skins popped up from everywhere which would give everybody the opportunity to play 
 the game in a setting that fits their needs. A really bad thing about this year's version is the 
 amount of bugs we were confronted with. It's a shame that SI chose to release the game when it 
 obviously wasn't finished. It took SI a full month to get the patch up that cleaned the game of 
 all the bugs. On top, we were to be confronted with a beta patch at first. Come on! It's better 
 to postpone the games release then giving us an awful hideous creature that is just soaked with 
 bugs.
  
  I have been a huge fan of FM since the release of Championship Manager 92-93 and will continue 
 to be one in the coming years.
  
  The gameplay, however is fantastic now the bugs have been solved and all the nice add-ons are very 
 nice to see. Although I have seen people that are actually quite far in the game getting annoyed 
 by meeting previous players over and over again. A new addition of this years version was, if you 
 meet a player that has actually played for, the press goes kind of wild and starts suggesting how 
 things worked out between you and the player and you have the possibility to either highlight his 
 talent, or fire him down. However, every single time you meet the player, the same questions seem 
 to pop up, I can imagine it gets kind of boring when you meet the same player four times a season.
 
  
  All in all, the game is good. In my opinion, it's basically a pimped version of FM2007, with the 
 best thing in it the improvement of the game engine. So should you buy it? I'd say yes, but I really 
 belong to the tactical bunch that plays the game. Do you just want to buy good players and win 
 everything you can? Stick to FM2007 then.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buttmonkey9000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I have played the football managment simulation games for several years, each year new edition 
 is released, offering updated rosters and a few new features for your money. Sadly, this year is 
 no different. However, despite this 'extension strategy' behavoiur that has been adopted, Football 
 Manager 2008 is the best management simulation game thus far. 
  
  While the changes between 2007 and 2008 are minimal, with no extensive changes being made to the 
 database, the in-game menu re-adjustments, alteration to the match and build-up environments contribute 
 to a more realistic managerial experience. If you own FM 2007, get FM 2008, it has everything you 
 currently love and more, while, as Gamespot suggest some of the liscences are sill lacking, the 
 experience is highly realistic and addictive as always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Games in which you manage Football teams have been around for over 10 years but in recent years 
 Football Manager has stood out than any other football managing franchise. This year comes the 
 latest in the series with Football Manager 2008.
  
  This game is, in short, brilliant, it really is but has much changed since last years version? 
 Well yes and no. The game is great to play as always and is always thrilling to win a competition 
 with a team you have built. Sadly there are hardily any new features that will stand out in comparison 
 from last years version. 
  
  The biggest changes are; the layout has been changed from green to white, the teams have been updated 
 to this years, a lot more strips and leagues rights have been bought, shades of blue are now the 
 colour of the skill number from green and red and there are much more bugs and things wrong with 
 this one. 
  
  Ok lets start with the bad. The Scottish league stops after one season, there is a bug that will 
 not let the game refresh new Scottish fixtures and a new league season so you need to hunt for 
 a patch. The game cuts out frequently so its best to save often. The game tends to not be able 
 to continue after December 2009 so again you need to search for a patch to fix it. The game is 
 hardly different from last year so if you a have Football Manager 2007 there is really no point 
 in getting this one, just download team updates. 
  
  The good. The sound when 'Viewing' your team play from birds eye very onto a 2D pitch has never 
 been better. The crowd react much better to miss shots and and goals than ever before. If you have 
 never owned a Football Manager game you will love this one, it will suck you in and you'll play 
 for long periods of time fighting to get your team to the final of a championship or winning the 
 league. The transfer market is also much improved on and it is much more exciting building a team 
 with players that you have discovered yourself or players you have raised through youth well. The 
 network play is also a lot of fun allowing you to play against friends but FB 2007 offered this 
 aswell.
  
  This is a great game and should be given a try even if you do not like football, i am not that 
 fond of football myself but i love this game. It however should be ignored if you already have 
 last years version due to the lack of new features and the amount of bugs but it does give you 
 more than you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_clark
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  It took me a little while to understand everything and learn good tactics and other knowledge..... 
 Would recommend buying but make sure you have time to spend on it because it can take up a lot 
 of your time.
  My friend recommended it to me after he had played the 2006 and 2007 versions and I can now understand 
 what it a great game it really is. The only downside in my opinion is how long parts of the game 
 take (it could be my computer but...) e. g. went on holiday (game) until I could get a job and it 
 took me 9 months in game time which takes about 30 minutes; but otherwise it is fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I've played various Manager games, but this one has to be the best by far. Simply quality game.
 
  
  Very, VERY, realistic. You take control of every aspect of football, from how often you want the 
 player to pass, and what types of passes, to dealing with the media pressure.
  
  Only one thing to get a good opinion of this game, by buying it. It's cheap, I mean really cheap, 
 but it's great.
  
  Also, the football matches are in 2D rather than 3D, and I hope they stay that way! 3D Manager 
 Games go bad when they start using a 3D graphics engine for their Manager Games..
  
  EDIT: For some reason it's saying that my review isn't long enough now that I've edited something. 
 Anyway, it's a great game, very addictive, but in the long run you may find it boring. Give it 
 a try though if you're a football fan, you'll definitely like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cevan04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Football Manager 2008
  It is that time of year again, the leaves are falling off the trees, the weather is turning cold 
 and wet, the football season is well under way, and the latest Football Manger is released. This 
 is the latest instalment from Sports Interactive, the developers behind the old Championship Manager 
 series before corporate shenanigans led them to release under the Football Manager moniker.
  
  This latest version does the basics well; the database has been fully updated for the 2007/2008 
 season, the match engine has been tweaked and other changes to finance and international management 
 are welcomed. However there seems to lack the major singular improvement that we have seen in previous 
 versions. The media still gets stale after a few hours of playing with the same options repeating 
 themselves all too regularly.
  
  Something about this version still gets me though, whether it is the new skin or the new on-the-fly 
 tactical changes that have been taken from the upcoming FM Live I don't know, maybe it is the joy 
 of seeing Hasselbaink and Fowler lining up in a Cardiff shirt, who knows. Despite the lack of any 
 game shaping changes (at least in my mind) I would stick highly recommend it to any fans of the 
 series and anyone looking for a first dip into the tough job of simulated Football Management.
 
  
  I didn't notice any major bugs or issues running this game on Vista which is a nice surprise, and 
 as ever everything seems to have been sped-up loading wise which is always a good sign.
  
  This may not be a giant leap forward for the series, but it is still well worth purchasing. Brilliant 
 stuff yet again from SI Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerthe3rd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  this is an amazing football management sim, it is really realistic and fun to use. i love it and 
 cant stop playing, i do have some problems with it though, i cant say that it is all that different 
 from the last one. buit that is my only problem. ti is an amzing game and a must have. it is easy 
 to master with a very shallow learning curve 5-10 minues at the most. its a must have for anyone 
 that wants a great football management sim, it is way better than championship manager or lma. 
 highly addictive, i cant stop playing it. it will be an instant hit with anyone who purchases it 
 and anyone who already has knows where im coming from. amzing :-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom4000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After playing Football Manager 2007 for a whole year i was getting irritating with renewing the 
 game over and over and making slight tweaks to my team year after year so in a way i was much looking 
 forward to the potential 08 was to offer. The day it came out i reluctantly went to the store, 
 purchased the game, went home and installed it. (Was a bit of a pain to get it windowed though, 
 for me anyway) . The interface was well.... different. Not in terms of added features really just 
 re-jiggled about, search bar now near the top, the whole commands side of things (navigation) had 
 been added to the top center in a fairly neat layout with again an easy to read beautiful design.
 
  While playing the game especially during matches it as you would expect...2-D with the split view, 
 match stats and reports at the click of a button so all in all thus far its pretty damn the same 
 with updated transfers.
  Some financial changes are the following, The board now give you additional wage funds and transfer 
 budget from a separate screen. Chelsea start with roughly 41 million but if you go onto this screen 
 simply pressing a button allows you to add (guaranteed) 21 million extra for that time period, 
 the same applies with the wage budgets. Most other features remain untouched so i wont go on and 
 on
  All in all its much like its predecessor, it's addictive, it's tactical and presented beautifully 
 but for some reason it feels year after year we should be expecting a tad more than a huge database 
 of names and numbers.
  Still low cost game
  Highly playable, good learning curve. You like FM? purchase this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimpratt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  My pc has been dominated every season by Championship manager and then Football manager since they 
 split and i have to say i have had hours of enjoyment from each one.
  So along comes Football manager 2008 with over 100 new features? (according to the developers) .
 
  National teams are now more fun and more intense than ever before with more focus on the players 
 you pick for the National team that you play as. The media now place more empthasis on the team 
 you pick and results which is just like real life.
  When it comes to club teams well i dont really see much new really. The media comments are EXACTLY 
 the same as last year and this is a disappointment. A complete overhaul will have to be done to 
 this for next year or players will become bored.
  
  The stats are updated which is right up to date unlike Championship manager and this does bring 
 realism to the game as does players pictures but there is nowhere near enough of them and im sure 
 this is partly down to licensing but still a miss on the developers part.
  The way youngsters faces start to appear after a short time is quite interesting.
  Finances have 
 changed but not alot really a couple of new things like accurate tv money and such add a little 
 but not much.
  I think financing needs a overhaul to with the chairman at least telling you the ticket prices 
 and allow you to make recomendations for any changes to finances and which shirt etc to make in 
 bulk for example the chairman asks you who will be your main player this season as he wants to 
 really push this players merchandise you then reply with your main star i. e Gerrard , Rooney etc
 
  
  I do love the new skin its bright and very clean with much cleaner finish which makes viewing it 
 a joy.
  Overall a great game still and will take time off my social life for months but a major improvement 
 NO buy it, love it, immerse yourself in the world of football manager become hooked and hope that 
 next year the developers do whats right to take it to the new next level
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazzaUK1987
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I was a massive fan of the CM FM series, until this game.... i dont mind a challenge in a game thats 
 the whole fun of it, but when they throw away realism its just not fun, i mean you can be 3-0 up 
 at half time against 10 men and still lose 4-3 and thats the bottom team. I cant stand the same 
 questions before every match with the same 5 replies is that what they call expanding the media 
 interaction?!? The only plus of the game is international management its just a shame the match 
 engine is so flawed. I very much hope they improve the next title and i will be trying the demo 
 first incase i waste my money again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EX7R3M3
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good.... BUT the old saying goes :
  
  If the game does not run it's not fun and unfortunatley this is the case with this game. There 
 is a well known bug that people have been talking about in the forums (that nobody knows an answer 
 to and has been going on since SI started making football manager games) and that is CTD problems. 
 Everytime you load a new saved game FM 08 will crash to the desktop and this will happen randomley 
 (so for example, i might be saving my progress and loading for ages, then all of a sudden the game 
 WILL NOT LOAD, and this is the case with backup saves aswell) and right now they are working on 
 a patch for this... but omg, it's totally unacceptable. They release a game with a major CTD bug 
 in the save/load system. This my readers is simply very lazy work by the programmers and this game 
 should be avoided at all costs because of that. The game overall is very good but is broken and 
 they have shipped a product to customers with a well known issue that makes the game unplayable 
 because you cant load your saved games and the lazyness from Sports interactive proves that you 
 should stick to either Champ Manager or Fifa Manager. Dont buy this game.
  
  Graphics 2/5
  Sound 2/5
  Gameplay 2/5
  Fun 3/5 (if they fix the CTD bug it would have got 
 5)
  Realisim 4/5
  Value 0/5 (the game does not work if you save/load so 0/5)
  Overall 2/5
  
  This game fails because of the CTD bug, and that is a real pitty. This game 
 had all the charataristics of being a really REALLY good football managering game (and the game 
 had me addicted until my loaded game failed to LOAD Trust me, it's a real crash that happens to 
 alot of people... dont believe me? read the forums... www. sportsinteractive. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Football Manager is this years incarnation in a long running Football Management sim which is 
 released annually by Sports Interactive and Sega.
  There is no story to tell of, you choose a club to control choosing from 5,000 clubs in 50 countries. Your 
 aim as the manager is to get your club to the top of their respected league while also tending 
 to staff and players and also keeping track of ticket prices and finance.
  
  On the surface Football Manager seems like a very simple game of choosing a team and by luck hoping 
 they win the match, if you dig a little further you can see it is a game of stats and figures where 
 one small change in the team or even a players number can mean the difference between a win and 
 a loss. Football Manager 2008 lets you control every aspect of the club you choose to run from 
 their finance, buying players, training regime, wage and even ticket prices. The game has a huge 
 amount of depth that may confuse new players but fans of the series will feel at home straight 
 away, there are only minor changes from last years game mainly the layout on screen and also the 
 roster which changes every year due to summer transfers. There is a lot of fun to be had with this 
 game, but only if you have patience and a head for stats and figures.
  
  The interface is pretty simple, and easy to pick up, everything is controlled by the mouse and 
 keyboard.
  
  There is little to be seen in the way of graphics as the game is basically a huge database, this 
 does mean though that nearly any pc will play the game. The addition of the players pictures when 
 you click on their stats is nice, but nothing to rave about and the new layout is very simple and 
 easy to navigate. There is also very little in the way of little sound, no in game music just fans 
 chants during a match which is a little annoying but can be switched off.
  
  Dubbed the widow maker by many UK gaming magazines, Football manager will draw you in and you wont 
 be able to stop playing for hours, a whole lot of fun, the only drawback I see with the game is 
 hardly anything changes with each annual iteration. Also it tailors to a very niche market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozzi07
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Well, its finally here yes ! well thats what i said on the the 19th october, the months of waiting 
 and cracking on with FM07, i highely anticipated this game ive had it pre orderd for months. Well 
 lets make this simple, Sports interactive have tried too hard to try and make this game better 
 the fm07 but its doesnt live up to expectations.
  I've played 7hours and had enough, while the team on paper might look the best in the world its 
 VERY hard i mean it. The difficulty if way to hard you could be winning 3-1 with 10 minutes to 
 go make all your team defenders and u will still concede, its impossible to keep a clean sheet. 
 Graphicly the game hasnt really improved, the menus have improved i think thats all they should 
 have done to FM07 in a update and not realsed this one, I truly mean this when i say it Stick To 
 FM07 spend u money elsewhere or wait for FM Live.
  
  Thankzz The Cozz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Football Manager 2008 is the latest installment in the much-loved Football Manager Series, but 
 is it good enough to warrant spending money on?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Most people who'll play Football Manager 2008 will already be familiar with the layout of this 
 game, but for those who haven't it's a relatively easy learning process. For added assistance there 
 is an adviser system available to show you the ropes, and soon you'll be finding your way around 
 FM08 in no time.
  
  Graphics
  
  As always perhaps the weakest part of Football Manager 2008 is the graphics. However for new fans 
 of the game it needs to be stressed that this game isn't about the graphics, so if you're into 
 that sort of thing you may want to try the demo before going any further or even avoiding it completely. 
 With that being said everything is well laid out... but the default skin is horrendous. I have difficulty 
 playing the game for longer that 30 minutes without feeling nauseous, but fortunately new skins 
 and other graphics (badges, players faces and so on) are in the process of being developed by dedicated 
 fans of the series. Sound
  
  Another weak aspect of the FM series is with the sound, but this year much progress has been made. 
 The only real effects you'll experience is on match day - if you have the highlights on you'll 
 be able to hear the crowd react to the game, which adds a lot to the realism factor. Last year 
 it was the same dull crowd noise throughout the game, now they go wild when you score, and boo 
 when the opposition does which is a nice touch.
  
  Value
  
  Here's probably the defining category of this review that may or may not influence your decision 
 to buy this game - is it worth &pound;25 or so? Honestly, I would say not just yet. The game is 
 absolutely riddled with bugs that almost cripple the experience, from injuries and cards being 
 a frequent part of any game to having almost every goal disallowed from a corner kick. However 
 the first patch for FM08 should be released soon, so I suggest waiting for that (and maybe a price 
 drop) before buying this game. As far as new features go it does deliver, there's plenty of new 
 ideas to keep us fans happy. Once the bugs have been ironed out of the game it should be a truly 
 excellent experience, but for now it's just a case of waiting for the developers to fix the problems 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say.... this has to be the best football managing game ever made, well until 09 
 comes out that is. But seriously this game as it all and a whole lot more.
  
  To sum it all up the games database as been updated to include even more players and teams, and 
 stats only a die-hard nerd would care or wish to know about. A simple to use interface that doesn't 
 overwhelm you with the games vast information and features (of which there are a lot of) but makes 
 it seem that the game can be played by and mastered by anyone, which after some time it can. One 
 of the new functions of half time team talks, only this time you can talk to all the team or every 
 player individually, this time given even greater controller to motivate or berate your team. Making 
 a return is the 2D pitch view system, while fun and fresh when first seen in FM05... it now seems 
 extremely dated and boring to watch, needs to be overhauled. Pros:
  Easy to use interface
  Huge database of players and teams
  great sounds and 2D pitch interface
  in-depth information 
 for hardcore fans
  months if not years of game play
  online updates
  
  Cons:
  Gets tiresome fast if not a football fan
  information can be overwhelming
  2D pitch views seems 
 outdated and boring
  new addictions to the game don't justify the price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juventus_fc97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Ah, at long last, the world's most addictive football game is here for the next season. But, is 
 it worth the wait? Football Manager 2008, while still supremely addictive (like all it's ancestors 
 before) , seems to just come up short of offering a really new, refreshing experience. This year's 
 game seems to be aimed at making the FM world much more user friendly. It does this excellently. 
 The new 'Advisor' system would, I imagine, be a very welcome addition for the new would be managers 
 among us. Navigation around the game world has never been easier, with everything organized logically 
 and clearly laid out. The addition of a calendar also helps to sort things out. Scout reports and 
 Transfers are also much more easily managed this time around. Oh and speaking of transfers, it 
 is now much easier to buy players, and thankfully to sell them as well. This is certainly a welcome 
 improvement for me, as a massive amount of frustration came from not being able to sell anyone 
 from my star striker to my reserves goalkeeper, or buy anyone at less than twice their value. The 
 match engine has been noticeably improved this year as far as realism is concerned, however the 
 lack of new tactical options is a bit disappointing. Match Day does feel more involving, with a 
 bit more hype, and things such as 'Key Man Watch'. With all this focus on the game being more user 
 friendly, I would have really like to see more use out of the Assistant Manager, who is still confined 
 to a few mundane tasks. However, the addition of 'Coach Reports' immediately available on every 
 single player in your team, is very helpful when taking over a new club. All in all, this is a 
 good follow up to a great series. While not bringing any innovative or revolutionary elements to 
 the game, it improves nicely on it's predecessor by making the game much more accessible. Recommended 
 to all fans of the FM lifestyle ;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
