-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worldwide Soccer Manager 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/footballmanager2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible depth and virtually unlimited replay value.
 Scalability of game design allows you to embrace or ignore whatever you want.
 Manager mind-games adds a roleplaying element.
 Multiplayer mode moves the addictiveness online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Compulsive playability factor strong enough to break up families.
 Something of a same old, same old vibe for Championship Manager veterans.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 929 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Dec 7, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WSM 2005 is pretty much the perfect sports management game. 

  As divorces go, the breakup between Sports Interactive and Eidos Interactive has been downright 
 friendly. The developer and publisher split their marital assets down the middle, with the former 
 claiming code base of the Championship Manager series and the latter taking the valuable franchise 
 name. The real winner, however, has to be fans of soccer management sims, who will now have two 
 games to enjoy. But while it remains to be seen how Eidos will fare with Championship Manager 5 
 when it comes out later this year, Sports Interactive has already moved forward with Worldwide 
 Soccer Manager 2005 (Football Manager 2005 in the UK) , a game that is every bit as thorough and 
 addictive as its predecessors.  

          It's always a big event when Manchester United comes to town.     

  Although the new 
 name might take a bit of getting used to, the encyclopedic scope of the game design remains the 
 same. As with its Eidos-published forebears, WSM 2005 has more names and numbers crammed into it 
 than the US census. Or at least it seems that way when you're playing the game. Over 2,500 scouts 
 spread across the entire planet have contributed to putting together the game's massive database 
 of leagues, teams, players, and support staff. In total, there are 158 playable first-team leagues 
 here from 51 nations, some 2,351 clubs, and approximately a gajillion players. Soccer may be the 
 world's biggest sport, but somehow Sports Interactive has managed, once again, to cram it onto 
 a single game CD.  

  Despite this incredible under-the-hood complexity, the game itself isn't all that complicated to 
 play, even for soccer neophytes. No, it's not Ms. Pac-Man, but it is remarkably easy to slip into 
 a campaign managing the soccer club of your choice, as the game design is fully scalable. While 
 you can take the reins as manager and directly oversee every aspect of the club's operation when 
 it comes to looking after the pitch product, you can also assign your assistant coach to the fine 
 details and micromanagement. For example, we didn't want to bother with looking after the reserves 
 or the Under 18 squad with Liverpool, so we turned those duties over to assistant Paco Herrera 
 and focused on the first team. Most responsibilities can be similarly dodged. The assistant does 
 an excellent job, too, even with financial duties, like renewing contracts.  

  Once you feel more comfortable with additional managerial duties, there aren't any limits to what 
 you can do. Dozens of tactical options allow your team to embrace any style of play that you can 
 imagine. Teams are given orders in 13 categories governing every aspect of play, including mentality, 
 creative freedom, tempo, marking, passing style, and tackling. Want a measured pace reminiscent 
 of Italian Serie A? Turn down the tempo slider bar and switch the passing style to short. Favor 
 an all-out attack as seen in the English Premier League? Crank up the tempo bar and set the mentality 
 to attacking or above. Instructions can also be issued to individual players. Sixteen options let 
 you tell your lads how to handle forward runs, runs with the ball, crosses, location of crosses, 
 and set-piece scenarios like corner kicks and penalties.  

          One thing that even a game this fantastic can't change: Brazilian superstar Ronaldinho 
 remains one spectacularly ugly man.     

  Essentially, there are as many ways to fine-tune your roster and its tactics as there are grains 
 of sand on the beach. Every match sees you trying different approaches to get the best possible 
 performance out of your squad on the pitchand then going back to the drawing board because, as 
 with life in the real sports world, you can never get things perfect. Each new career, each new 
 season, each new game is a wildly different experience from the last.  

  Even though you're largely repeating the same duties again and again -- scouring the transfer market 
 for a piece to complete the puzzle, tweaking match tactics to increase offensive output and shore 
 up the defense, re-upping contracts for players and staff or letting them go, and so on -- leagues 
 in WSM 2005 are so organic that the appeal is as hypnotic as that of following a sports league 
 in real life (even more so, since you play a direct role when rivals retool, veterans age, and 
 young stars arrive on the scene) . The ground constantly moves under your feet as time passes. Although 
 your job responsibilities never change, the situation does. This forces you to constantly reinvent 
 yourself and your style of managing as the years go by. So do we really have to add that the replay 
 value is through the roof?  

  The new mind-games feature adds more realism, too, allowing you to invest your manager with distinctive 
 personality traits. Although the game is still primarily about numbers, intangibles can be influenced 
 with choice comments in the media. Want to rile up Arsenal legend Arsene Wenger on the eve of a 
 big match with the defending Premiership champs? Make it publicly known that you can't stand him. 
 Or release a backhanded compliment saying that, although others aren't too keen on his managerial 
 skills, he's always seemed just fine to you.  

  Of course, playing games with the press can backfire. Attack a rival coach and his team might just 
 respond with its best effort of the year, or you might gain a reputation as a jerk. Praise a rival 
 and you might start to be viewed as a classy guy, but your own players might see you as too much 
 of a softy. All of these points of view can affect whether or not players will sign with your club, 
 how players perform for you, the hiring of staffers, and your chances of landing a new job when 
 you're sacked. How big of a hole you're digging yourself isn't depicted through any visible rating, 
 so you have to be very careful when shooting off your mouth.  

  Another new addition is the official support of an online multiplayer mode. The mode seems flawless, 
 and there is even a force-continue option to keep everyone moving. But considering that the game 
 is already so incredibly addictive playing solo, it's almost frightening to consider its hold over 
 players taking on other human managers online. Play WSM 2005 in this fashion at your peril.  

 
          Playing mind games with Arsenal's Arsene Wenger and the Gunners' faithful.     

  There are a few minor flaws here, most of the "why hasn't Sports Interactive done this yet?" variety. 
 Visuals are still bland, if clean and attractive from a sports management-sim perspective, and 
 there is very little audio. Load times are longer than they should be, particularly if you're running 
 more than a dozen or so leagues concurrently, and for this reason, simming everything that the 
 game offers at once is practically impossible. A 3D match-view option still hasn't been addressed, 
 even though it has topped the wish list of Championship Manager fans for years now. And the game 
 has been built on the same engine that powered the past two Championship Manager games, so an occasional 
 sense of dj vu crops up. This isn't entirely unwelcome, as it mostly reminds us that this new 
 series is following in the footsteps of a classic. But at times you still wish that the developers 
 had given the interface a face-lift, or even just tossed in some wildly different fonts.  

  Overall, though, WSM 2005 is pretty much the perfect sports management game. Even though there 
 remain a few desires to be fulfilled, Sports Interactive has released yet another sports sim that's 
 almost impossible to stop playing. And now that the developer's games are finally being sold in 
 North America under the Sega label, sports fans here can experience what they've been missing during 
 all those years that Championship Manager wasn't available on this side of the Atlantic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: canopener1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all - Best football management sim ever, the game ive spent the longest playing, 
 No flaws to point out, a great database of players and loads of leagues to choose from. Whether 
 it's taking Macedonian's Rabotnichki to European glory, managing one of the giants of the game 
 at the top or taking your national team to world cup success - this game has it all.
  There isn't much load times to complain about and the 2d match system is great. Transfers are realistic 
 - you wont get Zinedine Zidane coming to Queen of the South. All in all this game is highly addictive 
 and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  For Over a Decade Sports Interactive have been producing the best Manager Sim in the World. Formely 
 known as Championship Manager. The 2006 Version is similair to 2005 but with a few added tweaks. 
 The upto date roster would be the significant one. I love Football Manager and think it's a great 
 time passer and should be looked at by all footie fans. Great Game (best football managing sim) 
 
  
  I find Network Games rewarding as I've maintained an unbeaten run of 11 games over 3 different 
 continents. If your a football fan you should buy this game.
  
  Once you buy this game... buy these players (they get really good)
  
  Alessio Cerci
  Freddy 
 Guarin
  Mauro Esposito
  Junior Khanye
  Libis Arenas
  Ryan Babel
  Lynel kitambala
  Bastian Schweinsteiger
  Jeremie Couture
  Seba Squillaci
  Theo Walcott
  Anthony Van der 
 Borre
  Edixon Perea
  Jafeth Asprilla
  Manuel Fernandes
  Nijel De Jong
  Mancini
  Rodrigo Paulista
  Georginio
  Freddy Adu
  Alberto Aqualiani
  Hleb Brothers
  Danielle De 
 Rossi
  Raffaele De Martino
  Yoann Folly
  
  + Many Many More
  
  PM if you wish to hear a list of more valuable young players 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coelho5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Fabuloso! Genial! O novo Football Manager deixa para traz todos os outros. Neste o treinador ja 
 tem o seu proprio contrato, ja pode negocia-lo, dialoga com os jogadores adquirindo o jogo um maior 
 realismo e fascinio. Os jogadores tm uma IA mais inteligente e jogam melhor ou pior consoante 
 os comentarios e apoio do terinador. Muito bom, sem duvida genial, mas ainda no  perfeito tem 
 alguns erritos a partir de 2008 e algumas avaliaes mal feitas no inicio. De qualquer forma muito 
 bom. Venha a proxima actualizao... pode ser que fique ainda melhor e que motive os jogadores 
 a joga-lo cada vez mais. De qualquer forma  o jogo de futebol que eu recomendo para qualquer um 
 mesmo que no aprecie muito este desporto. Vale bem a pena!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabretooth11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Following the break up between Sports Interactive and Eidos from the famous Championship Manager 
 series Sega made the decision to join Sports Interactive to form Worldwide Soccer Manager 2005. 
 This game was seen as the underdog in the battle between it and Championship Manager 5, Eidos' 
 new game, due to the fact it was under a new name and many people still saw that Championship Manager 
 as the better game. 
  
  However, it is the more realistic game and has made more attempts to improve. Sticking to the old 
 style look it would seem more like a Championship Manager sequel than a completely new game. The 
 player stats mode is similar being marked out of 20 with the only new addition the ability to have 
 a picture for some of your players. The news section is very much like the old one with a flashing 
 letter at the bottom left informing you of news. Also when you view your team it looks a lot like 
 Championship Manager 4 with all the players listed in that sort of way with the possibilty of changing 
 it. And when you actually go to play a match you have the same choices as you do on all the recent 
 Championship Manager games whether you want to watch the full match on the all new improved 2D 
 match engine or if you want to skip through on very fast commentary. 
  
  And although it still has all these similar features it somehow manages to come up with new ones 
 that no-one has thought of. As mentioned before players now have pictures which you can view. You 
 also now have the ability to mutually terminate a players contract so if they're unhappy or you 
 want them to leave for whatever reason then it won't cost you a thing. There is also the inclusion 
 of the media. Whether you want to challenge Mourinho in mind games or become the best of friends 
 with Ferguson you can do that on the game. 
  
  And something that the Championship Manager series was criticized for was the fact it takes a long 
 time to recruit new staff. Now you can advertise a job at the all new job centre and get various 
 people applying for it. The data editor which was included in previous games is now back coming 
 to enjoyment of people. And the injury data is very accurate as well giving it from the great people 
 at www. physioroom. com. 
  
  Verdict
  So all in all Worldwide Soccer Manager 2005 is a good game. With over 5000 playable teams and 250,000 
 different types of players/staff this game will seem to never get old. I recommend that if you 
 are to choose out of this and Championship Manager 5 then this is the game you want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I have not played another football managerial game longer than this, i have played this more than 
 any other game and this has kept me occupied forever but then i had to give it away, now ive got 
 it again and its just not working for me, it feels slower and more boring but its still a good 
 game, just not all that great when i looked at it from another point of view.
  
  This game has it all, good menus, realistic scores and a lot of value, you cant get tired of this 
 game until the next one comes out but there are just some things wrong with this game, like the 
 players dont listen to you all that well, i told this guy not to take long shots in the game and 
 he managed to score 3 from distance. then i got the patch thats supposed to make people take less 
 shots from afar and that didnt change anything for me. also i told the left wing to feed the ball 
 to a certain striker but that never happened, i read through the text and it just doesnt work for 
 me, and im great at these games, i always win the quadruple and all but this one is just plain 
 frustrating.
  
  Also the loading times are infuriating, its just too long, it makes you lose all interest and you 
 just turn it off and go do something more fun or important. 
  
  The graphics in this game are better than the other ones that were out back in that time, the pitch 
 actually shows you if the ball is kicked in the air because of the shadows and also the layout 
 is more user-friendly, its a lot easier to use, therefore its more fun to play.
  
  The sound works well during the game, the crowd noises and the whistling of the referee and the 
 ball hitting the back of the net, its all good and all but sometimes it stops abruptly, and the 
 game goes on, that bugs me a bit, i really like the crowd noises.
  
  This game has unlimited replay value and shouldnt be missed by anyone who likes football, if every 
 footie managing game was like this, this world would be closer to perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkllia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Many players think of what could be when Sports Interactive finished the co-operation with Eidos, 
 will it become better or not...
  Starting playing managerial thingy since i was 17 and now im 22...
  Football Manager 2005 was 
 the best ever for me and is the best manager simulation made ever. I dont think im gonna change 
 to the other even though fm2006 is already in market...
  I've been trying a lot of football manager games since then and i think there is a little manager 
 games from other and under same developer that can compete with fm.. of course it will be better 
 day by day... but realism is once again the advantages of this game and become trademark to Football 
 Manager... which simulation has Darren Bent and Peter Couch in their game? which game has a real 
 player attitude and behaviour? detail for training nd finances control? Sports Interactive has affiliates 
 and research all over the world to succeed and make this become the most realistic game ever made..
 
  in term of graphic and scene, basically i've tried game from other develope before and... Wow! their 
 graphic is great! 3d gameplay! but... they dont even have Robinho.. no need to talk about Dagoberto, Lebohang 
 or other players from small league...
  Salute the Sports Interactive scout...
  
  Park De'tsiwt
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Jordo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Having recent downloaded the BETA demo from www. thedugout. net, I was at first sceptical as to whether 
 or not Sega could continue building on the fantastic Championship Manager series. From what I have 
 played, this title will be an absoulute dream. The first aspect of gameplay that is visible is 
 the level of interaction between the media, other managers and players. With such a varied choice, 
 it adds more emphasis on the mental aspect of football management, as adverse comments can lead 
 to the opposition team having low morale etc. Player's stats are very realistic, oh, and SI have 
 given us the option to report any bugs which will be ammended in time for the final release of 
 the game. All in all, this will definately be the benchmark for Football Management Gaming, unlike....... 
 Championship Manager 5, argghh (big diapointment) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs99994
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  If you are wondering which game is better, Football Manger 200 (FM) or Championship Manger (CM) ,. 
 Think no further its FM. It allows us to have a feeling of being a real manager from the start. 
 You can proberly play it for days if not months (the number of hours) until the next 1 comes out. 
 If you want a the game and the next 1 is coming out, wait unless you have the money. The best managing 
 game all year round. The pros are having all the players at your fingertips and having alots of 
 fun. The cons are players like Thierry Henry not scoring goals but in real life he scores very 
 well, overated players and failing some subjects because you will proberly play it all day. Overall 
 it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenszulu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game other than if you have any interest in soccer/football managing 
 then you will more than likely love this game. Having been a fan of the Championship Manager games 
 for many years, I was always going to like this, but the leap from the Championship Manager 4 engine 
 to this is quite a lot really. I could go in to that for hour but I wont, all i can say is if you 
 like depth in a game then this could fill the ocean.
  
  The best new element of this game of this game though has to be the new media handling aspect, 
 which can in many ways make or break your reputation. it works much like what you see in real life 
 too, if you declare interest in a player without approaching the club first it can cause the player 
 to say he wants to move, and his club will have no choice but to sell him to you. Admittedly that 
 is not the best way to conduct your self, but if that's how you want to do things it's up to you.
 
  
  If I was to go into great depth on what this game had I would be here until the nest game came 
 out, but if you are looking for a game that will last you years and will keep you playing all night 
 long then you will find none better than this, be warned though this game has been dubbed "the 
 marriage killer," so if you are married get your wife permission first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Championship Manager 03/04, when it came out in 2003, was one of the few games with the "addiction" 
 factor. How many of us have played it, said "Just one more game" and ended up staying on it until 
 5am? OK, maybe that's just me. Which probably explains why I gave it a Superb score when I reviewed 
 it.
  
  Now, we have Worldwide Soccer Manager 2005. After the breakup between Eidos and Sports Interactive, 
 WSM 2005 (or Football Manager 2005 in the UK) is the new Championship Manager game in every way 
 except for the name. In fact, it's essentially CM 03/04 with improvements - which makes WSM the 
 best soccer management game ever.
  
  What makes the game so good is just the sheer depth of realism. You can customise pretty much everything 
 about your team. Are your defenders constantly being ran ragged? Put another guy back there to 
 fill the gaps. Is a reserve player moaning about his lack of first-team action? Stick him on the 
 substitute bench. Is your star striker's name unpronounceable? Give him a one-syllable nickname. 
 It's the little things that make any game great, and WSM has more little things in it than an ant 
 farm.
  
  The interface is uncluttered and easy to read, if a little on the bland side. Then again, Sports 
 Interactive has left the door open for future custom skins, so don't let it get in the way of your 
 enjoyment.
  
  Another minor grievance of mine is the lack of music, particularly during matches. One of the best 
 aspects of a football match is the atmosphere, particularly at international games where there 
 is a brass band playing. Of course, there's no reason why you can't put your own music on for the 
 game... I recommend the Match Of The Day theme tune.
  
  Overall, if you're into soccer management games, I strongly recommend WSM 2005. It's got enough 
 depth, realism and entertainment value in it to keep you playing it right up until the next World 
 Cup in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Sports interactive, the creators of the magnificent Championship Manager series have created yet 
 another football management masterpiece. I think their separation from Eidos did only good things 
 to them, the game was released stable and was superbly playable out of the box (thing that you 
 can't say about CM4 or the recently released CM5) . 
  The amount of realism on this game is amazing. The 2D pitch is the best accomplishment in my opinion, 
 the movement of the players and everything they do is shockingly realistic. Being a developer myself 
 I often wonder the sophistication of the match engine AI to accomplish this.
  The transfer engine has been improved since 03/04 but I still find it hard to sell players.
  
 One major improvement is finding/scouting players. With the scouting options and the filter added 
 it's much easier with a good scout to find the next star. 
  The new interface is brilliant, it takes time to get used to but it works perfectly. The 'continue' 
 button could be placed more comfortably though.
  As one who is playing CM games for 12 years now, I can say this is definitely the most complete 
 version yet, if you are a serious management fan, you couldn't possibly ignore this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellysoc1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  the champioship manager series has been swept clean out of the water. this game rules. it is plain 
 perfect. no doubt which company got off with the better side of the game. superb gameplay with 
 alot of added effects and stats. a real treat for a football fan. no doubt this will sell out very 
 fast. the graphics are much cleaner cut and brighter. the new things like media conversations are 
 superb you can really get sucked into this game. with all the teams and league you need and with 
 all the effort that has gone into this game its deffinatly worth a buy. and believe me once you 
 start you wont want to stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haolian12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2004 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The latest football manager simulation game from Sports Interactive will leave you wanting more, 
 maing you go, 'Just 1 more game'. Of course, that was at least 5 games ago.
  
  With a group of dedicated researchers providing the necessary statistics for the 250,000 players 
 and staff, you can be sure each and every 1 of them is represented farily accurately, even though 
 bias can be detected by way of some overated players :D
  
  At least 5000 manageable teams, including National teams, 1 can expect the depth of FM or WSM to 
 go really far. Case in point, the English League is now extended 1 level down towards the non-league 
 Conference North and South Divisions.
  
  1 league sorely missed by American players in CM03/04 was the MLS. In FM 2005/WSM, the MLS not 
 only is in the game, official licensing meant that player photos are also attached to their various 
 stats (Don't worry, you can turn the pictures off in the options screen) .
  
  The 2D match engine gives players a overall view of what is going on the pitch, and the manager 
 is able to make real time adjustments on the tactics screen. Much improved upon, it mimics real-life 
 fairly accurately, including the passive offside thing, which was the bane of CM03/04.
  
  Match processing is much faster compared CM03/04, but much of the speed of the game depends on 
 individual settings. Running all available leagues on 'Huge' database can take as little as a few 
 minutes, or hours, depending on your rig's specification. Make use of the recommended setup button 
 when creating a new game, and make your way from there. You can easily go slightly above the setting 
 without too much of a delay
  
  Much of the game depends on the FM/WSM community. Check out the forums at http://community. sigames. com/eve/ubb. x 
 and you can see how active the community is. In the Graphics & Skinning Hideout (You'll need a 
 registered account to access the particular forum) , many UNOFFICIAL add-ons are contributed by 
 the community. Skinning gives an identity to your copy of FM/WSM, taking the Stone Skin for example, 
 a mod to the default skin in the retail version.
  
  Of course i can go on and on about the community, but it is the gameplay that matters. The tactics 
 screen is improved. The smart use of sliders in various instuctions can determine how hard your 
 team pushes forward, for example. Modify default foramtions, find the perfect one to guide your 
 team to glory. Trail and error is encouraged.
  
  Media in the game is greatly improved. Journalists will approach you with questions about your 
 team's ambitions, form etc. Play some mind games with other managers, try and get into their head, 
 just like in real life. A proposed Media Editor allows you to add more news items to the existing 
 few, making it wasy for some nasty comments to surface :D
  
  What's football without looking for unknown talent? Make use of the customisable filters to find 
 what you want, or try using your scouts if you are too lasy. 1 can take the easy way out and buy 
 the most recognisable players, but where's the fun in that when you try to buy the same players 
 everytime you start a new game? For the daring, uncheck the 'Use Real Players' option and plunge 
 into a world of total uncertainty.
  
  Managers can start from the bottom, and work their way up, or just taking over 1 of the giants. 
 Take heed of Board and Supporters expectations, they can be very indifferent to an inexperienced 
 manager managing their favourite club. 1 new feature is the ability to start jobless and wait for 
 opportunies to come by you, a LLMers (Lower League Managers) dream.
  
  International management is greatly expanded. There is more interaction with club managers and 
 players, unlike previous versions of CM. International management is not what it used to be, in 
 a good way.
  
  Besides yourself, your Assistant Manager (AssMan) is also more helpful this time around, giving 
 his thoughts on which is the bese XI to put out on the pitch and where you will need to bloster.
 
  
  From the ability to customise the game to keep up with the footballing world, to in-depth improvements 
 in management and details paid to statistics, FM 2005/ WSM is definitely the best effort from SI 
 ever. Expect bugs in the retail version, but many of which are already fixed by a patch available 
 on www. sigames. com.
  
  Know The Score, FM/WSM is the natural successor to the hugely successful Championship Manager series, 
 since the ending of the partnership between SI and Eidos Interactive. Together with Sega, SI has 
 brought football management simulatiion to a plateau few will ever reach, with the promise of a 
 greater game in 2006.
  
  Ignore the graphics, feel the game. FM/WSM is addiction, no questions asked. Just make sure you 
 balance speed of the game and the amount of data you want your rig to crunch. You definitely don't 
 want your FM/WSM experience to be hampered by slow processing times. SI recommends at least a rig 
 with specifications of P4 1.8GHz, 256MB Ram and a 8x CD-Rom to enjoy FM/WSM at its best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliastse
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2004 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When Sports Interactive finished the co-operation with Eidos, I was anxious of what would happen 
 next. But the development team of SI found a new publisher (SEGA) a new name and made once again 
 a great job. WSM or Football Manager 2005 in Europe, is the best manager simulation made ever. 
 Realism is once again the "magic filter" of this game. Each football player has 3 categories of 
 attributes (technical, mental, physical) and believe me every single one is made with hard work. 
 SI has affiliates and researchers all over the world to succeed in accuracy of information for 
 related teams, players etc.
  Database contains more than 50 country's leagues with over 5,000 manageable teams and over 250,000 
 players and managerial staff. The database you can choose begins from "small" and ends with "huge", 
 plus you may select specific nationality players to be seen in detail. Graphics never was the best 
 part of the game, but many worldwide users have already added many players photos which are seen 
 in the top left side of their attributes. But you can always do it yourself, of course if you have 
 the knowledge. As most of you should know there are no graphics engines, just a 2D screen which 
 is very realistic (e. g. when you make a tactic change in FM2005 it happens almost instantly, but 
 in Total Club Manager 2005 it takes 6-7 minutes) . The split-screen during the match is a small 
 revolution where you can see the 2D match and player ratings or anything about the match, at 
 the same time As a manager you can play a kind of mind-game by making comments about other managers 
 and try to increase your rate of "media handling" as long as "temperament". Tactics are what they 
 used to be, but more detailed (e. g. you have a "target man" where all passes end, preferable in 
 4-5-1 formation) . The interface has changed a bit but its easy to get used to it, as more skins 
 are created day by day by researchers all over the world. The game also includes an editor for 
 you to update the database with transfers, injuries and anything you like. For those who don't 
 know there's already a patch released which fixes many of the bugs.
  Finally the game has already been available in most European countries since the first 10 days 
 of November and many people have updated their database, skins and players photo. The secret is 
 the researchers 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
