-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World in Conflict: Soviet Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worldinconflictsovietassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Freshens up and deepens the original World in Conflict campaigns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overpriced.
 Includes just six new missions that can't be played separately.
 Included multiplayer maps are free elsewhere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Massive Ent
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 10, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new content in this World in Conflict expansion is short and not so sweet. 

  Twenty bucks. Six solo missions. Two multiplayer maps that are free elsewhere. That sums up the 
 Soviet Assault expansion to World in Conflict. The outstanding 2007 real-time strategy game has 
 long been deserving of an add-on or sequel, if only to continue the great storyline about godless 
 Communists invading John Hughes' America, but this trifle is both undersized and overpriced. While 
 the battles complement the apocalyptic bombast of the original game, and provide a new dimension 
 to the Russian invasion of the United States, there isn't nearly enough content to warrant the 
 price tag.  

           Here come the Russians! Again!      

  The story and setting take a director's-cut approach to the solo campaign in the original World 
 in Combat. Instead of telling a new story, the six single-player scenarios stick to the same old 
 Russian invasion of the United States and Western Europe in the summer of 1989 and weave in and 
 out of the 14 missions of the first game. The big difference is that the campaign now lets you 
 see the conflict from both sides, because all six of the new missions have you fighting with a 
 Soviet task force commanded by the gruff but lovable Colonel Orlovsky. You now swap back and forth 
 between the American and Soviet perspectives at key moments in the war, which creates an expansive 
 new campaign that works well from a storytelling perspective at the cost of preventing you from 
 playing the new missions on their own.  

  This somewhat innovative approach livens up and deepens the campaign, giving it more of the epic 
 atmosphere that World War III deserves. Still, it's disappointing that there is so little truly 
 new content here. The six new missions add two or three hours to the total length of time you need 
 to finish the entire campaign, just about the same time it takes to rewatch  Red Dawn  and its 
 extra content on the collector's-edition DVD. Pace is another problem. While you get off to an 
 exciting new start with the Soviet attack on the Berlin Wall that got the war going, that conflagration 
 ends in 15 minutes and you're dumped into the much lengthier Captain Bannon missions that marked 
 the beginning of the original game. Sure, you fight some intense Soviet battles by the time all 
 is said and done. For instance, the scrap in the sticks with American guerrillas that do everything 
 but scream "Wolverines!" is a hoot, as is the Russian response to the big kaboom at Cascade Falls. 
 But these moments are spread far apart, with three to five missions from the original game between 
 them.  

           Missions feature the same amount of insane combat as those in the original campaign.  
     

  Even if you can deal with the hours of reruns, it's not like the new battles play any differently 
 than the old ones do. The Soviets fight in almost exactly the same way as their American opponents, 
 with units matching up perfectly right down the line of armor, infantry, and air support. No new 
 units are added, and no new tactical or special abilities are incorporated into your options. The 
 visuals and sound are carried over intact. Oh, and as one last added insult, the paltry two multiplayer 
 maps thrown into the package have already been released online as free downloads.  

  You have to wonder what sort of audience was being targeted with World in Conflict: Soviet Assault. 
 The Complete Edition version that includes both the expansion and the original game for just $30 
 is a great deal for newcomers to the RTS series, but the expansion alone at $20 is an insult to 
 the existing fan base.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3866,0. html
  
  World in Conflict was one of the premier strategy titles of 2007 for its fast-paced gameplay that 
 appealed to those adverse to resource-collecting. The first add-on to that game, Soviet Assault, 
 took an excessive amount of time to arrive due to unforeseen events such as corporate mergers and 
 restructuring efforts. Soviet Assault is finally here, but does it live up to the explosive reputation 
 of its predecessor?
  
  For $20 dollars, one would expect a reasonable, if not exorbitant, amount of content. At first 
 glance, the six single player missions and two multiplayer maps seem to be a good deal.
  
  The new missions take place from the Soviets' point of view during the war described in the original's 
 campaign. All of the quality aspects of the original campaign missions are here, from excellent 
 voice acting, to well paced objectives, to a decent plot which has some rather powerful moments. 
 The majority of the maps used in these missions are former recycled multiplayer maps, but there 
 are some stand-out moments such as breaking through the Berlin wall to take NATO forces by surprise 
 in the opening shots of the war.
  
  The two multiplayer maps offer some nice new arenas to play around, adding some more variety to 
 the already diverse line-up present from the original game and subsequent free DLC. Unfortunately, 
 these maps are also now available as free downloads for owners of the original game.
  
  And that's where Soviet Assault falls flat on its face: value. Considering that these multiplayer 
 maps are now free, you're essentially paying $20 for six single player missions. They are quality 
 content, but they'll only last three hours on normal difficulty and they don't offer much incentive 
 to come back again. Also, considering that these missions are integrated into the original campaign, 
 they'll require a commitment to the story in order to understand what's happening. This is a little 
 too much to ask of players who played through and finished with the original campaign over one 
 and a half years ago. It's simply. asking too much for too little a return.
  
  Hopefully, Massive's next project will have a little more meat on its bones. As it stands, Soviet 
 Assault is a quality, but vastly overpriced, add-on that should be overlooked until a much-needed 
 price drop occurs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBoySJ
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  The original World In conflict released in 2007 was the the on of the best Strategy games. And 
 here we have an expansion pack of WiC, sadly it doesn't add anything new to the series but few 
 missions.
  
  Another stupid thing in this expansion that it's not a standalone update and new missions cannot 
 be played seperately. You have to start the all game all over (doesn't matter you finished it or 
 not) because the game integrates to the original story. Example you play first mission from Soviet 
 side and the second from the Orginal WiC from US side. Well that's not bad if you didn't played 
 that game.
  
  The story is same like first one. Invasion to the US but this time from over side. 
  
  There 
 is no point to talk about grafics or sounds or gameplay because it's same as original one. I can't 
 say it's bad. Grafics are amazing , nice visuals, effects and so on.
  
  If you are fan of WiC you should get this for sure, or if you haven't played the first one it's 
 definetely for you because this game is amazing.
  
  I would give to it 9 but since it's just mission expansion it drops to 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  ... But I will NOT be slapped in the face ever again! I am sick and tired of overpriced content, 
 and games being shipped unfinished. Yeah, I HATE waiting for a game you know is gonna be great, 
 but what is the alternative? Well, now you know what the alternatives are. Take RE5 recently. How 
 can a company that did so right back on the PS1 with RE2 completely shift their thinking 180 degrees 
 from what it started with. What do i mean? Well, when RE2 was in development back then, and people 
 were banging on them to get it done, they canned the March ship date they had back then and stated 
 they would never release a crap game so they moved the ship date to A YEAR LATER to make sure the 
 game met their standards, and you know what the result was? The game got ridiculously high scores, 
 and people everywhere professed their love for Capcom. Why is that relevant here? Because if you 
 are gonna overcharge for something, make sure it is first complete, and second that the amount 
 of content justifies the price.
  
  Now, I haven't even played this game yet. I do own the collectors edition from the first release, 
 and it is one of my all-time favorite games. But twenty bucks for six missions that cannot be played 
 on their own either? What are they thinking? This 'expansion' doesn't even warrant a ten dollar 
 price tag if you ask me. Not when you are selling the complete version for thirty dollars. Don't 
 get me wrong, the gameplay is off the hook. The graphics are still stellar. The storyline is just 
 as good as before. But six missions do not equal an expansion pack. The gameplay is worthy of the 
 same score the first version was given, but the value is where the low score comes from. If you 
 wipe your bum with twenties, then go ahead and save one for this game.
  
  So why the mention of the whole RE5 thing? Because I have imposed my own personal sanctions against 
 game companies that want full price for an unfinished game. And no Capcom, your response to all 
 of the backlash doesn't cut the mustard. The cheese for sure, but definitely not the mustard. I 
 am sure RE5 is worth playing, but not only do I refuse to buy it because of this issue, I refuse 
 to play it as well. If they drop the price to around thirty or fourty dollars, I might lift the 
 sanctions. But, as with RE5, I won't be buying this content until it is eight dollars or less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  The new aspect of the game, viewing the conflict from the Soviet side, adds a lot of depth to the 
 game's story. The amount of actual game-play it adds is small however which I found to be disappointing. 
 After playing through the campaign you can play any mission individually, which includes both American 
 and Soviet sides. 
  
  The price of the game is high for those who already own the original World in Conflict. The price 
 of the expansion alone is about $20, but the complete edition which includes both the expansion 
 and the original game in one is $30. So if you never purchased World in Conflict, you can get them 
 both for the same price as the original game cost when it first came out. 
  
  Overall I find it very good in quality, but not as big as I would have expected from the pre-release 
 publicity or the expansion only price. For this reason I had to lower the score I gave. Quality 
 itself is fantastic and will implemented. The quantity however is lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  THE GAME
  
  The original World in Conflict was well received. About the only complaint was the absence of a 
 Russian campaign, and in fact, the Russians were playing the role of a soulless bad guy. Developers 
 have decided to correct that mistake by adding an expansion. For those of us who didn't even care 
 to buy the original WiC because of the lack of a Russian campaign (if you got a hunch by now, it 
 is probably correct) this sounded like a good idea. How did it turn out? Well, the feelings are 
 mixed. 
  
  Soviet Assault is apparently available as both an extension pack and a standalone game with the 
 original WiC integrated. Having never played the original and not knowing what was added, I was 
 nonetheless surprised to find myself suspecting that it was not a lot. The first and foremost clue 
 would be that the Russian campaign is much shorter than the American campaign. It is also significantly 
 less impressive. This is felt especially well since the Russian missions are stuffed in between 
 the American ones. One could feel the dramatic thought process behind the story of the American 
 campaign. The same could not be said for the Russians - still the strange bad guy. 
  
  Still, there are a lot of fun tools available to the Russian side and the initial Russian strike 
 through the Berlin wall is an impressive event to behold.
  
  The gameplay is balanced and fairly fast paced, although the presence of AI-controlled units on 
 both sides in single player sometimes gives the player time to think his next move through. Use 
 of different types of military units is required for an effective engagement. Apart from player-controlled 
 units, player also has access to area attack tools ranging from a couple artillery shots all the 
 way to a nuclear strike. In short, there's enough to do. Destroying enemy units and completing 
 objectives gets rewarded with points which can then be spent on more powerful area attacks or new 
 units. It's a fairly simple and effective system.
  
  Once the single player campaign is over there is always multiplayer and co-op with an easy to setup 
 mission menu. Here the new player will have to choose a role to fulfill on his team. On this will 
 be based the types of reinforcements available and their price. Notable is the amount of customization 
 of the AI behavior available at level setup. 
  
  VISUALS
  
  Visually, ViC was meant to be an eye candy, and no screenshots can ever do this game justice because 
 the main eye candy is in the effects rather than the setting. The area attacks turn your screen 
 into a colourful mix of fire and flying debris. This does not get tiring.
  
  SOUND
  
  The actors did their job well. The writers did too if their job was to make the characters sound 
 tough without there being too much sense to what those characters actually say. The tacky and strange 
 dialogue during cutscenes will surprise someone who tries to pay attention, but the rest of us 
 should be able to swallow. The instructions given are clear. Sounds of battle is what matters the 
 most anyway, and these don't disappoint.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  20 bucks for the expansion pack in today's age is normal. The Russian missions could have been 
 better, but all the pretty explosions will probably make you forget about the flaws anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltace
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Soviet Assault is nothing more than a 20$ addon pack that offers 6 new missions throughout the 
 Original campaign. The First Mission is quite breathtaking. You are the Soviets in the "Could have" 
 breakthrough of the Berlin wall and on to the rest of Europe. the following mission is exactly 
 where the original campaign stated off (Seattle) AS THE AMERICANS! every 5 or 6 missions during 
 the original campaign they have thrown in a Soviet mission. 
  Originally i was under the assumption that the ENTIRE Campaign would feature the Soviet Faction... I 
 was Wrong.
  I noticed a FEW new voices from the units you select, and an additional handful of maps.
  All 
 in ALL Soviet assault Is NOTHING more than an addon, and i Hope that this is not the Last We see 
 or hear from the World in Conflict Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin1985_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe I need to say much about this.
  
  Basically you're playing the same thing all over again. Different is.. this time round they add 
 in some missions to different part of the American campaign, where you will be playing as a Soviet 
 lieutenant called Romanov. The relationship is similar to the American Colonal-Bannon-Parker as 
 well. A more detailed storyline compiled from both side I would say, but as for the gameplay there 
 is not much of a difference.
  
  Graphic, audio, gameplay is still as brilliant, but not very different from what I felt previously 
 when I first played this game. Hence, this fits better for audience newly introduced to this game. 
 For people who played WiC, maybe you can just rent it, unless you are keen on playing Multiplayer, 
 which I believe has not much of a different either.  . 
  
  Conclusion: Extension of storyline, making you understand more from both perspective, but definitely 
 not expansion.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  In few words and to the point:
  
  THE GOOD
  - Still one of the best RTS out there
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  THE BAD
 
  - Adds only six missions to the original campaign from the Soviet Union point of view.
  - Been there done that feeling.
  - Badly overpriced for the small things that offers.
  
  
 CONCLUSION
  This just adds six new missions to the original campaign from the Soviet Union point of view with 
 believable characters and with good voice acting. You need to start a new campaign and replay most 
 of the old missions for the second time to see what's added in the game. The missions won't disappoint 
 but they are few and do not add anything earth shattering or innovative to game. 
  At the end of the day you're not missing out on that much if you pass on Soviet Assault. 
  
 
  FINAL SCORE = 7.0 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
