-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World War III: Black Gold
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worldwar3blackgold/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Reality Pump
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 16, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an all-around great real-time strategy game that also happens to stand out from other games 
 in the genre. 

 Do you like Red Alert 2's real-world whimsy but not its cartoony panache? Is science fiction too 
 outlandish, fantasy too geeky, and history too dry? Would you like real-world considerations like 
 ammo, time of day, and weaponry to figure into your tactics? Do you want to minimize resource management 
 and face a challenging artificial intelligence? And do you like flashy graphics? Although World 
 War III: Black Gold is the only real-time strategy game to meet all these criteria, you don't have 
 to be picky to appreciate it. It's an all-around great real-time strategy game that also happens 
 to stand out from other games in the genre.           The battles of World War III are fought mostly 
 between tanks and helicopters.    

  Topware Interactive's Earth 2150 and its follow-up, The Moon Project, were among real-time strategy's 
 best kept secrets. Although very popular in Germany (they were developed nearby in Poland) , they 
 didn't catch on very well in North America. When Topware collapsed earlier this year after some 
 financial mishaps, it seemed that would be the end of its fine work. Not so. Newly reorganized 
 under the unfortunate name Reality Pump, the company has engineered its Earth 2150 engine into 
 something with a tighter focus and a real-world appeal. World War III: Black Gold is both a worthy 
 sequel to the earlier games and a great game on its own merits.   

  Never mind the back story, which is a superfluous device to pit Russia, the US, and Iraq against 
 each other. Each of these three sides uses tanks and helicopters as their meat-and-potatoes units. 
 The Russians, who are skilled at field repairs, get regenerating vehicles. They use chemical weapons 
 that bypass armor and kill enemy crews so they can capture their vehicles. The Iraqis can camouflage 
 their units for stealthy maneuvers and ambushes. They also get truck bombs and SCUD missile launchers. 
 The US gets long-range mortars and structures that can call in powerful air strikes from F-15s 
 and batwing B-2 bombers.           Chemical weapons can be used to devastate enemy forces.    

 
  Few of these advantages are hard and fast, though. World War III blurs the distinction between 
 the sides, and you'll have access to different tactics no matter which side you're playing. For 
 instance, the Russians have their own SCUDs and bomber air strikes. The Iraqis get chemical weapons, 
 too. The US has a stealth helicopter perfectly suited for ambushes and sneak attacks. But each 
 skirmish will play out differently depending on how you spend your money to unlock the branches 
 of your tech tree. Do you research powerful tank ammo or missiles? Do you try for the chemical 
 weapons or the air strikes? Do you focus on helicopters for speed or mortars for range? And how 
 much should you spend trying to counter what your opponent might be doing? Do you research filters 
 to counter chemical weapons or flares to counter missiles? Will you need a communications center 
 to counter jammers? Should you upgrade your Stinger antiair missiles or your TOW antitank missiles? 
 The beauty of World War III is that it forces you to make choices that have a significant impact 
 on how the game plays. In fact, whether you win or lose can be determined by these choices just 
 as much as it's determined by how much "gold" you gather. In many real-time strategy games, the 
 gold is almost the sole deciding factor.   

  The "gold" in World War III is oil, the game's only resource. You simply build a pump on an oil 
 well and the money rolls in automatically. Earth 2150 and The Moon Project were unbalanced because 
 one side gathered money using this hands-off method while the other two sides had to manage the 
 sci-fi equivalent of peasants hauling the resources from a mine to a refinery. This extra step 
 of busywork has been completely removed from World War III, and the game is much better for it. 
    

 In fact, a lot of things from Reality Pump's (Topware's) earlier games have been streamlined. You 
 don't have to dig tunnels under the map. There are fewer funky weapons like Moon Project's earthquake 
 generators and sonic cannons. There is no naval combat (although some vehicles are amphibious) . 
 You can still customize units with various weapons and equipment, but there aren't as many choices. 
 The tech trees have been slimmed down considerably. Shuttling units between multiple maps doesn't 
 figure in as prominently. With fewer structures, there is also a lot less busywork with base building. 
 There's a simplified power system in which you have to build one power generator for every two 
 buildings. The end result is a more accessible game. Earth 2150 and The Moon Project probably overwhelmed 
 some players with the sense that they were playing a wide-open science fiction construction set 
 instead of a real-time strategy game. World War III has a much tighter focus.           World War 
 III's 3D engine looks good and works perfectly for the game.    

  This means you can spend more time with the more gratifying business of managing units. The interface 
 is as sleek as ever. You can choose basic or advanced menus depending on how much fine control 
 you want over unit behaviors. Like the last two games, World War III lets you assign units to a 
 control group before they're built. This means you don't have to keep incorporating newly built 
 units into your groups. Here's to hoping more real-time strategy games pick up on this helpful 
 shortcut.   

  The AI is still excellent, both for friendly and enemy units. Much of the single-player campaigns 
 are scripted, and some of the missions play as puzzles. However, the skirmish games are a real 
 testament to the flexibility and tenacity of the AI. Although the enemies have a propensity to 
 rush early, often, and sometimes blindly, they know how to put up a fight for the locations of 
 important resources. The AI of friendly units is a joy to behold after seeing it done poorly in 
 so many other games. Units will automatically call for resupply choppers. Repair vehicles will 
 go where they're needed. Units inherently know how to use roads for faster travel, and even move 
 out of the way for each other when another unit needs to pass through a crowded area.   

  World War III makes excellent use of its 3D engine. The maps are built around an obvious grid system, 
 so base building and formations are easy to manage. It's always clear what fits where, and it's 
 aesthetically satisfying when the units don't just randomly clump up in small spaces. Terrain and 
 structures never obscure units if you're zoomed all the way out. The camera is flexible enough 
 to let you see the action from different angles without losing track of what you're doing (a single 
 key snaps everything back to the default view) . Even when you zoom in, the textures and polygons 
 stand up under scrutiny. Some players might be put off by the fact that many of the units look 
 alike. There's not a lot you can do to distinguish basic tanks, jeeps, and helicopters from each 
 other, but Reality Pump has done as good a job as can be expected. And the pyrotechnics look as 
 good as ever.           Excellent AI and plenty of depth make World War III a blast.    

  Ever since Earth 2150, Reality Pump's games have had awful manuals. World War III is no exception. 
 There's little information on how the different units' special abilities work. Parts of the interface 
 aren't explained. New tooltips on the tech tree and build menus are helpful, but only in a general 
 way. You'll still have to go through a lot of trial and error to figure out how everything works. 
 Also, the game's voice-overs are awful, ranging from cheesy to offensive. There's no more of the 
 Stepin Fetchit burlesque from The Moon Project, but now the Iraqi truck bombers give out an "Allahu 
 akbar" before blowing themselves to smithereens.   

  But World War III is good enough that it could get away with a whole lot worse. If you're acquainted 
 with Reality Pump's previous games, you might be worried that World War III is essentially a mod 
 for Earth 2150. After all, The Moon Project was very similar to its predecessor. But World War 
 III is a whole new game with an awful lot to recommend it. Whether you're familiar with the developers' 
 previous games or not, if you're a real-time strategy gamer, rest assured that this is one of the 
 year's better games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PvtHurst
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  when this game came out, i was so overjoyed. i must of played the demo one hundred times thinking 
 of how cool it was. 
  
  WW3 Black gold is one of those games you will cherish for its expertly designed style. it is very 
 easy to jump into, but with surprisingly deep rooted strategy that even the most modern Rommel 
 will love. 
  
  the synopsis is interesting if not foreboding considering current events. Iraqi terrorists have 
 raided the US mainland and nuked the capital. the OPEC nations have cut off the oil supply from 
 western nations. the Americans strike back in retaliation to secure the oil fields and to destroy 
 the rag tag Iraqi nation. the Russians all the while reestablishing old soviet rule in the failed 
 federation. in the game, each faction plays very differently.
  
  ww3 contains a variety of military vehicles, both realistic and modern, ranging from the Cobra 
 helicopters to the LeClerc ultra modern battle tank. graphics are good considering todays standards. 
 bump maps and full day night cycles along with randomized weather all included. the graphics engine 
 allows for the terrain to be altered, adding all the more to the already centralized strategic 
 thinking process. 
  
  short and simple: ww3 black gold is a great game from a little know Austrian-polish developer. 
 it is fun to play the single player and even better to play skirmish. AI is good (provides a lasting 
 challenge; pursues different tactics on different difficulties) and so are the graphical renderings. 
 if you can get up with any one on multilayer it is a blast. the map editor is easy to use and adds 
 even more content. technology trees allow you to pursue different paths of creating your own strike 
 force.
  
  ww3 is a great game. give it a try, you wont be disappointed. and remember that Bruce must survive!
 
  
  here are some links to custom maps that have been made in years past as well as the games official 
 website being the latter:
  
  http://www. geocities. com/paranoidsteve2002/
  http://worldwar3. jowood. de/index. php 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I played a little of Earth 2150 and The Moon Project, both games being fair to good in my mind. 
 I liked the latter better, and the graphics such as night combat was fantastic for a 3D RTS. The 
 complexity of the matter didn't bother me at all. World War III was a letdown, because the feel 
 of the game took another turn. Instead of being fought in the future, it is being fought in the 
 present. OK, nothing wrong with that, but because we're in the present, it's much easier to see 
 the shortcoming of the game, such as having no infantry. APCs are practically worthless since their 
 firepower isn't very high and the reason for their existence - to carry troops, doesn't factor 
 into the game. There are no infantry and the ones that do command the machine guns on top of vehicles 
 look like Legos. Things like this, the limitation (the games is really a tank/gunship RTS game) 
 of the units involved, doesn't make it have any world war appeal. The 3 factions don't really mean 
 anything special, they all tend to blend together. In other words, don't except a Starcraft like 
 strategy game. On the other hand, the weather effects are nice and the unit details is fair. The 
 enemy AI does use the rushing technique in skirmishes. There's still the technology tree and construction 
 windows, although you'd come to expect it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
