-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/worldofwarcraftexp1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful new environments.
 Fun and varied world-PVP objectives.
 Lots of great new dungeons.
 Great orchestral soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some quests are very repetitive.
 A lot of preexisting content is now obsolete.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 10,605 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Jan 16, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Burning Crusade is a superb example of exactly what an expansion pack for any game should be. 
 

  When it was released in November 2004, World of Warcraft raised the bar for the massively multiplayer 
 genre, and more than two years later, none of its would-be competitors have even come close to 
 matching it. Even at launch there was very little to find fault with in Blizzard's first MMOG offering, 
 and thanks to regular free updates and no shortage of feedback from a community that now numbers 
 more than 8 million players, it has continued to grow and evolve into an even bigger and better 
 game. With the recent release of The Burning Crusade, World of Warcraft has never been better, 
 and while you don't  need  the expansion pack to continue playing, it's hard not to feel like you're 
 missing out in Azeroth without it.  

          In the draenei the Alliance finally has a race that measures up to the Horde's tauren. 
     

  Like any great expansion pack, The Burning Crusade doesn't just offer more of the same, and it 
 doesn't cater exclusively to experienced players. It offers a  lot  more of the same, and it also 
 adds a number of new features that can be enjoyed by newcomers and level 60 veterans alike. Perhaps 
 the most significant additions introduced in The Burning Crusade are the blood elves and the draenei -- two 
 new playable races that have made the paladin class available to the Horde faction and the shaman 
 class available to the Alliance faction for the first time. Both of these races have quite fascinating 
 backstories that are revealed both through their respective intro movies and via in-game quests 
 and conversations with non-player characters. Like the eight previously existing playable races 
 in Azeroth, the blood elves and the draenei begin their adventures in specially designed starter 
 areas where you can play without having to worry about bothersome high-level opposing players for 
 the first 15 to 20 levels of your character's existence. Thereafter, the new races join the rest 
 on one of Azeroth's two continents, where there are more than enough quest-filled environments 
 and dungeons to keep you busy to level 60 and beyond.  

  It's only possible to advance beyond the original game's level 60 cap if you own The Burning Crusade, 
 which unlocks new player skills and talents for characters through to level 70. It's conceivable 
 that you could advance through many of the levels post-60 without ever visiting the new Outland 
 realm, but it'd be a far more time-consuming and less profitable process because quests in Outland 
 offer significantly more experience points and gold. Furthermore, Outland is the only place where 
 you can advance your chosen professions beyond the previous skill cap of 300 to gather all-new 
 resources and craft powerful new items. All of the existing professions such as leatherworking, 
 alchemy, cooking, and enchanting can now be pursued to a maximum skill level of 375, which is also 
 true of the new jewelcrafting profession.  

  Along with engineering, jewelcrafting is undoubtedly one of the most interesting and useful professions 
 to pursue in World of Warcraft right now. Every profession in the game serves a purpose, but many 
 of the items that can be made by weaponsmiths and tailors, for example, are no better than those 
 that regularly drop from enemies and subsequently appear in major cities' auction houses. As a 
 jewelcrafter, you'll initially spend your time and resources making simple rings and necklaces 
 that afford their wearers small attribute bonuses. As your skills improve (and the materials you 
 need become less common and more expensive) , you'll learn to make powerful trinkets, rings and 
 necklaces that can be used to buff the attributes of other party members as well as your own, a 
 handful of weapons, and gems that can be socketed into new pieces of armor and jewelry to make 
 them even more powerful.  

  Skilled crafters can make items that have empty sockets for gems, and you'll occasionally be offered 
 them as a reward for completing a quest. For the most part, these items are quite hard to come 
 by, though, since they rarely drop from anything but dungeon bosses and the like. Choosing gems 
 for your socketed items gives you an opportunity to tailor your gear to your character's chosen 
 talent spec and play style, and many classes even have multiple endgame armor sets to choose from 
 now for the same reason. Bonuses to basic attributes such as strength, stamina, agility, and intellect 
 are now augmented by bonuses to far more specific skills, such as attack power, dodge rating, and 
 hit rating. Before The Burning Crusade, it was generally quite obvious whether or not one item 
 was better than another, but there are so many different factors to consider now that choosing 
 which equipment to use often has as much to do with personal taste as anything.  

          If you're not already wearing epic gear, expect to replace everything you own within hours 
 of going through the Dark Portal.     

  Even the relatively common gear that's available in Outland is better than much of the rare and 
 epic equipment that has been dropping in Azeroth for the past two years. Those of you with complete 
 sets of epic armor will find that it's good enough to get you through most of the new continent's 
 quests and dungeons, but everyone else's equipment becomes obsolete within hours of them stepping 
 through the Dark Portal. The new gear serves to lessen the gap between hardcore dungeon raiders 
 and more casual players, and as a result, the Outland quests are neither too challenging for relatively 
 inexperienced players nor too easy for those in the minority who can truly claim to have "beaten" 
 the original game. The fact that the playing field has been leveled somewhat also makes player-versus-player 
 encounters more enjoyable now than they've been for some time, which is just as well given that 
 almost all of the new Outland environments have PVP objectives and rewards.  

  You're free to ignore these world-PVP objectives if you wish, but they offer a welcome distraction 
 from the occasionally repetitive nature of questing, and you don't need to devote an awful lot 
 of time to them to enjoy the benefits. In Hellfire Peninsula, for example, capturing three strategic 
 locations will earn you PVP reward tokens that can be put toward a new ring, weapon, or gemstone. 
 And in the Bone Wastes of Terokkar Forest, the first faction to simultaneously control all five 
 of the PVP towers is rewarded with six hours of damage and experience bonuses anytime they do battle 
 in the area. Perhaps the most interesting world-PVP objective can be found in picturesque Nagrand, 
 where the Horde and the Alliance are constantly battling for control of the small town of Halaa 
 in the center of the map. The faction that controls Halaa can purchase special items and turn in 
 quests there, and they will be protected by up to 15 high-level guards anytime they visit. The 
 rival faction, on the other hand, can climb aboard wyverns and fly overhead on bombing runs in 
 an attempt to kill the guards before storming the town, although the takeoff and landing points 
 for the wyverns can be temporarily taken out of commission by players on defense.     

  Flying mounts that can be used exclusively in Outland are another significant feature of The Burning 
 Crusade, although it's not possible to drop bombs or to perform any other kind of attack while 
 you're riding them. Level 70 players flying on these mounts still have a significant impact on 
 all PVP, though, because they're able to move between objectives and battles much more quickly, 
 and they can leap down to the ground to join a fight in an instant. While they're very expensive 
 to buy, flying mounts are worth every piece of copper, silver, and gold that they set you back, 
 not only because they offer a distinct advantage in world PVP, but also because there's no better 
 way to take in Outland's occasionally breathtaking scenery.  

          The new environments are undoubtedly among the most breathtaking that World of Warcraft 
 has to offer.     

  Although still quite beautiful, the original World of Warcraft's visuals are certainly starting 
 to show their age after more than two years. Masterful texture work and lighting belie some quite 
 rudimentary geometry in places, and The Burning Crusade is no different. With that said, the expansion 
 pack's environments are undoubtedly among the most impressive that the game has to offer, and when 
 you're not busy trying to complete a quest or doing battle with rival players, there's plenty of 
 fun to be had just exploring them and keeping an eye out for previously unseen creatures, rare 
 enemies, and such.  

  Regardless of whether you're questing or taking part in PVP, The Burning Crusade caters well to 
 solo and grouped players alike, although a number of the harder quests are impossible to beat alone. 
 This is also true of the game's dungeons, which are specifically designed for groups of between 
 5 and 25 players and are instanced so that every group gets an identical challenge. The Burning 
 Crusade adds more than 20 new dungeons to World of Warcraft (not all of them are in Outland) , ranging 
 from those that can easily be completed inside an hour through to truly epic undertakings that 
 will take even the most skilled groups around 10 hours or so (across multiple sessions in the same 
 week, if necessary) to get through. Many of the new dungeons can be played on a more difficult 
 "heroic" mode once you earn the right to do so, pitting you against much stronger enemies that 
 drop superior items if you manage to defeat them.  

  In the past, only the largest and most challenging dungeons in Azeroth have pitted you against 
 enemies that were really interesting and that required groups to think very carefully about their 
 tactics, but in The Burning Crusade, these qualities have found their way into smaller dungeons 
 and, to a lesser extent, into the world as a whole. Many of the enemies that you'll be killing 
 for quests early on are able to use skills similar to what players have, for example, so beasts 
 will stomp to stun you, hunters will trap you so they can attack from range, some species will 
 play dead when their health gets low, and others are able to vanish and reappear behind you in 
 much the same way that a rogue player might. When it comes to boss encounters, the majority of 
 enemies that you face in The Burning Crusade require groups to do something a little cleverer than 
 just have a warrior or feral druid "tank" them while every other player either does damage or heals. 
 Defeating the most challenging bosses invariably requires every player in the group to know their 
 role and to be on form, and it certainly doesn't hurt if they're wearing good armor and carrying 
 powerful weapons either.  

  The fact that the group sizes required for most new dungeons is smaller than in the original game 
 is a double-edged sword -- getting 10 players together is obviously a lot easier than getting 20 
 or 40, but in a smaller group, you have to be much more selective about who comes along, so depending 
 on which class you play, it won't necessarily be easier to find a good group to play with. As is 
 the case in all massively multiplayer games, your experience in World of Warcraft: The Burning 
 Crusade will be shaped largely by the other players that you interact with. Playing alongside a 
 good group or guild can enrich your time in the game to no end, while having your corpse camped 
 and getting killed repeatedly by an opposing player will undoubtedly have the opposite effect. 
 In our experience, players who delight in making others' lives a misery are certainly in a small 
 minority, but they're out there, and it's unfortunate that they're often the most vocal in general 
 chat channels.  

          Many of the new dungeons are designed for groups of five players.     

  Third-party 
 voice-over-IP programs remain the most effective way to communicate with players who you're actually 
 interested in interacting with, particularly if you're playing through a challenging dungeon where 
 there isn't always time to type messages to each other. And when you're not listening for warnings 
 or instructions from players that you're grouped with, you could do far worse than to have the 
 game's excellent orchestral soundtrack provide a constantly changing backdrop for the animal sounds, 
 enemy grunts, ambient sounds, and weapon noises that accompany the action onscreen at all times. 
 The sound design in The Burning Crusade never fails to impress, and while the Russian accents of 
 the draenei can take a little getting used to, the game's voice acting is generally very good. 

  If you've already spent any serious amount of time with World of Warcraft then you have a pretty 
 good idea of what to expect from its first expansion pack. It's true that some of the new quests 
 can feel like a grind, and it's also true that The Burning Crusade's arrival has rendered much 
 of the old endgame content all but obsolete. This is a superb example of exactly what an expansion 
 pack for any game should be, though, and the gulf between World of Warcraft and the pretenders 
 to its throne is now wider than ever.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (468 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is the first expansion to WoW and what an expansion it is. 2 new races, a new 
 continent and great upgrades. This expansion also raises the level cap to 70 and allows you to 
 train a new profession: Jewelcrafting + more spells, more talents and more upgrades.
  
  The 2 new races have interesting stories that make playing as the Blood elves or the Draenei much 
 more interesting. You won't be feeling playing as them boring and the classes they allow you to 
 choose are no where near the same as the other races in your faction.
  
  Outland has many new interesting features, the surroundings feel like their of a different dimension 
 from Azeroth and it is. Then something that is unique: the ability to use a flying mount to fly. 
 And your not flying across a short area of land too. Flying from above and looking down you'll 
 see some lovely grpahics from above. There are new quests a new city that's neutral and much more.
 
  
  Also there's the new battlefield: Eye of the Storm and this offers a different way of battling, 
 however it is not the best battlefield as it lacks in features but still the graphics again are 
 amazing and a flag based battlefield hasen't been created yet and is still good.
  
  Overall Outland does lack in a bit of features but still it's a must have expansion to any of those 
 who have the original WoW. You will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-QC
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Every player who enjoyed the original WoW should definitely buy this expansion set. Not just for 
 the fact that there are now 2 other available races, the Blood Elves and the Draenei, but also 
 because of a whole new continent, Outland (or Draenor for those close to Warcraft's lore) is available 
 to all BC owners and of new and exciting features such as the Jewelcrafting profession which consists 
 of socketing weapons/armor to put in crafted gems, level cap increase to 70, new instances like 
 Black Temple and Magtheridon's Lair and unique items to the game's expansion, like flying mounts 
 and legendary weapons. All those new features are certain to please as much new-comers as long-time 
 hardcore WoW players.
  
  Let's start by explaining the two new playable races brought in Burning Crusade. First are the 
 Draenei, a race blessed by the light who originated from the planet known as Draenor (which is 
 also a new area proper to the expansion set) . They feature the opportunity for players in the Alliance 
 faction of playing the Shaman class, as it is the only race in this faction who can assume its 
 role (prior to BC, only Horde players could be Shamans) . The Draenei benefit some racial abilities 
 such as Blessing of the Naaru, which, upon casting, starts a "healing over time" spell upon the 
 target which cures a good bunch of health points. Same thing for Blood Elves, which are sided with 
 the Horde, but for the Paladin class, from which only Alliance players could benefit in the past. 
 The origins of the Blood Elves dates back to more than ten thousand years ago, where the planet 
 of Azeroth (in which the original WoW is set) formed but a single piece of land which belonged 
 to the now Alliance Night Elves. The Draenei and Blood Elves may not change much of the game's 
 gameplay and fun, but the area in which they start + the quests which are offered to them at the 
 beginning can be a somewhat different way to start a new character and reach the WoW mainstream 
 as you level up.
  
  Outland, the new area available to Burning Crusade players, hosts a new neutral city that is Shattrath 
 City. This giant emplacement is filled with markets, vendors, quests and offers a lot more features 
 than the original towns (Stormwind, Orgrimmar, etc.) , which facilitates buying a lot of different 
 things at the same thing without having to travel everywhere in the world. If this is the case, 
 there is always portals leading to every other major city. Outland is also divided in 7 territories, 
 all unique compared to the others. The level design of these lands is quite amazing, ranging from 
 the burning wastelands of the Hellfire Peninsula to the luxuriant though even dark Zangarmarsh. 
 Also, whole lot of new instances are playable in the new planet. Having enumerated all these facts, 
 the addition of the Outland area can be another good reason to buy BC if you didn't already.
  
  There are plenty of other arguments that can be used to declare that Burning Crusade is as 
 fun as its predecessor, but trying to tell them all would be impossible, as there are way too many. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: End0mOrPhinE
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:17 am PT
Review:  Why do other mmorpg's attempt to mimic such a poorly developed game? An investment of $70 into 
 the world of warcraft battlechest made me ache for my money back. I cant stress the level of boredom 
 and stupidity of the community in this game, and honestly, I had spoken to a few people online 
 who were above and beyond the age of 35 - why waste your life on this? 
  
  The same old routine - Blizzard attempts to make miniscule updates to this game - a few bugs and 
 hitches, and the balancing of classes - ive seen other games with batter class balancing than this 
 sorry excuse of a game prolongation. People fall into the trap of becoming susceptible to the discriminating 
 factors which plague this game "wow theres constant updates to this game", "yay more item upgrades".
 
  
  Today upon purchasing the game, the shop clerk had warned me of the ever approaching addiction 
 which accompanies the game - I just don't see it. He also mentioned chatting and social interaction........
 
  
  This is not social interaction. What embodies social skills is interacting with REAL people... 
 this game is not an excuse for social cohesion. I'm not sure what I've missed, but this game doesn't 
 bring anything new. It saddens me that developers are straying from the old age recipe of single 
 player adventure gaming. If games like this don't change, then PC gaming has lost my interest.
 
  
  If you take a step back playing this game, and scrutinize just what the @#$% you're doing, you'll 
 see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Note: This is the review of the Burning Crusade content, not the Vanilla WoW or Wotlk
  Burning Crusade is the first expansion of the franchise of World of Warcraft and by far is the 
 best expansion of this game. 
  The game sets you in Outlands or also known as Draenor the original homeworld of the orcs and you 
 will travel through different places like Hellfire Peninsula, Nagrand, Netherstorm and other places. 
 Also you will see great views and how Nerzhul left the planet after he opened the dimensional gates 
 fleeing from the angry alliance.
  This expansion also introduces two new races, the draenei for the alliance and the blood elves 
 for the horde with four new introductory areas plus the Isle of Quel'Danas, home to the destroyed 
 Sunwell.
  The end content of the game is great, you will raid places like Karazhan the tower of Medivh, Tempest 
 Keep, seat of Prince Kael or even the Black Temple where you will have an epic fight with the traitor 
 Illidan, also you will see places set in the past thanks to the caverns of time. 
  The new profession that is Jewelcrafting is fantastic, it boost certain pieces of gear that have 
 sockets and also you can make rings and necklaces.
  The only bad thing of the expansion is the pvp, the only way for get gear now is by arenas and 
 not by battlegrounds and they only added one that is a combination of two old battlegrounds and 
 with the classes imbalances it is hard to win matches if any of the overpowered classes are there 
 (and usually are there) .
  Again like Vanilla WoW all the game content of this expansion is dead so don't expect to find easily 
 groups for raid this game content but if you can you will see why this expansion will be the best.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade adds thousands of virtual acres of game space and troves of content for players 
 of the original, and is a requirement for anyone that wants to continue to enjoy the original title. 
 Much of the new content and races are only accessible with the expansion, and you will be unable 
 to level beyond 60 without the expansion.
  
  There are two major additions to the game: two new races and a new world: Draenor. In addition 
 to the base races of the original title, gamers have the choice to play for either the Alliance 
 or Horde faction: The Draenei and the Blood Elves. Each race comes with its own unique appearance, 
 special abilities, and class selection. The Horde gains access to the Paladin class though the 
 Blood Elves, while the Alliance gain the Shaman class with the Draenei. Each new race also has 
 their own starting zones, smaller additions to the Azeroth landscape including two islands for 
 the Draenei accessible by ship and two zones that combined make up a peninsula for the Blood Elves. 
 Both areas offer unique mob (the term used for enemy units) models, quests, quest rewards, loot, 
 and other benefits for the new races, as well as two new capital cities.
  
  In addition to the aforementioned, gamers have access to a new profession, "Jewelcrafting," which 
 allows players to create necklaces and rings that provide benefits to their character, as well 
 as summonable trinket pets and gems to enhance their equipment. Players will even gain access to 
 flying mounts as they reach sufficient level, and will need those mounts to reach certain areas.
 
  
  In effect, WoW developer Blizzard Entertainment has added more of everything: more races, more 
 world, more professions, more craftable items, more loot, more enemies, more dungeons, more world 
 player-versus-player (PvP) objectives, and more story. Where the end-game focus of the original 
 was on pushing back the undead Scourge in the Plaguelands of Azeroth and the ancient insect menace 
 in Silithus, the new end-game focus is on fighting back against the Burning Legion, the army of 
 demons and corrupted races that work to exterminate all life in the universe in order to return 
 to its original state of pure energy and chaos.
  
  The story is larger in scope, and it works to a degree from the moment the player steps through 
 the Dark Portal of Azeroth to enter Draenor. Hundreds of NPCs square off in an epic battle at the 
 very steps of the Portal, making the player feel as if he or she has stepped into something much 
 bigger than him or herself.
  
  From the moment the player steps through the gate they are going to find their Azeroth gear obsolete. 
 The basic quests in Hellfire Peninsula, the first province gamers enter on Draenor, make Level 
 60 end-game raiding gear obsolete. In fact, most characters will find themselves completely decked 
 out in new gear before they leave the province. Moving from level 60 to level 70 is a difference 
 as dramatic as level 1 to level 60, with dramatic increases in the effectiveness of equipment and 
 the items the player can use.
  
  The Burning Crusade retains much of the feel of the original by using many of the originals models 
 in addition to the new content. Players will recognize the trademark architecture of Alliance and 
 Horde structures, particularly those of the human and orc settlements, while they are introduced 
 to the new architecture of the Draenei and Blood Elves. The landscape is dramatically different, 
 however. Draenor is a shattered world, and looks very much the part. Vast plots of land float in 
 emptiness of space, and bands of energy curl in the sky above the player. Waterfalls and pools 
 of fel-energy flow over the edges of the continent into nothingness. Each zone has its own distinct 
 feel. For example, Hellfire Peninsula offers broken landscape of barren rock and fire, while Zangarmarsh 
 offers a vast swamp teeming with life (mostly of the mushroom variety) .
  
  To complement the vastness that seems to be a trademark of the expansion, the soundtrack illustrates 
 the larger-than-life action on-screen with a paced classical score that changes depending on the 
 location and action. The score is to The Burning Crusade as John Williams helps define a Star Wars 
 title, and it certainly enhances the on-screen action.
  
  For all its additions there are the inevitable drawbacks. While the new races offer the Alliance 
 and Horde access to classes they sorely needed to balance combat between the two, the Draenei do 
 not necessarily fit with the fantasy theme of the game. The race is not affectionately referred 
 to in-game as, "Blue Space Cows." The gripe continues with Draenor and even the loot. Draenor is 
 very much another planet, a mix of magic and technology. Crashed interdimensional ships, ray guns, 
 and giant rainbow axes are par for the course, which may detract from the medieval fantasy aspect 
 of the original. The armor is also more colorful than in the original, leading to the term, "clown 
 suits." Some players may forgive the science fiction feel of Draenor for the benefits, but others 
 will miss the intimate medieval atmosphere of Azeroth.
  
  There is also added complexity due to the inclusion of "sockets" for some items. Sockets allow 
 players to customize certain weaponry and armor to increase certain statistics on top of the existing 
 professional ability to enchant those items. In the end socketed items seem like additional complexity 
 without purpose. Developers might just as easily have made items class-specific, increased the 
 original drop, or added additional enchantments. Any of the aforementioned would have made an already 
 complex game a little less complicated.
  
  Finally, the game continues to try to be everything to everyone, and in some instances this can 
 frustrate some gamers while making others feel gypped. Some changes are welcome; there are far 
 fewer 40-man raids such as Ahn'Qiraj and Molten Core, which required a massive group of coordinated 
 players and major investment in terms of time and gearing up your character appropriately. The 
 Azeroth 40-man raids are made obsolete by the superior gear and access of new 10- and 5-man dungeons. 
 This is also one of the casualties of the expansion, as getting groups to run old-world content 
 becomes more challenging with more players on Draenor rather than Azeroth. Further, the gear that 
 players gain access to in battlegrounds - PvP-specific arenas - is often equivalent if not superior 
 to gear players may take days or weeks of raiding in world and dungeon drops to acquire.
  
  Still, many of these drawbacks are not necessarily exclusive to The Burning Crusade, and Blizzard 
 has done an amazing job creating a world with thousands of quests and its own distinct look and 
 feel while retaining elements of the original. Without question anyone who enjoyed the original 
 content will thrill to play The Burning Crusade, and enjoy all of the new places to visit, enemies 
 to kill, and loot to acquire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakibrox
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  I am totally addicted. I am a rough critic. You can see all of my reviews. Only one other game 
 got a 10 by me but only cause its free and fun! This game however has a monthly fee! I still love 
 it! Since i am only 12, i cannot pay for retail anymore. Now i play in private servers! Just as 
 fun. MAYBE FUNNER!! Since its free my friend plays it with me to make it even better. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  One word, beauty. This game has a beautiful environment. It has great texture 
 resolutions. There is nothing wrong about it. I love the graphics. Mostly when you are either a 
 dwarf or blood elf cause their home place are just so bright.
  
  Game Play:
  
  Best part about this game is the game play. It was made perfectly. It has both role playing, pvp, 
 and both together. This makes it extremely fun. 
  
  I hope my review helped you on wanting to get this game.
  Oh yeah and the private server i play 
 on is WoW Scape. 
  The official website is www. scapegaming. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed World of Warcraft for about 1 year and 4 months back in 2004. Blizzard is possibly one 
 of my favorite companies when it comes to fantasy RPG design, however I was never fond of their 
 Warcraft. So, it was a disappointment to me when they decided to go ahead with a "World" of Warcraft, 
 and not a "World" of "Diablo", or "Starcraft" -- or Hell, even mixing the three together via dimensional 
 portals. Good idea? You tell me.
  
  World of Warcraft uses a semi-generic artstyle but with lots of color, greens and yellows in attempts 
 to emboss an "originality", whilst apparently being influenced by Anime. Influenced art, Lord of 
 the Rings, smart advertisement campaigning via Celebrity Interest, Easy game functions? Good game, 
 and it's admired as a good game for it being a good game and not for what's in front of the mechanics: 
 The artstyle and story. World of Warcraft is hardly what it's hyped up to be, though Blizzard is 
 smart, and I admire their passion, and interest in keeping their creation out there in any way 
 possible. Popularity justified, though?! HELL NO.
  
  Blizzard is practically abandoning Diablo and Starcraft, when they can merge those ideas into World 
 of Warcraft in some fashion or form -- Hell, three "Worlds" on different discs, made by different 
 artists within Blizzard -- and all accessible from one another. Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is the first expansion for the MMORPG online game World of Warcraft. This expansion 
 adds a ton of new content as well as new little gameplay tweaks and anyone who has reached level 
 sixty will want to play to seventy through this new expansion.
  
  Gameplay in Burning Crusade is identical to the original WoW with the exception of when you get 
 to Outland. This new area is reached via a large purple portal one appearing in Kalimdor for Horde 
 access and the other in Eastern Kingdoms for Alliance players. However, you must be at least or 
 very close to level sixty because the beasts in Outland will be sixty and above in early regions. 
 There are six whole new regions to explore and quest in and they are: Hellfire Peninsula, Zangarmarsh, 
 Nagrand, Terokkar Forest, Blade's Edge Mountains, Netherstorm, and Shadowmoon Valley. These regions 
 comprise Outland. Two new additions to this game are the new races of Dranei and Blood Elf and 
 also "new" classes for both Horde and Alliance. I mean "new" because the classes are not new, but 
 their introduction to both sides is new. The Horde gain the paladin class while the Alliance gains 
 the shaman class. As I mentioned before the expansion raises the level cap to seventy, and these 
 ten levels will probably be the longest ten levels you will have ever gone through. Though, once 
 you hit seventy you can rejoice over your epic accomplishment, and you can begin to work toward 
 paying for your flying mount. Yes, you heard me right. Flying mounts are purchasable for a modest 
 sum but the training for them is ludricrously expensive. Regardless, flying mounts of the standard 
 and epic kind are significantly faster than any ground mount and it is possible to obtain them 
 eventually. Unfortunately, these mounts can only be used in Outland. The addition of this expansion 
 adds so much to WoW and it is sure to revive the enjoyment of playing the game again. And for those 
 who already hit sixty will find new challenges in reaching the pinnacle of seventy. And if you 
 like to run instances you can set the dungeon difficulty to "epic" where enemies are considerably 
 tougher but the loot is considerably better. The content in Burning Crusade is absolutely superb.
 
  
  Graphics in Outland take on a more surreal and extraterrestrial look and feel. It is a completely 
 different world from Azeroth with new enemies, new dungeons, and new points of interest. The first 
 zone you will visit is Hellfire Peninsula, and this place is not only huge, but it is also sort 
 of scary. As you make your way to your respective strongholds in the region you will see demonic 
 enemies such as dreadcallers and doomwalkers all in the 58-60 range, and at first it is scary. 
 Though once you become settled Outland will be one of your favorite places to visit because of 
 the better loot and better quests. Hellfire Peninsula itself looks like a fiery red wasteland floating 
 in space. And often if you wander to the outer edges of the zones you will find that it just falls 
 off into space -- literally. You can even see chunks of what was once a part of the region off in 
 the distance on its own little island. The marshy and murky Zangarmarsh is the next location you 
 will visit and honestly this place is a sight to behold. Enormous mushroom trees stand tall over 
 everything and magnificent glowing lights adorn the blue-tinted landscape. It is a very peaceful 
 zone despite its population of dangerous denizens. The zone Nagrand is a lush, green place filled 
 with things you might seen on a prairie, though no less dangerous. Enemies there are composed mostly 
 of animal life, but often you will see an elemental or three. Terokkar Forest is a shining forest 
 of trees and dangerous wildlife, and among these trees stands Outland's largest city: Shattrath 
 City. The city lacks many things a standard city would have like trainers, but it has one thing 
 that makes it stand out: a teleportation system that can transport you to one of three major Azeroth 
 cities depending whether or not you are Horde or Alliance. If these portals did not exist you would 
 have to fly back to Hellfire Peninsula every time you want to go back to Azeroth. The Blade's Edge 
 Mountains zone is one of geographical wonder. Huge, sword-like spikes protrude from the mountains 
 and adorn the sky. The zone is much like a maze because the mountains provide natural barriers. 
 The Netherstorm zone is quite possibly the most bizarre because of these huge purple "eco-domes" 
 that within have huge and lush life-filled jungles. And lastly is Shadowmoon Valley, a tortured 
 and twisted rocky wasteland featuring level seventy enemies. Each region is massive and considerably 
 larger than any single region in Azeroth. Each one of these regions provides whole new experiences 
 for veteran players, and they all are so different from one another. The two new races of Dranei 
 and Blood Elf are actually two new elven races, and Dranei goes to Alliance and Blood Elf goes 
 to Horde. The Dranei are massive, hooved creatures that have horns while the Blood Elves are short, 
 fair-haired and quite thin. And naturally, these new races feature new emotes. Outland most definitely 
 features some of the best graphics in the entire WoW trilogy simply due to the fact each new region 
 is a sight to behold.
  
  Sound here remains mostly unchanged from the core WoW game, of course with the exception of the 
 new regions. The real change comes with the new races because of new voices, etc.
  
  Overall Burning Crusade adds so much more to the WoW universe that it is definitely worth your 
 purchase and time. It makes a fantastic addition to the world and it almost makes you want to try 
 to hit sixty -- and then seventy eventually. The only downside to the game is its length; your time 
 in Outland reaching those last ten levels will be relatively short but after that last "ding" you 
 will not feel like doing it again very soon. Regardless, if you are still playing World of Warcraft 
 you should certainly consider picking it up. And of course, if you plan on playing Wrath of the 
 Lich King you will have to get Burning Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is a great expansion for one of the best MMORPG ever! With 
 two new races to choose from and a whole new continent to explore, The Burning Crusade will keep 
 you entertained for even more hours on end.
  
  --Graphics -- 
  
  The graphics haven't really changed much since the first game. Minor changes improved the look 
 a little, but not by much. The new continent of Outland looksok. The first place you start in, 
 Hellfire Peninsula, is a bland place with red ground and red mountains. It doesn't change much 
 with just small villages, towers and monsters walking around. Besides that, most of the new places 
 look good, but it just seems a little bland.
  
  7/10
  
  --Gameplay -- 
  
  Gameplay for WoW: BC hasn't really changed at all. You still go around doing quests and gaining 
 levels. The level cap has been raised by 10 levels, so you can now get to level 70. This means 
 that there are new dungeons and raids to do, more gear to collect and many new features. This includes 
 flying mounts, which is well a mount that flies. They may be expensive, and only available at 
 level 70, but you need them to get to certain places in Outland. Now about the new races, they 
 are interesting. They each have their own new starting areas so you can learn their story. The 
 new starting places are actually really fun to play. I prefer the Blood Elves, because I like the 
 Horde better, but the Draenei are fun as well.
  
  9/10
  
  --Music -- 
  
  The music is still great. Each area has their own theme and they are nice to hear. However, some 
 of them have been reused. For example, one of the main horde cities, Orgrimmar, had it's own theme 
 that not other place had. However, a new area in Outland called Nagrand has the exact same theme 
 as Orgrimmar. This isn't a big deal, but it is a little bit disappointing because they could not 
 make it have it's own theme.
  
  7/10
  
  --Story -- 
  
  Many of the main characters from the Warcraft III series have been introduced in this expansion. 
 Illidan, Kael'thas, Lady Vashj and many other of the famous characters are found somewhere in game. 
 Most of them can be killed, while some of them are allies with either the alliance or horde. It 
 is great to see what has happened to these characters since most people thought Arthas killed Illidan, 
 but it looks like he wasn't. But what about Arthas, where is he? Well, he is obviously in the next 
 expansion.
  
  10/10
  
  --Overall -- 
  
  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is a great expansion! The new continent has great quests 
 to do. Sure it may not look nice but that doesn't mean it isn't fun to play in. The two new races 
 were great additions, however I think they should not add anymore playable races to the game because 
 then it'll seem weird. Anyone who own World of Wacraft should definitely get The Burning Crusade 
 because you will be missing out on a lot.
  
  8.25/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first booted up World of Warcraft, I was expecting the game to end all games. Hyped up to 
 the moon and back, it seemed like this was going to be a game I'd enjoy for years, being first 
 enticed by MMORPG's by Jagex's Runescape. Sadly, this was not the case.
  
  As I finished booting up the game and began creating my character, I was quickly disappointed by 
 the lack of customisation and graphics, although easy to overlook as I've never been too sucked 
 into graphics and the like myself. The real disappointment kicked in when I actually started playing. 
 After several characters, trying different starting locations, classes and races it became apparent 
 that this game was simply one of the most repetitive games out there. Even Runescape sported a 
 wide variety of skills.
  
  The Burning Crusade added two new classes (amongst many other things, including an increased level 
 cap of 70) , and my favoured class, Blood Elves. But this did not change my opinion on the game.
 
  
  The combat wasn't too bad in itself, but the repetitious quests, similar enemies and boring story 
 quickly grew old. After I finally had a character I was happy with, I slowly started to delve further 
 into the game, hoping to curb my disappointment - sadly this did not happen.
  
  I leveled, quested, joined guilds, tried to enjoy the admittedly nice amount of player interaction, 
 but nothing did it for me.
  
  Now, World of Warcraft is not necessarily a bad game, but at the price VS entertainment value, 
 it's just not what I was expecting. Still worth a check out by MMORPG fanatics (although I'm sure 
 most will have already seen the game inside out) and Warcraft nuts.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Replay Value: 4 (unless you somehow manage to get addicted)
  Overall: 
 7
  
  I tried to like this game - I really did, but sadly, Blizzards Magnus Opus, World of Warcraft, 
 just didn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft (WoW) is by far one of my favorite PC games ever. Of course it branches off of 
 the orignal story laid out by Warcraft I-III, but goes much more in-depth that anyone could have 
 ever foreseen Warcraft going. 
  
  In World of Warcraft, Blizzard definetly got into the minds of us gamers. They have features that 
 spread out nicely through all needs or wants gamers might have. For gamers who like games that 
 will take time to complete, WoW takes much time just to level a single player to the max (70 until 
 the next expansion) . For players who like stories, WoW delves deeper into the Warcraft storyline 
 than ever before. And gamers who love upgrades/leveling, WoW offers a max level of 70, for now, 
 as well as new weapons in most instances, professions you can pick up to create your own wep/armor, 
 and the skill trees are pleasing with multiple skills to learn and buffs. Of course, all of this 
 just continues to come at you as blizzard continues to release expansions to the Original WoW. 
 Not to mention all of the PvP you can do to earn reward points and purchase epic items with these 
 points.
  
  However; WoW does have its downsides. Server size used to be an issue, taking an hour or even more 
 to connect. They created new servers to help with this problem, which eliminated all waiting time 
 from the server i played on. However, towards the end of my WoW days, the waiting started up again. 
 Though not nearly as long, waiting only about 5-10 minutes. 
  WoW also tends to get old after awhile. Repetitive gameplay is a threat for gamers who get bored 
 pretty easily. You might get stuck on a character at level 40 so you decide to make a new one, 
 only to find its basically the same concept. Different races and factions help reduce repetitive 
 gameplay, but that only goes so far. As it seems to be the same missions, only in different areas.
 
  Another problem that i have with WoW is how long it takes to level your character to the max levels. 
 Although some people are quick at this, i surely wasn't. Although i don't mind taking a little 
 extra time to level, it does indeed become depressing and frustrating when you discover that the 
 Death Knight class is only unlockable by a high level chain of quests. I am way to impatient to 
 wait until level 70-80 to unlock the Death Knight and play that class. However if you are a patient 
 gamer, WoW is definetly a keeper.
  
  WoW is indeed one of the most epic games ever developed for the PC (or in general) . Someday, it 
 may even go down as the most succsesful game in history. Although i myself am a pretty impatient 
 gamer, even i had hours upon hours of fun playing WoW until the wee hours of the night. If you 
 have never played WoW, it is definetly worth a look see to discover whether or not you think its 
 worth all of the hype. However; i can almost guarantee you, that you will love this game. Sure 
 the long gameplay may be frustrating to some gamers, and starting a new character is kinda hard 
 now n days with most of the WoW population playing thier level 70's, but WoW is a must play for 
 any gamer of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollepof
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I love the huge world, and the opportunities you have.
  You can just quest along. Or you can grind, like I did with one character, it takes a while to 
 ding, but it can be fun. But you can raid too, first i thought you only could raid, whenever you 
 are level 60 or something, but there are lots of instances for all levels. So that's one of the 
 things I enjoyed of this game. You can play this game on your own way.. 
  I love the pvp in this game, its not boring, like much other MMORPG's.
  The graphics could be 
 better, but when the game has better graphics, like Age of Conan, you need a better computer, which 
 can handle those graphics, but that is more expensive and lots of people don't want to spend much 
 money at their computer and then you got less players to play with. 
  I'm sorry, this is my first review:)
  
  
  greets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Out of all online games, World of Warcraft is obviously considered the king of all online games, 
 and I can see why.
  
  When it WoW first came out, it was popular, and considered revolutionary, and yes, it wasn't overrated. 
 It was fun, large, and fit the Warcraft world perfectly. The gameplay was fun and it had some decent 
 difficulty all the way up to Naxx (Last Pre-BC raid) . An announcement for the expansion had everyone 
 excited and for good reasons.
  
  When BC first came out it was great. The 5 mans were better, it appealed to the "casual" audience 
 more, and the "hardcore" at the same time. Seemed like a decent upgrade, didn't change anything 
 much but it was still fun. As Pre-BC did, they were adding raids through patches and such. And 
 later on with these patches they simply... really screwed up and ruined some of the strong points 
 of the game that made it stand so well.
  
  Starting off with the "badge gear". You collect badges from "Heroic" dungeons and raids. Which 
 was fine and great. But later on they added gear that is better than some of the end raid gear. 
 And those "heroic" dungeons weren't very difficult, one of the patches lowered the difficulty drasticly 
 when it wasn't needed.. So with all the new gear.. It made some of the end raids that were so fun 
 and good to have... pointless. Because they took away the attunements, and now you don't even need 
 the raids to gear yourself.
  
  So with that.. There are basicly about three mainstream raids now. Sunwell, Black Temple, and Hyjal... 
 all of which sadly.. Are not difficult. No where near as satisfying as they were Pre-BC. Although 
 many people complained about Pre-Bc raids being difficult, they weren't, they simply required good 
 teamwork. All of them. In these with the exception of a few sunwell bosses are hack and slash.. 
 Yeah... a hack and slash RPG based game. One of the reasons RPGs are supposed to be fun it the 
 epicness and the difficulty, or else it just gets boring. And that was the case here. Many people 
 have quit because of this. yet the sunwell bosses that aren't hack and slash aren't overly difficult 
 or come close to some of the older raids. 
  
  I understand that they wanted to get people to see the end raids before the new expansion, but 
 you'd think maybe it'd be a better idea just to hold the expansion off for a bit to enjoy this 
 expansions' content some more. I can also see that they wanted to appeal to a casual audience which 
 is fine really... but it wasn't such a good idea doing that if you asked me cause really.... There 
 are hardly any "casuals" that play online games like these, especially WoW, with it's reputation.
 
  
  
  
  Despite my complaints about this game, it's still pretty good. But not as good as it was a year 
 and a half ago and before. 
  
  You get many different classes to choose between and they all have great depth to them. The leveling 
 did take quite a bit but I say it adds to the good side, leveling has been upgraded to be more 
 fun, one of the few good patches. It was worth it too.
  
  If you're planning to play this for the PvP... You might want to try something else... It's a bit 
 more unbalanced than before.. Still a bit fun. But the real problem with PvP is Wrath of the Lich 
 King. The new expansion coming. It.... resembles Warhammer... At least to me anyway. I'm not sure 
 if they actually did try to copy that game... I HIGHLY doubt it though.. Not Blizzard's style. 
 Maybe they just seemed to try something new and... it didn't work out. Very unbalanced now. Also 
 the raids.. well seems like on the expansion they're going to make them even easier. People with 
 this expansion are destroying these raids no problem already (Unless your raid group is just.... 
 bad.)
  
  Questing is actually pretty good especially your first time doing it. The game feels like an adventure. 
 You'll go from errand boy to a hero of many lands and the quests have rewards. Some of em are a 
 bit repetitive... But it isn't too often. It's to be expected and it's still fun. There's plenty 
 of armor to choose from to fit your stats too.
  
  
  
  In the end this game is still good.. But no longer for the hardcore or dedicated gamer. It's an 
 exceptional game to play with your friends or with people from the game. The main reasons the endgame 
 raids are and will be fun is if you enjoy the people you are with. But playing with people you 
 don't like or alone will not make the game worth it.
  
  So if you're just curious, a Warcraft fan, or just looking for an online game to play with your 
 friends or family I'd check it out. But other than that I'd be a bit cautious now, not as great 
 as it was in the past. (Dissapointed me because I've always liked Blizzard, thought they were at 
 the top.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so i have been leveling a nightelf rogue for quite a while now, and i got to level 60. i 
 bout the expansion and it raised the level cap to 70, also addind an addition place to the map 
 called "outland". This is were WOW truely beggins !
  
  There are 7 place to go in outland and thousands and thousands of quests to do. levelin from 60-70 
 is really fun beacuse all the new quests and instances to do in each area. Unlike the other places 
 in wow (leveling 1-60) in outland you never never never run out of quests beacsue there are just 
 so many. 
  
  The also added alot of new armor peices and raiding place to do. There is new PVP gear and a new 
 PVP battle ground, a new boss (illiden) , and alot more 10 and 25 man raids to do. 
  
  In this expansion they also added a new type of mount, and that is a flying mount. The one only 
 let down of the flying mount is you can only use it in outland but its still cool. The first mount 
 u can buy starts off at 900 gold (including training and mount) , also just like the ground mount, 
 there is an epic flying mount that is 5000 gold !!!!!!
  
  Overall they really improved WOW in the burning crusade, and added a bunch of new things to do. 
 But WOW: Wrath of the lich king will soon bring even MORE epicness to World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uxal
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  
  Now that I have surpassed the 5000 hours mark in World of Warcraft I think its time for a candid 
 review. World of Warcraft storyline is based on Warcraft 3 the strategy game I wont pretend to 
 know the storyline because I didn't pay attention in Warcraft 3 or here. The point moreover is 
 the gamplay and what a laymen person can derive from this game. 
  
  Let me give you a quick rundown of the game so you know what to expect before you choose to buy 
 or try the free trial. Firstly there are 2 major sides and that's the first big choice beyond which 
 realms/server which you choose to make a character on. Realms are divided into PVE (player versus 
 environment) , PVP ( anyone on opposing faction can kill you in contested territory or territory 
 you don't own) , RP (role-playing) and there are mixtures of those. 
  
  Then you must choose which race you wish to be and what side you want to support. First side is 
 Alliance. The Alliance have Humans, Nightelfs, Gnomes, Dwarfs and Draenei as races you can choose 
 to play as. The horde have Undead, Tauren, Troll, Orc and Blood elf. Then you must choose from 
 the various classes. Mage (long range caster, utility) , Warlock (long range caster, utility) , Warrior 
 (damage sponge, melee) , Paladin ( healer, damage sponge, caster/melee) , Shaman (healer, melee/caster, 
 caster) , Priest (healer, caster) , Rogue (melee) , Hunter (ranged damage dealer) and Druid (damage 
 sponge, healer, caster) . 
  
  
  Secondly you must level your character. The easiest way is going through linear quests in the appropriate 
 area. Secondly there are instances which are small zones where you defeat bosses with a party up 
 to 5 people. Your first time through the game it will be exciting and fun however I have levelled 
 more then 7 characters and it does tarnish after repeated levelling of character buts its tolerable 
 as you can deviate which zones you choose to level. 
  
  Now that you have levelled your character to 70 through quests and instances, sometimes both. You 
 now will reach the real fun. At 70 you have access to what are called raids. Raids instead of instances 
 comprised of 5 players are comprised of 15 and up to 40 players. Most of the end game content are 
 focused towards these raids. You will have to join a guild which are a collection of players connected 
 by a leader in what essentially is a company of sorts. This guild basically forces you to socialize 
 to a certain degree with the other players. World of Warcraft does one great thing and that once 
 you can socialize in your guild and make friends unlike other games that for the most part leave 
 you isolated. Raids forces teamwork if you wish to kill bosses and attain gear to continue moving 
 on to more difficult raids as a collective guild. 
  
  Now you may think is raids the end all and be all? .. Well no. there is a comprehensive player 
 versus player system culminating into what are called arenas. First you have battlegrounds that 
 as you attain kills or are close to be players who are killed you attain honour points which in 
 tern can be used with the specific battleground tokens to buy powerful and specialized player versus 
 player gear. This gear allows you to be more competitive. There are a handful of battleground maps 
 to choose from and a series of different game types from capture the flag to a capturing nodes. 
 Now as battlegrounds are just a large array of different players. Arenas require you to form a 
 team with someone and head off against other formed teams. Arena is usually held as pinnacle of 
 player versus player, much like raids are the pinnacle of player versus environment. 
  
  Now that I have explained what you will see through your travels I left out various skills, there 
 much I could explain but most of those are minor extras that add to the game. If you can bare levelling 
 the 70s level, World of Warcraft has much to offer you.
  
  Now we gone over the game, let me say the negatives. First negative it takes a while to level 70 
 especially if you're a new player more then likely a month if you have school or work. Secondly 
 nothing really matters in this game until you get to 70 as that the level you can start raiding 
 and collecting your serious gear. Also the server you choose can have a great effect on whether 
 you enjoy your stay in World of Warcraft. This is another complaint I have if you choose a bad 
 player versus player server where Horde outnumbers alliance 20-3 and your alliance your in a world 
 of pain. So in short research the realm before you make a character. 
  
  
  Now to the technicalities. The graphics are good and are nothing to complain about. Nor is the 
 sound. Most of the spells look unique which is good. There a lot of variety in things to do and 
 overall I would say past the levelling and its tedium, you can expect to enjoy the game. My advice 
 would be to try the free trial and then make up your mind what you wish to do as It only becomes 
 more fun as you continue your journey . Overall I have played many massively online games but World 
 of Warcraft is one of the more memorable and worthy of anyone's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshbest9
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Well... let's start off with the original World of Warcraft.
  I only had it for about 3 weeks before I got Burning Crusade.
  The new races are extremley cool, 
 yet the Dranei are the most isolated race.
  Blizzard tried to make the city (The Exodar) really cool, yet the most people you get there is 
 probably about 10 at a time.
  And the tutorial quests are pretty boring.
  Blood elves are great, not isolated as much, decent quests, yet it takes a genius to understand 
 the storyboard behind them.
  I haven't yet been to Outland, but I think that there are too many restrictions to get there. Eg, 
 you have to be a certain level to use the Dark Portal...
  The bad things about this game and the original is that it's a very hard decision to choose which 
 race and class you want to be. This is probably because you get to a rather high level, then you 
 see another player, who is a different race/class and you just want to be like them...
  Also, if your friends are on the Alliance and you're on the Horde, there is no way you can contact 
 them through out the entire game.
  Overall, I would say it is a decent game yet it can get quite lonely sometimes when you can't talk 
 to your friends. 
  If you haven't yet played the game, I reccomend downloading the 10 day free trial. You either love 
 or hate this game.
  XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetankfrank
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  A game in which you can either devote your life to it and enjoy or if you are a person who actually 
 has a job. This game is probably not for you, unless you can get into a big guild that will help 
 you, again this game is not for you. Unless you can get into a all star arena team, again this 
 game is not for you. 
  You wont be able to find a group for anything, because everyone either does arenas or battlegrounds. 
 Battlegrounds used to be good, but since they split into battlegroups. They are unbalanced and 
 garbage.
  
  PVP is one sided. If you are Horde you will enjoy winning 99/100 times. But you will have to deal 
 with long que times to get into a BG. If you are Alliance you will enjoy watching your team of 
 AFK players sit and get owned. And instant que times. EVERY system Blizzard comes up with to do 
 somthing about Gold Spammers / AFK players in BGs or any other exploit fail. When a good solution 
 is alot easier then they make it out to be.
  
  Game does run smooth, graphics are dated. Combat is fluid, Sadly the best combat in any MMO to 
 date. Although the Gameplay is severly unbalanced and boring. Crafting is garbage and worthless. 
 Game is over hyped.
  
  Blizzard is the laziest company, which is sad because they make the most money. They come out with 
 1 new set of gear every 6 months or so and call it reason enough for people to keep paying their 
 subscriptions.
  
  New expansion will be comming out in NOV which will make all the time everyone spent at level 70 
 once again worthless. 
  
  Only 4 differnt battlegrounds, which doesnt matter because PVP is so unbalanced its ridiculous 
 anyway. Yes even after what 5 years? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 8
  Multiplayer: 10
  Storyline: 9
  Impression: 9
  
  Score: 9 (8.8 real)
  
  The Burning Crusade uses the same proven formula established by 
 vanilla World of Warcraft, so there aren't too many changes here. Your experience from levels 60 
 to 70 will be very similar to those from 1 to 60. While the gameplay is still good, it would have 
 been nice to see some new quest dynamics or activities to partake in in Outland, rather than just 
 a straight repetition of what we have already seen in the game before.
  
  Obviously, World of Warcraft isn't a shining beacon of graphical acheivement, at least in a technical 
 sense. The lighting isn't great, the models aren't bursting with polygons, and the textures aren't 
 hyper realistic. However, The Burning Crusade has a magnificent art direction that makes the game 
 beautiful despite the fact that it isn't the most graphically advanced out there. The zones of 
 Outland pack an artistic, visual punch, from the haunting-but-lovely Zangarmarsh to the pastoral 
 zone of Nagrand. Upon emerging on the other side of the Dark Portal for the first time, I was stunned 
 by the wonderful look of the sky above Hellfire Peninsula with its moons and the streaming green 
 aurora above. The Burning Crusade looks very, very good.
  
  The music of the game really helps set the mood for the zones you are exploring in, and thankfully, 
 it wasn't all lifted from what was already in the game! While the soundtrack isn't fantastic, and 
 that peaceful tune in Zangarmarsh doesn't really fit when you are being shanked by a lost one assassin, 
 it is consistantly good throughout the entire game.
  
  The new zones in Outland are filled with quests and new things to do... if you are level 58 or 
 above. In all honesty, if you are not high-level enough to go through the Dark Portal, you can 
 hold off on buying this game unless you absolutely must play a Blood Elf or Draenai character, 
 or if you really, really want to take up the new jewelcrafting profession. Otherwise, if you are 
 ready for what Outland has to offer, The Burning Crusade makes for a great addition to the World 
 of Warcraft experience.
  
  The Burning Crusade is a genuinely enjoyable experience, and remains so even after wading knee-deep 
 into it. Even after 70 levels, it continues to be fun and enjoyable, and it provides an incentive 
 to play that most other games lack. If you are high-enough level to experience it, get this game. 
 If you aren't, at least you have something to look forward to once you are.
  
  The Good:
  -Outlands
  -2 new races
  -level up to 70
  
  The Bad:
  -sometimes the music doesn't fit
 
  -some minor glitches and bugs
  -not too much changed compared to WoW in gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  this also gets an 8.5, i mean if you like world of warcraft then this is right up your alley, its 
 just an expansion, gives you the ability to go 10 more levels in rank and go new places as well 
 as try new races.. a little more graphically demanding than wow, but not too much more, again they 
 could of done better, but every developer could of done better on every game... no such thing as 
 a perfect game, atleast not one that i have played and i have played a whole lot of games. though 
 i have a feeling when the wrath of the lich king comes out that the system requirements will go 
 up a little more but thats ok.. i have a system that will run it, and i just got my girlfriend 
 an ati hd3870 that will run it just fine for her as well. but back to burning crusade, it is a 
 good expansion. and would recommend it to all teh world of warcraft lovers out there, though it 
 wont be for everyone of them, but most of them for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadelotuz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't really understand how this game can get 9+ in Scores all over the world. Its not the best 
 MMO game out there, not even close, it just happens to be the most "popular" MMO, and "Populated", 
 and that's not a good reason to give it a high score.
  
  WoW+BC are rather shallow in its gamemechanics. There isnt any real depth to the game. I've been 
 playing it with and without BC, and I didn't notis much difference except two new races, and some 
 extra crafting things. and the game revolves mainly around PvP. Well, down to a short sum.
  
  Good:
  * The system requirements are realy low, so you don't have to spend alot of money 
 on the rig.
  * Its easy to play and controll. With its "one-mouse-button-fighting" system, its almost as casual 
 you can get. You can actually play the game with only the mouse!
  * Its addictive (if you havnt played EVE or DAoC before you started to play WoW, then you probably 
 will be discussed) .
  * Theres over 10 Million players!
  
  Bad:
  * If you like RPGs like BG, then you may be dissapointed on the low character costumizations. Its 
 rather limited. Just shoose a rase among 10, gender, a class among 6 at most, and pic a face, haircolour, 
 skintone etc, and thats it. No Attributes, No Abilities or so. And for a RPG-gamer, this can be 
 frustrating, and/or a bit odd.
  * The Graphics arn't cutting edge.
  * The game lacs some stuff that make you wonder what they do with all of the billions of dollars 
 they get from players each month? Some obvious holes in-game, like; with crafting skills you can 
 "craft" stuff like, swords, axes, armour, guns, ammo etc. but ... somehow bows and arrows isnt 
 one of the craftable objects. Why?
  * Its addictive (but not so much if you played other games before, like EVE or DAoC. You will probably 
 learn to respect thouse games more after a WoW experience) .
  * the Social part is dull, with few emotes, comands etc.
  
  Sum:
  Well, WoW is basically 
 a simpled down Fantasy MMORPG, based on the Warcraft world, with fancy colours, somewhat modern 
 / cool / animesque looking graphics that apeal to MTV generation, that can be played on any rig 
 (computer) , in all ages (even the youngest) . And it has allot of players, witch is essential for 
 a MMO game, to make it fun. Its not the best thing that have happened to computer games, even though 
 it seems like that when there are millions of players. Its like VHS-BetaMAX-V2000 combat. VHS whas 
 inferior to the others, but it won anyway, but it is still worse then V2000.
  
  But one thing that WoW deserves, or Blizzard, is that WoW probably is the smartest created MMO 
 game out in the world. Its Genius to make it addictive, somewhere betwene a Casual game, and an 
 actual hardcore RPG, low system req. etc. Many other games could learn a bit from this.
  
  Score ... of 10.
  Graphics : 6, at most (today anyhow)
  Sound : 7, its ok fantasystuff.
  
 Gameplay : 8, its easy to play, but it could have been deeper.
  Value : 6+ depends on how mutch you love PvP.
  Tech : 5, there is not mutch graphical tweaks 
 etc.
  Tilt : 8, it was rather fun. Mainly cause I met alot of people in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecoldfighter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  About the Game
  
  World of Warcraft stands as the greatest game in the popular Warcraft series
  
  World of Warcraft 
 has been an extraordinary success since its launch in November 2004. It has impressed game critics 
 and has captivated millions of players, who adore the world that the game has created. It is no 
 longer just a game but is now a genuine phenomenon, and one that shows no signs of abating. It 
 is one of the key games of recent times, and stands as a landmark title for online gaming.
  
  World of Warcraft's appeal lies in that it has created a truly engaging online world. This 
 massively multiplayer online role-playing game is set in the world of Azeroth, a fantastic land 
 that is filled with heroes and monsters and many other creatures. The game's strength is that it 
 functions as an experience, as a world that exists on its own terms that you may visit and explore 
 as you please.
  
  World of Warcraft is the 4th title in the series of Warcraft games, which have been entertaining 
 people for over a decade. The series began in 1994 with the game Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, a real 
 time strategy game set in Azeroth. This was a fine title, and a good introduction to the series, 
 but in truth the franchise was just getting started. The best was still to come.
  
  Indeed, it wasn't until 1995 and the release of the second game, Warcraft 2: Tides of Darkness, 
 that the series really found its voice. Warcraft 2 was a masterpiece, and it improved on the original 
 in every sense. The game had beautiful graphics, epic storytelling and fascinating, absorbing gameplay. 
 The high standards of the series continued in 2002, with the release of Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos. 
 This was another classic and a remarkable game in its own right. The predecessors of World of Warcraft 
 were all superb.
  
  Blizzard Entertainment published all of the Warcraft titles, and the games attracted a huge following. 
 When Blizzard announced that there was going to be a 4th game in the series, it was natural that 
 people were interested. This interest intensified when it emerged that the new Warcraft title was 
 going to be an online multiplayer game. World of Warcraft would make Azeroth more interactive and 
 redefine it as an experience.
  
  The fans of the series had high expectations for World of Warcraft, as it promised to be a terrific 
 and innovative new title. Blizzard held a beta test for the game in March 2004, and gave selected 
 players a preview. Those who played it were very impressed and it received great reviews. The anticipation 
 for the game's release grew stronger as 2004 went on.
  
  World of Warcraft was officially launched in North America on Tuesday the 23rd of November 2004. 
 It was well received by critics. The launch was a major success, and it achieved huge sales on 
 its first day of release. Blizzard estimated that 240,000 copies were sold in the first day alone. 
 These were record numbers for a game of this genre and so World of Warcraft became the fastest-selling 
 online game in history. It was a smash hit.
  
  World of Warcraft sustained this success; in fact, the popularity of the game began to snowball. 
 It really took off and caught the public imagination, with more and more people becoming enthralled 
 with it. 2005 saw the game explode into a global obsession. In February it was launched in Europe 
 and in June it was launched in China, with other countries following suit. It proved hugely popular 
 everywhere it was released, and by 2005's close it had more than five million subscribers worldwide.
 
  
  World of Warcraft has evolved since its initial release. There have been a number of updates for 
 the game, and the universe of Azeroth has grown. Blizzard have made improvements, fixed any problems, 
 and have worked to make the game user-friendly. They have also expanded the game, by adding sections 
 like Blackwing Lair, for example, the dungeon lair of Nefarion, one of the villains in the game.
 
  
  In June 2005, Blizzard added major player versus player content in the form of two special battlegrounds, 
 Alterac Valley and Warsong Gulch. Alterac Valley allows players to engage in battles of 40 on 40 
 people, while Warsong Gulch offers new challenges, like stealing your opponent's flag from their 
 camp. These battlegrounds are the most substantial update to World of Warcraft since it was released.
 
  
  Now, in 2006, World of Warcraft is as popular as ever. An expansion, titled The Burning Crusade, 
 is set for release this year, and should expand the world of Azeroth even further. World of Warcraft 
 has become the pinnacle of the Warcraft series, and is a magnificent and distinctive game. 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  You can choose from 10 races (Alliance: Human, Dwarves, Night Elves, 
 Gnomes and Draeneis ; Horde: Orcs, Taurens, Undead, Trolls and Blood Elves) . Once you choose you 
 must do quests to level up to level 70.
  World of Warcraft is simply to control using WASD for moving and the number for casting spells. 
 Mouse is use for moving, camera and spell casting. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  About the graphics, well it's not something that World of Warcraft could be proud of but not bad 
 for a game that appeared in 2004. You will usually see mobs that walk through the walls, climbing 
 on the air to reach you and so on. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Sound is just good but nothing more. 
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  I think I mustn't say that 
 World of Warcraft has a great multiplayer that makes it a real MMO. 
  
  Storyline: -
  
  Though it keeps some bosses, races and places from Warcraft III's story, World of Warcraft hasn't 
 got a story of it's own because your character can do whatever he want, he is not bound to a storyline.
 
  
  Impression: 10/10
  
  Though the graphics or sound don't help it too much World of Warcraft is a great game (my favorite) 
 that is MUST HAVE for MMORPG lovers.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Type: MMORPG ; Producer: Blizzard Entertainment ; Distributor: Best Distribution ; On-LINE: www. worldofwarcraft. com 
 
  
  
  Minimum System Requirements
  
  Windows System 2000/XP OS:
  
  * Intel Pentium III 800 MHz or AMD Athlon 800 MHz
  * 512 MB or more of RAM
  * 32 MB 
 3D graphics card with Hardware Transform and Lighting, such as NVIDIA GeForce 2 
 class card or above
  * DirectX 9.0c (included) and latest video drivers
  * 6.0 GB available HD space
  * 4x CD-ROM drive
  * A 56k or better Internet connection
  
 
  Mac OS X 10.3.9:
  
  * 933 MHz or higher G4, or G5, or Intel processor
  * 512 MB RAM or higher; DDR RAM recommended
  * ATI or NVIDIA video hardware with 32 MB 
 VRAM or more
  * 6.0 GB available HD space
  * 4x CD-Rom drive
  * A 56k or better Internet
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade's makers/developers had a ton of pressure on their hands when making this title. 
 They had to come up with a game that not only had the highest expectations maybe of any other, 
 but they had to come up with a new idea to the best selling game ever. Instead of the "Don't fix 
 what aint broke" philosophy, they went with "How can we make this better?" 
  
  First off, I'm no game creator of any sort, I just play casually. I know nothing about creating 
 a game, but I do understand how difficult it is to make a sequel to something popular. Most sequels 
 whether they be movies or games just don't compare with the original. (Examples: Indiana Jones -- the 
 newest one Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, sucked. Jurassic Park -- no matter how many times they try, 
 they just can't beat the first one) . However, some people are good at it (Zelda, James Bond, etc.) . 
 Coming up with new ideas to a game whose story is already in place and loved is very difficult. 
 You must improve the things the current players don't like and bring in new ideas and challenges 
 to get new players to come in without upsetting the veteran players or the game's delicate balancing 
 act. (By balancing act I mean not letting one or two paths control the game by how powerful they 
 are) . So, my hat's off to the creators of this game.
  
  All-in-all, this game is fantastic. Great new world. Really cool looking worlds filled with extremely 
 dangerous bosses and hard to beat elites. Quests get harder and longer. The experience points necessary 
 to level up get much higher. That's actually something I didn't like. I know it makes it more of 
 a challenge, but for the not-so-serious gamers, it nearly makes you want to quit. 
  
  Quick overview of game: 
  Basically you go through an "unknown" portal into the Outlands to explore 
 this new world, but we all know it's to get awesome gear and the coveted level 70. The game almost 
 turns into a hard grinder from level 65 on, which gets really annoying. Don't get addicted.
  
  Have fun playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendsDragoon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  dude WoW is the greatest multiplayer that was made it destroys most of those old multiplayers and 
 u get addicted really quick so if you get to chance THIS GAME IS A MUST PLAY so get off the other 
 games and start playin this uberlicious game and btw spread it to ur cousins sisters bro. s anyone 
 that might like to play this game im already addicted and you should be too since this game rocks 
 your socks off - and also go to gamespot. com or worldofwarcraft. com for guides, info, stats, or even 
 go to a book store and buy WoW books to show you what you deffinently need to know about the game 
 and if you want go ahead and go on the server Eldas'Qulas and look for me - novaomega (Night elve) , Supertitan (Dwarve) , or 
 durotanar (Orc) and maybye ill see u then and dont mind this lol - ahdgabdggul bfbadugf aegurvravhi 
 edhlga idghalg. ahigb liubg. rli hgabj i have to do thsi jsut to get the reveiw in xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxtonW
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  The World of Warcraft serie must be the most successful MMORPG serie ever, let's face it. But that 
 doesn't mean that it has to be good.
  
  The original World of Warcraft had it's charm, but it was just a great failure at some points.
 
  The original Warcraft story was blatantly raped continued by another team of developers who had 
 apparently not read any of the original Warcraft lore. The leveling system was boring and it became 
 repetitive after the first thirty levels. The end game raiding of the game also required you to 
 spend plenty of time online in order to aqquire some of the best gear.
  
  This concept was apparently very appealing to some gamers, but others just got bored and went back 
 to the games that they used to play after a while.
  
  The expansion to the original World of Warcraft, named the Burning Crusade, didn't bring much originality 
 to the serie. What it brought was more raping of the story, more mindless grinding and raids that 
 required even more of your time in order to be a successful. It's basically the same thing as the 
 old game, with some minor new features. Although I'll have to admit that there are much worse games 
 around, and the Burning Crusade will be fun for some hours, just like it's older brother.
  
  So, basically, if you enjoyed the previous game and want to continue in the same track then 
 I recommend that you buy this game. However, if you don't want to spend money on the same thing 
 then I suggest that you look out for some of the new, upcoming MMORPG's.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SceaduHyrde
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Three years later after World of Warcraft, one of the the most played and addictive game introduced 
 in 2001 Released on 2004 Comes the next long-awaited expansion and known as the time-sucker/life-destroyer.
 
  
  The expansion brings many promises such as flying mounts, increased level capacity, new world with 
 more instances to raid, more areas to farm and quest and explore which will keep players wondering 
 endless hours in it and again, is a life threatening killer.
  
  Despite many speculations on whether it was good or not it remains untold clearly as it is a fantasy-MMORPG 
 where people would dwell and find whether or not they would like it themselves, though, the general 
 population would deem to like it as it targets a wide range of audience from ages of eight, perhaps 
 younger to the age of fourty and above but below eighty. Many liked and many hated the expansion 
 upon its release in early 2007.
  
  Overall, they have had their subscribers increased through the past years and it is still an addictive 
 game, which, does little but destroys vital progress to future careers and life long goals and 
 not to mention relationships as you sit for endless hours grinding, raiding, farming, questing 
 alone or with a group of people and socialization within the guild or community known as General 
 Chat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ser_Random_Task
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I started playing WoW in February 2004. I got a human mage to 60, and I had plenty of other toons 
 - and I loved the game. It was quaint, innovative, seamless - and the early problems, such as the 
 endless quest to find a good group and paucity of decent early-game dungeon loot WAS fixed in the 
 expansion. However, the redesign for end-game content opened Pandora's Box. There exist a few truly 
 stellar instances in TBC, a testament to Blizzard's ability. While there is no sub-standard PvE 
 content, the fact that Blizzard changed PvP itemization, removing most of the effort required to 
 obtain powerful epics. My friend and I, horrified at the clones (people with the same set) walking 
 around everywhere, decided to do a short experiment. We flew around Shattrath (a major hub) in 
 a clockwise pattern at peak hours, counting (by sight) 132 out of 174 level 70 characters equipped 
 with "welfare" epics from the pvp system. Not that many people should have that level of loot. 
 That broke PvP, and the game, for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanegp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game to start out with great lore, races, classes, enviroments but then after you've played 
 to level 70,
  the guilds in game are horrible they all suck and ive played on nearly every server.
  the game 
 play is highly reptitive and gets boring
  after awhile your basically useing the game as an IM that you can kill things in, and the raid system 
 is HORRIBLE i hate that you have to run around teaming up with 40 to 10 other players to do anything, and 
 whats with all the gothic arena armor i didnt pvp for 2 weeks to get a set of armor that looks 
 like some stupid heavy metal band would wear it.
  
  The combat is too like every other mmo if they made the combat like it is in tabula rasa it would 
 have alot more players. Mount system is awesome. pvp is great. chat could be better, support sucks 
 and dosent give a crap. needs more level 70 armor choices. oh yah and pandarens lots and lots of 
 pandarens.
  
  
  but through all the flaws its a pretty solid game, hope it gets better when wrath of the litch king 
 comes out, but i reccomend you play it even if its only for a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welshingham
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  WOW TBC was true to its predecessor in almost every way what was disappointing was that some of 
 the difficulties that made the game fun in regards to pvp and attaining pvp gear and raiding for 
 some epics were removed. Some oldschool wow players might remember when getting T3 was a dream 
 yet most of us ploughed through the hardship to get it and attain greatness now its like get attuned 
 kill boss turn in token and voila i have gear. Its no fun anymore same with pvp. Another thing 
 i found disappointing was the killing of illidan in regards to the story line its minor but i am 
 sure many of u will agree with me on this Illidan is cool and if you take in the lore like me u 
 would know Illidan is a survivor tenacious and determined making him going insane and then being 
 betrayed and killed by us (players) +akama+ Maiev was just .... a big let down to say the least. 
 other than that it was an awesome experience its definately worth getting. Thats just my 2 cents 
 how about you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckealty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  {Sorry I didn't release this review earlier, never really had the time} I have been playing this 
 game for quite awhile now, about 2-3 years, but seriously, this game is not the best for someone 
 who can only play in little blocks. I love to do the instances and the long chain quests, but if 
 you can only get on for 20-40 minutes sometimes, it gets really hard to do some of those things. 
 Other then that though it's a great game. The second you hit outlands, bam, they really lay it 
 on you as to what it's going to be like. First quest I did. Collect blood. I thought, eh, ok, but 
 isn't this kinda the same as what I've been doing for the past 60 levels? So I go to the location, 
 and I'm just thinking, "Great... I have to kill a bunch of 61/62s and get 20 of an item that probably 
 has a 2% drop rate.. Boy was I wrong on the drop rate part anyways! I was getting 2, sometimes 
 3 vials each kill. Anyways, returned that quest and did various others, then I got this strange 
 looking quest, said to get on a flying mount, take a bomb and kill some guys. I thought, what? 
 How do I do that exactly? So I walk up to the guy, and take off. OK, makes sense I guess.. I get 
 the the spawn point for the creatures and wow.. Something about dropping a huge bomb with a smiley 
 face on it on top of 20 some guys and watching them dance around is really satisfying. This is 
 the point when I realized what this expansion was about. From then on, it was quest after quest, 
 and the zones so conveniently placed out. I got from 60-68 in the time it took me to get from 30-60. 
 And then being a druid, I got my flight form and it became a new word completely. Flying on those 
 mounts just makes you see outlands as something completely new. You see just how detailed those 
 mountains up there are, you see the huge designs etched into the ground, you see why they moved 
 the release date half a year back.. And then you see, that the wait was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Thought I Just do a review on this game since its the only game i play on my pc. 
  
  The Burning crusade is very well written story that leads up to alot of quests and eventually to 
 Illidan in the Black temple till the patch came out with the sunwell and kiljaden. 
  
  The pvp side of the Burning crusade I don't like i was a fan of the Rank System in pre bc where 
 you gets ranks every week depending how you did in battleground, now its just easy to get epics. 
 
  
  I do like the addition of arenas but i think they should add 1v1 to there format but i doubt they 
 won't. 
  
  The raids can't get kinda boring if you been in that place awile or months. 
  
  Good feature is the massive increase damage and other stuff from pre bc now you can crit like 
 up 9-10k in raids which is very cool to me. 
  
  When i starting the grinding to 70 the new stuff you got from raids and instances they crush the 
 pre bc stuff out of water real to quick hope they fix that in the Lich king this year. 
  
  Blizzard does do a good job on fixing any problems you have or in the game to improve your likeness 
 of the game like for example the new season 4 gear and Sunwell Raid
  
  Overall a must buy for a pc gamer great MMO for anybody and this game will keep on growing till 
 the end but prolly wont see that for awile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrotech73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  on this game you do things from player v player to fishing to killing hardcore infamous bosses 
 you can lvl a chosen classed character each class with there unique abilities and roles lvl him 
 upto 70 from lvl 1-70 you can go fishing create a guild to raid bosses or even chat to or do a 
 player v player battleground like Warsong gulch and do ctf or play an arathi basin and capture 
 bases from enemies. you can choose professions from blacksmithing to alchemy where you can make 
 unique things and maybe sell em on AH for another player to use what you make. you can get some 
 friends together and do an Arena battle for a really thrilling battle against other players.
  
  and if you think about the monthly payment is like 5 or 10 cents a day which may add upto 20$ 
 every 2 months but dammit this game is worth every penny
  
  ps. on this game most of the best features are available at the last level, 70. so you might be 
 wanting to do alot of leveling and it takes an average player at least 2 months to get to lvl 70 
 so you might wanna put on some music or something while you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The burning crusade came out and i must admit at first, i wasn't a big fan for the fact that it 
 was over-populated and you was just tripping over everybody else, now after the dust has settled 
 i can honestly say that this is a very fun expansion and puts most fully released MMO's to shame 
 even though it is only an expansion! World of Warcraft is still the daddy of all MMO's out there 
 and it will take something very special to beat it.
  
  Places that catch you eye the most are Hellfire Peninsula, Nagrand and Zangarmarsh... all very 
 detailed and gorgeous to look at, others are ok but uninspired in many cases (especially Terrokar 
 forest) , but for pure escapist levels of detail, World of Warcraft is miles ahead of the pack.
 
  
  As before the combat system has been expanded but the depth is huge now you can almost get lost 
 in the stats, however im a warrior and will stay a warrior till the bitter end (or probably because 
 i don't like playing any other class) , but all in all forget all the wannabee's, WOW is where the 
 fun is at! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esiaz1
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't get it, really I don't - what is different between WOW and the hundreds of other MMORPG's 
 out there? - It's the same grind, the same quest kill x to get x as all of the other games of it's 
 genre... TBC added Jewel crafting? whoopie.. and two new races a spacegoat and a lighter skinned 
 nightelf... whoopie. The only thing I can think of is the population - 9 million or so players 
 is a lot of people so I guess it keeps the world feeling alive... Other than that I find that WOW 
 is way way way overrated. I've never liked this game really and I, as I said, cannot see why it 
 appeals to so many people - especially to lose real life things like work and girlfriends over..
 
  
  I don't get it, really I don't - what is different between WOW and the hundreds of other MMORPG's 
 out there? - It's the same grind, the same quest kill x to get x as all of the other games of it's 
 genre... TBC added Jewel crafting? whoopie.. and two new races a spacegoat and a lighter skinned 
 nightelf... whoopie. The only thing I can think of is the population - 9 million or so players 
 is a lot of people so I guess it keeps the world feeling alive... Other than that I find that WOW 
 is way way way overrated. I've never liked this game really and I, as I said, cannot see why it 
 appeals to so many people - especially to lose real life things like work and girlfriends over.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say...
  
  I brought this game last year and since then i have had my ups and my downs butnthis game is the 
 best MMORPG I have ever played.
  People say it cots to much but i tell you something it is Definatly worth it.
  well last year 
 i played a warrior and got bored and then came back to the game this january and then made a new 
 account so i dident have to share
  with my brother and since then i had made a mage and since level 1 - 70 i did not get bored or 
 quit once.
  Once i hit level 58 thats when the fun really starts to kick in as you get to enter the new World 
 "Outlands" and it opens up so much more for people that dont have a level 70 character and its 
 also an experience that you will love to repeat on a different Character Over and over again as 
 each time it will allways be different. Once hit level 70 theres so much more to do , so you can 
 do many things such as Player vs Player or INstances to get better armor so you can gear up for 
 the bug instances thatyou will experice later after hitting level 70. Both of these you can continue 
 over and over again as it wont get old as u get better so does everything around such as pvp the 
 better you get the harder your oppenents get if your in arena or in Pve the better your gear the 
 betters riads you can go on and the monsters will drop better armor the harder they are. And still 
 you can still play for 2 - 3 years and still there will endless things to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonhns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game since beta and I would have to say its an awesome game but i think its 
 time for change. Wow is an addictive game and know people that have lost there jobs, girlfriend, 
 wife, and friends over it. The game is great and all but not to throw all that away. The game is 
 very user friendly and its easy to pick up. Its also easy to get to lvl 70 now, which for people 
 new to the game i guess its helps to catch up. But for the seasoned gamers its sucks because they 
 worked hard to get to 70 and now you got people lvling there in about 5 days.
  
  The greatest thing about BC is the flying mount, even tho it cost an arm and a leg, it makes traveling 
 so much faster. It gives the game a lil more freedom, instead of flying on a set path.
  
  They game is still one of the best MMOs out there, and I hope it only gets better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-S
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, I am a fan and a player myself. Started playing probably a few days after 
 this expansion was released so unfortunately I can't rate the game on how it was pre TBC, but been 
 playing ever since. I have a range of characters including level 70s so yes I know what end game 
 is like too.
  
  Now moving on... personally, when I think of an MMO, I imagine a massive virtual world just aching 
 to be explored. Honestly though, WoW's world is tiny. Feel free to disagree but its fact really, 
 after a while your gonna wanna start to level an alt, maybe because your not sure your first class 
 is the one for you, or maybe because you just wanna get a taste of the others. Thing is, once you 
 get to level 15-20ish, you'll end up in the same zones, doing the same quests as you have on previous 
 characters. Now this, IMO, damages the replay value and makes the game repetitive.
  
  Not only do you find you have to do the same quests again, but even if you do new quests, you'll 
 find that from zone to zone the quests are similar. Kill x amount of this, collect x amount of 
 this, gather x amount of this plant and so on. The only difference is that the creatures you kill 
 or the plants you collect change depending on the environment. Again, this makes it more repetitive. 
 All this repetitiveness can make the game become boring fast.
  
  Another issue I find with the smallness of the world is that you can't truly take in and enjoy 
 the world around you. If you try to stop and gaze in awe at a sunset then within seconds you are 
 likely to have a bear chewing on the back of your head because almost every foot of each zone has 
 a mob on it. This can also come under graphics, as the scenery may not be seen as impressive and 
 awe inspiring as its unrealistic compared to other MMOs such as FFXI for instance, however the 
 graphics are still lovely in their own light. Lush and colourful, an escape from reality.
  
  The final thing I find that damages the game is the patch which made it easier to level from 
 1-60. Seriously, now new players can get to 70 in a few days. There is no skill required, so you 
 don't get that sense of accomplishment. You don't see level 70 characters run past you in game 
 and think "wow they must be hardcore" or gaze at them in envy. Which I think is a shame because 
 then when you get to level 70 there are only a few things left to do, PvP and raid. Which soon 
 becomes routine and once again, repetitive. 
  
  A few of you must be thinking well if you think all that then why do you play? Well I have an answer 
 to that, I don't. I've stopped playing for 2 months now in a hope that I won't find what I do the 
 all the same routine anymore, but I still do. The main reason I haven't deleted my account is because 
 of the friends I have made on there. I would also like to give WOTLK a chance too. 
  
  Overall, it's a great game, but it's small scale and repetitiveness just bring it down a few pegs. 
 It's like marmite I guess, love it or hate it. Everyone has their preferences in MMOs and if like 
 me you like to explore, enjoy beautiful environments and want a challenge, then try another game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber-Cyrax
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  The expansion to the most played game in the world is just as perfect as the original WoW, providing 
 the game with plenty of new items, two new races, a whole lot of quests, a big new continent and 
 a possibility to get to level 70, and that's not even all.
  
  While the 10 millions of WoW players could choose between 8 races, now the Draenei and Blood Elves 
 are coming in each of the Alliance and the Horde respectively, and gamers from lvl 58+ can access 
 Outland by the Dark Portal, which is new from the BC expansion. Also, for those who were already 
 tired in the whole lot of professions you could work in, Jewelcrafting lets players put gems (as 
 the name strongly suggests lol) in socketed items to upgrade them. Also, there are many dungeons 
 which were added and a new battleground located in the new continent.
  
  All that (and I'm not talking about everything nor the upcoming patches) just to make us understand 
 that there's no limit in what you create in this game. Also, for those who were eager to go up 
 from their lvl 60 chars, well they can.
  
  In one word, Blizzard Entertainment = Excellent. If they could make a World of Starcraft... life 
 would be perfect... lol joke, but still, I believe that World of Warcraft: Burning Crusade deserves 
 as much credit as the game it's based on and lives on through eternity like every other Blizzard 
 game... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  All the Burning Crusade expansion was good for was adding two new races. I hate Outlands and I 
 hate that the max level was moved up to 70. As if getting to level 60 didn't take us long enough. 
 Flying mounts were the only thing that made me wanna get to lvl 70. Everything else like new instances 
 I could care less about. And getting to lvl 70 takes so damn long, I don't think I'm gonna bother 
 trying to get to lvl 80 in the next expansion.
  
  About outlands, the zones are so boring and I could tell Blizzard didn't spend much time on them. 
 They're giant fields with each with their own textures on the ground, and random towns and fightable 
 NPCs placed throughout. It's like Blizzard took a plot of land, copied and pasted it a whole bunch 
 of times and placed random enemies and towns throughout. The zones in Azeroth were all unique and 
 didn't feel repetitive like Outland's zones. The quests were all the same too, mostly grinding 
 quests.
  
  I have this expansion only for the new races and better gear. Other than that I think this expansion 
 is boring and a waste. Playing in outlands feels like playing any other boring MMO that you can 
 download for free online, those kind of games where the company puts no effort into making it and 
 uses a giant field for the whole world and throws a bunch of enemies and towns in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetbuster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has become the world for gamers all around. Though it is about time for lich king lvl 
 70 has to be occupied while its in development, 2.4 does this quite well and puts real challenge 
 on players. 
  With servers all around the world the game is really the biggest of its kind to date and with a 
 full world its no wonder they are playing from the Blood Elves to the Dranaei, rouges to paladins, 
 tanks to dps's the characters are very real and very unique together with the certain style of 
 artwork for the game and on high detail this game does feel very real. 
  Then there is the variety of monsters bosses and quest lines making it seem like something larger 
 is happening in the world, with the instances they reset after a week giving you the opportunity 
 for you party to hack away at them untill hello the big boss is dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, 
 people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i 
 were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk 
 to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in 
 this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here 
 it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, 
 people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i 
 were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk 
 to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in 
 this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WEATHERman3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a legend. The very best PC game i have ever played in my life. When first getting 
 into it, its kinda overwhelming, but the more you play, the better, cooler, awesomer it gets!!! 
 This game is one of the easiest to play and learn to play, as the more you play it, the deeper 
 and more complex it becomes, but almost never becomes a bore. I have probably spent almost 1,000 
 hours of my life playing this amazing game. For anyone! this game, you will love, the characters 
 and teams and classes are intriguing. Blizzard really did a wonderful job with this one. I can 
 no longer wait for the expansion. The idea that Blizzard incorperated into this is truly amazing 
 and i love this game. Be careful however, usually games get in the way of your life. Your life 
 may get in the way of the game. There have been dozens of nights that i have stayed up the whole 
 time, just playing this game. I have never experienced or played a better game. 
  
  I reccomend this to everyone, but do actaully be careful, you may get a bit carried away.
  
 
  This game to me is a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Alright lets state a few good things this game offers before I bash it into middle earth.
  
  This game was released 3 years ago and the graphics are pleasing, comparing it to todays MMPORG's 
 like Age of Conan and soon to arrive Warhammer Online its not to off.
  
  Also the game offers alot with character customization, talent trees, sockets in a way that doesnt 
 really matter. All classes only have one specific tree that is really viable in top end PvP. You 
 wanna be a priest you gotta be Discipline unless you wanna get owned all day playing Shadow. You 
 wanna play an Enhancement Shaman (Melee) have fun playing for the 1 minute your gonna be alive 
 and it goes on.
  
  Balance? HaHa yea right. This game is in version 2.4.2 right now and Warlocks have been overpowered 
 since 1.4 . Pew Pew anybody? Resto Druids are just godly in 2v2 and 3v3 arena and are basically 
 unsurpassed by any other healer. You dont beileve me take a look at the top teams in the Armory. 
 Funny enough it seems Blizzard is not taking to much initiative to fix these balance issues , while 
 instead they opt to take it to the competition level when its not competition ready.
  
  Basically the Resilence system is horrid, and I dont really understand how this system killed the 
 game but it has taken alot of feel out of the game.
  
  If you want a PvE game and farm all day this game rocks. On the otherhand if you happen to be a 
 PvP player have fun running around doing nothing all day in IronForge or Ogrimmar depending on 
 Faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is real cool game and can be very addicting. You can fight cool creatures from the Original 
 Warcraft Series. You can choose between Alliance and Horde.
  Alliance: Human, Dwarf, Gnome, Night Elf, and Draenei.
  Horde: Orc, Tauren, Troll, Undead, and 
 Blood Elf.
  You can also choose the classes,
  Rogue: more of a stealthy / fast killling type.
  Paladin: is a healing tank.
  Warrior: tank 
 that can kill and take hits.
  Mage: a type that uses magic to kill.
  Warlock: a type that uses Demons, and magic to kill.
  Shaman: like a savage healer, creates totems 
 to heal, or kill.
  Priest: more of a healer that just heals.
  Hunter: a ranged type that uses Pets, guns, bows, and crossbows to kill.
  (Not every race has 
 all of these classes)
  
  The highest level you can reach is a level 70, (Original World of Warcraft is level 60) , also in 
 this it has new land called the Outlands. For me it is hard to reach that far. It takes plenty 
 of time, it took my friend 2 months to get from level 60 to 70. 
  
  It might take alot of time but its very fun to play, just because its not like anything else. If 
 there is anyone with multiple MMORPG's this needs to be one of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  First of all, World of Warcraft was (and still is) a brilliant MMORPG. How they could improve on 
 it, I didn't know. Then they brought out the Burning Crusade, and I knew. One of the first things 
 you will probably notice and hear about the Burning Crusade is that you get to play as two new 
 races. These are the Draenei, a mystical and shamanic race who follow the path of good and the 
 Blood Elves, an ancient race whose thirst for magic ended up banishing them form their homeland 
 and becoming addicted to mana. As well as these new races, you get the raised level cap up to level 
 70, allowing you to carry on playing as your favourite character even more. Also, there is a completely 
 knew area to explore called Outland, where you get to ride flying mounts across the great distances 
 and fight in the Cavern of Time, reliving ancient battles. As well as all of these things there 
 are a plethora of new quests, factions, and items that make you want to keep plugging away to customize 
 your own hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakerunner
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I love World of Warcraft, sadly I never played the RTS games and therefore dont know much of the 
 background and all but Im a lvl 53 Blood Elf Pally *FOR THE HORDE!!!* and Im loving it. I never 
 played the game without Burning Crusade so I dont have much to say about how much they added in 
 and all but some of the most recent updates added some cool new areas etc. Also with Burning Crusade 
 lvl cap at 70 which is nice also considering its gonna go up to 80 soon with WotLK. But all in 
 all World of Warcraft is the best MMORPG, yes you have to pay but its like buying 1/4 of a new 
 video game a month which isnt bad. Expectally with the pay by 6 months at only 12.95 a month or 
 so which just makes it better. But what makes this game amazing is how many ppl their are. Also 
 just the user friendliness of menus and how easy it is to get a guild together and how easy and 
 good the character creation page is. Then there is mounts. w00t pally mount free w00t. But I like 
 that at lvl 40 *I think* you get a mount which increases your traveling time. Also if you play 
 on the right server you get really fun Ally vs. horde going on around the questing world instead 
 of only inside of PvP arena, which they also got. Like the Grand Areana festival which is amazing. 
 That is only ever once in a while also it cost a little to get in but boy o boy the goodies inside. 
 
  
  
  This is another review that has been filled to the best of my ability without dazing out here *been 
 awake a straight 38+ hours, lol* Sorry for everything else I left out but I hope you find this 
 review interesting and useful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmotan
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Y played this game since patch 1.08 at first it was simple a lot of skills a priceless talets tree 
 and a lot of strategy. After 1.12 thing got a bit more interesting, more items more opportunities, 
 when y think how simple it was at the beginning with full block and at max lvl with 2-3 k hp and 
 now spinning big numbers, it has changed a lot. With The Burning Crusade a new beginning was unleashed 
 for all experienced players, new zone with new items new boss new everything even talents skills 
 spells just like a brand new game. What y loved the most is the lvl'ing, you can do it in a lot 
 of ways, quests, just killing mobs, in a party, high lvl and less or low lvl and more often any 
 thing that gives you high xp/h. But what separated this game for others is the multitude of things 
 that you can use in various situation, like u can use interrupt from a spell or an item, you can 
 make you're own weapons, armors, arrows, enchant them or just some fun stuff (with engeniring) . 
 Also the game allows a lot of strategies to be used with help from tallent tree and items, some 
 may thing that the best items win... well it is not so a t4 vs a t6 can win it all depends on tallents 
 and class, some classes are a bit better versus other classes (warrior versus paladin... paladin 
 wins) . Another thing that y like about wow is the updates... if u get bored (dono how) after a 
 while there will be a new update new items usually and then u go and thy to find them, there is 
 no stopping in wow y played it for more than 4 years and still now bored of it. The best and almost 
 only thing you can do at max lvl and best items is pvp. Pvp in this game is one of the best, you 
 can do it in arena, in teams, raid other faction's city or just meet one in an neutral zone. But 
 mass pvp is not just for fun you can get some of the best items with pvp points (honor) , and my 
 favorite is battlegrounds win those and u get honor, badges (for buying diverse items or gear) and 
 reputation, with which you can buy epic mounts and items. Y could brag wow for a few years but 
 some things are better left discovered.
  In conclusion if u never played world of warcraft, DO IT!!! you will no regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I used to be this incredibly addicted WoW fan. Let me start off by saying that I just don't play 
 at all anymore, I have gone cold turkey. While some of the reasons I have left were simply the 
 way the game works in general (such as you can go into a raid and kill a boss 200 times and he 
 will still be there to greet the next group of adventurers) there were many possible improvements 
 that just didn't come. Firstly, the quests are always kill this a certain number of times, kill 
 this guy and get this drop, kill this species and collect their teeth, or go around and pick up 
 something off the floor thirty times. Either way, there is no originality in what you do. Nothing 
 changes. I am not going to argue that whole "Oh the game never ends" argument because that is just 
 the way the game is designed from the start. The "new" content fails to do one thing: be new.
 
  
  I was a massive fan who played for months and frankly I got tired of the raid bosses being so similar. 
 I was a Restoration Druid and every single fight is here, go there and heal something. If you are 
 a tank, its here tank this in that direction. A large majority of the time the only real variations 
 in fights are when rotations in setup are done (and they occur ALL THE TIME so that aspect isn't 
 even interesting anymore) . The artwork is clearly taken from previous games, and when Blizzard 
 put their creative noggin to work they could only thing of three or four really "new" creatures, 
 or even those from the previous Warcraft games.
  
  I gave this an 8.5 because in reality, people who subscribe to this genre of gaming will have a 
 blast playing. It does get very old very quickly depending on what class you play and what guild 
 you are in. The whole idea that the guild is so important really turns me off as well. There are 
 many players ho will never get to see the best content in the game simply because they can't invest 
 the hours no matter how good a player they are. There are also very snobbish players in the guilds 
 who will not accept certain members based on age (and that happens a lot) . There are also massive 
 fights in-guild way too commonly among many guilds. Blizzard should make a much stricter hierarchy 
 of how the guild is set up and make predetermined positions or allow the guild to make stronger 
 positions. There was much that Blizzard could have done by way of GM support for a game that costs 
 fifteen dollars a month. There was also a general smugness of players on many of the servers I 
 have been to based on how good they are. I was in a rather good guild, probably top six relative 
 to progression. I have played through many different boss fights and led Karazhan groups numerous 
 times. The fact that so many different problems arise among the actual people playing is just saddening.
 
  
  Another factor regarding gameplay is that the characters really are repetitious and there are no 
 significant plot developments... ever. The fact is that this game sends level four players on missions 
 that will "save the empire". They are sent by level 30s. That doesn't make ANY sense. The reason? 
 WHY WOULD THIS LEVEL 30 NOT JUST GO HIMSELF?!?!
  
  Overall, the new level cap and flying mounts are the really big improvements, clearly. The level 
 cap only adds frustration to many players because there are distinct class advantages as the levels 
 go higher. Many players get to these high levels and feel they chose wrongly in the beginning, 
 and Blizzard offers no real advice or insight to beginning players who wish to become real raiders. 
 The sad fact is that if a really determined gamer gets to 70 on a DPS Warrior, the only way they 
 will raid is if they have the crazy gear. How do they get that gear? By going on raids that the 
 guild the app'd to goes on.
  
  The addictive nature of the game is also a little bit disheartening to many. I found myself not 
 enjoying many things I did yet I still would reliably go to my computer like a zombie just drawn 
 to this game. My brother owns the game and always plays for many, many hours each day.
  
  Overall, I just didn't really enjoy my experience with the game. I am sure there are those that 
 disagree with me. Based on the new additions to the game, I had to give it higher than a 7 or 6, 
 and less than a 9 because I didn't really like it. There were times I definitely did enjoy it without 
 a doubt, but those times faded fast when I was killing buzzards for buzzard meat and then helboars 
 for helboar meat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLSYOU123
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This Game is an addiction that should be reckoned with As it may not look like much but it can 
 pull you in like quicksand as you fight and fight but can't resist to level up your Character and 
 PWN those obnoxious N00Bs (Sorry) The Battlegrounds are a great touch and the vast amounts of realms 
 give you a great choice of playability because you'll never never know who is playing but I would 
 advise staying away from the Role-Playing servers because I mean come on those people are just 
 plain sad but the PVP servers are alot of fun with a group of Friends and give you Honor points 
 so you can buy fantastic peices of armor too make your character a powerful warrior or warlock 
 but watch out you will be constantly challenged as the game won't level up with you as in Oblivion 
 but is still the most fun I have had in a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinegrinder17
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Aright where to start. I have played this game through to the maximum level (70 for those who do 
 not know) . The truth is the games graphics are not that good, the sound is pretty cool, everything 
 you do is repetative with no reward, and i gave it a 10 because blizzard perfected just what they 
 wanted to do. Create the most addictive game out there. I have talked to many people and i know 
 how it works. You will either play 5 minutes in and say "hey this has no point and its the same 
 damn thing" or you will keep on playing, even if you want to stop. The objective of this gme for 
 you will be t get better gear, always. This task is endless because people dont catch on that new 
 gear is always being created. I would never suggest this game, but from the time playing it i must 
 say it was an enjoyable game, sometimes sop frustrating i want to punch a hole through the wall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  With this expansion for Wow, I would say that blizzard did a great job. The timing of the realse 
 was a bit off on the other hand. Like a month or two before this expansion came out blizzard had 
 brought out a new 40 man raid. Now since it was a month or two before it had come out many people 
 didn't get to get into it, but that isn't BC's fault :P. BC was awesome with its many new instances 
 and raids. Introducing a new lvl cap, and many new abilities for the classes. Always blizzard introduced 
 flying mounts; one of the best thing in Wow since BGs :D. My personla favorite part of BC was the 
 new armor sets. The realse of T4 T5 T6 and now T6.5 with sunwell. 
  
  With the next expansion soon to come out possibly in the next few months. I'm not sure on that 
 thought I'm just hoping it takes at least till this holiday season, so for us players that don't 
 have what we really need armor and such. Anyways I can't wait for it and I know many people are 
 the same way. Thank you for reading MC out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trodeback
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  As always, I love every game Blizzard makes, and WOW has no exception. I put off playing it until 
 the Expansion came out, because I've always been hesitant about playing online games. 1st of all 
 the cost, and 2nd I'm more of a solo player. Me vs Computer. After a friend introduced me to the 
 realm of World of Warcraft I've become like the millions of other people who have found my self 
 day after day running instances, making gold, and raiding towns for a thrill of killing off the 
 other faction. WOW is set up as a 3rd person RPG. You have the ability to choose from a number 
 of different classes, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. I must say that no one class 
 is above or below the other. Blizzard made a good job at making every class have their own little 
 advantages against your apposing player. You work at creating your own character into the ultimate 
 fighting machine by completing quests in a vast world and obtaining higher levels to acquire better 
 armor and weapons. The best gear in the game is free, but at a cost of running instances (special 
 side missions with groups where you kill bosses that drop special armor) or doing battlegrounds 
 ( team fighting against other real players) . The monetary system of the game is based off gold. 
 You make gold by acquiring a profession, and gathering resources around the world to create items, 
 the more experience you have in your profession (ie: the more stuff you've made) you gain the ability 
 to create better more valuable items. The game is very indepth and takes a good amount of time 
 to learn enough about to feel like you know what your doing. I find myself frequently helping other 
 people with questions, but it's the nature of the game. Members of the same faction can form guilds 
 that will help new players become better, faster. The only downfall to the game is it does require 
 a fair amount of time to become good at, and doing quests and trying to make money can be very 
 mundane at times. Trying to get the best armor and weapons in the game for your character is nearly 
 impossible without investing many hours a week to the game. Some people might be inclined to play 
 on private servers, where rates are much higher and require less time to maximize your character, 
 however these servers are not very reliable causing you to frequently disconnect, and many aspects 
 of the WOW game are glitched or inoperable. For a truly superb experience of the game I suggest 
 playing on a retail server. This is by far my favorite MMORPG, but be prepared to sacrifice some 
 social time for a good character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freax5121
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Even though, there is much excitement, and danger as well, the game is boring on many levels, because 
 you have to pass through many levels and acquire many items until it gets fun. And that grinding, 
 solving quests, collecting items is a real bummer. You could go onto a funserver and skip all that, 
 but then you don't really know what the hell you're doing, so it's not fun anyway. And I don't 
 quite like the graphics, it reminds me of a cartoon, and I'm not that fond of cartoons myself. 
 All of you WoW players may call me a noob that didn't learn how to play, but I tell you, trust 
 me when I say, when you quit, it feels so much better. I recently started a diet and lost 10 pounds, 
 it feels the same as quitting WoW, like a big burden coming off of my chest
  Btw, all those instances and those raids, you are actually trying to be someone you couldn't be 
 in real life. But that couldn't be farther from the truth. If you really leave WoW alone, you could 
 indeed be much more satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that this expansion is decent, but there could have been a lot more done with 
 it. It all boils down to the same thing GRINDING - time sink. To make matters worse... Blizzard 
 decided to really take the factions thing to the limit. Needless to say the only way to gain factions 
 is GRINDING. 
  
  All that grinding to get "better" armor and items. Second, I have always had an issue with the 
 professions as they are set up. When the items made are worse than what drops in instances .. well 
 why bother. It costs a fortune in time and gold to produce items, so why not just sink you're time 
 into one thing - instances. They need to update player made items to be (at least a good portion 
 of the items) better than drops - then there would be a purpose for all that work and would boost 
 the economy for player made items.
  
  Having said all that, The Burning Crusade is pretty much the same as basic wow. Just more of it. 
 The economy is horrible due to gold farmers and the time sink is extensive.
  
  Having read this you decide. If you have the time, and want to just have different places to play 
 other than the beginning first WOW maps.. then purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gobrowns17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. This is a pretty good sequal to WoW. Finaly, the alliance have a Shammy! 
 Outlands are great. It is a amazing world. The quests are kinda cool, but can get boring. The quest 
 rewards are sweet, and are kinda hard to get. The instances are fun. Its pretty hard to level 60-70 
 though, which gets anoying, but its worth it when you hit level 70. This game is awesome.
  The price is good for this game. World of Warcraft the Burning Crusade is worth getting and playing 
 of course if you have played world of Warcraft.
  Theres also a new proffesion, Jewelcrafting. You can make jems which is awesome! But a lot of things 
 are expensive and hard to get and its kinda hard to make money in WoW. You can go and farm, but 
 it takes so long, but its worth doing it. Thank you for reading my review. Get world of warcraft 
 Burning Crusade right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justincor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Sell your soul? If you answered yes then WoW is the best game for you. It is a great game that 
 will prevent you from playing anything else for years at a time, it will have you making deadlines 
 and schedules that could possibly hurt loved ones, lose your job, and ruin you life. Just ask yourself 
 if its worth it. The rewards of the game are all personal on account of there is no end to the 
 game, it also requires days up on weeks of playing to fully explore the game world, it is not for 
 everyone and will most likely turn off many players.
  
  On the other spectrum the game can be greatly rewarding taking you away from the real world were 
 you can create a character and turn him into a hero. You can join Guilds and make friends across 
 the nation, work together to kill monsters and raid dungeons to improve your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgkennedy5
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  "WoW is the most time consuming game I have ever played. I'm not saying that in a bad way, it has 
 so much content lots of the time you are just deciding what you are going to do next. It is tons 
 of fun and really addictive. Anybody can pick it up and start playing even if they have never played 
 before. If you don't think the graphics or sound is good, you can change it to your liking because 
 the options menu gives you tons of options. Blizzard made this game spectaculor just like all of 
 their other games. Even if you do get bored of it, give it some time and you will definetly be 
 playing it again soon. The only problem is that once you reach the max level, there is not much 
 to do unless you are a hardcore WoW junky. I'm not saying their is nothing, but you have to have 
 lots of time to do things like instances and raids. Other than that, there are no flaws. It is 
 insanely fun and I have never got bored of my WoW experience. Oh yeah, every single sound and piece 
 of music in the game is from "Baldur's Gate'. But I don't see that as a problem because that was 
 an amazing game "
  
  Apart from this, WoWtBC adds a while new level of deptth to the game. A whole new world to explore 
 and to level in. I liked the questing a lot more from level 60-70 because many of the quests were 
 more interactive instead of just killing things. Flying mounts and secret areas, as well as TONS 
 of new instances also made the XP enjoyable. Also there were new races, which were extremely fun 
 to play. However again, once you hit level 70 you can't do much unless you are a hardcore WoW junky. 
 Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade brought a lot of great additions to an already great game. The new races are 
 very fun to play, and now you can get World of Warcraft and The Burning Crusade for about fifty 
 dollars together. The new content is pretty great, Outland along with flying mounts are awesome. 
 I would recommend that if you can afford the monthly payment to go ahead and try out this awesome 
 MMORPG. I will tell you that there is one thing that can enhance the World of Warcraft experience 
 that Blizzard can't supply. If you can get a bunch of your friends to play this game with you, 
 well you will have a lot of fun. No kidding, I enjoy this game and play it a lot more when my friends 
 are online with me. If you have World of Warcraft, pick up the expansion, you won't be disappointed. 
 If you don't have World of Warcraft and you are looking at this review, go ahead and download the 
 trial off their site and see how you like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joaovpo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  World of warcraft achieved a new level of Online gaming, the MMORPGS these days barely can achieve 
 what WoW (World of Warcraft) has achieved.
  
  This game is great, the World is big, it's proportional to Manhatan Island,
  you will explore 
 all kinds of places, you will see wonders beyond your imagination, Jungles, Deserts, Cold Mountains, 
 anything.
  
  You will fight all kinds of monster, to boars, to Demons, to Spiders, to Bizarre experiences.
 
  You will do instances, that are dungeons, when you and your party enter then, it become a exclusive 
 world for you, no one else can enter.
  There will be a lots of stronger monsters, bosses that will drop rare itens,
  there are dungeons 
 for 5 players, for 10 and 20 players together.
  You can also make parties of 40 players and invade your opposing factions towns and attack them.
 
  There are 2 factions, alliance and horde. You will always encounter your enemies in the land and 
 fight them. It's a very good PvP.
  
  With this expansion, the burning crusade, when you reach level 58, you will be able to pass through 
 the Dark portal, and enter a whole new world.
  Outlands.
  It is the homeland of the orcs, now dominated by Demons, The Burning Legion. There you will face 
 new challenges, new monsters, dungeons, itens, and a beautiful landscape.
  This is the game you must play.
  World of Warcraft, try for free for 10 tens at the official 
 website, www. worldofwarcraft. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joures
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade (TBC) is the expansion of the critically acclaimed game of Blizzard, World of 
 Warcraft. It has many new features such as an increase to the level cap, from 60 to 70, two new races, the 
 Draenei and the Blood Elves and a new location, the Outland which is half as big as Azeroth, the 
 world of the original WoW. It also has new mounts, new items, new dungeons and many many more features 
 which are constantly getting updated. There is also the Arena a place where PvP battles take place 
 in pairs of 2v2,3v3 and 5v5 as well as a new Battle ground in addition to the older three, the Eye 
 of the Storm. The graphics and the sound section are almost of the same quality as that of the previous 
 game... exceptional. Buy this expansion if you have only the original version of WoW. If you dont 
 have the original either... then buy that too:) !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft for the PC is a great game. The graphics are superb, as is the sound. The gameplay 
 is so addicting, complex, yet simple, that this game is truely a work of art only to be appealed 
 by extreme gamers.
  
  The main problem with this game is that for newcomers, this game is so hard that you immediatly 
 get turned off from the game before you even get a chance to get sucked in. The game should start 
 out a lot easier and gratualy get harder so people will understand how to play instead of jumping 
 into a world of difficult tasks and battles.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to anyone truely seeking a challenge and wants to be a part of the 
 biggest game on the internet. If you're not too
  farmiliar with how MMORPGS work, have no patience at all, or even don't have too great of a computer. 
 Then this game is definitely not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinlh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for a long period of time, having 3 level 70's and a few others on the 
 way, I feel as though the game is getting old. This happens with most games, though, and I definitely 
 suggest playing the game to level 70 for the story and game-play. The Player-versus-player in the 
 game is by far the smoothest and most intensive of MMORPG's although some changes have made the 
 game lose its sheen. Resilience's addition (For those who don't know, it is the statistic that 
 reduces the chance to be hit by a critical hit, and reduces the damage criticals do to you) has 
 slowly deteriorated the foundation of play. The Dev-team has recently been focusing on PvP, making 
 changes based off of needed balance adjustments in Arena, while hindering Player-versus-environment 
 (Dungeons) . The game is a must-have, but not a long-term commitment, as it gets to the point where 
 logging on to play seems tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antinate
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I'm revising the earlier review I wrote for Burning Crusade, where I gave an 8.7, because at the 
 time I was just playing my first Blood Elf.
  
  I said it before on my vanilla WoW review, and I'm going to say it again: This game's popular. 
 What makes it so popular? Well, a number of people, like me, got World of Warcraft because of the 
 Warcraft tag on it, and I was excited to pick up this game after the great fun I had playing the 
 Warcraft III campaigns over and over again.
  
  When you first pick up World of Warcraft, you imagine a huge, rich world filled with exciting nooks 
 and crannies and gorgeously detailed environments, as well as the option to make more characters 
 with different varieties so you can just keep on playing this awesome, sickeningly fun game over 
 and over again. Even when you make your first character you can still have this image in your mind, 
 but once you reach level 20 or so you realize just how small the world is.
  
  Of all the MMOs I've played, World of Warcraft is undeniably the smallest with the most minimal 
 replayability. When you play one character you just can't wait to get started on another character 
 because of how different it will be, but just after the first 10 or 20 levels you'll be doing quests 
 and senselessly killing random things in the same location as everyone else. It's like Blizzard 
 had vision when they started their starter areas and vision in the higher-level areas, but they 
 were completely blind when it came to middle. And most of the game is middle.
  
  Burning Crusade is an expansion pack that you will want to pick up just so that you can go another 
 10 levels and/or roll a blood elf/draenei. There's not really much more you can say about it. The 
 only unique thing about blood elves/draenei is that you're running around with a new character 
 model (or one of the originally faction-specific classes, but most roll a hunter or warlock anyway) 
 and you can enjoy the new starter zones, but once they hit level 20 you're stuck in the long, dull 
 middle that everyone has to stomach.
  
  And the middle is perfectly fine on your first character, but if you ever feel like making a new 
 character (which is an urge that most people get in the 40s and 50s) you will find that you're 
 just doing the same thing over again with no rich, unique thing to speak of.
  
  If you ever want to take a break to explore, you'll never just be able to look around and enjoy 
 the scenery, because due to WoW's ridiculously small land scale, nearly every foot of land has 
 a hostile creature on it. That would sound fun if WoW's combat didn't consist of doing the same 
 thing over and over again.
  
  So if you want to progress your character past level 60 or want to roll one of the two new races, 
 knock yourself out and get BC so that you can enjoy Outland and spend hour upon hour doing the 
 instances while you wait for Wrath of the Lich King so you can do the same thing all over again 
 in a different environment with different mobs but the same moves and the same quests and the same 
 routine.
  
  Is WoW fun? Yes, it is. Personally, I had a blast on my first characters, but once I was level 
 50 on one of my characters I forced myself to get to 70 just so that I could say that I had a level 
 70. That's the thing about WoW which makes so many people play it: You feel FORCED to play it. 
 World of Warcraft is addictive, but it's not even a satisfying addiction. There was a time since 
 2005 when I started playing that WoW was all I played. I can't tell you how many times I've cancelled 
 my subscription just to pick it back up again because I was compelled to play it. After sessions 
 of playing, I would always feel like I've wasted my time.
  
  So why have I played for this long? Well, that's an easy question. I made some friends while I 
 was playing and I only stayed around as long as I did because of them. If you're going to pick 
 up WoW, hopefully you schedule play times with your friends or pick some up on the way, because 
 they are all this game is worth.
  
  A final note about WoW's popularity, however: This game has attracted such a large fan base because 
 people play this game and tell other people to play it who tell other people to play it who tell 
 others to play it, etc. It's a bit of a chain event, though eventually the first person who suggested 
 it most likely isn't playing anymore after some time, just as the next person and the person after 
 that probably will stop playing, too.
  
  Another part of WoW's success is due to the fact that that people promote the ideal that WoW is, 
 and shall forever be, the best MMO ever. People back this up due to the lack of roaring success 
 of newer MMOs in comparison, like LOTRO and Vanguard. The thing is that WoW has been so successful 
 in comparison to the newer MMOs because, despite those releases, WoW's never seen any credible 
 competition. I won't mention any titles because it would give rabid fanboys an excuse to downrate 
 my review (next to the fact that I no longer obsess over their omg best game ever) , but if any 
 of the new MMOs are actually fun, then tough times are waiting for Blizzard.
  
  So there you have it. WoW is awesome for your first time around, and after that you stick around 
 for your friends. Those internet buddies you make aren't worth the $15 a month, though, in my completely 
 honest opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I love wow because the game is like thinking a'lot and it's aditive because it's real fun! I'm 
 a Blood elf paladin their cool they have real cool spell like ok forget that i give this game a 
 10 because it's online no feeling lonlly and you can make lot's of freind's it would be hard for 
 an emany player to attack in ur city if ur horde or on allinace becuse they gotta go thorught the 
 gurds so ur lucky it really impress me player are usally everwhere you go because ther's a'lot 
 of playes! this game is $15.00 per month but it's worth it! you can get a rare amor with more gold 
 in the game it's hard to earn money by killing monster but quest give you lot's of exp and gold 
 whatever race you start of ther's simple quest but consted area quest are more diffacult it's hard 
 to tarvel places everone who has this game should have a gruop and a guild that's a little important 
 there's more things i love about this game but i don't fell like writing them it fells lot's of 
 hard work you know i'm not lazy heY! ok when ur lvl 62 u must go to the outland the outland is 
 dangrous because some enmaye playes come's outta nowhere and kill you i'm a horde guy in wow i 
 love blood elfs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Where shall we start. Okey this game has it ups and downs. If you want to get the most out of this 
 game. You gotta have a lot of time for this game. 
  
  This game consumes tons of your time and might effect peoples real life in a negative way cause 
 of its grinding system and peoples addiction to it. Trust me, many people will have problems cause 
 of this.
  
  This game is mostly made for most dedicated players In other words the Hardcore gamers will always 
 have an edge over a casual or semicore-player cause of they're equipment.
  
  The end game will be pretty much about grinding your gear over and over again and thats cause you're 
 character equipment gets old and you need to replaced in time for the new one. so practically you 
 keep doing grinding all over again to be able to stay on the top of the game.
  
  However If youre a casual player you can still have lots of fun and pick some gear "Time to Time 
 in a slower period" but you're characters are far more fragile and have less potential for higher 
 level instances and pvp battles and you will have less chances to get intoa strong raiding guild" 
 
  
  about other things
  WoW has a great gameplay. suits for teenagers and grown-ups. One of the best mmorpg ever made. 
 I'm retired of this game cause for me personally after many hours and repeating character leveling, 
 grinding gear all over again this game lost its magic 
  
  WoW was something unbealivble good when it came out, and You "raided Tarren Mill for the first 
 time and leveling up to 60 and clearing the Molten Core after that it was pretty much all the same. 
 Just with the new texture, skins and equipment with added stats.
  
  Good luck in the third expansion. 
  
  My ratings
  
  7.5 The burning Crusade 
  9.2 World 
 of Warcraft Reign of Chaos (highest rating i ever given to a game so far) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is a great expansion. The Addition of the Bloodelf and the Dranei is very cool. 
 I must say my Character is a Bloodelf Paladin. Its WIcked fun. There is alot more gear in the expansion 
 and there are more areas to explore which is pretty cool. If you want the Burning Crusade you can 
 either pick it up at the store fore for $29.99 or if you don't have World Of Warcraft you can buy 
 the Battle Chest with the Original version or the Burning Crusade for $39.99. I would really suggest 
 that you pick up the Burning crusade it's worth it. xdgrifle. umm it stinks that this review has 
 to be 800 cuz thats all i can really write. I thought of one more thing. There is the addition 
 of the Black Temple Run with Illiadn Stormage, good for high level characters with good gear. So 
 you should pick it up if you want a solid good game or just a expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhunter9215
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is easily the most expansive, entertaining, and addicting 
 (trust me on this one) game you will ever play. With the newly added Outlands, increased level 
 cap to 70, new races, flying mounts and new dungeons, The Burning Crusade provides gamers of all 
 ages with a incredibly immersive world that has seemingly limitless possibilities and never leaves 
 you with nothing to do. Besides all the new additions, the classic elements of this game still 
 have yet to lose their luster: PvP, questing, ganking (fun for the ganker, sucks for the ganked) 
 or even just exploring. You will very likely find yourself looking at the clock after what has 
 only seemed like a few minutes, only to realize that an hour has passed. And it is at this point 
 that I must point this out -- we all know its true -- that in order to play this game, you must have 
 at least 2 to 3 hours of free time everyday in order to play this game. And even with that amount 
 of time availible everyday, you will likely find yourself playing more than you are supposed to 
 (sorry guys, its that addictive. If you play this game, a common term for it is Warcrack) . Yet 
 somehow, despite the addictiveness, I have still given this game a perfect 10. Why, you may ask? 
 Regardless of the addictiveness or amount of time required (or the fact that I just recently stopped 
 playing) , I can easily say that this was the greatest game that I have ever played, without a doubt 
 or hesitation. FOR THE HORDE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, sometimes called BC or TBC is the first expansion for WoW. 
 This amzingly large expansion expands the game even further, opening new worlds and new places 
 for everyone to explore. The game's main features are the additions of new races, The Draenei and 
 The Blood Elves, a completely new continent for to explore, known as Outland, which is also the 
 Orc's home world. and a new profession that gives playes a wider variety of items and equiptments 
 you can craft. The expansion also increases the level cap to 70, extending the talent trees even 
 further.
  
  So now you know what's new in TBC, you might want to know what's so special about this expansion. 
 Well, Like I said there are two new races known as the Blood Elves and the Draenei. The Draenei 
 are the exiles. They are actually the Eredar who have been exiled when most of their race joined 
 the Burning Legion, thus they left and landed on Azeroth. Fans of the series who had played Warcraft 
 III would know that The Blood Elves are the High Elves who renamed themselves Blood Elves in honor 
 of the death of the citizens of Silvermoon. With the inclusion of these two new races, the Draenei 
 for the Alliance and Blood Elves for the Horde, the faction only classes are no longer limited 
 to one faction. Like Draenei who are part of the Alliance can become shamans and Blood Elves who 
 are part of The Horde can become Paladins.
  
  With the new races there will also be a new profession called Jewelcrafting. It's a profession 
 that allows you to create rings and trinkets as well as gems that can be socketed into a socket 
 of an item.
  
  Also, together with the increased level cap, players can now explore the entirely new demon world 
 known as Outland. Again, those of you who played Warcraft III will know this is also the place 
 where Illidan, the devil hunting Demon Hunter, came here and shut all the portals that leads here. 
 Now that the Dark Portal is opened, everyone can now experience Outland, the new world which is 
 relatively big and it also contains tons of new dungeons and raids like the Black Temple, where 
 players can head in and battle with Illidan himself.
  
  One of the things that I must point out is that the graphics in Outland is a lot better and is 
 higher in quality when compared to those in Azeroth, as well as the new starting areas and the 
 Draenei and Blood Elves are also more detailed. This sort of makes the game a little weird because 
 most of your older characters look less detailed and not as realistic as the new ones. Regardless 
 of that, the new world is really beautiful every part of it is going to amaze you the first time 
 you step in and you see this red barren land and you can see stars and other planets, eventually 
 you will reach places that feels very much like a dream, everything is so beautiful and so unreal 
 that you can never see it on this planet.
  
  Probably the best part of the expansion is the ability to use flying mounts. once you reach level 
 70, or level 68 if you are a Druid, you can gain the ability to fly. Non-Druid must learn their 
 new riding skill and purchase a mount in order to fly while Druids can learn a spell called Flight 
 Form, allowing the Druid to transform in a raven and fly. But there is one problem though. You 
 can only fly in Outland, but you can't use them in Azeroth, although that won't be a major problem 
 if you are spending most of your time in Outland.
  
  Where there's good, there's bad. The expansion however adds a lot of new content so if you are 
 new to the game and just starting, you might have some problems looking for groups to go to most 
 of the older 40-man dungeons where raids where simply epic.
  
  So if you're really into to WoW and you have already made it this far, then you should definitely 
 go get the expansion and if you are new to WoW, That's pretty much okay al though you might have 
 problems because you won't be able to experience the older content much.
  
  Plus Side:
  -A great and really large new world to explore
  - You can now use flying mounts!
  -The expansion 
 adds a ton of variety that you can probably keep you playing for a very long time
  -The new world is really well detailed and very beautiful.
  
  Negative Side:
  -You can't 
 fly outside of Outland.
  -New content makes the old ones seem obsolete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryii
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Been playing since it was release and there are so many new quests to complete, so much new scenery 
 to discover. Outland is a spectacular landscape, with each area providing its own unique feel. 
 The quest chains progress from zone to zone and seamlessly progress the story being these new and 
 exciting lands.
  
  From flying mounts to new dungeons, this game has it all. Two new races to play, the Draenei and 
 Blood Elves. Explore their home lands while leveling up a new character. Spend your time raiding 
 new instances, or try out the Arena system and PVP battles. The choice is yours.
  
  Blizzard has performed many updates over the past year, increasing the already superb value of 
 this WoW expansion. If you play WoW, this is a must have... and if you stopped played before it 
 was released there is plenty of new content to entice you back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgirobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of those games you remember forever. Games like WoW are remembered because 
 of their remarkable gameplay and atmosphere. When I first played WoW and I was in the beginning 
 levels of my hero (let's say between the levels 1-6) the game was boring for me and I didn't like 
 it. One day I started playing again I became level 10. The game started to become awesome. So for 
 those who play for 1-2 days and the game isn't fun to them I advise them to play more when they 
 become the higher levels they will like it a lot. The game is very huge with many lands to explore 
 and many weapons, magic and many other things. The lot of features can make a game to be played by 
 many people, and that's why WoW is played around the world by millions of people. A truly awesome 
 game in my book, despite the few bugs, but they don't make the game that bad. It's still a solid game. No 
 matter how I describe the game you would never understand untill you play it. So Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  World of warcraft : the burning crusade is a highly advanced game n is very addictive game . This 
 game has made gread progress by coming up with new ways for you to explorer The World Of Warcraft 
 by giving you new races to chose from the Blood elf who have allied themself with the Horde and 
 also the draenei who escaped the world of Outlands and have allied themselfs with the alliance. 
 World of warcraft : the burning crusade have given you several new new actions to use and a new 
 world to explorer Outlands . Outlands is ruled by a evil beast called Illidan how was imprisoned 
 there. Now we have trespassed in to his domain and put a constant threat on our world azeroth. 
 Outlands also comes with new monsters well old monsters new skins and also a flying mount for the 
 Horde and the Alliance for the Horde you get a Gryphon and for the Horde ou get a Wyvern these 
 mounts can only be perchused at lvl 70 but they are worth the effort to get as you can fly anywere 
 but the down side to these flying mounts is that they can only be used in Outlands
  
  reviwed by Owenben 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  You can be Priest, Paladin, Mage, Hunter and Warlock.
  It's harder to play with warlock, mage and priest and that makes game boring for some.
  PvP is 
 not level limited but you have no use from killing others.
  No story-line quests, other quests are boring.
  You can choose out of 5 different races in each 
 camp ( Alliance or Hord)
  Game is unrealistic as you have monsters and no real life animals to kill.
  Graphic is bad, hair 
 won't move while you're moving and nothing else would either.
  Very little describe text on stuff, Armor would only show it's defence, Weapons only attack,..
 
  Map is too big.
  Monsters respawn very long time after they're killed, that makes lack of monsters to kill for quests.
 
  Very little default slots to store stuff in your inventory.
  When you die you have to walk to your body or else you loose durability.
  You can walk with mouse 
 and keyboard, mouse=left+right click, keyboard=w, s, a, d.
  
  It's not free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitasV
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I played it for a while. Gotten real far into the game, killed all the badies (mostly) , leveled 
 to the higest and know I see it as a waste of precious time.
  After hearing about Star Wars Galaxies and what it has, I just had to give it a try and i did. 
 You should what it has. I'd classify SWG as the ultimate online game there is, literally. You could 
 build your own house and town, do hundreds of missions, ride a vehicle or animal and go through 
 space on so many spaceships which you could mod and customize. And the exact map size of one entire 
 planet was the exact size of the entire World of Warcraft world but you would be foolish to try 
 to cross it on foot. And no matter what class you are either Jedi, Smuggler, Bounty Hunter, Commando 
 or whatever, you can do any class mission in the game but doing a jedi mission when not a jedi 
 will be a bit hard. So yeah, read this message from a video game veteran, don't waste your time 
 with WOW. Doesn't matter if your a Star Wars fan or not, play it and you'll see how good it is 
 and once you play it, you'll be asking Blizzard for your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is one of my favorite games and is one that I spent hundreds of hours of my wasted 
 life on, but when they released an expansion, of course, I had to wait half a year before I could 
 get my dirty, minipulative hands on it. This expansion broke records when it first came out; sold 
 over TWO MILLION games in the FIRST 24 HOURS.
  
  So, the review. The gameplay the same, obviously, just some things added on. Included in the expansion 
 are two new races being the Alliance Drenai which are big purple guys with tentacle- like beards, 
 and the Horde Blood Elves who are High Elves that went all evil.
  
  The graphics are the same, just some new stuff to see, not much in this catagory; see my review 
 of the original World of Warcraft.
  
  The biggest add-on is the addition of the new continent called the The Outlands, which is really 
 for level 60's and above.
  
  If you have a high level character and you want some new stuff then get The Burning Crusade, it's 
 only $29.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Burning Crusade finally came out, and a lot of people have been waiting for it. As you 
 should already know, it's the expansion to the wildly popular World of Warcraft, and let me tell 
 you expansion is pretty good. While most of the new content is catered generally to the high levels 
 (level 58-60) , there is things that make this expansion worth it for lower levels. The new races 
 are pretty cool, which are the dranei, who some discribe as "octopus people with spaceships that 
 ride on elephants" and the blood elves, which are also known as the high elves from the Warcraft 
 RTS series. First off, both come with new starting areas, new factions, new quests and new racial 
 traits, which are both awesome. The dranei can heal, and the blood elves can steal mana and silence 
 foes. There is also a new proffesion, which is jewel crafting which is like enchanting with gems. 
 All this seem new and cool, but if you look at the basic formula it obviously hasn't changed. Those 
 who have moved on or always hated WoW won't change their mind or come back due to this expansion, 
 but for others this is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  MMo's are the hardest to review out of every genre since they evolve and grow and/or de-evolve 
 in some cases :rolleyes: World of Warcraft is one of those games, its very hard to judge it as 
 some people love the game and others loath it, in the short term its pretty much the best 'current' 
 MMo available - short term I mean by levelling from 1 - 70, taking part in some pre-raid instances 
 and some of the crappy PvP thats available, for the short term anyone will say its the best MMo 
 available. 2008 will finally see alot of MMo rivals that will definately challenge WoW to the MMo 
 throne, at the very least, will hurt Warcrafts population considerably.
  
  Long term is a different question, I've played WoW for a little over 2 years now, amassed 30k+ 
 Honor Kills, did the arena scene, seen alot of endgame raid content and levelled 4 70s not including 
 various 60+ alts and after all that, all the sleepless nights, the guild dramas and all the PvP 
 forum flaming, all's i'm left with is just an empty feeling, no sense of satisfaction or sense 
 of achievement just $450 shorter after spending the money on the subs and purchasing the software.
 
  
  The biggest problems current with WoW are very easy to explain
  
  Very unbalanced PvP - especially in the arenas where Drain Teams dominate the upper teirs, brand 
 new teams with far lesser gear will get rolled hard down to the 1300s or lower until they can slowly 
 get together some Season 3 gear, which puts off alot of players. Horde racials are generally far 
 superior in PvP combat than alliance ones, which means a very heavy one-sided population thats 
 more into PvP become - better at PvP which leads to massive imbalances, Blizzard should have added 
 faction restrictions from day 1 so every server has a balanced faction population instead of having 
 it completely open, when they created the battlegroups, those imbalances transfered directly to 
 that, and created the mess that we still have today.
  
  Battlegrounds are the worst, depending on your battlegroup/faction obviously - they are very one 
 sided with the horde having signficant map advantages on some maps - Scorched Earth Tactic in AV 
 anyone? Which has lead to boycotts on some battlegroups leaving players with extremely high queue 
 times. Not to mention, all the hardcores on both sides who cheat/afk and/or grief. YES! I said 
 cheat, unfortuntely theres many exploits that still exist in WoW and everyday are constantly used, 
 and Blizzard never seem to ban enough of them to make a difference. 
  
  The real final insult to battlegrounds, this was a problem back before BC was the fact that the 
 hardcore heavy raiders would bring in the highest endgame gear and completely dominate, a warrior 
 with 2 Warglaives of Azzinoth and full T6 with several healbots can take down half if not the entire 
 opposing battleground, i've seen it and check youtube for further proof. Lets not even go into 
 the Premade Groups scouting for easy PuG groups to get easy honor and marks, that tactic is one 
 of the current sources of flaming in the forums. The only problem I have personally with that, 
 is alot of hardcores seem to think that they hardcore raid gives them the right to dominate over 
 anyone/everyone else, sorry it does not - loose the attitude and egos. Alot of these types of freaks 
 have been protesting for the removal of Season 1 'welfare gear' because simply put, it gives the 
 casuals and core players a signicant chance to beat them, and they don't like it one bit, tough 
 luck losers!
  
  Linear! Linear! Linear! Thats another problem with WoW, theres just not enough varity anymore, 
 go from one zone to another, level/grind move onto the next zone, level/grind and same with endgame 
 raids - Karazhan leads you (now) to Zul' Aman which leads you to the first 25 mans in sequences, 
 I personally like choice and freedom instead of being pushed/forced into one direction.
  
  GRIND! The other problem with WoW these days are very heavy grinds, everyone will say, but MMo's 
 are grindfests. The answer to that is simple, they don't have to be. Blizzard choose to add some 
 very intensive grinds, we have the obvious levelling grind, then you have the PvP grind, the endgame 
 raid grind and finally, the rep grind - everything in WoW, is a pure grind. The term - Get out, 
 what you put in - only applies in WoW if you spend serious hardcore time, before BC - core and 
 casuals could easily compete and co-exist with the hardcore population, but these days the hardcore 
 vs casual divide is so huge, it'll never recover.
  
  Expansions - Blizzard are seriously dragging there heels with new major content, this is partly 
 the reason why Azeroth and Outlands are getting stale and boring, theres just not enough new stuff 
 out there, they really should take a leaf out of SoE's Everquest book and start rolling out expansions 
 every 6 months, alot of the current playerbase isn't going to stick around loyally follow when 
 Age of Conan or Warhammer online come out, not because of the problems with WoW, just because they 
 will offer something completely new and fresh! Blizzards year+ expansion rollout will give them 
 problems unless they change that. 
  
  Adding patches that adds content which only a fraction of the player population can/will ever see 
 isn't the answer either - Patch 2.4 will bring Sunwell which finishes off 'Black Temple' the problem 
 is, with 10 million people playing, less than 50,000 people have even been in BT currently - that 
 makes me seriously wonder about Blizzards Developers, why develop content that only the hardest 
 hardcore raiders will ever see when they could add more content for casual/core and light raiders? 
 The mind boggles at that, personally, I would boot the devs in the behind for that.
  
  Wrapping this up now, in retrospect, I have had alot of good times as well with WoW, don't let 
 any new potential players reading my review be put off, the short term game of World of Warcraft 
 is still pretty good, but I feel now that its had its time, and its about time a new MMo took the 
 throne and do things better, thats my challenge to developers out that, beat World of Warcraft 
 and claim the #1 MMo title. This year will seriouslly test Blizzard and World of Warcraft, hopefully 
 with some of the new games looming, I hope they do well enough into Shocking or shaming Blizzard 
 into repairing WoW and bring it back into its prime, right now, its just stale and old, and finally 
 and funnily enough, Blizzard wants World of Warcraft to be the latest E-Sport, I'm sorry but it 
 just doesn't have any chance in hell to achieve that, not with all the massive imbalances and issues, 
 the only chance for that, would be to follow Guild Wars PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfiremg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool in almost all aspects a good game play really easy to understand and start 
 playing there are lots of quest , monsters to kill and a huge world to explore, you will have some 
 good times in this game funny times. This game have a nice PvP, PvE and some really cool bosses 
 that will require a good ability of you and your team mates The basic is this game has lots of 
 things to do you will get your money in a good place buying this game.
  
  PvP: This Game have an amazing system where u can battle almost anywhere because the game have 
 two factions where each one have five races to choose each with its own ability ,this faction fight 
 each other for power.
  
  PvE: Lots Of enemy's to kill great variability.
  
  Bosses: Real challenging ones you can have a great fun hunting this ones
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robliander
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  In the weeks ramping up to the release of the expansion, I had planned to put off buying the Burning 
 Crusade for a long while: my main character wasn't yet 60 and I was still enjoying the content 
 that was currently there. 
  
  But once it came out, all of a sudden Ironforge was empty of the usual "end game" congregations, 
 and I was a little sad. I feared that Blizzard would be focusing the BC content and leave us non-expansioners 
 behind. 
  
  I tried to resist, but it was inevitable: when I first saw a Dranei running around on an elephant 
 I said, "this is dumb, just go buy it." 
  
  The first thing I noticed on firing it up is the music on the login screen: the melody is the same, 
 but there's something deeper to it, if not a bit odd. And I think that's held true for the expansion 
 as a whole.
  
  If you have a character approaching level 60, you're able to go visit Outland. Outland is a different 
 world, so you'll see more "alien" creatures than what you might have been used to. Where the base 
 WOW has Tolkien's DNA spliced through it, the BC has turned up the fantasy... expect to fight more 
 robots, arachnids, and Vorlons than goblins, furbolgs, and dragons. If this is too much of a departure 
 from more traditional lore, you'll be disappointed. I didn't mind it, but wasn't too excited either. 
 (Although I did gasp the first time I saw a Fel Reaver stomp through...) 
  
  Loot drops are plentiful, and there's tons of quests. The instances I've experienced so far are 
 fun, and have the right amount of challenge to them. You will level fast and furious from 60-65 
 if all you do is questing. I have yet to find myself grinding in the Outland. There's lots to do, 
 and the hours will pass before you know it. 
  
  My one fear, though, that Blizzard wouldn't keep up the content on the base WOW, I think has come 
 true.. It seems that the "loot parade" that Outland brought has watered down the overall experience... 
 Or maybe I'm just an old WOW coot who doesn't respek how easy it is to gain weapons 2-3 times more 
 powerful than end-game instances used to yield. 
  
  When all's said and done, it's worth paying for the expansion, if only to check out being a Dranei 
 or a Blood Elf. If you're a WOWer now, you know you're going to do it... just go pick it up; it's 
 not that expensive. If you're not, you can probably get by for a good while without the expansion, 
 but you'll start feeling left behind once you're breached 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The content additions of The Burning Crusade were wonderful. Granted, as big as it all seemed, 
 we all seemed to plow through it pretty fast, except for the raid content, which was wonderful. 
 The encounters were far more interesting, more challenging, and more rewarding.
  
  Unfortunately, it made all previous raid content, and most team based content, completely useless.
 
  
  Granted, that's progression, but alot of the old content played a significant role in both the 
 lore and progression of this game for many players.
  
  It still exists. I know some people that used to go back to it, from time to time. Hell, I even 
 3 manned Ony once, just to see if it was possible (and it was) But, outside of getting some personal 
 kicks, all that old content is now dead to players.
  
  Not that the old content is worth doing anymore, which is why it's not done anymore. It's that 
 Ony, Neferian, Ragnaros, and C'Thun are significant characters in the WoW universe, and now the 
 lore of that universe is skipped completely.
  
  Also, forcing what were large raiding guilds to funnel into a 10 man instance as their frist souce 
 of raid content was unkind. It tore apart alot of guilds in the game, and while mine survived, 
 we definitely felt the splintering and defections as we tried to squeeze 50 active raiders into 
 multiple groups of 10.
  
  Outside arena (which the significance of is debatable) , PvP has seen no major upgrade in this expansion, 
 outside of loot. Eye of the Storm, while fun, was uninspired. And class balance has actually become 
 alot worse, and surprisingly, seems to get worse with every fix. Good players adjust and play through 
 it, sure, but it's obvious and only ignored or played down because of the many times it has been 
 pointed out, which doesn't make the actual point of imbalance invalid. It just makes it common.
 
  
  Griping aside, the content itself was well done. The territories are wonderful, and the amount 
 of dungeons added were abundant. I doubt a single person could argue that Burning Crusade offered 
 a world with tons of things to see and do.
  
  I just wish there was a way to add all this content, without making the content I spent 2 years 
 playing in, feel completely useless.
  
  In that way, this expansion actually made WoW a smaller world to play in, and made all the time 
 we spent in Azeroth, almost completely meaningless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigBadGRIM
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not asking for much. Sure the extra +stats that comes with the extra 10 levels is a little 
 interesting in a way. But what bothers me is that Blizzard:
  
  1. Still continues to provide more grind for us. Thats all this ever will be. Nothing interesting 
 at all. Just the next Season or next Tier content forever.
  
  2. Just doesnt feel like switching it up a bit. Whatever happened to WORLD EVENTS like that AQ 
 opening?? Why cant we have more things like that? The most fun I had with the expansion was leveling 
 up from 60-70 and I dont even like leveling. Why did I like it? Because at the time EVERYONE around 
 the whole world was doing the same thing. There was SO much energy at the time.
  
  3. Doesn't listen to alot of the complaints from their players, even if the majority of the players 
 are complaining. These are things such as class balances and boss battles.
  
  Oh yeah and Mages and Priests are crap and Resilience and Arenas really killed any fun out of PvP. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  So the brining crusade had changed in many ways, they are all great and must buy for evry guy who 
 owns a PC (Mostly everyone)
  
  The Burning Crusade is a very good expansion for World of Warcraft. it makes things much harder 
 then WOW itself. People who like WOW, will like this exceptional well. it has "some" confusing 
 things, but the least to make anyone mad. The response team is still as good as it was before, 
 better places/city's/towns and graphic updates with a WHOLE lot more BAM! to them. The burning 
 crusade is a Slickk expansion and prob. the best one for PC ever. Once again, WOW is getting tens 
 of thousands of people a day playing online and buying this game. If that ain't saying something 
 then i don't know what is on the go anymore. the world will eventually be filled with WOW players! 
 with that said, Good-Job on a very successful expansion for World of Warcraft. 
  
  
  it combines a perfect a RPG, and its last long will be 3 days or 2. In overall the games extrodinary 
 abd you shoould now what WOW stands for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsoulwarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I started out with a 10-day trial from my fiance. Now I'm playing right along with him and we have 
 together-time while we get our game on! His characters are higher leveled than mine, which enables 
 him to teach me and help me on quests, as well as obtain items that I would not at my lower levels 
 be likely to get on a drop. I tend to be a manual-reader, and we make a good team in that I find 
 the info, he acts on the info, and we both benefit. I am less fearful of getting killed because 
 I know I won't get looted aside from special circumstances.
  
  Blizzard does a good job in providing information that is well organized, and the forums and armory 
 offer even more info that is well moderated. 
  
  The most difficult part for me is moving my character around and adjusting my screen settings for 
 optimum play. The settings are customizable, but it is best to learn what a setting will do if 
 tweaked before tweaking. I, of course, learned this the hard way in battle!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petrovsk
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  WoW: Burning Crusade is to WoW what X-COM Terror of the Deep was to X-COM: the same game with new 
 graphics.
  
  Burning Crusade is an expansion that isn' t good because it doesn't have to be good. Either you 
 enjoy WoW enough to continue playing it and will appreciate the new content or if you already bored 
 with WoW, this expansion will bring absolutely nothing new to the table.
  
  Burning Crusade introduces several new things: new zones, new quests, new raid instances, new races, 
 and some new skills. The gameplay, however, is exactly the same. You will quest to level 70. You 
 will grind 5 mans - each boss kill is a pull of the slot machine until you feel confident enough 
 to raid or PvP. At this point, you can do the same three battlegrounds (each with one map) , or 
 one new battleground which plays like Arathi Basin or an Arena, which is a small-team sudden-death 
 fight that also provides superior equipment to the battlegrounds. Raids are identical to the original 
 WoW expansion, only with 25 people instead of 40, which makes it easier to organize (assuming your 
 guild survived the "downsizing paranoia") . I will also note here that the new skills will not change 
 the playstyle of your class in the least.
  
  The the bulk of new content exists as new graphics, which I can only describe as completely unoriginal 
 and uninspired. Upon exploring the many new areas Burning Crusade had to offer, I could only imagine 
 the following conversation between the art director and an artist.
  
  Artist: "Take a look at this armor concept, we thought it looked pretty good."
  
  Art Director: 
 "MORE CRYSTALS."
  
  A: "But sir, there are already crystals on the shoulders, and elbows, and circlet."
  
  AD: 
 "MORE CRYSTALS."
  
  A: "I don't think we can fit any mo-"
  
  AD: "MAKE THEM FLOAT."
  
  ... you get the idea. At any rate, with perhaps the glaring exception of Zangarmarsh, you've 
 seen this "chaos world with floating crystal and rocks" garbage in every recent Final Fantasy game 
 made - and it wasn't impressive there, either.
  
  In short, Burning Crusade is a textbook expansion for an mmorpg. It is mandatory for progression, 
 adds no new gameplay elements, but does provide new areas and items to chew on. If you just can't 
 stop playing WoW, this won't ruin anything, but don't be fooled by the drooling WoW-addict reviewers; 
 there is nothing to bring you back either.
  
  ~Petrovsk
  (Note: This is an assessment on the expansion, not the game as a whole. WoW is still a fine MMORPG 
 if you have never tried it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HypnoticDj321
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I loved wow, so much, i had been playing for 2 years
  
  I liked PvE but PVP is were i was best.
  
  
  
  
  But ever since TBC has come out, pvp 
 has become so unfair its not even funny.
  
  PVP unbalance in arena is pretty bad...
  
  Bring back the days of Premade Bgs where every class and spec was viable in some way.
  
  Not 
 anymore!!!
  
  Also everyone runs around with epics now. its not as challenging as before
  
  TBC has spoilt the game for me.
  
  
  Everything else of the game is good, JUST FIX PVP 
 PLEASE. Balance things out!!!!!
  
  I hope the next expansion does this, if not im not wasting more than a month on it, arena is a 
 joke...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivey_98
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The expansion The Burning Crusade is a very good expansion for World of Warcraft. it makes things 
 much harder then WOW itself. People who like WOW, will like this exceptional well. it has "some" 
 confusing things, but the least to make anyone mad. The response team is still as good as it was 
 before, better places/city's/towns and graphic updates with a WHOLE lot more BAM! to them. The 
 burning crusade is a Slickk expansion and prob. the best one for PC ever. Once again, WOW is getting 
 tens of thousands of people a day playing online and buying this game. If that ain't saying something 
 then i don't know what is on the go anymore. the world will eventually be filled with WOW players! 
 with that said, Good-Job on a very successful expansion for World of Warcraft. Be Proud Blizzard 
 ! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headshotbuild
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this expansion for some time and finaly when i recieved it i took full advantage 
 of what it had to offer. Not speeding through and getting to 70 as quick as possible but at a decent 
 and reasonable rate. The seemingly endless amounts of quests and instances along with all the other 
 new content kept me occupied then and still now!
  
  Along with the constantly updated world and enviroment Blizzard has really managed to create a 
 world inside our own reality. Kind of like a madman waiting for the moment to enter his dream world 
 and become what he always wanted to be.
  
  The almost never ending ideas and feedback put into this game will keep players in the game for 
 years to come. The announcement of Wrath of the Lich King can only mean more good!
  
  Even for the gamers who want to fully experience the life of an adventurer in Azeroth and Outland 
 the Role Playing Servers are there as well as the Player Vs Player and Player Vs Enviroment Servers 
 are welcoming all types of players to venture into the lands of Azeroth and Outland.
  
  So what are you still doing reading this?!!??! Get into the World of Warcraft!!!
  If you dont 
 own the game GO BUY IT!
  Hopefully will see you ingame!
  
  Gankdalf 70 Rogue 
  Hellscream EU PVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparta115
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  there is really nothing new in this expansion, same old pointless grinding except now is rep grinding. 
 and pve content has been made way too easy to get gear, and i guess thats blizzard's way to making 
 this game better for casual players. only that it has made this game alot worse, people who play 
 mmo pride on having different gear than other people because of the time they put in and now everyone 
 is running around with t4, t5 and heroic epix. pvp is still a sorry excuse made with lackluster 
 effort compare to the pve content, and the funny thing is every time they try to fix it in a patch 
 they only nerf the classes that need a buff and buff the classes that dont need buffs (look what 
 they have done with rogues, locks ice mages, compare to spriests and warriors) , i dont know who 
 is in charge in blizzard for balancing classes in pvp but they obviously dont play this game. pvp 
 is non-existent and only gets worse every patch, mean while pve and a joke with blizzard giving 
 out free epix... so if you have played Pre-TBC then the expansion is like... meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerry_123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade made me love online games again after I hated all RPG online 
 games the cities in the game is gigantic not like other games .in this game you can actually get 
 lost and ask other players for directions or ask NPC characters and it takes a long time to memorize 
 the shape and directions of the town . the other thing I like about this game is that you can play 
 with one of 6 races in each faction and choose the class of the character you are going to play 
 . and this gives you quite many choices . for me I like to play with the paladin class skilled 
 in fighting and some healing magics 
  
  what I don't like in this game is that healing characters are far better than fighting characters 
 which means that paladins, priests, druids and shamans are far more stronger than any other classes 
 because they can heal them selfs unlike other classes and that makes it unfair that healing units 
 have the advantage over non healing units . the other thing I hate is that this game some times 
 make you fell bored doing the same thing over and over again and the quests are too many and hard 
 to complete without help from walkthrough during the game . what I also don't like is being hit 
 by a lvl 70 magician when I'm only lvl 10 although that he wouldn't have any honor points from 
 doing that . or simply being hit by a rogue while he is invisibles and makes you curse the day 
 you played the game . as for me I stopped playing it for a while because I was being hunt down 
 10 times each day by other players not to mention beasts and I played it for 6 months but I got 
 bored when players started killing me too many times .
  
  but I think you should try this game you will like it and make good friends in that game for sure 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is tied for first in my terms of top games. It sucks you in and you have a hard time 
 stopping to continue on with your life. Theres just something that makes you need to keep going, 
 you NEED to just get this sword, next level, then you can quit. But you know what? After you do 
 that, theres always one more thing that you need to get before you quit. It is in this way that 
 this game is very dangerous. You lose track of time, and even may end up not doing things that 
 you need to do. People have lost many friends and other important things over this game. And come 
 on people, it's a good game, but I really don't think that ANY game should be worth 15 dollars 
 a month. Which is why I use my friends account. ^_^
  
  The bottom line is that you shouldn't pay 15 dollars a month for this game. But if you absolutely 
 must play it, for our own good, remember that there are more important things in life.
  
  This rating is based solely on gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisrooR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Now, before i go ahead and write a review for this certain game you must all know something. I 
 am a World of Warcraft (WoW) addict, and for over a year i had been questing, leveling, and grouping 
 my way to 60; on three separate occasions. Now, with that being said, I was ecstatic to learn of 
 WoW's first expansion pack, The Burning Crusade, which promised new lands, mounts, and races. Within 
 minutes of the game becoming available as a download from the World of Warcraft site, i was eagerly 
 awaiting all that was promised as i watched the download bar slowly progress towards the end. 
 
  
  My initial reaction to the completion of the download was  
 I installed the game as fast as possible, logged onto my account (mmm new green login screen) and 
 decided to log onto my main character. This was it. The moment of truth. As soon as i began moving 
 around i realized that really, nothing had changed. Venturing into outland for the first time is 
 truly a breathtaking (i know... i know) experience, however it begins to feel stale, in a sense 
 that your surroundings never changed for the next three levels. 
  
  Graphically speaking WoW: TBC is really more of the same, allowing users with lower end computers 
 to login and enjoy. Why fix what ain't broke, right?
  
  Now, at first i was overwhelmed, however, i am writing this review after playing the game for some 
 time now. Blizzard seems to completely ignore the fact that the game is getting very bland, and 
 another set of armor with a different tint of red but the same visuals isn't acceptable. I really 
 hope that the next expansion, The Wrath of the Lich King, will change all this repetitiveness. 
 Please Blizzard, don't destroy the best series you have ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teazr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is the best expansion pack for any game ever made. It has it all: new races, 
 new beautiful areas, innovative quests and dungeons, a difficulty for anyone ranging from easy 
 doing solo content to the massive raid environments not to mention the PvP arenas, where you'll 
 be facing off against those who are equally good.
  
  Blizzard have put their heart and soul in every aspect of this game. And it works so well together, 
 that it's hard not to get addicted.
  
  The raid environments are especially unique because they let you encounter major lore characters 
 such as Lady Vashj, Kael'thas, and of couse Illidan himself. It's quite simply an awesome feeling 
 when you cast the final spell that makes one of them take their last breath if you've played Warcraft 
 3 and The Frozen Throne. Which every WoW gamer should have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graham400rr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  So you had a few characters at 60, doing the high end instances, getting the Epic gear, and trying 
 hard to take down Naxxramas. You're starting to get a bit bored of the grind for rep and money 
 and gear and all that. You know Azeroth like the backyard of your house, people ask you about a 
 quest, and you've done it so many times you could probably tell them the co-ordinates of the NPC 
 giving it out.
  
  Then come TBC. You start killing boars. Not the average boar like the ones in Elwynn. Oh no.. these 
 are serious hellboars that can really screw you up if they get you good. And after killing a few 
 boars, and completing a few quests, you've noticed that your gear, has improved tenfold in the 
 first few hours! Your stam has increased immensely and you attack power / spell damage has more 
 than tripled before you finished the first Hellfire peninsula. 
  
  Wow! your crits are hitting higher than ever, and yet.. there is so much to do, so many new places 
 to see, and you're DYING to get to 70 so you too can start flying around this amazing place. Exploring 
 new areas and the feeling of being completely new to the game gives you a bit of a nostalgic feeling, 
 as you remember when you started your fist character years before.. running around teldrassil looking 
 for that damn lost soldier.
  
  TBC really does step up the bar of WoW. The graphics managed to keep the same feeling but still 
 improved overall, the flying mount, the new factions and amazing gear. The fun quests, short but 
 intense instances and the breathtaking scenery really made a great package. The new patches with 
 constantly new content makes it a game thats pretty hard to put down. Although with a few 70's 
 myself, i cant wait to get the new expansion sometime next year :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orclcert2k
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  It is abundantly clear that the vast majority of players do not want to select the horde faction 
 to play, as opposed to the other optional faction to choose-alliance. This is due to most simple 
 fact that the 'races' of the horde faction are extremely unpleasant looking and nothing more.
 
  
  As I witnessed in the game over many thousands of hours of game play, player versus player is highly 
 non-competetive. One 'side' wins much more consistently than another 'side' regardless of actual 
 player skill.
  
  Due to a requisite 'storyline', if ones fail to choose the 'freakish side (horde) ', one will utterly 
 fail in the player versus player arena. Skill will have a pathetically minimal basis for winning 
 in the 'player versus player arenas'.
  
  There are two opposing 'factions' in this game that may optionally 'compete' against each other 
 in 'player versus player arenas. This is a huge portion of the game in which I would venture to 
 guess that a huge majority of players want to participate to judge their own skill against other 
 players. One faction is called the 'horde'. The horde are essentially a bunch of freakish and unsitely 
 characters from which one may choose. They consist of the 'undead', who, from a visual perspective 
 have all major bones and joints exposed and essentially are corpses removed from coffins as is 
 to continue their lives. The tauren are a 'hybrid' of humans and cows, and finally, the trolls 
 consist of a hunchback and ungainly looking race of 'freaks' with huge tusks protruding upward 
 from the bottom jaw of their mouths. They have the exact speech of Jamaicans.
  
  The opposing faction is called the Alliance. They are the 'more presentable' faction, which includes 
 humans and other non-repulsive 'races' from which to choose. These races include gnomes, which 
 are essentially dwarves as we know it in the current reality, and elves, which could be described 
 as taller than average humans with an unusually high degree of control of natural forces such as 
 tree life and various natural life forms.
  
  Most players do not choose the horde because they do not want to stare at a repulsive and evil-looking 
 character for hundreds of hours of play time.
  
  There are battles between the two factions, the freakish and visually repulsive 'Horde' faction 
 and the charismatic and presentable 'Alliance' faction. 
  
  It is uncontrivertable based on all objective and accurate comparisons of this game that the the 
 physically repulsive Horde faction win a huge majority of the player versus player battles against 
 the 'good' and presentable Alliance faction.
  
  There is no realistic or personally rewarding 'competition' between the two 'factions' in this 
 game other than the senseless extermination of huge numbers of the enemy. Hitler would be very 
 proud indeed.
  
  I have played most excessively on both 'sides' of these battles. I can tell you with absolute certainty 
 that an ameoba with an intelligence quotient of 1 could be victorious in player versus player combat 
 as a horde player versus an alliance player over 90% of the time.
  
  I have drank in excess of 3 liters of wine in less than 2 hours and successfully played in a high 
 number of consecutive matches as horde against so-called 'idiotic and n00bish' alliance players. 
 It actually repulsed me to realize how pathetically easy it was to win with zero effort or skill.
 
  
  If you wish an accurate representation of the storyline of these battles, you may be surprising 
 rewarded with a rich and highly engrossing storyline. However, this does not mean they are 'competetive' 
 by any stretch of the imagination. 
  
  It is quite pathetic and dissapointing to witness that Blizzard has allowed the horde to win a 
 hugely inordinate number of player versus player matches in a vein attempt to bolster the number 
 of horde players on their syistem.
  
  Wether right or wrong, the numbers continue to be hugely in favor of normal looking alliance races 
 over the freakish and evil looking horde races. I am very dissapointed in this particular aspect 
 of the game for which i play.
  
  
  
  It is very important to note that the aquisition of materials, over a large number or hours played, 
 will improve the player's performance, giving the player a completely false sense that they are 
 a better, more intelligenent, and wiser player. The sole reason the player is 'better' is because 
 of aqcuisition of material goods over time. This is a very, very disturbing reinforcement, especially 
 to children who play the game. One would think that development of skill should be rewarded much 
 more than than the continuous acquisition of material goods. However, it is not in this game.
 
  
  This is my personal opinion, though. I feel that there are all too many in this age that wish to 
 solidify the idea the attainment of personal goods is a direct correlation of your skill as a person.
 
  
  People may question that this is overthinking of the issue. However, Children and young adults 
 undeniably spend a huge number of hours playing this game. Is it having an impact on how they perceive 
 success? You decide.
  
  However, if you are interested in player versus player, 'roll horde'. You will realize that you 
 have a very high skill level against your opponents, of that i can assure you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash786
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  wow is a gr8 game this game is all about having fun to the fullest with online community but there 
 r sm problems like sm time it gets real boring lvling up coz its to easy thts coz blizzard made 
 it easy but gone overboard with it and turned lvling up into a childs play.................. well 
 thts the only problem tht i got which is related to gameplay and another is graphics wows graphics 
 could be updated relating to the gaming technology tht we have now a days.................. well 
 rest is ok with wow if u play this game u will have gr8 time....... so happy hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmsoccer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I received World of Warcraft as a gift last Christmas. I'm happy to report that I am still an avid 
 fan and supporter of "W. o. W." I have now been playing video games for 12 years approx. and I'm 
 happy to report that this is the most in-depth, captivating, interesting, and just plain fun game 
 to grace my screen.
  W. o. W. is a MMO RPG meaning that there are thousands of people that you can play with if you so 
 desire. Many will report that the $15/month and the massive amounts of time spent leveling to the 
 current highest level make this game impractical and a waste. It pleases me to inform you that 
 Blizzard has made it 30-60% easier to level up, and there have been MASSIVELY increased benefits 
 to playing. If you save 50 cents a day, you will be able to afford this, so became the king of 
 dares and start hording your pennies :D
  
  
  
  ~Nuktas
  70 Paladin
  Lethon PvP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0urkn1ght14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first played WoW, it was before the burning crusade came out. So I can't really say the 
 the level cap was too early because it's my fault I just started playing. Now that I have a 70 
 hunter and warrior, and I play with friends and family, I find this game sooo much fun. It's addicting, 
 and it's not a game you can just forget about when your done playing. it's really fun, hard to 
 get into at first but you learn alot as you lvl up. i recomend this game to anyone who enjoys online 
 rpg gaming, and is tired of those ugly free games (except guild wars) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkutrn
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok were do I begin? From the start, ORCs and Humans. I played and loved every warcraft game to 
 date except one, WOW. WOW is a world that I could not wait to get into, I bought the game day of 
 release and been playing ever since. But the first thing I noticed is that there were very little 
 options for customising, there were few races (though a ton in the warcraft games) and it seemed 
 that it was the same ol grind quest (that require grinding) and grind some more. Now I will give 
 it to the game that it is easy to play and all but really it is so simple and for some classes 
 so auto pilot you can go make a sandwich and come back. Nothing can be done shortly and even walking 
 from one side of a zone to another can take upwards of 30 minutes. Classes are also very unbalanced 
 warlocks and hunters rule and a well spec'd twinked out shaman is god. Were mages die quick, warrior 
 battles take forever, pallidans don't heal and just tank, and priest sit back heal and chat.
  
  With that said this leads me to BC. Now for anyone who dedicated the endless hours to get their 
 gear in raids and for the days you pvp'd at 60 and all that crap, the first day you enter outworld 
 and the first green item was better than your epic how did it feel? BC is a so-so addition it does 
 little to help with the endless amounts of time you will spend grinding and trying to level and 
 really makes you feel like you wasted your time raiding in the old game. Also quest are still the 
 same grind for a hour turn in grind for another hour.. repeat. Loot is alot better and almost makes 
 the grinding work it though that is if you have no commitments like a job or children. The online 
 community has become very odd and has formed this hardcore gamer menality. Random people don't 
 help with quest though almost all quest require someone to help and it seems like if you have something 
 other than wow on your mind you get kicked from guilds and groups. The game use to be a place where 
 it didn't matter it's just a game and now it always seems like you are talking to drug addicts.
 
  
  But to the review. BC offers a really good looking out world and some fun world pvp. The grinding 
 can get tired some but hey that's what a MMO is. Mounts and other races give the game a good bump 
 with the addition of two new races, though that does little for people already on a charater but 
 if you've reached the new level 70 cap and have nothing eles to do then at least you can make a 
 new toon. The horde gets a paladin that they can make but as a fan of the series this is the first 
 time I heard of a evil paladin I thought they were called death knights oh well. The new flying 
 mount lessons are horribly steep in cost (5000 for lessons and 1000 for mount) and are really not 
 worth the time. The game does little for content, it feels like the same house just different paint. 
 I like the sound track and the visuals are cool but other than that there is not much new in the 
 land of WOW and I suspect that when wrath is released the game will again just be the same thing 
 new place.
  
  WOW is good but not the best, most of the players who have been with it since Orcs and Humans have 
 returned to warcraft 3. I fell it is time to just leave the game to the hardcore cracked out wow 
 addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the new area to explore, the new place is called the outlands, it 
 is a pretty big place where you can take your level 60 (if you have one) and go there and raise 
 your level to 70. In this expansion, you can raise your level cap to 70 which is great because 
 most expansions dont let you raise your level anymore but this game does. The new profession Jewelcrafting 
 is really cool, you can now make trinket armor and stuff like that and make good money off of it. 
 The new title screen is really cool, it shows the portal to the outland and has some really nicely 
 composed music. The 2 new races, dreani (might not be spelled right) and the blood elves, those 
 are 2 really great races. The new battlegrounds are really cool, if you bored with old battlegrounds 
 then you can have fun in these new battlegrounds. The new instances (dungeons) are really cool, 
 the one named kara (not the full name) takes a really long time to at least raid all the way and 
 has some challenging high leveled enemies in it. The price for it is really cheap, i got it for 
 a cheap 20$, for an expansion like this, that is a steal of a price with all the new things to 
 explore and every new thing in it. The installation time doesnt take too long until you get to 
 the blizzard downloader (if you have to) if you get to the blizzard downloader, it will take awhile. 
 There are many new quests in this game, enough to level you to lv. 70 in no time just depending 
 on how many you do at a time. To me, there are no flaws in this expansion set. Overall, if you 
 play WoW, you gotta get this expansion, it is really great expansion and is a must have for any 
 WoW player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  First of all, I haven't played any RTS games of Warcraft series and I am not a fan of it. For this 
 reason, it makes my reviews objective. I first played WoW in early 2005. Honestly I felt graphics 
 is a bit below average. Voices are good especially bosses. But music is just ordinary. WoW has 
 depth and content common MMORPGs seldom have. So, the prior flaws are nothing becuase content of 
 a game is much more important. That's why WoW is so popular and many players are addicted to it. 
 
  
  Even though it's good, in my views, there are still things needing improvements. The first is, you 
 need lots of time to kill bosses in a big instance. Small instances are fine because they often 
 only need 1 hour. But it's very annoying you need more than 2 hours for a big instance. It's horrible 
 you can not rest a while more than 3 minutes during a long time. You can just keep fighting very 
 carefully to prevent attracting extra monsters or your party may be all killed unexpectedly. 
 
  
  The second is the unbalance. Some builds of some classes are overpowered. The warlock is a good 
 example. 
  
  The third is the new arena system coming with its expansion The Burning Crusade. Players are not 
 randomly chosen for joining the arena. So, what's the fact about it? The fact is, if you are not 
 on a decent team, you will always get fewer points for equipments. That's why I prefer massive PVP 
 like 40 VS 40 and new 20 VS 20 battlegrounds. At least, players are often randomly chosen for joining 
 battlegrounds. Though there are also some regular groups for 20 VS 20, you don't often face them.
 
  
  The fourth thing is the following. It's a bad thing that rewards for battlegrounds are very poor. 
 Why? Because some players don't have much time for big instances. And due to some unbalance of 
 classes, some builds for a team are weak and easily get owned in 2 VS 2 and 3 VS 3. I repeat again. 
 Even in 5 VS 5, if you are not on a decent team, you will easily lose the game and you always get 
 fewer points for equipments. So, what else can those poor players who don't have much time and decent 
 arena teams do? I think the last choice for them is battlegrounds. But the rewards from battlegrounds 
 are very bad. It's unfair for them. In the arena, those poor players are just like other top players' 
 steppingstones.
  
  Anyway, WoW is a good game for playing. At least, you won't feel bored in WoW. You will hope you 
 have more free time to play it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is this expansion will make a already addictive game take over your life. Almost 
 all of the new content will bring a smile to your face once you and your friends have accomplished 
 the hard fought battles to get to it. This expansion breaths life into a already beloved game. 
 In the end the only thing you can complain about are the patches which can make or break your characters 
 and the somewhat horrible latency on High Pop old-school servers. But you will just come back for 
 more until you ding that final level. Even then Max level content is huge and is much better then 
 the original cap content was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  It goes without saying that World of Warcraft is the worlds most popular and widely played MMO. 
 Blizzard has a pretty good track record on making quality games that truly last the test of time. 
 World of Warcraft is intuitive, easy to pick-up and get right into the action and the learning 
 curve is gradual to neophytes to the genre.
  
  The Burning Crusade obviously brought many changes to the game. A full list would be better suited 
 left at Blizzard's site versus in my review though. The clear and most presence change is the race/class 
 swap-a-roo Dranni's and Blood Elves. The ability to play a Paladin and be Horde or a Shaman and 
 remain Alliance is something I always personally disliked. This is an excellent change!
  
  The starting areas of both races seemed to have been designed to make leveling easier, questing 
 and general guidance in the game. All I can do is tilt my hat to the devs at Blizzard for taking 
 into account the players unlike so many other massively multiplayer games.
  
  Go Buy It! Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LICH_KING99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  well this game is cool and fantastic but... error #132 will make me leave the game, i got the latest 
 vedio card 504 of ram, 20gb in c:/ driver and the game isn't running, europe blizzard when u will 
 fix all the technical errors?! the game cant run on labtops because i have two new laptops but 
 it doesnt drive you need a computer to drive this game, the game is cool and amazing and every 
 one should bring it, but if you have a labtop don't bring and waste your money i hope that blizzard 
 reply to me on the forums and help me and the others in this damn problem, no game will be better 
 than world of warcraft this game the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbanker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, I would say that anyone who hasn't played the WoW Franchise, to stop reading this review, 
 and go buy the game this second. It is a great game.. a game that all other MMORPG's in the future 
 will be stacked against and compared to. This game set the bar for polish, but this latest expansion 
 by Blizzard takes the game into a new direction. I was getting bored with the "old world" content, 
 and actually lost interest in leveling up my Shaman character. I found my interest in this game 
 again when the expansion launched, since there were new places to explore, and factions to gain. 
 Personally, I love the PvP aspect now, since the honor overhaul, makes it worth spending a couple 
 afternoons PvP'ing when you know you will get a decent reward.
  
  I am hooked again on this monster of a game, and I am glad the pushed out the next expansion until 
 next year. This will give me time to catch up, and finish my character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Chonks
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, list of tasks for the original World of Warcraft:
  Complete opening quests, head to the big city area, then explore a little, then quest some more. 
 Learn a profession, whittle some money, and look for new items. Head to level 60, do some PvP, 
 have fun! Eventually, it gets a little old, but hey, that level 60 over your head would look nice... 
 so you keep playing, and you keep entertained!
  
  Okay, list of tasks for World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade:
  Start a new character (drainei 
 or blood elf) , complete opening quests, head to the big city area, then explore a little, then 
 quest some more. Learn a profession, embezzle money from your top character, and buy new items 
 from the auction house. Head to level 70, do some PvP, have... that's where I have to stop. At 
 this rate, if you've been playing for, say, a year, you're getting kind of bored this this. And 
 you know what, that level 70 mark would look nice, but then you realize... I just did this last 
 year and got to 60, and was left saying, "... Now what? Start ANOTHER 60 character?, then be left 
 in the same predicament? The Burning Crusade does not solve this issue. It's just a scam to make 
 a good game more expensive that does very little expanding. It's a whole new continent (Outland) , 
 but what are you doing on Outland that's any different than Azeroth?
  
  At any rate, I'll be generous and give this an 8.0, not because IT deserves an 8.0, but because 
 it is STILL World of Warcraft, just more expensive.
  
  Thank you, and have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_StormRage
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a awesome and fun filled MMORPG, by far one of the best out on the market 
 right now. But... then there was the expansion. This expansion killed WoW. It was a complete let 
 down and ruined the original for all it was....
  
  The Gamepley... what game play... The expansion completely unbalanced the enter game. Giving each 
 side the only unique thing they had... Hordes have Paladins now and Alliance has Shaman... The 
 balance was lost in battlegrounds and the economy is completely destroyed and ruined on several 
 servers.
  
  
  Music and Sound, was decent and probably the good thing from the enter expansion.
  
  Blood 
 Elves and Draeni... are the two new races... This is just insane. Everybody is playing the Blood 
 Elves now or Draeni. The game was fine till they had these races for everybody whining that the 
 Blood Elves should be in the game...
  
  The Outlands, this was a scam in my mind. Ok so you get a flying mount now... so what... you have 
 to be lvl 60 to get into the Outlands anyway. These expansion was just a way to force people to 
 keep playing till they hit lvl 60 at least, so they can see whats in Outlands... At lvl 70 there 
 isn't anything left to do.
  
  This expansion ruied the original just so they could make a cheap and quick buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asevenfold
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard wants to appeal to casual gamers and hardcore gamers... but what about the people in between? 
 I played this game since launch and loved it until the Burning Crusade made me choose between quitting 
 my RL and playing with the skilled half of the community or playing casually and hanging out with 
 the 10 year olds in battlegrounds. The new epic crafting gear is extremely easy to obtain... beyond 
 gear there is still no way of advancing your character in any way.
  
  if you plan to play for a few hours a day but don't want to be held down by a raiding schedule, 
 you will quickly obtain the best gear obtainable outside of raid zones and hit a brick wall in 
 character advancement.
  
  25-man boss fights are extremely grueling and painful to learn, unless you are a member of a top 
 2 guild on your server expect to spend several hours learning each boss and re-clearing trash after 
 every 5 or 6 attempts. Blizzard places most of their focus on end game bosses, when in fact 75% 
 of the WoW community is not skilled enough to master the simplest 5-man encounters.
  
  As a side note, you have to pay $14.99 per month to play and since the launch of BC 11 months ago, 
 there have been 2 content patches added to the game. The first one added a hardcore raid zone, 
 the second added voice chat and fixed bugs. This game is hardly worth it, i could name several 
 single player RPGs with more replay value than WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this, I even had it pre-ordered. When i first started it up after the 
 long install process I made a blood elf to check out the new Silvermoon area. I actually thought 
 it was quite beautiful, the art design for it reminded me a lot of Fable. I goofed around on my 
 Blood Elf mage until level 12 then went onto my troll priest to start the grind to 70. The leveling 
 process wasn't as painful as i was worried it would be, and actually went by rather quickly. The 
 new environments were pretty cool looking, my favorites being Nagrand and Zangarmarsh. The rest 
 were actually pretty bland. The brief time I spent leveling managed to make me feel like a lone 
 hero again, but that feeling soon went away as I hit 70 and began raiding and saving money for 
 my epic mount. Eye of the storm was a disappointment and the rest of the battlegrounds were overrun 
 with idiots who just spent all day AFK to get honor points. I soon noticed it became extraordinarily 
 easy to get epic pieces of gear. There was no more challenge, in the original if you saw someone 
 with epics you knew they accomplished something, in BC, if you saw someone without epics they either 
 just hit 70 or are completely incompetent at playing their class. The flying mounts were neat but 
 you couldn't even use them in Azeroth. Oh and of course the raid bosses are as boring and robotic 
 as ever, they don't even have the epic feeling the ones from the original had. So here I am, a 
 level 70 troll shadow priest with a netherdrake, full frozen shadoweave and other epics from kara, 
 and my raid group is on High Astromancer Solarion. Its everyone's dream right? Wrong, I was having 
 less fun being on top of the world in BC than I was being in the middle in the original. This is 
 an expansion with nothing but more of the same but without any of the epic feel to it. It doesn't 
 feel special like the original. I have now quit the game because its just become a monotonous gear 
 race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaN3y
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Ok. When i first got this game i thought wicked! I gonna get to level 70. I got home i started 
 playing and only have got to level 64. The game is now officialy over, not many people will consider 
 world of warcraft a giant killer now. too many modifications have been made. Raiding is still as 
 pointless as before, the burning crusade should never have come out, the lifespan is dead for me, 
 i can only play in azeroth. Blizzard should not have made it and now there making another one just 
 a year after burning crusade. I wont say its the worst game ever, its up there in the 7-8.5 but 
 thats it. In my personal opinion, world of warcraft is over when the lich king comes out. they 
 dont need it, and when that comes out, its make or break for WoW. and i think thats its gonna be 
 break!.
  Warhammer soon, thats gonna be good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose33
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game just so happens to be the greatest role playing game in existence! If you buy this game 
 though, beware, it is the most addictive game ever, but it is certainly worth it. You will play 
 it for hours and hours until your mom or girlfriend or wife either makes you leave, or leaves you. 
 The gameplay is as smooth as a baby's bottom if you have the right computer for it. The graphics 
 are so so but you learn to like them. The combat engine is amazing, and you really get to love 
 just fighting for no good reason. Probably the main thing that makes you like this game is the 
 fact that you are building your character, finding new armor, weapons, and other things to make 
 your character as good as possible until you reach the fabled level 70! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madyran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Blizzard's beemoth of power World of Warcraft. A freak of nature capable of destroying every MMO 
 to date and to back it up with a player base so big, it could be clasified as a mini-country. Blizzard 
 has done an amazing job fixing patches, listening to players **** and giving new and fresh updates 
 every few months. The in-game events are terrible fun, and the dungeous at end game never get old. 
 Myself, I have a level 70 paladin and a level 37 hunter. So I can say I'm a fairly regular player. 
 I've never felt a lack of somethign to do whenever i step into the world of Azeroth and I find 
 that I always end my game time feeling refreshed and getting my gaming fix. I've made tons of new 
 friends, learned management skills from running a guild, and learned to hold my temper with those 
 motherf**k noobs who always steal mah' mobs. Blizzard's new expansion pack 'The Burning Crusade' 
 offers a swath of new updates. An entire world for your questing pleasure, new battlegrounds, proffesions, 
 mounts, cities, quests, everything your volatile brain can think of. The big update remains the 
 raising of the level cap to 70 which unlocks the world of Outland where you may journey with your 
 peers to grind nagas and pigs. Burning Crusade also offers two new races; The Draeni, and the Blood 
 Elf. The Blood Elf for the horde that want pretty characters, and the Draeni, aliens. But who cares.
 
  Its been a great gaming year for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelnos21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  world of warcraft, a great mmorpg, run around casting spells killing demons and other creatures, 
 go PvP, buy, sell, mine, smith, and more. pick from two sides: horde or alliance (horde is evil 
 and alliance is good)
  the horde get: trolls, orcs, undead, taurens, blood elves, (some other thing)
  the alliance get: 
 humans, gnomes, dwarfs, night elves, drainei
  it is a great game. it is also definetly worth its price (15 USD a month) . before you go off and 
 buy the game make sure that you have high speed internet and a fast computer with alot of space. 
 On each acount you create you will be able to make more then 1 person, there are about 20 servers 
 (i think) and on each server you can make 5 people (once again, I THINK)
  so that means you can make around 100 characters on a profile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I'll cut streight to the point here if you don't mind:
  
  Pros: Two cool races, amazing new continent, 70 level cap, new crafting proffession and new recipes 
 and skills and plenty of new dungeons and monsters to kill. Arena is welcomed addition and so are 
 PvP territories in PvE zones, No 40-man raids.
  
  Cons: WoW's graphics are looking dated, no new class, plenty of technical bugs and glitches, Some 
 balancing issues among classes.
  
  Summary: Despite some of its isssues TBC is a pretty damn good expansion pack to one of the best 
 MMORPG on the markets. Any WoW player ,beginner or returning to the game should buy TBC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name654321
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Well after getting my Felguard i stopped. Let me tell you about world of warcraft - it is HUGE. 
 It gives you a whole world to explore for a monthly fee of &pound;10. It is a second life. Leveling 
 up will become like birthdays and your real-life friends will get replaced by someone on WoW. Now 
 let me get this straight, it is not addictive, you just don't wanna stop playing. It can't be addictive 
 because I just stopped. I decided i had enough and cancelled my account. Why? Well, i have had 
 one too many ninjad items, one too many failed runs in Sunken Temple, and one too many sleepless 
 nights. After a while it becomes a grind. But it was fun, so many incredible things happened while 
 i was there on the Steamwheedle Cartel server. I must've said lol so many times. Me and my tauren, 
 Bloodfoot have had some good times and i'll be damned if i ever forget that name. Play it. Love 
 it, but then leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcl_p_m91
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade adds a whole new level of play to WoW. The new charcters, instances, battlegrounds, 
 and the lvl 70 cap. Yet doesnt it all just seem a little much. It's a wonderful game, but of course, 
 in the end, theres just to much to do and it seems to be overly repetitive. To many gamers thats 
 ok, but to me, it had to end. I couldnt spend much more time after i hit 70 playing the game because 
 it all suddenly became the same. Yet of course there is still lots to do, and maby just never really 
 got around o discovering all there was to it. And not to mention the ride up to 70 was a pretty 
 decent bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airmon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  The whole reason for an expansion is to let players continue on. In a game that never ends you 
 have to have something to look forward to and BC did a great job. Whats the fun of being Epic'd 
 out and not having anyone be able to touch you in a BG? Might as well be a ganker on a PVP server.
 
  To all those whiners who complain about paying 50 bucks for an expansion then 15 per month: how 
 much Bio Shock cost you? Then the next game after you get bored with it in a month? 15 bucks for 
 a game I have been playing for 2 years that keeps my Inner Gamer satisfied is cheap compared to 
 the 100+ games i have sitting in my gaming rack from years past that are now collecting dust. Long 
 live WoW and looking forward to the next expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Not only was this expansion not even worth it, it completely changed the community I was involved 
 in ( at least on my server, Silvermoon) . NO ONE PvPed like they used to even at 70.
  I loved my guild and I loved the game in general, but after realizing the addiction I had and how 
 people can and will screw you over and break their promises to you everyday.
  
  ( sure I'll help you tomorrow with Botanica ... oh I'm doing some Shadowmoon Valley quests now, 
 maybe tomorrow lol...)
  
  On top of it all, class imbalance was insane, locks and hunters couldn't be touched, Rogues get 
 paladin-like spells and priests, mages and warriors still get nerfed every patch. Shaman are still 
 useless and paladins still refuse to heal, nothing changed.
  
  I left and never looked back since. If you really want to experience WoW, please proceed with caution 
 and be careful who you get involved with. The hardcore, ego-driven players/ guilds WILL screw you 
 over. You have been warned. The good ol days of 51-60 PvP showed who had skills; this expansion 
 made all of that obsolete. Now everyone is good because everyone has gear that can make them do 
 4k+ damage or heal for 6k+ health.
  
  I advise against all things WoW, unless you don't have a life. Take it from a former WoW-addict. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VexRed4
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  The new expansion is aimed at two types of WOW players: those who wish to experience the whole 
 game from a different perspective, and those who want to take their veteran level 60 characters 
 further than they ever could before. New Level cap to 70. There are two new playable races, (for 
 those who want to start over) one for horde and one for alliance. The Draenei have joined the ranks 
 of the Alliance forces. The Blood Elves have found new friends in the members of the Horde. Both 
 races have each been given two new starting zones to explore and a new capital city to call home. 
 The Draenei start off in the Azuremist Isles, off the western coast of Kalimdor, while the Blood 
 Elves are secluded on the northern tip of the Eastern Kingdoms in a land called Quel'Thalas. With 
 the Blood elfs now being on the horde side, it some what evens out the Alliance/Horde side. where 
 as the horde are not as out numbered. It's hard to think of The Burning Crusade as an expansion 
 pack. It brings enough new content to the World of Warcraft experience to beat out most other games 
 in their entirety. The game is a Highly addictive game, and one of my most favorites, i think everyone 
 should give this game a try. i mean come on, eight million players couldnt be wrong could they? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game is definetly worth buy, yes you have to buy regulaur wow but it's still worth buying.
 
  
  The game never gets old because there constantly coming out with new patchs that keep you interested. 
 It might be hard to level but when you hit 70 it's all worth it you get to raid and talk to others 
 online and theres people helping you constantly.
  
  If your thinking about getting a MMORPG for pc this is the one to pick up. It will keep you staring 
 at your computer screen for hours and then once you play for an hour... your hooked. This is a 
 game that challenges you and sometimes pisses you off but when you kill something that you've been 
 trying to kill for hours maybe even days you fell good inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaspio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  OK, so you have reached level 70 ! So now what ? Well, maybe complete a few quests to get attuned 
 for those high level instances ? Wrong !!!
  This is a game of grinding, grinding and more grinding. If you want a game where your challenge 
 is to spend hours and hours in repetitive farming to increase your reputation with the various 
 factions in Outland, then this is your game. I enjoyed the original game, a masterpiece, to the 
 max, have to admit. But back then, to gain access to the most prominent sites and instances, rather 
 than endless hours of grind work, you just had to complete a quest or two. Burning Crusade, on 
 the other hand, requires you to gain reputation with multiple factions to have access to the high-end 
 areas or heroic mode, and this reputation can only be obtained through boring hours and hours of 
 grind work.
  A typical example is gaining heroic key for let's say The Citadel instances. Once you achieve Honored 
 status, the only way to advance is by going to Shattered Halls at least a dozen of times, if not 
 more. And this is only one area in Outland, same applies to almost each and every zone in the expansion.
 
  Frankly, this is not my concept of fun, and I canceled my subscription shortly after reaching 
 level 70 and opening my eyes to the sad reality of what this greatly overrated game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lav-25
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Now the xpack for World of Warcraft is Burning Crusade.... now this game has its bad and good points. the 
 bad and good well really depend on the person of course now the Good: awesome huge world ok graphics 
 for a massive online game cool classes fun when finding new gear awesome social options and of 
 course a thing to use when ur bored. Bad: getting gear can be a problem laggy areas leveling can 
 be hard for some classes can get nerfed.
  
  now WoW TBC is a very fun game u get it u enjoy it u lvl u talk with ya mates u spend heaps of 
 time on the computer just palying the game feeling as if u can play it forever you level up your 
 professions you make new freinds u gank u duel u do heaps offun things.
  
  now the not so good points once u get to level 70 you feel as if it was a waste..... i felt this 
 anyway i mainly felt like it was a waste because 1: i spent so much of my life getting to level 
 70 wasteing 40 bucks every 2 months and for what? grnding gear so i went off got soem epics starting 
 building up my toon got into the game again then i heard the most bad news about this game.... a 
 new xpack was comeing out meaning lebvelign another 10 levels getting gear AGAIN and well theirs 
 also a chance of ur class being the Under powerd 1.... oh not to mentoin the news of a new class 
 comeing in... and well blizzard like favouring classes more in this game more then other onlien 
 games, anyway in the end i felt as if this game was such a waste.... it wasted my life... put my grades 
 down in school and EVEN brought my real life freinds into the problem.... if u are thinking of getting 
 WoW dont bother i am warning u from now before it sucks u in and makes u addicted i sound crazy 
 huh? well guess what 95 % of people on WoW are addicted and about 40 % want to get off the game 
 but fidn themselves TRAPPED so i suggest u dont get this game..... it will just SUCK ur life away.... but 
 i guess if u got no life and u can be botherd grinding for hours and hours and weeks and weeks 
 then i guess its made for u... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ef13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  For all of those who have a problem with this game it is probably because you do not understand 
 the concept of it and have never got past level 10. Moving on from those who do not like it, this 
 is by far one of the most addicting games you will ever play. Why? Because it is the best game 
 to come out. For all those who think this is a nerd-ish game and you have no life playing it, you're 
 sadly wrong, the people you meet on the game are surprisingly entertaining. Although a lot of your 
 time is spent on it, you can find time anything, it is not a choice between WoW and life, its just 
 something to do. I'll give it what it deserves in words for being what it is: Intense, amazing, 
 entertaining, fun, exquisite, like no other, extraordinary, and... just go out and buy it already.
 
  
  Only reason I'm giving it a 9.5 is because the graphics need a bit of work, although when the first 
 WoW was launched it had some of the best graphics of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Statistic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Well I've been playing WoW now for like 2 years? I have a 70, 69, 61, 37, 36, and deleted a 20 
 and 15 so I've seen just about everything.
  
  My overall view is positive. They have done an incredible amount of work and made the game MUCH 
 more enjoyable. My biggest beefs are two things.
  
  1. They made most of the old world factions and gear COMPLETELY obsolete. There's no reason at 
 all to go do an MC run anymore. Having said that, you eventually don't care. New raids, new runs, 
 new factions, and a MUCH better built world.
  
  2. Grind grind grind. WoW was supposed to take us AWAY from the old EQ world thinking. Instead 
 the just disguise the grinding. Grind for materials, Grind for reputation, grind for honor. I really 
 wish a game would come out where they would reward you for talent and innovation. Hmmm sounds like 
 other games I play. 2142 anyone? Who wants to do an MC run now? I would rather just get some level 
 61-69 GREENS. Irony..
  
  Other than that the game is solid, the story is awesome, the graphics are awesome. Flying mounts 
 are the bomb. There is TONS of content and they seem to be focusing on more content with the coming 
 expansion. I'm slightly glad that it takes so long to level in the old world. Otherwise every 10 
 year old playing would have a level 70 toon. There's nothing better out there, I've played them 
 all.
  
  I really hope they do something about all of that lost content and raid stuff from level 50-60. 
 It's almost bizarre that they just left it in the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I have played WoW and the expansion pack. It is addicting. It grabbed me in for a month. I regret 
 every little bit of it.
  
  If you want to get further into my hatred for this game read my blog but aside from WoW itself 
 and this expansion pask...
  
  Why pay for the game that adds a bare minimum to WoW itself. 2 new races and a hand full of new 
 areas. Oh my god - lets pay for the game a SECOND time along with $15/month.
  
  This adds almost nothing to the game itself infact its pointless unless you're completely bored 
 with the original WoW game. Infact, if you are bored - don't bother wrapping yourself into the 
 expansion pack because it's only gonna effect you even more mentally, physically, and others around 
 you like your family and friends
  
  Trust me on this because it's happened to me. Don't waste your money on this if you have already 
 on the WoW game itself. Infact, cancel your WoW account now because this was only the first expansion 
 pack with more to come to suck up your green.
  
  I think free games like Runescape get more areas and enemies monthly for free then this game does 
 every half of year. This expansion pack was probably thought up in 30 minutes and then built in 
 a week just to suck your money up.
  
  It increases the game's fun factor, gameplay, and graphics all together by ZIP, ZILCH, NADDA, ZERO, 
 NOTHING, SQUAD = 0.
  
  Can't believe GS got paid off to give this game a 9.2. More then Bioshock - a real master piece 
 of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Omg World Of Warcraft BC Is coming out!!!-my exspresion when I pre-orderd but I was truly disappointed 
 when I got 3 hours into the game. I see now that the game is soo overated. I'm tired of the crappy 
 graphics and well gameplay. But with all the annoying little kids the excitment WILL wear down. 
 With all the other MMORPGs in this world this one is a skip and try guildwars . The graphic arent 
 to good but i have to say im giving it a 2.0 based on gamplay which was quite entertaining until 
 a few hours. Making this game a huge DONT BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriumphOfGnomes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade adds many new features to WoW. Arena PvP, New Raids and Dungeons, Level cap 
 to 70, and Two new races: Blood Elves, and Draenei. All of this, and more adds to a truely amazing 
 game already. The graphics have been punched up, and wants more out of your computer. Sound quality 
 is better than ever. The controls are still easy, and so is the game.
  
  Since there is now more to offer, the gameplay is to expansive to even talk about. More monsters, 
 more PvP, more everything.
  
  If you seriously love WoW, get this expansion. It will not fail you.
  
  NOTE: I had to write 
 this Review quickly, I had to get back on WoW lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCause420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is the first expansion to World of Warcraft and it succeeded in many ways. 
 Adding a new world to explore, two new races to choose from, new quests, new instances, and a new 
 battleground. The new world of Outland is filled with lore and fun questing. Right as you enter 
 the Dark Portal to explore this new world you have an array of creative and amusing quests to do, 
 but as you level it the quests begin to become a bit repetitive. The new instances are really fun, 
 especially with the new heroic difficulty setting. Bosses require concentration, rather than the 
 popular tank and spank with the lower level instances. Karazan, a 10 man raid instance has some 
 interesting lore and events happening. Karazan has a lot of plot from the book The Last Guardian 
 by Jeff Grubb. The Chess event is always fun to do and the Opera event has some creative boss fights, 
 The two new classes, the Blood Elves and Draenai, have the most visually appealing starter areas. 
 Blood elves bring the Paladin class to the Horde, while the Draenai bring the Shaman class to the 
 Alliance. I still continue to play this new expansion since it's release, but not as frequent as 
 I did a couple months ago. The expansion worth buying, but also a bit necessary since the majority 
 of players have the expansion and won't be playing with the people stuck at level 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fetusripper
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I no longer play WOW and the release of The Burning Crusade is the main reason. Considering how 
 costly and timeconsuming this game is maybe I should be glad I&acute; m done with it. But I&acute; m 
 not! Even with all it&acute; s typical MMORPG flaws the old game worked fine, enormous amounts of 
 people loved it and it attracted a steady stream of new blood. The Burning Crusade was supposed 
 to make the game feel fresh, at the same time larger and better, but it backfired. WoW now feels 
 smaller, broken and divided in my opinion. There is nothing disastrously wrong with the content 
 in the expansion, with good design throughout, but when seen as a whole it does more damage than 
 good. The worst thing being: Everything in the old Azeroth is obsolete. Sad as hell, but true. 
 WoW as people knew and loved it, is gone.
  
  The most important thing with creating a WORLD like Azeroth is keeping it persistent but dynamic. 
 A big island that suddenly pops up out of nowhere, turning the old world into a museum is not in 
 keeping with the concept of a persistant world. Another thing that really bothered me was the new 
 races, greatly designed and fine in their own right, but the classes shaman and paladin now being 
 available to both Alliance and Horde is a downgrade. An idiotic idea as it was a very interesting 
 choice to have faction unique classes. A concept that can also be seen in Warcraft III. It added 
 a real sense of diversity and competition between the two sides, If anything they should have added 
 one more faction-unique class for both sides, further dividing and differentiating the two.
  
  In my opinion World of Warcraft is now broken and discontinued. The same fate will come to 
 The Burning Crusade when the next big rehaul comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater015
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is highly addictive. once you start playing it, chances are your not going to stop for 
 several hours. You get a new PvP battleground and outdoor pvp objectives like the spirit towers 
 of terokkar forest and the war zone of Halaa in Nagrand, you get new dungeons and spells. The new 
 expansion fixes old game problems in raids, like the almost mandatory need to be restoration/holy 
 for some classes, and protection for warriors, now a druid can be balance/feral, a priest can be 
 disciplin/shadow (as a bonus will restore raids mana and health) or a shaman can be enchance or 
 elemental, it really makes those classes more enjoyable to raid as if your not into the healing 
 scene. Find a good guild, and start raiding Karazhan to the black temple, then go find some PvP 
 combat in outland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Note: It would be greatly appreciated that you not rate on this review if you did not fully read 
 it. Though it is indeed gratifying to see a lot of Agree or thumbs up , it would be even better 
 if it was earned. So, before you click on good or bad I ask that you please read the entire review 
 before rating it.
  
  Thank you. :)
  
  ----------------------------------------
  Personal Rant
  
  For me, It's always a good laugh to read the reviews people bestow, in all 
 of their infinite knowledge, on games that are popular by general census.
  
  First of all (for the duration of reading this at least) , I ask that you throw all that you have 
 heard about this game out the window, especially those saying it is a waste of time; it truth, 
 it is a waste of time, but it's also a MMORPG, so enough said on that matter (all games are a waste 
 of time unless it's your job or hobby to be playing them) . If you have a personal life, then you 
 would be better off living it as opposed to wasting time on a game that will become incredibly 
 addictive to you, play it for a few years with a passion, and then hate on it since it wasted your 
 time even though it was entirely your decision to start playing.
  
  ---------------------------
  
  Review:
  
  Gamespot said that The Burning Crusade is a superb 
 example of exactly what an expansion pack for any game should be. in their respected review of 
 the game, and quite frankley, as a whole, I'd have to concur whole heartidly with them.
  
  Never has a game, even a non-multiplayer one, has ever delivered such a mass amount of content 
 as an expansion pack as The Burning Crusade has, and in MMORPG form.
  
  Expansions have been known to absolutely ruin MMORPGs in the past, with Ultima Online being a prime 
 example of this, but Blizzard managed to keep WoW's charm throughout the expansion, almost to a 
 fault. It some cases, it is indeed just more of the same; though, what's wrong with doing something 
 that has a success to begin with? Nothing. It's how almost all companies do business.
  
  Personally, I do not like the path they are taking World of Warcraft, but that does not mean that 
 I should bash a perfectly well made expansion with bias opinions and hate on it just because I 
 don't want to either pay for it, play it, or experience anything it has to offer within.
  
  I've played and obtained maxed level characters on all types of Servers, Normal, PvP, RP, RP-PVP, 
 you name it. An example of people overexaggerating is that some people are scared to death of PvP 
 servers thinking Oh dang, if I go there I'll be ganked and camped every hour that I play! I just 
 want to play the dang game and not worry about it! , and that's perfectly fine; however, it my 
 experiences of playing those realms I was ganked maybe twice in my entire time up to level sixty 
 and then level seventy when the expansion was finally released. Perhaps I played on relatively 
 tame servers, but I also played smart by avoiding ganking areas such as Stranglethorn and found 
 safe places to grind without the opposing faction nearby.
  
  Indeed, on whatever MMORPG I play, whether it be UO, DAOC, EQ, FFXI, RO, RF, LoTR, Eve, and multiple 
 korean grinds as they are known, I tend to get max levels before I judge the game and then reflect 
 by thinking Hey... What could've been better, what was incredibly fun, would I do it again? and 
 so forth. That is exactly what I did with WoW and this recent expansion.
  
  Many people were incredibly upset that they wasted time raiding for what is now deemed as useless 
 gear in the expansion; though, they should have known, by common sense, that level seventy gear 
 would be vastly superior. However, it is true that they were made obsolete a little too easy, heck, 
 at the start even greens were better than most level sixty epics (excluding most weapons) . Though, 
 such is the way things happen sometimes, and it is childish to hate on a game just because it wants 
 to move it's story forward and make the characters stronger as a whole.
  
  So this little point leds me to my first point that I would've change, and I m sure many will agree 
 with me on this point - they should have made at least tier two sets more relevent in the game 
 by at least putting in a quest to imbue them up to Burning Crusade standards or making the level 
 58-62 greens a little less powerful than the tier two equipment. It may be childish to hate on 
 something like this, as I said in the previous paragraph (so as not to contradict myself) , but 
 simply making a point that it would have been better, while not letting your emotions affect your 
 rating, is a perfect way to display your displeasure in this.
  
  The way everything was set up in the Burning Crusade was great... for the first few months. Thereafter 
 many people started having trouble finding groups due to everyone just wanting to do heroic runs 
 or arena battles and people were pretty much left stranded by grinding to level seventy; it became 
 even worse than FFXI to get a party going it was so bad on some of my servers. This leads to my 
 second point with the expansion pack.
  
  They should have foudn some what, other than just collecting special items for heroic raids in 
 the future, to boost up the amount of people wanting to do each instance within the game. While 
 it may be a little too radical, even allowing for NPC replacements to take part in a party would 
 help millions of players out with finding a class they were unable to get after a few hours, and 
 then finally disband with nothing to show for it. While you may not want a NPC bot healing or tanking, 
 if the AI was good enough they may even prove to be better at it; perhaps even a commander system 
 could be set in where you train and equip a mercenary (for instance purposes only) to be whatever 
 you want, it's just a small idea (maybe even a dumb one, but at least it's better than just standing 
 around asking random people if they want to do an instance, the groups has been trying to form 
 for hours... yada yada) . Though, in the end, something really does need to be done about the accessibility 
 of the lower level dungeons.
  
  There is one thing that somewhat ticks me off about the expansion, and it's not the fault of the 
 game itself, but the community. World of WarCraft provides some of the most armor and equipment 
 choices than any of game out there; yet, they are still ridiculed when they reuse perfectly well 
 done armor sets. Indeed, they recolored and reused some sets, why wouldn't they? They already had 
 thousands of different sets for their cloth, leather, mail, and plate users... Why is everyone 
 calling them lazy? In addition to reusing sets, they also made some unique ones that people just 
 convienantly forget about when they rant how much blizzard is lazy. The Outlands, which was added 
 by this expansion, is a superbly crafted world that had a lot of exciting new places to visit within 
 the shattered world when the Dark Portal was original opened, ravaging the land and it's inhabitants. 
 The first portion, while sterotypical, had a view point that far surpassed any other area in the 
 non-expansion game. It was basically a wasteland set ablaze, and you could see incredibly far into 
 the distance (which would probably account for their increase in required Ram for the game) . However, 
 for those who stuck it through they saw some interesting areas such as The Dragon's End , where 
 dozens of dead dragons were seen pierced by Jagged rocks, or maybe even the Ecosphere in the Netherstorm... 
 Which held a small eden from the harsh environment outside the protective sphere.
  
  I've read a lot of people saying there were no new quests in the game. Well, all I have to say 
 to that is bull crap . There are at least a dozen new types of quests in there, as well as the 
 old ones that were frequent in Azeroth. Some examples of new quests at the top of my head:
  
  Flying Mission
  Bombing Mission
  Possesson (Control a raid boss and fight another raid 
 boss)
  Summoning Defenders
  Getting Ogres Drunk
  Quest to see into the ghost world (while not actually being dead) .
  Defend the Point Missions
 
  Assassination (Present in Azeroth, but not to some degrees it goes into)
  Capture and Hold Mission
  World PvP Missions (which was introduced in the patch that prepared 
 Burning Crusade, but also was present in Outlands) .
  Arena Battle Quest (Fight in the arena and defeat the Ogre Champion!) .
  Easily accessable world 
 raid quests.
  
  One thing I enjoyed doing was going through the dung of the Antelops to find some special seeds 
 in Outland; that was gold. Haha.
  
  In any case, those are simple examples that just come to mind when thinking about some of the quests 
 in Outland.
  
  World of Warcraft, in attempts to keep this review as short as possible, is general is basically 
 a community game; by that I mean it would be boring if you didn't have your friends or people to 
 help and/or show off to. It is a MMoRPG, and this type of genre is about the community as a whole 
 and not a single player experience. People keep on treating it like this and expecting to preform 
 some type of miracle since Blizzard has such a great customer satisfaction record, but they're 
 only disappointed themselves as Blizzard delivers what it promised in an expansion pack, and if 
 people didn't find it to their likings it's entirely their own feelings and not mutual shared among 
 the nine million subscriber masses. It's okay to not like a game, but to rate such a popular and 
 successful game below a seven just because you don't like it? Well, I'm sorry, but I just hope 
 that most of these people don't get a job as a professional reviewer in the gaming industry.
  
  It was my decision to stop playing this game some time ago, but despite my (now hostile after 
 feeling the sting of reality in how much time I've wasted) feelings towards it I will never resort 
 to going to the side with whom are part of a natural phenomenon with any game that's popular in 
 gaming, and just have to find something wrong about it just to be cool and hardcore on the internet 
 (though some people may genuinely hate it, and more power to them... But you know that at least 
 a third of those people have an active account and play it daily, but say they hate it on the forums 
 just to look mature and cool to everyone else) . Good game, people.... Good game.
  
  In the end most people will quit playing this game and dislike the fact that they wasted their 
 time on a game that they just quit on; though, with having an original collector's edition of the 
 game myself, and playing the game since beta, at least I'm able to say that I've made a lot of 
 friends with whom I now talk to on AIM, and most of the time I've played was enjoyable. Gaming 
 may not be important overall, but making new friends is one of the things that's all about, and 
 World of Warcraft has most definitely helped me along with that in spades (I've even known multiple 
 people who met on WoW and got married in real life) .
  
  WoW will always be special to them for that reason, and such stories are always great to hear about... 
 Tell me, what has any online game, not just WoW, given to you in real life? Perhaps it wasn't such 
 a waste of time after all (with all contradictions to the beginning of this review sarcastically 
 intentional) .
  
  In any case, for those of you who read through all this, despite it having no real value to most 
 people what someone else says, thank you and take care. Though, if I had the time, I'd definitely 
 write a few more pages on improvements, dislikes, likes, and overall myth busting that people are 
 bringing to the forums and reviews; a little sense of reasoning is always good in a community full 
 of people who spread bias rumors and opinions.
  
  Though, as long as they are in good health (which I hope they are) , more power to them. If not... hope 
 they get well soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabisu999
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  If you got really tired of the massive farming before the expansion, well be prepared to go nuts.
 
  Defeantly not worted, you'll have to farm like crazzy to get reputations for everithing, most 
 of the servers after this expansion was released is filled with rogues and hunters only, this means, 
 noob classes. New raids were added, but come on blizzard, it's really boring to raid that dungeons, 
 they simply don't have the touch of the azeroth dungeons, lore got prety screwed, total class imbalance, 
 the most weaker costumer suport than ever... Just don't bother going to the store to buy this one 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing wow for over 2 yrs. I was one of those hardcore fans that waited in line to buy 
 the expansion because i loved the first one. I felt like i was really in-tune with the general 
 enviroment and just had a blast. Anyway, when i got the new expansion, i played it until lvl 64 
 and just quit, That feeling of excitment i got from playing was gone. I didn't feel that the new 
 areas went along with wow experience. I found the new areas boring and uninteresting. and now with 
 the new expansion already announced and a new cap to 80 i felt like im getting tired of playing 
 the same character over and over again and i don't feel like playing another character for 3 months 
 to get back in tha game is worth it. This game has become too time consuming and if your not interested 
 in rotting away in front of the computer then this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  It was an entertaining game as I leveled my first character up. Sure there's a few annoyances a 
 long the way. The biggest for me was quests that simply had you go out and kill X monsters and 
 return. Even worse are the ones that required you to get X drops from a certain mob that only dropped 
 about 5% of the time. You can lose an entire night to a quest like that.
  
  Instances were especially fun the first time through. Even more so if you were in a decent group. 
 Unfortunately, to get an item you want, you have to run the same instance upwards of 20 times until 
 it finally drops, if not more. I know many people claim, Well that's MMORPG's , and if that's all 
 developers are willing to do, count me out. I won't do work in games.
  
  I finally hit 60 and did a little raiding, a little PvP, and realized all that's left is working 
 for items. You can grind reputation to buy gear. This means killing hundreds of mobs or collecting 
 hundreds of items... by killing hundreds of mobs. Or PvP, where it comes down to who has the better 
 gear. I've been on both sides and it's not fun either way. The first few levels in BC were somewhat 
 fun, but I had to force myself to get to 70 just to have it over with.
  
  Naturally I decided to try another character, but I just don't have the will to grind through it 
 all again. I got a few characters up to 30 or so, but I couldn't bare going through the content 
 again. It's simply not entertaining enough without the 'new factor'. Compounding this is the fact 
 that it's almost impossible to get a group going for lower level instances now.
  
  I don't want to just rush another character to 70 so I could grind them gear, I want to experience 
 how that character plays in a group. So I waited weeks on end with no hope in sight of ever getting 
 a group going for lower level instances. This is what led me to quit. If this game is going to 
 play as a single player game, there's a lot of them out there that are a lot better and don't cost 
 15$ a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trueepower44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the game without the expansion then you know what the strengths and weaknesses 
 of this game are. With the expansion WOW strengths dont change. Most of WOW weaknesses stay the 
 same making the game a addition to the regular great game that everyone knows but not improving 
 much on the areas that needed improvments or  
 Raiding.... There is a ton of more raiding content and anyone who likes a pve game is subject to 
 be addicted possibly by the challenges that lie ahead. Like always your going to want to be in 
 the best guild possibly to experience everything. 20 man raids such as Kara offer good great items 
 and then lead to more raiding content once the guild has finished that instances. So one instances 
 leads to another and depending on your guild you will explore X amount of content. The raiding 
 content is improved over the original with Heriocs also you can take on instances which otherwise 
 wouldnt be as much of a challenge and recieve better loot in the  
 Character Customization..... With now 61 talents to spend instead of just 51 this opens up different 
 specs for each class that suddenly become viable. However even though the game has improved in 
 Character customization there seems changes still need to be made to really call this a really 
 great game where you can customize your character to be totally unique. So Blizz makes Character 
 Customization better , but still more needs to be  
 Graphics.... they remain the same. The graphics still come down to whether you like the style of 
 the WOW graphics or not. The new zones even though they are maybe alittle more well done then the 
 regular game still dont change from the previous game at all. And if you are like me and got tired 
 of the WOW regular graphics in that game, even though they are great to see you just get tired 
 of them after awhile.  
 content..... Flying mounts are very very cool. This is prolly one of the strong points of the expansion, 
 although your regular mount be slow costing 1000 gold .... its still very fun to fly. And its a 
 good change. The 5000 gold mount is really fun and although it sounds impossible to get , it really 
 just depends on how much you play. The economy in the expansion is way way better then regular 
 wow. There's alot of rep to get for players who want certain items and depending on your point 
 of veiw can be really boring or really rewarding. Blizz seemed to just want to keep players busy 
 and they do it forcing you to get rep to get items you need. LIke recipes for example.  
 Pvp..... Still the weakest area in wow. They added outdoor pvp in zones, except for Netherstorm i 
 believe. The game's weakness is still pvp its the samething over and over in the bg's. The outdoor 
 pvp is alright, but the rewards leave much to be desired still. Outdoor pvp is also very much pointless 
 much the same as the bg instances for pvp. Everything seems to be done with a attitude to get kills 
 to get the gear available, but no really bad blood or purpose is there to do pvp. The arena is 
 great if you have good pvp friends, again that gets to be the samething over and over though.  
 sum it up............ Wow is a game with graphics that are stylish but leaving you wanting more. 
 They arent detailed they dont get addictive (depending on your opinion) and they seem to be the 
 same everywhere you go. The customization of characters to set you apart from everyone else is 
 improved but needs more. The pvp is pointless and gets old really fast. If you are into pve and 
 you really do love the graphics of WOW and never got sick of the old game you may end up loving 
 the expansion. If you were looking for big changes and something totally new from Blizz this expansion 
 doesnt do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stigmati-zed
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  As I hadn't played World of Warcraft until a few weeks ago, I wasn't really bothered either way 
 to play it or not. However, I had heard it was a great and addictive game, and reading the stories 
 displaying people dying over the game from too much gameplay, I thought it was worth a try!
  
  Being a latecomer, I decided to buy both the first game and the expansion pack so I could create 
 a character from the new class of Blood Elves! I would say that the female choice of characters, 
 even though the same as the males, are not spectacular, but I suppose a game like this isn't all 
 about looks! The choice of faces, hairstyles, etc, aren't really that enormous, however, they do 
 serve well, making a lot of the players look slightly different to each other!
  
  The gameplay, at first, I thought to be very similar to that of another game, Guild Wars. The fonts 
 and writing styles were very much the same, so I was slightly dissapointed as I felt I had already 
 played the game! However, once I learnt a little bit more about the game, and the extensive quests 
 and other features I could immerse myself into, I was quite happy. The game is heaavily revolved 
 around completing quests in order to gain experience, and gain levels, reaching a maximum of level 
 70. It does take a long time to level in this game, which makes it more worthwhile.
  
  The maps are huge! I started off in a small city called Silvermoon, and thought, ah well this game 
 can't be that huge, but when a friend showed me by zooming out on the world map, that I had only 
 explored a small amount of the map, I was shocked by the size of it. There are 2 sides of the world, 
 and within each side, there are thousands of different areas, and within those areas, at least 
 5 or more different towns and cities!
  
  Once I'd figured out some of the WoW 'slang', like 'ding' meaning level up, and other various things 
 about the game e. g. shortcut keys, I was starting to get used to the feel of it. After I'd reached 
 a decent level 18 I believe, I went with a group of people into something called an 'instance', 
 which is basically a dungeon that you have to go into at certain levels with a group of at least 
 3 or 4 people. The monsters are more difficult than the ones in the normal world map, however, 
 drop much better loot, which is determined on a roll of the dice type system. When a good item 
 comes up, a pop up will appear showing the item, and a question asking whether you need the item, 
 for your character, or you would just like it, being greedy. If a person chooses need, they will 
 automatically get the item, however, if people choose greed, a dice is rolled which will determine 
 which person will get the item! Pretty good I think, it gives more of a twist on things, and it 
 means you don't always get what you want, so when you do get something really good, its worth it!
 
  
  There are some niggly features in the game, such as, waiting for Zepplins, which take you to and 
 from sides of the world map. The Zepplins can take up to 5-10 mins real time to appear, which obviously 
 makes it more realistic, but can be very annoying if you're wanting to get on with a quest quickly! 
 However, there are things called wind riders/bats, which take you to and from different areas within 
 a section of the map, these cost a little bit of money, but get you there quick, whenever you like.
 
  
  I feel I'm waffling a bit now, but I wanted to show a balanced opinion on this game. I think it 
 is a great game once you get into it and understand the features a little better, however, can 
 be a little annoying at first. There are so many quests and places to visit in this game, not only 
 that, but different character classes and professions to take on, which I haven't even had time 
 to mention! Overall, a gripping and fun game for those with some time on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thantus13
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  From a player that has played for 2 years and spent the majority of that time raiding. Blizzard 
 has shown its typical colors. They took way to long to create the FIRST expansion pushing release 
 back in there same old fashion. Then making all old raiding content obsolete by having quests and 
 early 5 and 10 man instances drop gear that can easily replace some of the old Tier 2 and Tier 
 1 gear. As for the Tier 3 gear ok most of that wouldn't of been replaced as quickly but realistically 
 with Naxx only being out a few months before releasing the expansion very few of the community 
 actually had much Tier 3.
  
  But my personal opinion on this expansion. This should not of been an expansion. With the way it 
 was developed, the types of changes made, and the lack of originality in the game to begin with. 
 This should of been World of Warcraft 2, The new beginning. Lets break the game down a little.
 
  
  1. This is a novice style game - If you are new to MMO's WoW is the way to go, easy to learn and 
 very little challenge in comparison to other MMO's of its type.
  
  2. Crafting once again extrememly novice - if you have the item, click and wow its created. No 
 challange once again, there is no failure rate, chance to fail, no challange at all making it extrememly 
 attactive to the novice player or the player not looking for a real challange.
  
  3. Raiding, ok some of the instance and raiding can be challanging if you are unexperianced with 
 playing MMO's and semi challanging if you are familar with how raids work. But lets see here, Molton 
 Core first real raid instance, good challange for learning, Black Wing Lair, good over all challange 
 even for a good raiding group but once you have learned the tricks of the instance really not hard 
 either. AQ40 ok interesting new challange taking it a step up on team cordination and making it 
 challanging even once you know the tricks at times. (applaude) Naxx taken even 1 more step toward 
 the challanging side of playing an MMO. The challange for MMO's is to make it a team challange 
 everyone needs to listen and follow there role and be on time with there skills and manuvers to 
 complete the challange. I got to say Great job on Naxx and making it challanging.
  
  But what did they do with the expansion. All the previous raiding instancing were 40 main raids, 
 and guilds were built around this fact. But the expansion ruined killed all of this. Guilds broke 
 up, friends fighting, and clicks became even more standard in the game. Taking it from a 40 man 
 raid to a 25 man max raid. Not only did this make all old contect obsolete and no one willing to 
 complete because (its to hard to get 40 people together) another one of the challanges of a good 
 MMO and its leaders. If you have poor leadership skills then yes it will be hard to get 40 people 
 together to complete the content. If you can't follow directions yes it will be hard to find a 
 good guild. As for the challange and interest of the expansions instance. I will have to say did 
 a pretty good job on making them little more challanging but with a real lack of imaginiation. 
 How many models do you have to re-use for boss's and standard NPC's. Just giving them a differant 
 name does not make them new.
  
  In conclusion. If you are new to MMO's, don't have leadership skills, or just lack the ambision 
 to seek out a real challange then WoW and its expansion are the way to go which is why it is one 
 of the most popular MMO's currently. If you don't understand that look at statistic of the general 
 public and what they look for. A challange and something that is going to take time to figure out 
 is not it. Lack originallity, lacks the challanges, and made almost everything in the original 
 game obsolete. Should of been a completely seperate game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The burning crusade si the first expansion for award wining online game world of warcraft. This 
 expansion is good it adds 2 new races who whave great role in warcraft story. It adds new world 
 called outland. Many famous things in wacraft story happened there.
  
  This expansion is good ,but when i play it ,i dont have feeling that im in warcraft world. And i 
 got it when i play ordinary wow.
  Is it just me or somebody else feels that way ,but overall the expansion is good and players will 
 enjoy in it. Story afther warcraft 3 the frozen throne continues in burning crusade so its one reason 
 why im goona play it .I think anyone who likes warcraft story should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sellamon
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Played since it first came out. Had hope this expansion would give the fuel to the game that was 
 getting uninspired. The first day was fun, when all in the pvp server just did questing and not 
 pvp. Then after awhile it gets more boring and so on. PvP grinding had switch from grinding ranks 
 to items, same content thou. I have play many mmo games and come back after a break, but this expansion 
 has left a bitter taste. So i wont return to this one.
  
  But if u like an extremly easy game where u can get to L60 below 4 days, then its for u. I hope 
 that Starcraft2 will live up to its expectations, in the old classic quality style that Blizzard 
 use to deliver.
  
  Warhammer Online is the next stop... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greywillow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Earlier this year, Burning Crusade was the subject of what was easily one of the biggest hypes 
 in gaming history. It was all over the news the first day it was out. I admit, even having never 
 really played WoW, I felt there was no way it could live up to all of the hype. Believe me, I've 
 never been happier to be wrong. If you've been putting off buying Burning Crusade, there's no better 
 time than now: the next WoW expansion, Wrath of the Lich King, was officially announced today at 
 BlizzCon.
  
  Why did I rate as I did? Let's take a look...
  
  TOTAL: 9.6/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  WoW: BC continues WoW's original exciting, fluid, unhindered gameplay. Its 
 new areas are just as exciting and fluid. However, Blood Elf and Draenei starting areas are more 
 guided for the beginner and allow quicker, simpler leveling, so they're perhaps even better for 
 the player who wants to be deeply involved with his or her race, but also get a quick, solid start.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  Continuing the bright, detailed graphics of the original WoW, BC brings amazing graphics to Outland, 
 Azuremyst and Bloodmyst Isles, and Eversong Woods as well.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  
  The OST of WoW was good to begin with, but BC brings excellent new music to its new areas, including 
 light, natural music on Azuremyst Isle, orchestral music in Silvermoon, and a wide variety of other 
 kinds of music throughout all new areas, including Outlands.
  
  VALUE: 8/10
  
  Admittedly, Burning Crusade is extremely expensive at a whopping $40. However, for all its content, 
 it is still a pretty good value, and real WoW players would buy it at almost any price, anyway.
 
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: 10/10
  
  Every review I do, I choose one aspect of the game (usually a major strong point of the game that 
 isn't fully covered in any of the other attributes) to use for the Reviewer's Tilt section. This 
 time I chose the fact that Burning Crusade does what expansion packs are supposed to do: EXPAND 
 ON THE ORIGINAL GAME. In fact, Blizzard managed to perform what, as far as I know, is a unique 
 feat: they could have practically made a new game with just the new content. With two new races 
 (Draenei and Blood Elves) , two new Azerothian areas (Azuremyst and Bloodmyst Isles and Eversong 
 Woods) , the addition of arenas, a new profession (Jewelcrafting) , and the massive addition of an 
 entire new world (the Outlands) ; Burning Crusade would make a substantial stand-alone game on its 
 own. It's gone further than any other expansion pack in history as to nearly double the experience 
 of the original game. I'd rate it a 20 out of ten if I could just for that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The world of Azeroth, the setting of World of Warcraft, is a place of excitement and countless 
 numbers of possibilities. Here, players worldwide have slain powerful beasts, accomplished incredible 
 tasks, and received stunning loot. Of course, after two years of snatching items off fallen creatures 
 and gladly taking your reward for a difficult task, these possibilities dont appear so endless 
 anymore. So right when people begin to visit Azeroth less often, Blizzard welcomes everyone to 
 the Outlands.
  
  Suddenly the fantasy and wonders in World of Warcraft are revived by an incredibly massive pack 
 of new features. Now players get the chance to experience a whole new continent, take part in thousands 
 of unique quests, and deck out their character in an endless list of new gear. A whole new profession, 
 a handful of new spells and two unique races are introduced as well. Yet the greatest addition 
 that Burning Crusade adds to the online universe is the raised level cap. With the expansion, you 
 can boost your character all the way up to level seventy, instead of being barred at sixty.
  
  Of course, getting all the way up to level seventy is much more difficult than it sounds. To 
 reach level 61 alone, it requires about double the experience points as it took to achieve level 
 60, and the amount of experience points needed greatly increases with every following level. Fortunately, 
 Blizzard stuffed the Outlands chockfull of quests.
  
  After your first few minutes in the Outlands, your quest log will probably near its maximum capacity, 
 and stay that way as you venture to level cap. While the repetitive killing and collecting certainly 
 still exist in the Outlands, there is much more variety in the thousands of quests available. In 
 one quest you must mount up on a flying creature and chuck explosives upon the enemies below. Another 
 quest tasks you with taking gold from a gigantic monster, but to do so you must summon an animal 
 to distract it as you go for the loot. Objectives like these are definitely a breath of fresh air 
 from the slay six of these and ten of those, then return to me for your reward type of quests. 
 Fortunately, to make those monotonous quests less dull, you are able to purchase flying mounts, 
 which speed up the questing process significantly. These flying beasts are pricey, but allow the 
 user to avoid much of the opposition on the way to the objective and get a better view of the area 
 below. Not only are they another form of transportation, but they also add a whole new element 
 to the gameplay. Some places are only accessible by air and players can now gain excellent vantage 
 points above their enemies. These mounts are only available once you hit level seventy.
  
  At level seventy, the doors are unlocked to many new instances as well. For those unfamiliar to 
 World of Warcraft lingo, instances are areas with challenging enemies that require a group to clear. 
 The bosses in these areas drop excellent loot that player can use to improve their character. The 
 five man instances playable at level seventy offer exciting boss battles and good boss drops. After 
 doing a good number of these, you can run the heroic version of that group of instances. The heroic 
 form of the five man instances feature tougher enemies, but improved drops and help you boost your 
 reputation so you can receive superb rewards. However the ten and 25 man instances hold breathtaking 
 and unique fights with incredible items. These battles can be very entertaining, but also require 
 careful planning and flawless execution.
  
  If getting together a group to slay powerful enemies isnt your style, there are a few other ways 
 to acquire some amazing gear. At level seventy, you can enter the arena to face off against two, 
 three, or five real players with your own arena team. These matches are very exciting since your 
 team is matched with an equally skilled team, and each player has so many spells and abilities 
 available. Battleground PvP (player vs. player) isnt quite as enthralling due to the lack of even 
 battles. Battleground PvP still throws the same amount of people onto both sides for a PvP match, 
 but instead everyone is fighting on a large map. Usually these just boil down to a few guys on 
 one faction getting destroyed by a whole group of guys on the other faction. With the expansion, 
 little has changed about the battlegrounds, except for one new map thats mediocre at best. Quality 
 gear for level seventy can also be crafted either by you or someone else who has a high enough 
 skill level in the profession. However, all of the crafted items will need materials to make, and 
 the better the item; the harder it is to get the ingredients. So, the greatest equipment requires 
 either a large stash of money to purchase the materials from the auction house, or many hours of 
 killing a certain kind of creature for what you need. While the reward of all this work may be 
 excellent, it is a pain to get your hands on epic gear in this way. If you manage to get into a 
 successful arena team or guild, you will, no doubt, find the level seventy experience very compelling.
 
  
  Some new features can also be enjoyed before reaching the Outlands. The most notable is certainly 
 the addition of Jewel-crafting, a profession that can be used to create many valuable items. Like 
 in the real world, most of the materials are acquired from mining or from a chest (usually placed 
 in a crowd of enemies, unfortunately) . With the correct minerals, you can craft rings, necklaces, 
 and most of all: gems. Gems fit into sockets in certain armor pieces which are also brand new with 
 the expansion. The gems add stats to the armor piece like seven spell damage or ten more stamina. 
 Jewel-crafting blends nicely with the other professions, while its nothing revolutionary, it adds 
 another specialty to work at and benefit from.
  
  Two new races have been introduced in Burning Crusade as well. Other than different character models, 
 the Blood Elves and Draneis come with a few unique racial abilities, and two new areas where the 
 characters begin their journeys in. While the extra content is nice to have, the character will 
 not stay long in the original areas and the racial abilities are a very small part of the characters 
 library of moves. However, this is an excellent change for experienced guilds because Blood Elves 
 bring paladins to the Horde faction, and Draneis bring shamans to the Alliance faction. Before, 
 guilds would be without one of these classes (which can be very useful in groups) since no race 
 in the faction could play it.
  
  Unfortunately, the audio hasnt gotten much attention in the expansion. You will hear a few new 
 melodies as you travel around the Outlands, but these are just looping songs that you will barely 
 notice, until it starts to get annoying. Other than that, the original voiceovers arent bad, but 
 most have crummy lines like You will burn! in the typical villainy tone. The sound effects as 
 well have received no notable enhancements to the standard slashing and spell-casting noises. Similarly, 
 the graphics have been completely left out of any updates. Way back in 2004, the textures and character 
 models were certainly some of the best, but now their age is starting to show. While nothing looks 
 necessarily ugly, structures are blocky and many environments appear bland, with few distinct details. 
 You will also encounter a good number of glitches in the Outlands, like when an enemy will evade 
 all of your attacks and continue dealing damage to you. On the plus side, the framerate stays nice 
 and steady on an average computer, only slowing down when you enter a very crowded area. Animations 
 are still very smooth for the most part, but then you may watch an Npc run straight up a vertical 
 mountainside.
  
  Normally, having only minor updates in both graphics and sound would make one question how much 
 the expansion really expands. There's nothing to worry about, though, because The Burning Crusade 
 broadens the massive universe greatly, for the fans at least. Those at a lower level dont need 
 to put down the forty bucks yet as the changes are minimal before sixty. For the group that simply 
 disliked the formula of World of Warcraft, there is little chance they will find anything intriguing 
 in the expansion, as progression still takes a large chunk of time.
  
  While there are a handful of improvements and updates that could have been made, there is only 
 a single flaw that arises with expansion. The gear that level sixties tried so hard to obtain has 
 now become mediocre due to the new gear offered in the expansion. Some boots that may have taken 
 you five runs of a 40-man raid collect may be replaced by a pair rewarded for hunting a few elephants 
 in the Outlands. That flaming level sixty armor set may look cool, but it wont stack up to the 
 gear that youll soon get while leveling. Departing with that pretty armor may be a sad moment, 
 but you will find it worth it. The fans of the original dont need to continue reading this text 
 any longer; hurry to the nearest electronics store before your friends pity your under-geared character. 
 There are evil creatures to overcome, splendid rewards awaiting their rightful owner, and opposing 
 players to be conquered. For the Horde! Oh, and for the Alliance too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Precaseptica
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This review is about both World of Warcraft and The Burning Crusade.
  
  First of all I have played this game for almost 2 years now. I know pretty much all there is to 
 know about it, without saying too much. I have learned how the game works and I know what to expect 
 from the ever decreasing amount of unseen content available to me.
  
  Without a doubt I have to say that World of Warcraft is the best game I have ever played. The community 
 in the game is the best community I have seen. Every type of person out there is to be found somewhere 
 in this game, and I love meeting new people so this really appeals to me.
  
  About the game itself, it has so much to it that you wouldn't believe it. If you're a fan of MMORPGs 
 (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games) you might've seen some of it before, but since 
 WoW is the first of that kind of game I have played I must say I don't mind having popped my cherry 
 to it. The first year I played the game, I did it for the content in it - and now that I've seen 
 everything that Blizzard could come up with, and can predict the rest, I'm still playing the game 
 because I made some great friends.
  
  The best of WoW is that you have roughly around 27 ways to play the game. You can choose from 9 
 different classes and become either a Druid, a Hunter, a Mage, a Paladin, a Priest, a Rogue, a 
 Shaman, a Warlock, or a Warrior - and each of these classes can be specialized by you in 3 very 
 different ways to provide you with a unique gaming experience. After you have reached the top level 
 in the game you will be level 70 and from there the game only has one thing to keep you hooked 
 - improving your character. Find the best possible specialization to go with whatever you want 
 to do, and then start the end of the neverending grind for gear, skills and fun.
  
  The game has two different ways for you to either focus on, or mix and match. The way of PvE (Player 
 vs. Environment) or the way of PvP (Player vs. Player) . Whether you enjoy team play or solo play 
 there is something for you in both of these aspects - but this game cannot be done alone. You can't 
 master PvE without other players assistance, and you won't be highly succesful at PvP without other 
 players help.
  
  Skill will be important to who ever plays this game. After having played this game for almost 2 
 years I still skill up all the time. Making myself even better at reaction upon whatever situation 
 may befall me in both PvE and PvP environments. The effective output of your character is so skill-based 
 that its unbelievable. Although the community of WoW can be very whiny about imbalance and such, 
 I find that in both PvE performance or a PvP duel, all classes are equal, and if played right this 
 game will always be a race for first spot in performance.
  
  Having said all of this, justifying WoW by making this game sound like the must it is, WoW does 
 have some flaws that Blizzard certainly hasn't been swift on fixing.
  
  The graphics of the game can't be described as anything better than nice. Some of the game looks 
 nice, the rest is too cartoonish, too glitchy, and/or too poorly animated. Overlooking a valley 
 from a hill can give you a feel of being quite the adventurer, and that makes the graphics seem 
 nice - but if you venture into a big city you will find yourself sometimes moving past certain 
 animations that you just know they could have made better - especially after seeing the extremely 
 awesome intro movie. Sometimes I feel that this game would've kept me forever captivated if only 
 the graphics had been better - and I play all games at the most demanding settings. Personally 
 I would've loved to see a bit more reality in the game. More blood, more gore, less cartoonish 
 style. In my honest opinion any game that lets a player steal shards of another players soul, can 
 stand to have blood and gore. If words can describe these things, why can't I see it? This game 
 should be for adults and the content and graphics should be adjusted to fit the stimulative visual 
 need an adult has.
  
  My advice to Blizzard is to remove the cash limit spent on this game to improve it, because in 
 the end it is an investment they would never regret. Improve the graphics and make this game +18 
 of age limit. Put more violence, more blood, more gore, more sex in the game and I will be the 
 first to buy WoW 2.
  
  My advice to you is, go try it. This game is worth paying whatever is charged for it in your local 
 store, so go try it, if you havn't already, and see what you think of it.
  
  This game will be your new favorite dish, and how long it will last for you depends on how long 
 you favor each favorite dish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geten89
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is probebly the worst expansion this world has ever seen, I do realize that many disagree 
 with this, however after the expansion (witch I played for about 3 weeks) I stopped because it 
 destroyed the last game, it's not an expansion, it's a replacement. I had worked for my gear little 
 over a year, and all wasted it seemed and in fact was when the Burning Crusade came out. I loved 
 the way they used to do, just keep coming with new instances and a small improvement with gear 
 all the time, burning crusade was just to big a step. Bad move blizzard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItachiWillOwnU
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  They added a lot of cool things in this expansion. Like Arenas which are fun to do if you dont 
 like raiding. Also the new Continent Outland has lots of things to do in it like daily quests and 
 getting rep with a faction to get something sweet. Also cool new major city Shaatar. I personally 
 loved it. Also new class skills and new mounts and new races. Cant forget the new dungeons that 
 have new mobs. Man this is exactly what you expect from a expansion a must have for WoW players 
 and awesome game for new players. Basically World of Warcraft is a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRodvy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I got The Burning Crusade 2 Months after I started playing WoW, and I must say, I'm really impressed, 
 this is the first Blizzard game I have ever played, so I had no idea of what their expansions were 
 like. I love every single thing about it.
  
  Gameplay: With the addition of Outland and the lvl cap raise this game reaches a whole new level, 
 with flying mounts and such. Even though I have never visited it :P I've been told it's great, 
 the rate in which you earn money Is great, but unfortunatley due to my curse I have never even 
 reached lvl 30 in these 3 months :roll: Graphics: Although Blizzard's base style is still ever 
 present, I love the Draenei and Blood Elves, I don't play Blood Elves that much :P But I love how 
 they look. Draenei are the race that impress me most, I believe it's the most original character 
 concept I have seen so far. They are Blue Skinned, tall beings with Face tentacles and hooves, 
 and they talk with a Middle East type of accent. Yet Blizzard can make the Males intimidating and 
 the Females attractive. I love them, I abandoned my current main for a Draenei Paladin and I don't 
 regret it.
  
  Sound: I have given it a 9 this time, and it's beacuse of the male Draenei voices, I rolled a warrior 
 and deleted him just beacuse of his annoying voise when he said need more rage! but other than 
 that tiny thing, Blizzard delivers, again making me thank God for giving me the sense of hearing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon122485
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was amazed when this game came out. It changed Azeroth forever for the better. The Blood Elf 
 starting place is breathtaking! Everything was pieced together perfectly and I absolutely wouldn't 
 change a thing. I love the city of Exodar and Silvermoon! The graphics were extremely breathtaking. 
 I loved how much detail and precision was put into this game. I can only imagine what awaits us 
 in the next expansion! It was like a whole new world outside Azeroth! Azeroth shined its brightest 
 when Buning Crusade leapt off the shelves and into faithful World of Warcraft fans' hardrives. 
 I can't wait until the next expansion of World of Warcraft! Ian Graves 
  WoW Fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwarrior_bob
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  2 New Races and a whole new continent. This adds tons of stuff and really gives u a sense of what 
 u achieved. Hitting level 70 and buying a flying mount has to be the greatest achievement of my 
 gaming careers and signfies the freedom u now have from the xp when u can just fly past mobs that 
 may unhorse u. With a slew of new quests, instances, factions, cities and Gear. This is definitely 
 a want for any level 58 or level 1 if you want to start a new Race. Get this game it won't let 
 u down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teroseth
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  *This review also applies to the Original game*
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's a decent game., at least, when you first pick it up. And it is fun! Would 
 you believe! But it very quickly loses it's sheen, and then for the rest of the time you're left 
 wondering, Why on Earth am i still playing this? It's probably hypnotic, or something, i don't 
 know, so random code thats subliminal and convinces the player to play. It doesn't matter, it works, 
 but the game itself, very very poor. The Graphics, childish, (although to be fair, it's an online 
 game, so probably the best option) which suits the mythos of the Warcraft world and such, but the 
 problem is they're quiet unstable at times, and yes, before anyone says anything, my PC is top 
 of the range, and can run the latest games, without a hint of slowdown. Possibly it's problems 
 with the server, but i've found at times there are missing frames, missing textures, etc. etc. 
 But for the most part it is good.
  
  The Sound: Do yourself a favour, and turn it off. It's not that it's bad, theres just not much 
 of it, and you'll be hearing the same tunes, over, and over, and over, and over, and over, get 
 the point.
  
  The Gameplay: Simplistic, to the extreme, which again, isn't necessarily a bad thing. But don't 
 expect to be tested here, unless you're going up against monsters twice your level. (well, slight 
 exaggeration, but yeah, you can regularly beat monsters up to 5 levels higher than yourself, by 
 yourself, with minimum fuss) That said, all the classes and such play differently, but pick anything 
 Horde based, and you're practically assured an easy ride straight to Level 70 (if you can stand 
 the grinding and such)
  
  Value: Well, at first, it might seem like great value, it's a cheap game, but because it's more 
 addictive than most Class A Substances, and theres a monthly fee, well, i can't say it's worth 
 it. I spent over two years on it, and i really can't see why, so work out how much that is. Yeah, 
 value? Don't make me laugh.
  
  In conclusion, you might want to try it, but don't expect anything special, it's a decent enough 
 game, but as good as everyone seems to say? Not a snowball's chance in hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moehamster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusades is great. In Outland there is TONS of gold, XP, and gear to be had. Anyone 
 that loves WOW will love this expansion... The instances are fun and challenging. The quests are 
 awesome with great rewards.. and the new mobs are AWESOME TOWN!!!! There are two new races with 
 this expansion.. the Draenei and the Blood Elves. Both new races are great in there own way. I 
 myself am Hord.. but the Draenei is still an awesome addition to the game. So far, everything I 
 have done in the expansion is great and I definitely recommend it.
  
  SO GO BUY IT AND FEED THE ADDICTION!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  WoW's new expansion world of warcraft the bruning crusade is a great way to spice up a game that 
 began to get old. The new area's to level (outland) adds hours apon hours of new play hundreds 
 of new quests and allows you to reach the new high level of 70. Ive always been a major WoW fan 
 and was always willing ot pay the $15 dollars a month, and when i got the expansion i fell even 
 more in love with this game. The new skills which you unlock between the level of 60-70 are great 
 and all the new gear makes the game all the sweeter. I reached the level of 70 within 3 weeks of 
 its realese which is nice having it so easy to do those final levels. THe new instances are great 
 but i must say that after uve ran the instances once or twice, done all the new quests and rode 
 your flying mount for 10 hours the game does get boring unless you are one of those major skilled 
 WoW players who raid every week. If your not in a raiding guild or just dont have the time to raid 
 then this game once you reach 70 gets boring. All in all its a great game for awhile it lasts longer 
 and stays fun longer then most console games but with the $15 dollars a month, the little to do 
 at 70 it kind of brings the game down. I would recomend it to alot of people if they have the time, 
 if you know you just wont be able to raid almost everynight of the week then dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craggylotus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I only came around to the idea of paying a monthly fee to play a game online when a few work-mates 
 started telling me all about WoW. It sounded interesting enough to try out, and so I did. By this 
 time the expansion was out, so I bought that as well, that I could try out the new races.
  
  At first the game is exciting and the starting areas, for someone who has never been much of 
 an RPG fan, worked well. The character creation part of the game, which is the first bit you can 
 have fun with once you've downloaded the huge patches to get it up-to-date, is fun but quite basic. 
 I'd have hoped for more, or at least the option to change some settings later in-game, but alas, 
 if you chose the silly pink hair then you're stuck with it, on that character at least. This is 
 not a huge problem, as your character's appearance will change a lot from what you make, just with 
 the addition of better armour and weapons, which you'll quickly come across on your quests. Each 
 race has its own starting area, and these places are usually pretty safe, and inhabited only by 
 other starting players and a few very low level beasties. Its more like an intro/tutorial level 
 at this stage, and you soon get the hang of killing x number of creatures and returning to the 
 quest-giver for your reward. As you progress you end up getting sent to larger areas with tougher 
 monsters and occasionally have to get a group together to face larger enemies. There are also dungeons 
 where you will need a team of 4-5 (and more later I believe) all specialising in one area of play 
 to succeed. Still, the basic formula is find guy with ! above his head, accept quest, kill x number 
 of enemies and sometimes collect stuff from them, then return to guy, now with ? above his head, 
 then get reward and possibly another quest . It doesn't get much more complicated than that. There's 
 very little in the way of puzzles to work out (aside from getting lost if you're not familiar with 
 the layout of a place, or if the quest description is vague about where to go) but there is a little 
 more variety in the game in the form of the various professions one can learn.
  
  Early on you meet up with NPCs who can teach you extra skills, which are not defined by what class 
 you are. Some are better suited to certain classes than others, at least in a thematic sense, but 
 there's nothing to stop your hard as nails, axe wielding warrior from spending his free time wandering 
 around fields picking up flowers if that's what you want. There are collection skills and creation 
 skills, each with one of one type corresponding to one of the other, for example, Skinning animals 
 gives you leather which you can then use Leatherworking to make armour from. Herbalism lets you 
 make potions with Alchemy. But it is not essential to have these skills in sets, its quite profitable 
 to have a character with 2 collecting skills, who can then sell his raw materials on to other characters. 
 Likewise, if you can afford to buy the materials you need not bother with the collecting. Which 
 brings us to the capitalist side of the game; the Auction House. This is where you can sell your 
 unwanted loot, or things your character has made, or buy upgrades in your armour and weapons, or 
 potions and food to help you heal. There are plenty of NPC vendors in the game, but after the first 
 few levels you'll rarely find armour or weapons that are very good there, and the AH is the only 
 way to guarantee that you will get something, unless it is craftable and you are skilled enough 
 to make it. Selling things on here is also a good way of getting gold to progress your various 
 skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wu-Tang-Clan93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, first I would like to point out a thing that I have read, about people saying that this expansion 
 should have been free and its just graphics and lands, new characters and items. Umm.. maybe you 
 havnt noticed or your not into creating games like me and I'm just looking into it. Well, making 
 a game of that extent, and all those new graphics it takes a while and not paying $29.99 would 
 be a gift not the right thing to do .
  
  Also i believe that the people that rate the game bad and say its terrible and been there done 
 that, (when i say that i mean the people that give a review lower then a 6-5) i believe that those 
 people just cant get to 70 and get frustrated and quit. It's a great game, it is opening up a new 
 relm of gaming for all. Now yes it can get a little frustrating and you just log off for days and 
 quit but when you finally relize what to do you play. I play roughly 8 hours a day to get to 70. 
 It's not an addiction either its a game. I know someof you out there play Gears of War or Lost 
 Planet or Darkness or Final Fantasy 24 hours a day till you beat it. Now a review. The Gameplay 
 is great and you will never become bored unless you are a super 70 and you have done every raid 
 instance and Kara to tears and have Tier 5. An example, my friends and I, 3 people, have been playing 
 this game since Febuary 2006, and we still play and we dont even have 70s we just play because 
 its fun. The graphics are great and when you get a flying mount like I, you see a whole new world 
 that you can only see by a flying mount. The sound is ok for the game, its that same eerie sound 
 you heard in Warcraft 1, 2, 3 and World of Warcraft. Aslo before I go, it is a great multiplayer 
 because you rely on others to do things, if you dont like playing with others and interacting then 
 this game is not for you. Alot of the things you do in this game require a group and it helps you 
 make friends. I have made great friends playing this game and just talking to them and i have never 
 met them but its just a bond that comes with the game. Hey if your one of those people who try 
 and meet woman, or woman meet men or whatever the circumstances are you already have 1 thing in 
 common you love gaming and WoW and you can always talk online.
  
  Well there is really nothing i can say, it is one of the greatest games of all time and if you 
 are willing to sacrifice time from your other consoles then this game is for you. Just remeber 
 the only thing that is annoying is 15 bucks a month but youll live once you start playing the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers-heaven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: TBC is just an expansion pack to World of Warcraft, hence having the same gameplay, but 
 with 2 added races, the Blood Elves and the Draenei (hope I spelt that right) . Both are equally 
 fun to play and level on, myself current levelling a Blood Elf Paladin, with which I'm having more 
 fun than with my Undead Rogue. TBC is a great expansion pack for the core-hardcore WoW player. 
 10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on WoW aren't particularly good, but they are better than/equal to most 
 other MMORPG games on the market. So I'm giving it a 9.
  
  Sound: The music within WoW and aswell the TBC expansion pack is utterly superb, with music for 
 every occasion, whether you're in battle with raging action music, or subtle music for the explorer, 
 wandering beautifully rendered lands... 10.
  
  Value: The Burning Crusade is quite expensive, and many will be put off by the &pound;20-&pound;30 
 price tag, although yes, it could be worse. The Burning Crusade is really only worth buying if 
 you're getting to a good level on a character (like 50+) or are willing to pay the extra amount 
 for 1 new skill and 2 new races. Score: 8
  
  Tilt: WoW: TBC is good, very good infact, and an excellent addition to the World of Warcraft franchise, 
 and although at first it really doesn't look worth it at all, once you've been and explored Silvermoon 
 City and Eversong Woods with a Blood Elf, you'll see the true beauty behind this remarkable game. 
 9.
  
  Final Score: 9.3, Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam-G
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay
  Well I will sum up this whole paragraph by saying that this game has the best gameplay that I have 
 saw in my life. Mixing such a vast world with a variety of quests and things to do with online 
 playing. They created basically a perfect game world. The thing that really impresses me is that 
 there is always something to do in World of Warcraft. You can finish about every quest (which is 
 almost impossible) and still have things to do. The Graphics
  The graphics really surprised me. When I downloaded the game on my labtop I just bought, I thought 
 that my labtop will explode. It did take up about 1/3 of my computer and yes, it does lagg alot. 
 But the most important thing is even on my labtop the graphics are better then in most online games 
 I play. It could be just a little bit sharper, but I am definatly satisfied.
  
  The Sound
  
  All I can say is its great. Very great sound effects that acctually pulls you 
 into the enviorment and you can feel whats going to happen. You can feel the danger, action, excitement 
 all in you. I still cannot beleive how 1 game can put all these things into one game.
  
  The Value
  
  This will be the best 15 dollars a month you will ever spend. CAUTION: If you 
 live alone (without parents, girlfriend/boyfriend, etc.) it can become a problem. It might be the 
 best PC game on the shelves, but it is also the most addicting one too.
  
  The Reviewer's Tilt
  
  Well there isn't much to tilt. Everything that makes the game great 
 is above you. The only little thing that I would tilt is the quests. They allow partys of players 
 to go and complete the same task. Thats not very rare in online games, but the way World of Warcraft 
 does it all it is very great.
  
  The End
  
  Well thats my review of The World of Warcraft. Please read more of my reviews! Goodbye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell. The Burning Crusade expansion is more of the same. I liked the original World of 
 Warcraft game. But I am not really a MMO player (although I have played my share of titles) . The 
 thing is, I get bored of playing the same game. I generally play MMOs and normal games the same 
 way. I play until I get bored and then toss the game aside and look for something new.
  
  I have yet to find any game, that I could play for 6 months or more. Most games last a week or 
 two. Some games I can finish in a day, and never touch them again. Warcraft is (depending on what 
 you are looking for) the best MMO ever made. But it is still a MMO. By the time I reached level 
 50 I was bored... bored to tears. A good game to be sure, but it did not change the way I felt 
 about MMOs. I quit, after reaching 50, and then came back for one extra month, and reached 60. 
 But after that extra month, I was really sick of the game.
  
  I never planned to play the expansion pack. But January 07 was a very dry time for gaming (not 
 much else to play) . So I picked up a copy of the expansion. And it was like I was playing for the 
 first time, again. However there is not really that much new about the expansion pack, and my excitement 
 wore off quickly.
  
  It only contains 1/4th the material of the original game (thats Blizzards estimation not mine) , 
 plus most of the models and animations are simply recycled from the original game. The big addition 
 is obviously the flying animals you can ride. But those come at the end of the game, and mostly 
 they're just a new form of transportation.
  
  There is not much to say. It is the same game, you are just getting an extra dose of content (thats 
 what an expansion pack is supposed to be) . But since I get bored easily, the lack of new stuff 
 really hurt, in terms of an on going MMO. There are no new classes, and the two new races are little 
 more then a cosmetic change. And the starting area for those new races is smaller then the starting 
 areas of the other races.
  
  In the original game, it took me 3 non-consecutive months to reach level 60. I reached level 70, 
 in the expansion, in 2 1/2 weeks. I was bored, even before the end of my first month.
  
  The Burning Crusade is a decent expansion to an excellent game. But neither the original nor the 
 expansion changed my mind about MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klub2heads
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Like any great expansion pack, The Burning Crusade doesn't just offer more of the same, and it 
 doesn't cater exclusively to experienced players. It offers a lot more of the same, and it also 
 adds a number of new features that can be enjoyed by newcomers and level 60 veterans alike. Perhaps 
 the most significant additions introduced in The Burning Crusade are the blood elves and the draenei -- two 
 new playable races that have made the paladin class available to the Horde faction and the shaman 
 class available to the Alliance faction for the first time. Both of these races have quite fascinating 
 backstories that are revealed both through their respective intro movies and via in-game quests 
 and conversations with non-player characters. Like the eight previously existing playable races 
 in Azeroth, the blood elves and the draenei begin their adventures in specially designed starter 
 areas where you can play without having to worry about bothersome high-level opposing players for 
 the first 15 to 20 levels of your character's existence. Thereafter, the new races join the rest 
 on one of Azeroth's two continents, where there are more than enough quest-filled environments 
 and dungeons to keep you busy to level 60 and beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I have played World of Warcraft since a year after it came out in 04'... but I still haven't gotten 
 to the point where everything seems really boring and old. But, in case you have or you just a 
 world ( well, continent) of new opportunitys, then pick up this game immediatly. In this game they 
 add: 2 fun new playable races that fit in perfectly with the others, a new proffesion, jewelcrafting, 
 over 20 new dungeons, a whole entire continent that has everything you knew from azeroth and kalimdor, 
 flying mounts, new mounts, and a cornucopia of new stuff. No filler, either. With that being said, 
 this is a great expansion with little flaws. The only real flaw this has is when you hit 60, instead 
 of going back to the nostalgic original end-game areas like Zul'Gurub and Shcolomance and Stratholme 
 and all of Blackrock ect ect, you get shipped off to outland to drudge your way up to 70. Even 
 with this being said, it is a still a great game that deserves much praise. -Skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Burning Crusade is a great add-on to the most popular game in the world. Thats 1 game, not a series, 
 WoW is it. For fans, they already have it. So who is left? People who quit or people new to WoW. 
 If you try WoW and really, like it you should buy the expansion as a given. But if your looking 
 for huge changed you wont find it.
  
  Besides some tweaks that should have been done in previous updates, BC is a typical expansion, 
 more areas and quests but same core game. It makes the game even bigger and better but the improvements 
 are slight. The 2 new classes are great and the outland areas and new instances are too. But graphics 
 are getting tired and anytime they try to outdue themselves (Shattrath city) there is monster lag 
 and low fps on most good PC's or undoubtably Macs. Though with that sacrifice the outland areas 
 are much improved. The basic models are still there and blizzard has been lazy for some reason. 
 They could have done much more and this expansion was well overdue. If you are think you can continue 
 to enjoy WoW for what it is, the 3 year old MMO king is still alot of fun to play and even greater 
 with the expansion. If you are looking for something new or less in-game-I-willpwerlvl-you spam, 
 you might wan to try something new or something that is on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis23345
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is an excellent expansion to the great MMORPG, World of Warcraft. The new continent, 
 the outland is very well designed, the distinct and varied environments stand out. It also helps 
 that Blizzard have updated the graphics there as well. The enemies there, however, are not very 
 inviting, so if you want to survive, you will have to be at least level 58, and if you want to 
 get to 70, which is the new level cap, you will have to stay there for the next 12 levels.
  
  Blizzard also added two new races, one for each faction. The Alliance gained the Draenei and 
 the Horde gained the Blood Elves. New Starting areas have been designed for these two races, and 
 they look fantastic. The Blood Elves live in Quel'Thalas, located on the north east corner of Lordaeron, 
 and the Draenei take residence on the Azuremyst Islands, just off Darkshore.
  
  Controversy arose when blizzard announced that the two new races, the Draenei and the Blood Elves 
 would obtain the opposite factions exclusive class ( Draenei got shamans, Blood Elves got Paladins) . 
 Many thought that these exclusive classes would eliminate the individuality of the factions in 
 PVP. However, most people have become accepting of the new classes, primarily because it opens 
 up new options for Dungeon raiders.
  
  A new profession, jewelcrafting has been added as well. Necklaces, Rings and Trinkets can be created 
 by using various gems, minerals and other miscellaneous materials. Previously, there had been a 
 shortage of jewelry throughout azeroth, so this profession was very well received.
  
  The Burning Crusade contains some great content, but it has created some problems as well. Firstly, 
 due to the superior equipment found in the Outlands, the old raid instances and most of the old 
 tier armour has become obsolete. Thus there is a lot of memory and land being used unnecessarily, 
 and Blizzard would do well to make these old raids useful again. Also remember, if you are donning 
 full tier 2 armour when you first play the BC, it may have to be replaced by some 'godly' greens 
 if you are planning to venture into the outlands.
  
  Thats it, other than the obsolescene of old game content, this is a great expansion, which is ESSENTIAL 
 for all owners of WoW. If you own wow and don't purchase this, you will be missing out on a hell 
 of a lot from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Selet
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I have played World of Warcraft since it was released, however aside from its addictive personality, 
 I resently have decided to forever put it away... The game is Magnificent but the whole point is 
 just to be the best... its allways the same kill killl kill.... same gear but different colors... 
 same quests different rewards... same bosses different strategies... same monsters more damage... 
 The game is not just about fun... its about working to get there, you work for the gold to purchase 
 the many things in it... once u have your epic flying mount gold sorta becomes pointless... you 
 work to lvl by constantly killing... your work for honor by pvping... you work for gear by raiding. 
 What im getting at, is that it seems the game is more work than fun.
  for 15$ a month i would much rather invest into say.... a Xbox 360. something that will not require 
 me to have duties i can just play it for fun on world of warcraft its all about duties.... Raiding 
 Tommorow 8:00 and so on.
  when my buds come over i would rather play some Gears of war than have them watch me play World 
 of Warcraft. We invest so much money into the game to play it. while its really playing us. So 
 what if your the Best rogue on your server youve spent hours of pointless work into it. If i became 
 *the best* i would not know wether to feel proud that i achieved it or ashamed that i have waisted 
 my life... why do we gear up in it... to kill the oposing faction Horde-Alliance Alliance-Horde 
 but if we are always raiding with all the new sets of gear thats comming out we will never have 
 time to be able to kill them. because we will always be raiding or questing etc... The game will 
 not live forever... the graphics will soon be outdone and new games will come out and members will 
 leave to them... then, all your hard months/years of dedication have lead u to rule a virtual kingdom 
 that does no good to your life. WoW wont live forever, remember that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Nice expansion pack i guess considering While most MMO developers release expansion packs on a 
 fairly regular basis, fans of Blizzard's staggeringly popular World of Warcraft have had to wait 
 for years to finally get a full-featured retail add on. When it was finally released a few weeks 
 ago, it created a tremendous sensation within the WOW community. And it's no wonder why; the expansion 
 adds two new races complete with distinct starting areas, popularity, but you can't discount that 
 they're also the only Horde types that can play as paladins This new class offering for the Horde 
 is balanced on the other side by letting draenei play as shamans. Blizzard has pulled off a rather 
 perfect coup by taking the formula that has made games like EverQuest and Anarchy Online so popular 
 and refining it down to its most simple form. The down time is minimal and the action is often 
 quite furious. What it all comes down to is that this game is, for lack of a better word, fun. 
 Yes, fun is a dubious word to use in the magical, make-believe art of game reviewing, but there 
 it is. I dropped the fun bomb. Its very blatant and I make no apologies. This game is crazy fun. 
 And there are several justifications for this statement.
  
  Blizzard owns several very successful game franchises. Anyone that plays games has more than likely 
 heard of Warcraft, Starcraft and Diablo. The communities around these games are unbelievably large 
 and for a very good reason: Blizzard releases high quality work. Along with the basic quality of 
 their games, the WarCraft series also has a deep back story with plenty of possible cool locations 
 to explore. Playing through any of the WarCrafts, youll come upon plenty of places that stand 
 out and would make good landmarks in an RPG. Theres something to be said for seeing many of the 
 locations in a 3D world. One of the real joys of playing a MMO is the exploration and discovery, 
 which World of Warcraft offers in spades.
  While the uproar over opening up all the classes to each faction isn't entirely without merit, 
 we've yet to see exactly how the change will affect the overall balance of power on most servers 
 or the effectiveness of raid groups. Unfortunately, there's very little sense of connection between 
 the new areas and the rest of the world. The draenei and blood elf starting lands are simply tacked 
 onto the world with little attempt made to integrate them with their neighbors. We'd rather have 
 seen each area a little less isolated with some meaningful connections to the existing lands of 
 Azeroth. On the plus side, there are a few draenei and blood elf NPCs and quest givers scattered 
 throughout Azeroth, so new players won't feel totally alienated. Still, finding trainers for the 
 newly opened classes in each faction is going to require a little extra work. Reflecting the lessons 
 Blizzard has learned over the years, the new player experience for the draenei and blood elves 
 is much more polished than for any other race in the game. You can run through the first twenty 
 levels without ever hitting a grind or facing lengthy travel times. Each group of quests in these 
 early areas tells a complete and interesting story that reveals the background and current state 
 of the world. Comparing these concentrated new player zones to those of the existing game reveals 
 a much higher level of polish and presentation . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkIceman2003
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  First off, the first thing you'll notice about the game is it's added races, one for either faction: 
 The Dranei for the Alliance, and the Blood Elved for the Horde. The Dranei start off in a good starting 
 area, and is cut off from the rest of Azeroth until you can make it out of the starting area, much 
 like the Night Elves. After rescuing fellow Dranei and killing big flower thingies, you're forced 
 into Darkshore where veteran WoW Alliance players will know quite well. They also have a unique 
 Racial Ability, one of which that stands out called Give of the Naaru . This allows ANY Dranei 
 to heal either him/herself or others. So yes, a Warrior can heal itself without the use of Frist-Aid. 
 Plus the ability gets better as you level. The Blood Elves are very different in terms of Racial 
 Abilities. Firstly, they have Mana Tap which takes away a target's mana, which is a useful skill 
 in PvP. Also, to use after Mana Tap, there is Arcane Torrent which silences the target for 2 seconds, 
 again, a useful PvP skill. The Blood Elves start out in the scarred lands of Quel' Thelas, as veteran 
 Warcraft players will be familiar with. It's in the northernmost part of the Eastern Kingdoms, 
 so yes, it's above the Eastern Plaguelands. Conveniently, there is a portal in Silvermoon that 
 will Translocate you ro the Undercity, so you lowbies won't have to brave the dangers of the E. P.
 
  
  Gameplay is the same, since this is an expansion, but gets interesting when you're Looking For 
 a Group. The new LFG system implemented with the expansion is very useful. If you played any Xbox 
 Live game, think of it like that: A Matchmaking System to assemble a party of 5 for Quests, Instances, 
 etc., making your life easier.
  
  The sound is pretty much the same, with added dialogue for the new races, monsters and characters, 
 but that's pretty much it. I mean, sure, you can have your lame Blodd Elf and Dranei jokes and 
 giggles, but it lacks new spell and battle sounds. There may be a few I haven't heard due to Vent 
 or Skype being on, but the same whoosh -es and cling! -s just get old after a while, which drives 
 me to turn off the sound. A little dissapointing, in my opinion.
  
  The replay value of this is high. Seeing as there are 2 new races, you'd probably want to try them 
 both out, and with the addition of Outland, you'd want to get your 60 to 70 and start running The 
 Black Temple. All in all, this is a near-perfect example of what an expansion should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TidusLeonhart
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade is the first expansion pack for World of Warcraft, and I have to say, it's 
 looking very good.
  
  Although the expansion focuses a great deal on level 60+ players, new players to the game are also 
 offered a lot as well such as the the two new playable races: Dranei (Alliance) and Blood Elf (Horde) , 
 as well as the fact that now both factions can use Shamen's and Paladins. Tons of new content has 
 been added to the game including a whole to area called 'Outland', accessible via the Dark Portal 
 in Badlands. As well as this, the level caps have been raised from 60 to 70, allowing players to 
 become even stronger and dominate others by collecting better armor from raids and PvP. The Outland 
 itself is massive, roughly the size of one continent on Azeroth (maybe a bit bigger with recent 
 patches.) The brand new raids added are tremendous fun to go through with your guild/party and 
 there is a lot to be done just by traveling through the land. The Outland is a very detailed place 
 with huge city's to dark dungeons, all of which looking impressive for a massive streaming world.
 
  Many new quests have been added, although some may seem a little dull, others are immensely fun 
 and impressive, sometimes requiring you to group up with a few friends.
  
  The raising of the level cap from 60 to 70 opens up a whole range of new possibilities and paths 
 for you to go down. This is because of the new abilities and talents added, as well as the class 
 modifications and new amour sets. One of the most asked for things since the game kicked off in 
 2004 was flying mounts, and Blizzard Entertainment (they listen to there fans a lot and do what 
 they can) have finally answered the call. These new mount are amazingly fun and not stupidly hard 
 to obtain. You can get them through quests, dungeons or just by simply purchasing them. Druids, 
 the nature entwined shape shifting now have the opportunity to shift into a flying mount seeing 
 as they get the skill free. A recent patch has added the opportunity to shift into an epic flight 
 form. Although flight still isn't aloud in Battlegrounds, flying around Outland is tremendous fun 
 as you will encounter enemy's in the sky, leading to a tough aerial battle. The flying mounts give 
 you a great advantage in world PvP, as well as a great way to admire the breathtaking scenary of 
 the Outland. (GS Review quote)
  Who am I kidding?! The best part of a Druid flying mont is to hold the space bar for as long as 
 you can until your at the highest point you can go, and simply shift out and drop to the ground! 
 (I know, I get bored while in BG queues.)
  
  An Arena mode has been added to the PvP system, pitting players in either 2v2, 3v3 or 5v5 matches, 
 allowing the purchase of armor and other goods. The mode itself is good but the two arenas you 
 play in don't look as detailed as other parts of the game and have some glitches which players 
 use to turn the tide of battle within there favor. (EDIT: These glitches have been fixed) .
  Another wild addition to Player vs Player Combat is the 'Eye of the Storm' map. This map works 
 a bit like Arathi Basin, but with 4 strongholds to capture and a flag placed in the middle of the 
 map, for extra points.
  As well as this, brand new world PvP points have been added in the Outland that are actually fun 
 and not long and tedious. Quests involving World PvP are actually fun and rewarding, as well as 
 testing your skill at the same time.
  The Player vs Environment factor of the game doesn't rely as heavily on massive raid groups. Instead, 
 a group of 25 people is only aloud in most 60+ instances, but this does mean to take out a boss 
 your group needs to know how to play their class well, as well as know what to do and when to do 
 it. The boss originality before this expansion was great, and it is no different this time either. 
 In Burning Crusade, you will be fighting a whole range of weird, wonderful and downright crazy 
 bosses.
  
  Also, professions level caps have gone from 300 to 375, along with the new profession 'Jewlcrafting', 
 which allows the construction of rings, necklaces, gems and other items.
  
  The only bad point about the game so far is that the old gear, such as PvP and tier sets below 
 level 60 are now worthless, because green colored items even surpass level 60 epic.
  
  Overall, I recommend this agme to anyone who is interested in purchasing World of Warcraft, or 
 anyone who already has it, becuase this expansion does indeed pack alot of new content. Well worth 
 the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well what really needs to be said about World of Warcraft? If you haven't heard of WoW by now, 
 you most probably live under a rock. Burning Crusade is currently the latest (and only) expansion 
 for Blizzard's insanely popular MMO and continues the quality expected of a Blizzard game and/or 
 expansion.
  
  Burning Crusade introduces two new races into the game, the Draenei for Alliance, and Blood Elves 
 for the Horde. The new races have their own homelands which offer up some fresh questing for players 
 who are tired of the same old quests in the regular lands. Blizzard decided in the expansion to 
 give Alliance access to the Shaman class with the Draenei race, and alternatively, gave Horde access 
 to the Paladin class with Blood Elves. There used to be a lot of complaining on both sides (Horde 
 and Alliance) about each respective class being unfair/unbalanced, but that debate is pretty much 
 over now that Alliance or Horde neither one has any perceived advantage in class choices.
  
  The other huge addition to the game in the expansion is the addition of the Outlands, a new 
 land area for you to explore. I believe you need to be level 58 to enter the portal to Outlands. 
 Also, the level cap has been increased from level 60 to level 70.
  
  There has been a ton of content added to the game through patches and the expansion that seems 
 to keep offering new things for players to enjoy. While not without its flaws, WoW is arguably 
 one of the best MMO games to date. An unfortunate side-effect of introducting new content such 
 as new raid dungeons and raid items, is that a lot of the old content is now ignored because its 
 simply not seen as worth the time or effort since the new stuff in Burning Crusade is leaps and 
 bounds better. So that is unfortunate. Some good dungeons/instances rarely get done anymore because 
 of it.
  
  But overall Burning Crusade is an excellent expansion and if you own World of Warcraft, it is definitely 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamthebowler
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay this going to be short. Some of the developers of City of Heroes thought it would be good 
 idea to make free expansions, AMAZING IDEA! There is no point in paying for this expansion. I was 
 comparing the Burning Crusade features with the CoH expansions features and Burning Crusade should 
 have been free. Not free like completely but like paying the monthly fee. Basically what your paying 
 for is one new area, a higher level cap and two new races. That could have been a free update. 
 It's $30 dollars for that. Its highway robbery in my opinion Blizzard knew what they where doing 
 because are sikely addicted to this game. I love Blizzard other games just not WoW and Burning 
 Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Blizzard... ever since their roots started spreading back in 1992 with their first game The Lost 
 Vikings for the SNES console, Blizzard has been making masterpieces without a pause. Their innovative 
 ideas never stop from growing, always having the addictive scent, from the RTS and RPG to MMORPG... 
 World of WarCraft is no exception. World of WarCraft is the product of adding the fun of a RPG 
 and massive online gaming and mixing it together to make the perfect game... if not of all time, 
 then our time.
  
  First of all, I will discuss the graphics since 75% or maybe even more of the gamers - the first 
 thing they worry about is the graphics in the games. World of WarCraft has beautiful graphics, 
 not top of the line but excellent enough to enjoy the game more then we need to. It has very good 
 effects such as the lighting and glow, which looks very realistic... when the game set to its full 
 resolution the textures look perfect, the only thing thats missing to today's standards is the 
 polygon count and the details of objects... otherwise, eye candy. Oh and I almost forgot, the underwater 
 view looks awesome and better then most games out there.
  
  The music in the game may be lovely or scary, ambient or cinematic... all together its perfect 
 and matches the land's ambient very well. The only thing that's missing is the length or playtime 
 in-game. The music starts fine when you enter a new area, but finishes off to soon and you may 
 not hear a new tune for quite some time. The soundtrack is epic and matches the world of fantasy 
 as it should. So Blizzard... perfect soundtrack, just need to loop it more.
  
  The system of the game... now we can not review this, except say it's perfect. The interface has 
 so many possibilities it is impossible to describe in a little review, there should be entire play-guide 
 based on this. Everything is placed in well thought positions, and works very well in combat and 
 exploring alike. The addition of Macros is great, I just love making my own custom icons with actions.
 
  
  The world is... just so well designed you'd want to explore every inch of it, do every quest and 
 fly around in every town, or maybe even ride a horse and sail a boat in that case. The races and 
 classes have so many unique things you'll waste hours thinking which one to use, or maybe even 
 end up having one of each. Every hero has his own advantages and disadvantages alike, no end to 
 the fun... once again.
  
  This game being an MMORPG makes me put it in the Unlimited Fun box. No matter how long you play 
 the game you can never get bored of it. You will always want to try different races, different 
 classes and different ways of playing the game its self. Simply said... there is no end to this 
 game and the fun of it. To start playing it, is to commit yourself to it.
  
  Blizzard... you've done it again. And may it not stop there...
  
  Written by Soni Romanov
 
  
  P. S.: In advance I apologize to any mistakes in the text; English is not my primary language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  World Of WarCraft : The Burning Crusade Is The Expansion Pack To The Famous World Of WarCraft. 
 (Sorry Kids Have To Have WoW To Play)
  There Is A New Island To Explore Called Outlands 
  There Are Now 2 Playable Races Called Drainei And Blood Elf Which Are Very Cool Creatures.
  They 
 Also Increase Your Level Up to Level 70 SWEET!!!!
  There Is Not Much New Too World OF WarCraft But Its Still The Fun Entertaining MMORG We Have Been 
 Waiting For.
  There Is New Quests That Have Even Been Created For Those Who Love Doing Them.
  Soon They Will 
 Probably Make A 3rd World Of WarCraft Which I Am Definitely Excited About. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing World of Warcraft since launch and had worked hard to get my characters to where 
 they were, but with the Expansion, it makes it all feel worthless. Anyways here is my review.
 
  
  Graphics: Blizzard's art style is distinct and very interesting.
  
  Sound: Wish i had the sound track.
  
  Gameplay: Really to easy for me, but it works well.
 
  
  Online: Its a Massively Multiplayer Online game, self explanatory.
  
  Interface: I believe the Interface is well done, and with the many Mods available, its sure to 
 float your boat.
  
  Replay Value: High, Considering its Nearly Impossible to get everything in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamat0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Many people know that the World of Warcraft is one of the best MMOs available at the stores across 
 the world. It has offered a high quality game play along with rapid support for the players at 
 all times. In my opinion, the Burning Crusade is a very well-made expansion to WoW.
  
  At first, let&amp;#8217; s start with the most popular features of the expansion. The level cap 
 has been increased to 70, this might lead some people to think that it&amp;#8217; s a very long 
 way to reach that level, but worry not&amp;#8230; The new continent, Outland, offers a whole new 
 experience to the players. There are hundreds of quests in Outland that can keep you busy for a 
 very long time. There have been some changes to the system, killing enemies will give you less 
 experience points now, but in exchange, quests give you more experience points than they did in 
 the old WoW. This encourages people to do quests rather than just kill enemies to level up. The 
 boring quests from the old WoW, such as going 5 zones away to deliver a message, and then take 
 another 6 zones away to deliver a second message. Are no longer present in Outland, there are a 
 few quests which give you such objectives, but in exchange, they give you some really nice rewards 
 to avoid making it a boring quest. You need to be at least level 58 to enter Outland through the 
 Dark Portal, this is to avoid some bad players who do quests which are ten levels higher than theirs 
 and then they disturb the high level players to help them with it.
  
  The new continent, Outland, consists of 7 totally unique zones. You won&amp;#8217; t see any zone 
 that looks like the other. For example, in the old WoW, Feralas looked like Un&amp;#8217; Goro crater, 
 Telderasil looked like Ashenvale, the Burning Steppes looked like Searing Gorge&amp;#8230;. etc. 
 In Outland, you won&amp;#8217; t see such similarities. They are all completely different from each 
 other. The quests they offer are sufficient to make you reach level 70 quickly. If you ask me, 
 I&amp;#8217; ve reached level 70 while I didn&amp;#8217; t even explore 3 zones in Outland, and all 
 I was doing was solo quests. No group quests nor farming on enemies. Yet I still reached level 
 70. So from here you can know that even if you only do the solo quests, you can simply reach level 
 70 without worrying.
  
  The solo quest rewards of the first zone in Outland offers weapons and armors that are nearly as 
 strong as the 40 man raid dungeons in the old WoW! So you don&amp;#8217; t need to get good gears 
 in Azeroth before entering the world of outland. The quest rewards of Outland are indeed unmatchable!
 
  Blizzard has done a very great job in balancing between PvE and PvP. In the old WoW, Blizzard 
 did not care about PvP much, they were mainly focusing on instances (dungeons) and especially the 
 big instances. Which has made the game carry the name (For WoW addicts only) . Though in the Burning 
 Crusade, they have improved it in a way that both PvE and PvP are balanced with their rewards. 
 People who are hardcore in instances no longer get better stuffs than people who are hardcore in 
 PvP, and vice versa.
  
  You can notice that Blizzard cares about PvP players from the new outdoor PvP objectives in some 
 zones in Outland. Along with some cool rewards for people who participate in such activities. The 
 new Arena battle is the best of the best when it comes for PvP. Offering powerful rewards for the 
 players, as well as making the Arena Gear look almost the same as the raid gears to avoid people 
 who were doing raids just because of the gear&amp;#8217; s looks. There is also a new battleground, 
 Eye of the Storm, which is only available to people level 61 and above. The new battle ground&amp;#8217; s 
 objective can be complicated for people who enter the battleground without any idea of what they 
 have to do, that&amp;#8217; s why it is suggested for people to take a look at the objectives before 
 they start the battle, or else they might make the whole team lose just because they entered the 
 battleground with no idea of what must be done.
  
  As for the instances, Blizzard noticed that Dire Maul was a very exiting instance for players in 
 the old WoW because it was split into 3 wings and this has made the instance shorter. Shorter instances 
 means better chances for casual players to enjoy instances. And so Blizzard has added lots of Dire-Maul 
 type instance in Outland. These instances can all be done in less than 2 hours, unless your group 
 members keep going away from keyboard and such. With a good group, many of the instances can even 
 be done in just an hour! Another exiting feature about the instances in the Burning Crusade is 
 that there is no such thing as 40 man instances. The highest cap is now 25 man instances. This 
 can make it easier for the guilds to do the high end instance without having to bother to gather 
 40 people. 25 people can also ensure that the raid is well controlled and has better community 
 than ever.
  
  All in all, The Burning Crusade is a very well made expansion pack. I&amp;#8217; m very glad that 
 Blizzard cares about the casual players who have lives in the real world. It has all been noticed 
 from the improved PvP, excellent solo quests, and the reduced time and raid cap for instances. 
 Another thing I&amp;#8217; ve forgot to point out is that the music of the Burning Crusade is just 
 awesome! Unlike the old WoW, which most of its music ware boring. The Burning Crusade is a great 
 step to improving the WoW&amp;#8217; s name without turning its players into 24 hour playing slaves! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowmix07
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a fan of World of Warcraft for two years. I decided to cancel my subscription. Why? 
 It's the same thing over and over again. The expansion gave you some different things to do, but 
 it all comes down to the same thing, no matter what. Everyone just about looks similar/the same, 
 and leveling up is a pain. I didn't find this game fun, and the only reason I played it was because 
 of the chat program. Getting gold to buy things to do things was stressful. The dice program for 
 winning items/armor in dungeons/raids is very irritating, and mostly someone who did not need it 
 and just wanted it because it was pretty, or just because, got it. The server I played on seemed 
 to have a lot of players who were obsessed with sexual preferences. It's a shame they were running 
 some kind of orgy on a video game instead of actually PLAYING the video game. I don't even know 
 why the option to remove your clothes down to panties/boxers was allowed. Sure, I enjoyed this 
 game at first, but after a while as I got used to the game and the people that played, the game 
 started to become a chore untill I just stopped playing period. I don't intend to waste money on 
 a MMORPG like this again. I'd much rather play games with an actual story-line and variety of levels, 
 creatures, and activities. I would not recommend this game to someone who isn't all about getting 
 the 'uber armorz' and the 'l33t w3aopenz' 24/ freakin' 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SythasVC
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I've have been playing WoW on and off for the past 3 years. With the Burning Crusade, I thought 
 I'd be coming back for another 2 year stretch, yet the lack of design originality cannot be ignored. 
 The core questing and grind, although light years more advanced and fun than any other MMO, still 
 needs some work in order to truly be mainstream.
  
  MMO developers need to not be scared of removing grind all together from the MMO structure. Yes, 
 these games are always meant to last forever. Yet the only way developers have found to do this 
 is by increasing the time and effort it takes to achieve anything in the game world. An MMO needs 
 to be able to survive on its own gameplay, not on stat or item progression, or on farming or grinding 
 numbers.
  
  Developers need to keep players hooked on the game based on its gameplay and evolving world, nothing 
 more and nothing less. And when I say gameplay, I don't mean adding to the ever more complex mathematics 
 and chance percentages that need to be calculated in order to beat an encounter or win a match. 
 Gameplay needs to evolve in the sense of interaction with the environment and it's players. That 
 meaning fun ways to jump, run, sprint, crawl, scale walls, fly and all these aspects that have 
 been mastered by every other form of 3D gaming (all the way since Super Mario 64 some 10 years 
 ago) .
  
  If Blizzard (or any other company) can build an MMO that can keep players coming solely because 
 of its gameplay, MMOs will truly become mainstream through both PCs and console gaming.
  
  For now however, it looks like the MMO grind design will continue throughout the future (with the 
 exception of indie games like Darkfall) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dhomhnuill
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Original game play offered balanced equipment with best gear available only from instances. There 
 was a sense of accomplishment to make it there. Expansion makes the first game useless other then 
 to use as a platform to grind in to get the Outlands. The old instance gear was hard to get usually 
 requiring hours of team play to accomplish. New gear is accessed easily via drops from garbage 
 mobs that is equal to or better then the old instance gear. It is sad to see such a venerable game 
 to slide into oblivion because of an expansion where no apparent thought was given to what had 
 come before. A def 2 thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archxaniotiss
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I don't like this game. I have played the free trial. The graphics suck and the gameplay is not so 
 good. i have played much better games that were the same type. I don't understand why this game is 
 so much ratted. Also there are 8 million players that play this game although it sucks. The most 
 MMORPG suck because the gameplay and the graphics aren't good the sungleplayer rgps are much better 
 ,such as Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Another disadvantage is that you must pay every month to play although 
 it sucks. The only advantage is that there are many players to meet in the game. When i started it 
 i ask the players how did they get it and they said to me that they had downloaded it from this 
 site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of those WoW players out there that has grown to love this game. I can say that I'm very 
 impressed with this expansion. The new races are nothing special to me. The thing I do enjoy about 
 this expansion is the addition of Outland and the new dungeons. It gives you something to do and 
 look forward to. The addition of the PvP arenas also give you something to do and have fun with. 
 There are really little things that bug me but they aren't major. The only thing I can say that 
 don't enjoy is the fact they made Pallys on Horde and Shammies on Alliance. It's what made the 
 two factions different from each other and now they shook it all up. All in all the addition of 
 new quests, PvP arenas, Outland, dungeons, Eye of the Storm and armorsets should make it worth 
 the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-rpg-man
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros: It gives more content to the WoW obsessives, the two new races add welcome change.
  
  Cons: Almost nothing interesting for the people who are just starting out or are casual MMO players, 
 graphics could be sharpened.
  
  Okay, I've never been a fan of MMOs. They lack story, purpose, and tend to be repetitive, and I 
 personally believe they insult RPGs. But, there is a certain charm in WoW that I often enjoy, although 
 I still play only sparingly. I bought the expansion on the first day, and have just now reached 
 level 70, so I feel I can write this review. I tried playing as Draenei and Blood Elves, and found 
 they were both unique and added more content that didn't over-balance the two sides (Horde and 
 Alliance) . The new profession, Jewelcrafting, however, is extremely useless, and seems to be tacked 
 on just so Blizzard can say we added a new profession. Next is my main problem with Burning Crusade; 
 it mainly serves up to the hardcore gamers who have several level 60s and play four half the day. 
 The new world, the Outland, is mostly for the very high levels, and contains more of those annoying 
 raid dungeons that take fifty people and twelve hours to complete. To finish, there is not much 
 I can say besides that WoW: BC is meant for the people who are on their computers for weeks straight 
 and live off money they make selling non-existent items on Ebay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Now here comes The Burning Crusade (TBC) . The game adds an extra ten levels to the level cap, adds 
 instances, a new are called Outlands, you probably all heard this before. Leveling up was the fun 
 part. When you hit 70 (maximum level cap) you can do everything you could have previously but now, 
 their is a thing called Arena. Arena is where you duel other groups (either 2v2, 3v3, or 5v5) theirs 
 about 3-4 different arena's. Your points are updated every Tuesday and you use those points to 
 buy new armor/weapons. Sounds like fun! But it's really not. If you were like me and were doing 
 2v2 with a crappy partner and losing all the time, then it's not fun at all. So guess what? If 
 you want to find someone good, you have to join a top guild, make friends with a snobby player 
 (not all of them are) and convince them to join your Arena team. In all due honesty, World of Warcraft 
 is not the game that everyone should play. If you have a lot of time on your hands then this game 
 would be appropriate, but i would find something better to do. I played it then dropped it because 
 their were a lot of mean/snobby people here. $15 a month? Not worth it. The game have any re-play 
 value? For some yes, but for most people no. The game have a terrible community? Yep, gets a 10 
 right there.
  
  However, the core game is really good take out the people and you have one really well built game. 
 You hear people complaining about their classes and stuff like that on the forums not really true. 
 The game is just time consuming and thats why i don't recommend it to anybody. At the end it's 
 just not worth it. Save your self $40 and do something better with it (and the money monthly as 
 well) . I've been through the game and i know what i'm talking about, it's just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  The expansion to the most popular MMORPG was released in the middle of cold January. Players qeued 
 for hours to be the first to put their hands on this expansion and the first level 70 came not 
 long after. Now, some months after the release I can safely say that this is one of the best expansions 
 I have ever experienced. Why?
  
  Well, we can start with whats new in The Burning Crusade. Two new races, one for every faction, 
 Blood Elves for the Horde and Draenei for the Alliance. New max level which now is set to level 
 70. Seven new areas including
  Shadowmoon Valley, a demonic wasteland where the mighty Illidan Stormrage resides in his Black 
 Temple. Flying mounts that will let you come to unique flying-mount only instances and areas are 
 available for purchase at level 70. A new profession called Jewelsmithing. Socketed items are also 
 new. Many, many new quests and factions with epic rewards at exalted. Heroic difficulty on instances 
 to make them harder, sweatier, but with a nice taste of epic loot. Now, some of you may think that, 
 Woah, new quests, the same grind with the same monsters with the same graphics . But, in The Burning 
 Crusade, mobs have changed rather much. New monsters with new graphics, and different objectives 
 in quests, for example : A quest in Hellfire Peninsula where you bomb demons from a gryphon. I 
 don't know what you think, but I love getting new gear, upgrading. And many of the new quests give 
 you good rewards, so if you're not equipped with Anh'Qiraj sets or better, you will probably get 
 new gear in every area.
  
  Instances have had a rather big change. From having loads of bosses, Normal five-man instances 
 now only have around 3-4 bosses in them, sometimes up to 5-6, which at least I think makes them 
 more PuG-able (Meaning that you can get a group with random people and still manage to complete 
 it) . As mentioned above, you can now change difficulties
  on instances. A hard mode called Heroic makes the instance more of a challenge and gives away more 
 great rewards. But to be able to enter a Heroic instance you have to be Revered with that instances 
 faction ( For example: Honor Hold is a Hellfire Peninsula faction. Hellfire Citadel is in Hellfire 
 Peninsula. You have to be revered with Honor hold to be able to get the heroic instance key for 
 Hellfire Citadel) .
  
  Raiding has changed pretty much also. From 20-man and 40-man raids, there is 10 man and 25 man. 
 There are several raiding instances and they will surely give you something to do. Karazhan, the 
 first raid instance, is a 10 man. Even with a pretty small guild, you can start progressing in 
 this instance, and I for one, think this is a great system.
  
  Some items can now be socketed, meaning you insert gemstones into your weapon, boosting your stats. 
 Socketing items is really simple but if you have socketed an item with a gemstone, you will not 
 be able to take the gemstone out. You can replace the gemstone though with another gemstone, but 
 the previous gemstone will be destroyed.
  
  The new profession, Jewelcrafting, will allow you to create gems to insert into your socketed weapons, 
 necklaces and rings.
  
  Oh, and almost every boss has a voice actor, enhancing gameplay to maximum.
  
  All and all, 
 this is a great expansions, and the small bugs they have today will probably soon be resolved. 
 If you are a World of Warcraft player, then The Burning Crusade is a must for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I gotta say this expansion is pretty disappointing. You'd think an expansion is supposed to add 
 new features and exciting gameplay. But all TBC offers is a way to continue the game in the SAME 
 EXACT direction. This isn't necessarily a bad thing. I'm sure a lot of people wanted to continue 
 their favorite (or only) characters career beyond level 60. But the problem is everything you get 
 in this expansion is pretty much exactly the same. So to start I'll continue going through the 
 review only mentioning the actual new content.
  
  Combat: Theres a couple of new monsters and about 3-6 new skills for each class. Nearly not enough 
 to keep you interested in the repetitive combat you've been used to from level 1-60.
  
  World: Theres a new planet with a couple of new areas that are pretty big. This is probably the 
 best part of the game. Exploring the new lands and getting your character higher level.
  
  Items: Pretty much all the gear you'll get is from the hundreds of quests you'll be doing. The 
 only setback is, the economy is getting worse and worse because of the expansion.
  
  Quests: There are A LOT of quests to do in the expansion but they are completely repetitive and 
 almost nothing new from the quests at level 1. There was maybe about 3 or 4 unique quests that 
 were fun but they only last a few minutes.
  
  Dungeons: The biggest let down in the expansion. The instances are HORRIBLE in TBC. And when I 
 say horrible I really mean it. Somehow the instances are even more boring and tedious than the 
 last end game instances in the regular game. It's sad to see that Blizzard is sticking to this 
 formula.
  
  Level Cap: Perhaps the biggest problem in the expansion is the same huge problem that was in the 
 regular game pre-expansion. The level cap is pretty much THE END of the game.
  
  Of course there are a couple of new things to do at the level cap but as always they are completely 
 annoying and ridiculously tedious.
  
  If you are lucky enough to find a party for an end game instance prepare for the same old tedious 
 instance farming you've been used to. There's absolutely nothing new or exciting in these instances 
 either. It's just plain old routine instances.
  
  ARENA: The arena's seem interesting at first, but after you realize that it's even more restricting 
 since you can only do it with the people you made your team with. You CANNOT do them if one of 
 those people aren't logged on. So theres not much more to say about arena except that while they 
 are fun they don't compare to actual world PvP.
  
  BATTLEGROUNDS: Blizzard has added one new battleground in TBC. And it's pretty ridiculous. It's 
 pretty much WSG just a little bigger. And not to mention the fact that the graphics for this arena 
 are the most uninspired I've seen so far.
  
  NEW RACES: The blood elves and the dranei are new to the horde and the alliance respectively. There's 
 pretty much nothing to say here except that when you start your new character theres a new optional 
 land to do for level 1-20. Yeah thats it, there are no new classes.
  
  CRAFTING: Jewel crafting is a new profession allowing players to make various jewelry and gems 
 to socket into items to improve them. Of course there isn't much here it follows all the same reals 
 of the other crafting professions. What i just wrote is everything there is to it.
  
  Conclusion
  ----------------
  All in all this expansion shows almost no effort in trying to 
 keep the game fresh or exciting. It's a complete let down especially if you were expecting some 
 completely fresh and new stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yugular
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  What has again? then new races and new professions, besides to increase the level at which you 
 can arrive, before only you could raise level 60 and now you can reach the 70. With level 70, 
 in addition, you can obtain a new mount, flying, with which you can explore the world and go by 
 where one feels like to you! The new races are the Elfos de Sangre for the Horde, and the Draenei 
 for the Alliance. The truth is that the Elfos de Sangre is very pretty (in the photo you can see 
 my personage Elfo de Sangre) and good, the rare Draenei are something. The Draenei boys are, in 
 my opinion, horrible, but the girls convince more to me, the truth. As far as the professions, 
 I was proving the one of jeweler, and the truth is that not this nothing badly. You must prove 
 the expansion. Ah! and also they extended the world, there are new zones to which you can go, in 
 fact, the zones from which leave the Draenei as much as the Elfos de Sangre, are new. You enjoy! 
 To that my personage is pretty? it is a Elfo de Sangre hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cborowik
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  K I've got both World of Warcraft games and ok yes I agree it's good, but I didn't find it as addictive 
 as alot of people seem to be making it out to be. I found myself playing it for about 60 days or 
 less of my 90 day subscription and I didn't bother to get another game card (even though I could've 
 got about 12) I found myself going back to my consoles and other games. I recently bought Guild 
 wars and it's 2 campaigns (Factions and Nightfall) . But yes I thought it was good but I didn't 
 find it extremely addictive I believe it's only for extremely hardcore gamers, worth it's weight 
 in gold but one problem that got me was the Hard drive space they both took up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LikeReD
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is a master piece of MMORPGs. The scale of the world is vast and so many exotic 
 sites to explore. Burning Crusade added new stories, species and another piece of the world.
  
  However, contents of the game quickly wasted, and all high level characters farming around. 
 Every patch is unevenly balanced which brought confusion among players. To get good weapons and 
 armors, gamers should spend 2-3 hours, but people with jobs can't spend much time on game. There 
 are few short quests with good rewards for light game players.
  
  I hope developers spend more time on balancing between characters, and more benefits for light 
 game players.
  
  Gameplay - Game added new stories to play.
  Graphics - It has no improvement.
  Sound - it is as same as original one.
  Value - Fair enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genodude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  WoW: TBC is what an expansion is suppose to be like. You have all the elements needed for success. 
 Content for veterans, casual players, and new players alike. The Outlands are a great addition 
 as it adds a whole new world to the game, a whole new style of gameplay. The addition of the blood 
 elves and draeni also give players a broader choice when creating new characters. The jewel crafting 
 profession was also a nice addition that gave rubies and gems a higher purpose. The only things 
 missing in this expansion are a new class and another profession. Blizzard's attempt at this expansion 
 was good, but far from bold. They could have added a new class such as a monk or bard. The profession 
 that is absolutely missing is carpenter and lumberjack. These two have been in all other Warcraft 
 games and it is almost rediculous that they have yet to appear in WoW. Overall a very good expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  WOW this expansion made an already perfect game even better! I've been playing World of Warcraft 
 since the closed beta test and I have yet to find flaws to this game. I can't find none and it 
 would be the only thing negative about this game: you can'r find nothing really wrong with it! 
 Of course there are a few bugs now and there still but Blizzard is the best team for making the 
 best games and I can tell by experience playing all their games since the beginning that these 
 guys dont settle for nothing less than being the best in their field... Can you spell perfexion? 
 Because I can't ; ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Well , what can I say ? Its beyond words that can explain . A great expansion and successor from 
 the first issue . I believe one must try out themselves before making any conclusion or remark 
 . When my friend first introduce the game to me I resist in trying out . As I thought why should 
 I pay $25 buck every month for an online game ? But god know ? I receive a copy as a present for 
 my birthday . And since , I can play one month for free why should I waste it ? After which , I 
 could uninstall the game and shelves it . But never did I ever know . I'm hook to the game and 
 become too addicted until I have exhausted all my leave and need to take up unpaid leave .I have 
 lost all my social life , no TV or movie for me , lost touch with my friends, no shopping and no 
 more travelling . Gosh , I living in the World of Warcraft . Day and night spending all my time 
 leveling up and grooming my character.
  
  I do believe one must try out the game before making any assumption . I won't talk about the detail 
 of the game you find out yourself . Some may love it some may not . U decide . To me it worth every 
 single penny . Until today none of the online impress me except Wow . And sad to say that I have 
 no time for other game and I have stopped purchasing any game . Cos , I'm deeply addicted . For 
 the time being , I will not be writing any more reviews....
  Maybe , maybe..... after my character reach lvl 70 than I might come back again. Wow is like some 
 kind of drug that get you hook and addicted .I think the developer should warn gamer Highly addictive 
 at the expense of your social life . At the end of the day , its really up to individual to restrain 
 themselves and work toward a healthy lifestyle . Until then ... Happy Gaming everyone ! If you're 
 prepare to dive yourself into it . Be prepare to sacrifice .Let me know , if you're hook to justify 
 what I meant by addiction !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buglette
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing World of Warcraft since release and when the expansion was announce, I was 
 very excited. Who wouldn't be hyped up about more content being added to an extremely addictive 
 and fun game?
  
  Personally, I am very pleased with the expansion - aside from the fact that it seems very watered 
 down. Not that the original game was difficult, but you did need to spend a large amount of time 
 playing to earn great rewards. This isn't the case in the expansion - which is great for casuals, 
 but those who are hardcore gamers feel cheated.
  
  The zones within the Outlands are very unique as are the creatures. Some of the areas are absolutely 
 beautiful. The quests of Azeroth appear very boring in comparison to the quests in the Outlands, 
 these are much more fun and rewarding.
  
  The expansion offers a huge amount of reputation grinds, which is something that I personally love 
 to do. Unique rewards are offered to those who take the time to grind up their rep. From epic weapons, 
 patterns, keys, and armor to odd mounts - each well worth the grind.
  
  So far the expansion has been a wonderful addition to World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The day this game came out the collectors was mine and I got home and installed this game. When 
 I logged in the music was great and I finally went to Outlands it was better than I had imagined. 
 I leveled really quickly too. It was great to see the new areas blizzard has created for us. Looking 
 at the new fearsome enemies was great. Going through the really well-done instances was sweet! 
 I loved the new items and armor. Then I looked at the two new races. The Draenei were really cool, 
 but they are ugly. Well what do expect they are not human. The Blood Elves were really cool and 
 the area was well done too. The blood elf chick dance is britney spears though =/. The funny dance 
 is the BELF male dance because it's Napoleon's dance. The areas were packed every monster was pretty 
 much dead and you pretty much had to wait a week or two for the crowds to die down. The new profession 
 jewelcrafting was alright, but i expected more out of it. My favorite part is the flying mounts 
 because who doesn't wanna go fly around, but the first flying mount should have been faster than 
 60% because it's like you waste 900G for no reason. I love WoW that is why Burning Crusade gets 
 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlesak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  While some will inevitably complain about the release delay- when's the last time a game was released 
 on time? And for those who say the expansion is too small -- Blizzard is clearly a victim of its 
 own success. after releasing so many Content Laden Patches thoughout 2006 (I'd be interested in 
 knowing how much the game grew in virtually any metric (Explorable territory, numberof quests, raiding 
 and PVP zones, etc.) virtually any size expansion could appear small compared to expectations set 
 by the workaholics at Blizzard! But the substance of the new content really tells the story. The 
 art is amazing, and I love all the new solo quests (plus more Solo-friendly drops) . Having tried 
 virtually every other Highly-hyped MMORPG to hit the market since WoW, I think it's very difficult 
 to see any new title coming along and knocking Blizzard off the podium any time soon.
  Meanwhile, I continue to work toward leveling my collection of one of each class in the game to 
 level cap of 70! It continues to be fun so I continue to play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritc36
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing the expansion brings so much more to the table of world of warcraft making 
 it even better. 2 new races, jewelcrafting, level cap raised from 60 to 70 and a whole nother continent 
 to discover can it get any better. I dont think people appreciate the expansion as much as they 
 should. Sure $39.99 might be more then your willing to pay but its way worth it. Well either way 
 if you want to get the expansion or just stick with the original either way your in good hands 
 cuase this game freaking rocks. A definite masterpiece and wont be beaten for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This expansion set, has great new features with the two new races. The Draenei and the Blood Elf's. 
 Now Horde and the Allience can play Shaman and Paladin. I hope they also have somekind of new class 
 or race in next years addition. The new places in the world of Warcraft are also in this new addition. 
 The change from level 60 to 70 is one of the things i look forward to. What i think is unique with 
 this game is how long you can play this game, and how addictive it really can be. But from what 
 i have experienced from now, i can recomend the game to any World of warcraft player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waltzngrave
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
 Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good Its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigersharkNL
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Players who have spend any significant amount of time playing the original World of Warcraft will 
 sooner or later come to the conclusion that the first expansion is not really much of an expansion 
 at all. Most of the area and quest design is uninspired, which becomes painfully obvious in the 
 Nagrand zone, where some of the most simplistic quests in the game have simply been recycled if 
 not to say copied.
  
  New players who have not spend almost two years playing WoW will no doubt enjoy the added content, 
 but those who have invested many hours in their character will have a hard time seeing this expansion 
 as anything other than a giant reset button.
  
  In conclusion, while not bad, this expansion does not offer enough new ideas to the game and fails 
 to motivate players who have lost over a year's worth of content progression in the first two weeks 
 of playtime in this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambros1954
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic expansion for blizzard. general observations:
  Lots of quests, with great rewards, both money and armor. new factions to raise, with nice merchant 
 rewards, flying mounts, new races, starting areas, increase in level and crafting levels, a new 
 battle ground, jewelcrafting,
  
  I think the level cap should have been a bit higher than 70 however, because i have not nearly 
 completed all the new quests or even been in some of the new zones, and my character is already 
 70. The new quests are unique , like the bombing run quests, where you fly over certain areas and 
 bomb things. or npcs.
  still lots of the standard kill this, deliver this , collect this , etc. but, blizzard always manages 
 to make it exciting and fun. to do those things.
  
  as for the new weapons and armor, all i can say is wow...
  even the greens are great pieces of 
 gear.
  and the socket and gem system is great. alot of the armor and weapons look fantastic graphic wise, 
 with lots of flash and flare to them.
  
  all in all , its a great expansion, and i am looking forward to the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaiTaniumGamer
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I was one of those who stayed away from WoW when it was first released., being wisely aware of 
 getting hooked. However, I gave myself a chance to try out the trial version, thinking that 10 
 days wouldn't be so bad. Like many, I thought what's the big deal? It's not that addictive... in 
 the beginning. I began to lie to myself, and soon devoted more and more time to playing the game. 
 I got my hands on The Burning Crusade upon it's release and spent more and more time developing 
 my character (s) . I skipped lessons and exams (failed the course completely) , ignored my friends, 
 stopped travelling, didn't go to parties, pubs and bars... the things I used to do. The game is 
 that addictive. I would play well into the next morning, and would sleep only when the sun was 
 up. The game is extremely fun in the beginning when you first explore it. Then comes the feeling 
 of reward as you reach a higher level, and it's made even more exciting when you can display that 
 reward for everyone else to see (i. e. cool gear/weapons) and let them drool over it. But the game 
 is also tedious and tiring at times; especially when it takes over a million years to get together 
 a group for an instance (5-man dungeon raid) , unless you're in a really good, helpful guild or 
 have helpful friends. And you have to make sure that those in your group aren't the game class 
 as you, since they might also need the gear that you're after. Each instance takes a minimum of 
 1 hour, and more often than not, the gear that you want won't drop. So you have to go through it 
 all over again. The quests are also mind-numbing and hardly exciting; kill X or retrieve X or find 
 X , and return... over and over and over again. And worse, some people you meet in the game ruin 
 your enjoyment with their stupidity, whether intended or not. So before you start playing this 
 game, know that it *can* pull you away from your real-life responsibilities. People say that you 
 can just play an hour or two a day... but that's the problem: you can't. You can't play 1-2 hours 
 a day. It requires at least 4-5 hours invested if you're going to get anything done and make real 
 progress.
  
  WoW is a drug, no doubt about that. The bottomline is that WoW is a good game, but it can steal 
 away much of your time/life that could've been spent doing something more productive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renton-
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 23, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was alright till I wound up getting several 70s and doing the same exact things over 
 and over again, but all games are like that in some way I guess. Yes there may be new events and 
 things do but after about a year or so it does tend to get boring. No matter which side you choose 
 Horde or Alliance you will wind up shooting for the same goal and on the way to reaching that goal 
 you do that same exact quests or some that are pretty close. It was a good game to get, but wasnt 
 worth the time I put into it. Very repetitive and boring after quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperman33
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Having bought expansions for games in the past; GW: F for example, i have been very disapointed 
 with new features. However i was amazed at the standard of work that had gone into this game. I 
 tried the 10 day trial and was very impressed. However when i bought it it would not add my cd 
 key to my account because i had the trial, so after a lot of time on hte customer support line 
 on hold, i finnally got it to work. However, apart from this setback i am very pleased with this 
 game. The 2 new races - Representing the alliance is the Dranei, and for the horde is the blood 
 elves - are both very impressive, as is the texture detail in the starting areas of both.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tt1tt1tt1
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 22, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is the first expansion pack for the popular MMORPG World 
 of Warcraft. It was released on January 16, 2007 at midnight in Europe, United States and Canada, 
 and sold nearly 2.4 million copies that day, making it the fastest-selling PC game in those regions. [3] 
 It was available by January 17, 2007 in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Singapore as 
 well; in total, approximately 3.5 million copies were sold across these territories in the first 
 month of release, including 1.9 million in North America and nearly 1.6 million in Europe. [4] It 
 was available by February 2, 2007 in South Korea, and it was available by April 3, 2007 in the 
 regions of Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau. [5] [6] Availability for mainland China will be announced 
 in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliesnick
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you already play world of warcraft, wich you have to, to install The Burning Crusade this is 
 a great addon. Between the flying mounts and the new quest, lvls, gears, skills theres just to 
 mutch to list. It takes alot of free time to invest into this game.. one of its biggest downfalls. 
 If you are commited and willing to spend a decent portion of your life to this game it is really 
 a nice game for an MMORPG. It also takes alot of space on your computer... highly wouldnt recomend 
 unless you have a decent bit invested into your PC. For a previous WoW fan.. I would buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_dimmer
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  When i first about wow, i heard that it was a new world of living. And u would get addict by the 
 superior gameplay. Then i bought it, and was addict for 1 hour untill i realized that the gameplay 
 was bout the same as oldschool game quests. Or even worse, just go around chop animal ( or the 
 so called ''mobs'') . I got really tired of that. And then suddenly a high lvl player walks towards 
 you and calls you a noob for only being lvl 14. He's the damn noob. He thinks he got skills at 
 playing becouse he has wasted 200 hours on killing mobs. That is NOT a skill. Thats a noob .
  The real knockout is that you have 2 pay money each month for runnin around killing mobs with 8 
 million other retards. -.- Really lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 20, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  A game that gained its fortune through the bandwagon, all the nerds in the world jumping together 
 to get in and willing to make up some far-fetched justification for paying large monthly fees for 
 something that does not deserve as much $$$.
  
  On the good side of things, there are tons of people playing making the experience much better. 
 Other games most notably Vanguard you rarely see other players making the MMO thing kinda a big 
 lie.
  
  The massive quests are probably the best part of the game and the only thing worth paying for, 
 but you need to put in your hours and blood first to get the max levels to partake in such things. 
 Which means hours of the same repetitive nonsense, Find 5 of these, find 10 of those, Kill 15 of 
 these! wow!
  
  New expansions will hopefully focus on adding tons of the massive multiplay quests.
  
  The 
 big issue with this game is the terrible character design and animations. There are no true warcraft 
 players who can explain how we get from Warcraft 2 to WoW... where did all these colours/races/creatures 
 come from? This isn't Warcraft! Just take every possible mix of body/creature parts from any fairytale 
 fantasy world and throw em all in this game. And WoW and its rediculous montly fee is what we get. 
 It's a shame that future warcraft games will never recover from this to bring back the old warcraft 
 feel. But hey, I don't think Warcraft will ever leave MMO's now.
  
  For people who enjoy this, please try other MMOs to find out what's actually worth the montly scam, 
 I mean fee. There are tons out there and tons more coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanoja
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Burning Crusade continues the saga and overall it does a great job of it, but it seemed to me that 
 most quests in the Outland were very easy (as I doubt I am that much better) . Not to mention they 
 get even easier once you get a flying mount. Getting from 60 to 70 was a breeze, kind of a let 
 down, actually. Also on the issue of reaching level 70, I really think Blizzard should concentrate 
 on doing something to keep the game interesting (on a future release, that is) . Grinding it out 
 to get experience points to go on to the next level or to get enough gold for a mount is work, 
 but there is a definite objective to strive for and there is a payoff. Once at 70, with no more 
 experience points (you get gold instead) and with nothing really to look forward to (or to buy) , 
 the game's excitement levels really drop off. All this said, bear in mind this comes from a 'solo' 
 player. I have never joined a guild and I do not group often, so I obviously do not take the social 
 aspects of the game into consideration in my review.
  
  I would still recommend it to anyone and consider it the most exciting game I have ever played 
 (And I have been gaming since the Apple ] [e days) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEAW4LIFE
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 19, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Forget what everyone at your school or office has to say negatively about this game. Any fan of 
 RPG games has no reason not to experience this expansion, becuas it has what every RPG should have. 
 For those of you that have already experienced World of Warcraft, you'll be happy to know the amount 
 of playable quests has literally doubled with the addition of the new continent. The new instances 
 and battlegrounds, while providing fun themselves, have new enemies and more importantly, newer 
 and more ownage items. What's more is these new items (besides weapons) are now in addition to 
 being customizable with the use of enchantments, but also with gemstones that provide stats themselves.
 
  
  There is one glaring dark side to this expansion however; remember all the hard work you veterans 
 put in for your Tier1/2/3 sets of armor? They are now useless with the new level cap, unless you 
 don't mind leaving your character to PvP as Level 60. For new players however, this is now hinderance 
 and the game can be enjoyd to it's fullest.
  
  It doesn't matter how old you are or what kind of reputation you're trying to keep, you need to 
 experience this game, NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Before the burning crusade came out i had stopped playing wow cause i was bored of the continuous 
 grind fest with nothing really to get at the end but i believe that the outland has provided a 
 reason to work your way up to a high level for anyone who has played the warcraft series will know 
 that the outland will answer many questions about what happened to illidan and the others but lets 
 get down to the basics.
  
  Gameplay:
  the 2 new races blood elf's and the draenei are a fine addition to the game and the blood elf's 
 allow the horde to have paladins on their side and the same goes for the draenei who can be shamans 
 the new beginners areas are a nice treat but i find the draenei beginners island much more fun.
 
  
  Graphics:
  they are no different Sound:
  some nice new music for those new areas in case you were bored of the old music
  
  Value:
 
  with all the new features in this it could easily makes wow a whole new game if you haven't played 
 wow yet i suggest you get a 10 day free trial and see what i mean&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple-monkey2
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I think this is an INDREDIBLY AMAZINGLY FUN GAME. but there is a downside........ it will consume 
 your life... completely! i now have no social life and my marks at school have dropped considerably. 
 but if you have nothing better do go ahead my friends... go ahead and have fun! personally i wish 
 i had never started playing. you may be thinking why dont you just quit? well its not exactly as 
 easy as it sounds.... once you start you can never stop! So if you feel you want to give up school, 
 and your personal life, this is the perfect game for you.
  
  Breadlady level 41 paladin
  relm: misha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangu1ne
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Short of writing an entire review detailing what in all fairness is a fantasic game, i will just 
 give the barest sad facts.
  
  Many of the players who have been playing WoW since its inception will most likely feel they got 
 a raw deal on this expansion. The reason for this is mainly applicable to the longer term players, 
 such as raiders and the hardcore pvp movers and shakers.
  
  Unfortunately in the earlier incantation of WoW it was much harder to achieve some of the rewards, 
 it could take many days and hours of raiding, which involved planning and scheduling outside of 
 games, and had a hugely negative impact on the raiders social life. The same was certainly true 
 of PvP  lots of long hours spent grinding for High Warlord (the highest pvp rank) on the old honour 
 system, which was not an easy state of affairs, even for the dedicated.
  
  Basically the rewards suited the colossal effort  81 days played for me, and thats little for 
 a raider  but in the expansion, and it must be said the patches pre-empting the expansions made 
 these rewards trivial, as much better items were seriously available after the first few quests.
 
  
  Now for new and casual players, who in all fairness represent around 95% of the WoW user base benefited 
 greatly from this, but the more hardcore players did, I feel miss out.
  
  However this is a good game, despite what I have just said  so most people reading this review 
 could be new to the game, so dont let me put you off, however be warned that the more hardcore 
 the playing time you undertake the larger the chance that effort will be lost come Blizzards next 
 expansion.
  
  The expansion does however improve on the original adding more fun quests, and adding more utility 
 to each class, making it possible for hybrids to be useful in game (although sometimes too useful) 
 So new players, if you want to jump into an MMORPG I definitely recommend this.
  
  Sangu1ne 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senrab7
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most incredable MMORPG I have ever played if you havn't played the original 
 I recommend that you should get this game if your a fan of massive MMORPG cause it basically has 
 the same game play and same experience as you get when you play D&amp; D. So if your in for a very 
 long and exciting massive game i suggest you play this. Oh! and if your lucky enough you might 
 run into some of World of Warcraft's gigantic dragons demons and de-mi gods that simply just walk 
 right through a city and kill anything in its way. Have Fun, I hope you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has dominated the MMORPG games since its release. Changing and balancing many 
 of the elements to make it even more enjoyable along the way Blizzard has introduced many things 
 to WoW to keep players coming back for more. Starting off with Gameplay, nothing has changed from 
 the original game besides the new profession of jewlcrafting which adds even more depth to the 
 game. The gameplay was solid originally so if its not broke, why fix it?
  
  The graphics are starting to show their age. Things look alright from a far but up close they feel 
 like the old days of a Sega Dreamcast. But exploring the world is still a lot of fun. The sound 
 is great, the music is outstanding. There is so much packed into this expansion that there should 
 be nothing lower then a 10 given for the value. There is something for level 60s to do as well 
 as new people who want to start from scratch with the two new races. There is just so much to do 
 in this massive world you cant really ask for anything more.
  
  Overall this is a great expansion pack, its worth the 40 bucs, specially since you can buy the 
 original game for 20 now, if your looking to get into it its not all that expansive. Right now 
 I'm working on my level 34 Blood Elf Rogue, the new class as got me hooked into the game again. 
 The names Jonnis and Im on the Hyjal server, come party up with me and do some questing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Pitt
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  WoW-tBC is an amazing expansion with all the new content you could possibly want and more, the 
 addition of Outland made the game's large world immense and the new races and abilities make it 
 a must have for any RPG fan. I first thought i would never get into it because it was a subscription 
 game and I would lose interest, but it has held my interest and I have come to enjoy WoW more than 
 any other RPG i have ever played. If you have doubts abouts this game get the free trial from someone 
 you know...... because someone you know WILL play WoW, whether they admit it or not. There is nothing 
 comparing to the amazing, fun gameplay, worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haohmaru11
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 14, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  this game it is just a piece of crap ... you give them 10 and after is eating 1 year of your life 
 you will give it 1 ... so the point is , go back to adventure console gaming ... like about a 10 
 hours game so you have time to go out ! i played it for one month because my friend asked me to 
 play it together and i had to lvl up pretty fast ...2 lvl per day so i quit at lvl 40 because this 
 game doesn't have nothing interesting ! Just imagine how you kill a lvl 1 guy and a lvl 40 guy 
 with the same 3 fireballs ! hahahaha ... this game not worthing my money ! now i play NeverWinter 
 Nights and is Awsome ! so guys if you want a life quit WOW ! have a nice time quiting it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  While the first World of Warcraft brought huge amount of people into this game, there were few 
 flaws which players pointed out and hoped it would be fixed in the expansion. Alas, comes the expansion 
 that fixed those problems but brought in the new problems along with it. However, if you are looking 
 for the best MMORPG at this point in time, World of Warcraft: Burning Crusade is still the best.
 
  
  Graphic : The same old cartoon graphic. This is more like a personal choice. I personally don't 
 mind this graphic at all, but I could understand those who would want much more realistic graphics. 
 In the end, everyone would want to see a hot blood elf chick in sub-realistic graphics, not cartoon 
 graphics.
  
  Sound : I personally don't care about sound too much. In music, I don't care because I turn on 
 my own music anyway while playing. Most people play their own music while playing games. For sounds 
 other than music, it's the same as the original World of Warcraft, and nothing changed. Truthfully, 
 it still is the sound you would expect while playing the game. Gameplay : Now, to the real part. 
 This is where alot of people complain and gives WoW a bad score just because of the gameplay. Their 
 reasons? Almost all reviews which gave a score below 7 was because of so called too much farming 
 , which I disagree. I would think they never played any other MMO before WoW. Sure, WoW makes people 
 farm IF you intend to raid or get the new flying epic mount. However, it is nothing compared to 
 any other MMORPG which makes your butt stick to your chair. Leveled your char to 70 in 2 months 
 and that's too much for you? Try Final Fantasy XI or Lineage 2 where the leveling never ends. Tired 
 of farming gold for your epic mount? Again try other MMO and then come back to me.
  
  This game balances out leveling/grinding to its best. In terms of farming, if you aren't a hardcore 
 gamer, you will never outgrind others. You can't get money for free. Get over it. If you want money, 
 you have to spend time grinding and earning your gold. Stop thinking WoW is the worst grinding 
 game after killing few mobs for netherweave cloth. If you can't take the fact that you can't get 
 your flying epic mount in 2 days, then MMORPG itself is not the game for you. Perhaps Guild War 
 may be, since that game attracts those who are impatient and don't have time playing much.
  
  I don't have an epic flying mount yet. It's alot of money for me to grind, and I don't have 
 alot of time to grind it out. Knowing that, I save my gold little by little, knowing one day I 
 will get one. If you can't spend your time grinding like hardcore players, then you won't get epic 
 flying mount with other hardcore players. Get Over it.
  
  All reviews that gave this game less than 6 are merely stating they can't grind all day and therefore 
 gets lowest score. For me it only tells me you are a child who doesn't understand the relationship 
 between work / reward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccu4779
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 9, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I started playing WoW when it was released. I played for about 6 months, got bored with the repetition, 
 and left. I bought Burning Crusade about a month after it came out, in the hopes of getting back 
 into WoW, and enjoying the game again. It didn't last long. I was bored with it again in less than 
 a week. The same old repetitive grind, just different scenery.
  
  The graphics are good, but the game is too simplistic for me. I enjoy something a little more openended, 
 and a little more challenging. If you enjoy WoW, good for you. Personally, it bores me, and I will 
 not be returning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barom
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 9, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game at one point, but after playing it I'm not as happy. 
 I guess it just didn't meet my expectations. I mean it has all it said it was gonna have but I 
 don't know. It just didnt hit me like the original WoW did. To my biggest disappointment was some 
 of the characters taken from the lore. Arator the Reedemer (son of the Paladin Turalyon who lead 
 the army into Outland and Alleria Windrunner, the sister of Sylvanas and Veeresa Windrunner) was 
 suppose to be a half high elf and half human, yet they used a blood elf look. I also saw a half 
 draenei and half orc that they just used a orc look. I can't come up with more but I'm definately 
 sure that there were more.
  
  Anyway onto the quests. I would say 70% to 80% of the quests is go kill 20 of or go get that drops 
 from . Instances, you need to get reputation to get into various end game instances which means 
 more grinding.
  
  Despite all this there are still some good stuff. I mean flying mounts (costs a bunch of money 
 though = lots of grinding again) , socket thingy (jewelcrafting) , 2 new races and lots of lands 
 to explore is quite nice.
  
  My conclusion:
  I feel Blizzard made a lazy effort to make the gameplay more fun and it seems they just wanted 
 to lengthen the time you need to finish (what you wanted in) the game hence all the focus on the 
 grinding. I used to be a big fan of Blizzard because they always made the quality games but for 
 the first time I feel a bit cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveosaurous
Rating: 6
Date: May 8, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  As any online gamer will know, online games are ridiculously addictive. Though few can boast the 
 same level of addictiveness as World of Warcrack.
  
  Veterans of WoW will find few addons available in TBC. Yes, they've introduced 2 new races, yes 
 they've introduced a new profession, yes they've introduced several new lands and towns, yes they've 
 introduced new dungeons. But what's new about it? Absolutely nothing. You will get more of the 
 same.
  
  Since it's conception, the core idea around WoW has been to complete quests, earn gold, rinse wash 
 and repeat. However, with subsequent patches the amount of time this all takes has been increased 
 repeatedly. At the beginning the game was accessable to both the casual and the hardcore gamer. 
 However, as time has gone on, it has become less accessable for the casual gamer and the same holds 
 true in the Burning Crusade. In fact, it's likely you'll find only the most hardcore gamers playing 
 TBC. Blizzard fails to expand on the World of Warcraft. The land is large and beautifully cartoony, 
 holding with the style of WC3 which the world is based on. But, the game play is diminished. There 
 is alot of strategy involved when going Player vs Player. But in the Player vs Environment aspect, 
 it's really just a matter of how much time have you invested in the game. If you've invested 100 
 hours getting equipment (and yes, you'll invest this and far more) you're gonna find it much easier 
 to advance than the guy who invested 10 hours. And lastly, you may find it all very unrewarding. 
 You may push through 1000 hours of gameplay, earning your way to level 70, earning all the best 
 equipment, beating all the best dungeons. Only to find yourself asking Well... now what? . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staticflame
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  The expansion takes you to outland, and highly unique and gorgeous collection of 6 zones. All the 
 zones are much different to anything you've seen pre-expansion, and they'd better be, a fan base 
 so enormous is always looking for something new. Unless you're a new player rolling a Blood Elf 
 or Draenei chances are you're a level 60 heading to outland, so there isn't much of a learning 
 curve, as you've done it before. A lot of the quests are more of the same, get this, kill this, 
 find this, but some of them really stand out, such as fighting along Rexxar against the Ogres in 
 Blades Edge Mountains. Once you get to 70 it's more of the same, raids and 5-mans, but with a twist! 
 First, the 5-mans are difficult, and well made. Some of the loot from them is actually on par with 
 many Karazhan (10 man raid) epics. And from there, with the proper reputations, you can unlock 
 heroic versions of the instances, making 5-mans from The Burning Crusade that are normally meant 
 for level 60's to 69's, level 70 versions of themselves, and the level 70 5-mans, harder then they 
 already were. But the rewards are high quality blues, and epics. The raids in The Burning Crusade 
 are actually interesting. The boss fights are different, intense, and impressive to see. In Karazhan 
 you'll be fighting on stage during the Opera house event, where you'll fight one of three clever 
 spoofs of classic stories (Wizard of Oz, Romeo And Juliet, and The Big Bad Wolf) . Not a one of 
 the fights are a classic tank and spank, in fact no raid bosses really are anymore, save for the 
 first boss in Karazhan. Another example of straying from the classic raid design is the first boss 
 in Gruul's lair (the first 25 man most go to) High King Maulgar has 4 adds and himself, and his 
 adds are tanked by hunters mages and Warlocks. All that said, there are some issues. First off 
 the rep grind, rep is required to progress beyond the first few 25 mans. You have to do several 
 heroics in order to get attuned to Tempest Keep: The Eye and Serpentshrine Cavern. So even those 
 not interested in 5-mans have to do them in order to raid, and a lot of them. Some of the 5-man 
 blues (non-heroic) , as I've said, are on par with Epic items from Karazhan and Gruul's Lair, and 
 many don't see this to be right. The effort, consumables, and time spent getting these raid epics 
 are substantially higher than that of a 5-man. And as always there are some class balance issues 
 (surprise!) Shaman have been getting the shaft since expansion came out, and are getting nerfed 
 again in the upcoming patch. Priests as healers are in a sad state right now, with paladins taking 
 over main healing roles. And retribution paladins are still completely awful. Warlocks are mushrooms. 
 All in all, if you play WoW, get this expansion. If you don't play WoW, start, and get this expansion. 
 This game is addicting, fun, and near endless. Nothing is as breathtaking as entering outland for 
 the first time and seeing the amazing world you have ahead of you. You need to experience it yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheepdog1234
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Maybe as I continue playing ,have Kara on farm and have more exp. in 25 man raids I'll feel differently; 
 but after almost 4 months of play I decided to speak up. I liked the group feeling I had with my 
 guild pre-BC ,that doesn't exsist in BC and many good players have left over this in my guild and 
 others in my realm. People do not offer ,or think they should , help fellow guildies out. I m sorry 
 this just didn't happen pre-BC. Remember this is being written on May 3 2007 everything will change 
 it always does ,so ill just have to watch and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnank77
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 2, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, Burning Crusade introduced many new things that makes it a worthy expansion. Two new interesting 
 races, new profession and tons of new stuff and quests .. There is only one major flow that stopped 
 me from giving full mark to this game. If you play with the new races, you have plenty of new things 
 in the begginning .. until your early 20 levels .. then .. it is basicly the SAME old WoW game 
 (unless you are jewel crafter) .. NOTHING new until you reach 58 and hit the portal to Outland 
 .. There are few lands not accessable in the existing continents .. so .. blizzard could''ve used 
 them for midium levels .. there is nothing new for me now at level 43 until I'm 58 .. Other than 
 that .. it's worth the wait ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjslugddd
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 1, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing WoW since release on and off. When I got the expansion I was expecting something 
 better. The game turned into a major grind-fest. Worse than what it used to be. Getting to level 
 70 was pretty easy. You had alot of quest that got you there and the quest gave items better than 
 AQ40 and NAXX items. Any pve grinding done before the expansion means nothing. But once you hit 
 level 70 you have to run X instance OVER and OVER and OVER again. Just in order to move onto the 
 next bigger instance.
  I cancelled my account about 2 months after the expansion release. This time I really see no reason 
 for me to come back. Unless they bring something fun back into the game. PVP BGs are pointless. 
 You can grind PVP points for crappy gear that you already have better gear from quest and instances.
 
  
  The neon lighting of the game still addicts so many.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  WoW is the best MMORPG on the market today and from what i have seen it will always be for a good 
 time to come. I used to play this game along with everyone else and i found that it was immersive 
 and world escaping. But i ended up quiting and i want to explain why. WoW is an amazing game all 
 around. It has depth, replay value, pretty looking graphics, awesome item selection, and a overal 
 great experience and introducer to the noob MMORPG'er. One of the great things about this is that 
 even if you have never heard of an MMORPG, you can jump right in and feel right at home. The accesablitliy 
 is unbelieveable. So why would i quit a game like this? Well ill tell you a sad but not so dissapointing 
 truth. This game is deep, it is a race to the finish line all the time, get the best gear, get 
 the max rep, get to the highest possible level you can get to. But this leaves those who dont play 
 as much in the dust and it will show when your walking around looking for help for a quest that 
 everyone else accomplished a month ago. Its sad to see a great game plagued by the fact that if 
 you play constantly, your going to left behind.
  
  But i doubt that any MMORPG can fix this, it is almost impossible to fix this. So the people who 
 have the time, your going to find an amazing game behind this. For those who dont, well your going 
 to be frustrated with this game until you get up to those who are better then you. This can be 
 easily countered though in two ways. One play alot more to keep up, Two just play how much you 
 want and dont worry about the other people who are better then you ( that option is hard to do) .
 
  
  Basics, this expansion has new items, areas, quests, races, and overall better and more gameplay. 
 WoW fans who play already are going to love this game, its that simple. I was sick of being left 
 behind, i was sick of paying the montly fee, and i was sick of the loot hunt. This game got boring 
 for me very fast.
  
  Overal: BEST MMORPG out there, great graphics, addictive gameplay, immersive world. not to mention 
 if you have friends who play this your replay value will go up. Because soloing is not as fun as 
 people think. This expansion rocks but i will not play it anymore and i will not play and mmorpgs 
 any more. (unless they are free) . This game get what it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidvalor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  TBC is a very good expansion to WoW, it adds a lot of new content to explore. Even though the graphics 
 are starting to show their age, their this good and the scenery is still amazing. Because of the 
 games gameplay the graphic dont matter that much, its very addictive. If you already own WoW then 
 its a must to get TBC cause nothing much happens out side Outlands anymore. Blizz made some good, 
 some bad changes to the game. Raids require less people now, that leaves many other just hanging. 
 Its also harder to get good groups in TBC. If you were highly addicted to the game before TBC, 
 then the expansion might be your salvation of leaving the game cause many people have left the 
 game after trying the TBC. Overall WoW is the best game ever the many subscribers shows that, TBC 
 messed a little with the original formula, but still is a great addition to an already great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiro
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This one is really all about the End Game, which is appropriate, considering that everyone and 
 their dog has a level 60 somebody on WoW by now. There are plenty of new abilities, spells and 
 talents, giving almost every class a boost, and doing some much needed balancing (Rogues and Hunters) 
 but some remain weak (Priests) while others have become even more overpowered (coughDRUIDcough) . 
 Also there aren't many more class specific quests, which is unfortunate, as they provide your character 
 with the closest thing possible to an actual RP identity on WoW. The majority of the general quests 
 also still boil down to kill fifty scary angry things! or collect me twenty fel-gnome nail clippings! 
 but there are a few wildly fun exceptions (Aerial bombing runs! Disguise/infiltration quest!) , 
 and the loot is sweet. I mean really sweet. Seriously, kiss your so called epics good bye. The 
 new recipes are nobrainers and they do manage to balance out the value a little bit. Still, I think 
 Blizzard could have done better than just one more profession. Something like Scroll Writing would 
 be easy enough to implement, allowing people to write down the basic +stat scrolls, or even giving 
 enchanters a way to sell their wares on the AH directly. Socketed items would be much more exciting 
 if they were usable earlier on.
  
  Of course, the new races are what has everyone agog. Considering the awesome racials of both newcomers, 
 I don't think it would be out of the question to give the old races some new tricks to make them 
 seem a little less... lame or outright useless. In terms of story, the Draenei seem to have come 
 from nowhere, and while I can believe that the blood elves would betray their former allies, it 
 makes little sense that their former enemies would accept them so readily. In terms of balancing, 
 it makes great sense, as the Horde has received a massive influx of new players. In the end, I 
 think giving the Horde and Alliance new classes which filled the roles of paladin and shaman respectively 
 would have been better than giving them shaman and paladin. A new class in general would have been 
 welcome. Granted, I had trouble thinking up what role it would fill in PVP and Raiding, but the 
 boys at Blizzard have proven themselves plenty clever. Go ahead and call me a D&amp; D whore, but 
 the absences of Bards and Monks seem somewhat odd to me. While the new starter areas and end game 
 areas are very rich and well designed a few newt mid-level zones would have been nice, since, you 
 know, 20-50 are the most boring levels in the game.
  
  Still, if you're already into WoW, you have no excuse to not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazorrazor
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  coud be better like The same old story complete the missions yada yada yada bla bla..... Blizzard 
 is a great company but for this game o maaann yes its fun for like till you get 40LVL then you 
 do anithing to get more gold beter items but you cant get your lvl over 40 couse THE map is very 
 BIG thats a + but you need a time to reach somthing like theres No invaisons for instance when 
 you have reached 30LVL you can go to a nather city just kill the allaiance ore the hordes i'm acsully 
 disapointed that thei have added only 2 char More..... i was ecspeting atleast 6 the looks havent 
 change but if your a fan of warcraft you can buy it but I WARN u you will be desapointed!! : ( ( (
 
  
  
  sorry for my bad neglish but try to understand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evios
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is an add on to the game World of Warcraft. Both of the games are equal in graphics, 
 just in the expansion, they added on 2 new races and a complete new world. Although i still dont 
 have any lvl 70s, I still have alot of fun doing guild raids, and questing, and just plain and 
 simple, killing things. The great thing about this game, is that there are almost no bounderies 
 to wear you can travel, and the types of scenery that range from desert to forested islands. There 
 are also a wide variety of quests to complete, even more from the new game. The game also has many 
 different creatures to kill, and new people and NPCs to talk to, and always a new place to visit. 
 One thing i love this game, is because i love to explore around and see what things are like, and 
 this game you can see almost everything, including Nessy as in our lochness monster! If you cant 
 stand to play a masterpiece of a roleplaying game, then you have some serious issues. Overall, 
 WoW: the burning crusade has to be my top choice if you are trying to pick a game thats out there 
 to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Once again the World of Warcraft universe is in the news and this time its because of the release 
 of The Burning Crusade, the much awaited expansion to the most popular MMORPG on the market. Gameplay: 
 Literally hundreds of hours of gameplay have been added to this expansion. First off, the level 
 cap has been increased by 10 levels from 60 to 70. Second, a vast new area called the Outlands 
 has been opened to players and within this area players can explore different zones and instances. 
 With hundreds of new items added in the game players will be spending hours searching for their 
 precious loot. On top of all of this two new races have been added to the game: the Blood Elfs 
 for the Horde and the Draenei for the Alliance. The gameplay is exactly the same was the original 
 game but with hundreds of both minor and huge changes you will spend days glued to your computer. 
 Graphics: The graphics of WoW haven't necessarily been revamped in the expansion but the new environments 
 look very beautiful. My favorite area to level in was a place named Zangramarsh where vivid colors 
 of bright blue and yellow surround you. This new areas, instances, and items are a treat for the 
 eyes.
  
  Sound: I really enjoyed the music and gamepaly sounds of the original WoW and the expansion has 
 added enjoyable new sounds.
  
  Value: If you are a fan of the original WoW, then the mere $39.99 you will have to pay in order 
 to get your hands on this is nothing. The value pays itself a hundredfold in the time you will 
 be spending with your face glued to the computer.
  
  Conclusion: Die hard fans and casual gamers of WoW alike cannot afford to miss the expansion. Who 
 wants to look like a newb when there will be level 70's running around with phat new loot? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZelvarR
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I played World of Warcraft since February 2005. It was my first real MMO and I had a blast playing 
 it. There were downsides and shortcomings (mostly PvP class balance... or lack of it) but overall 
 it was an engaging and fun game to play, especially with friends. I raided MC and BWL back when 
 those instances were endgame. During the time I wasn't raiding, I was leveling up my other characters 
 to 60 (got 4 characters to level 60 before the expansion) . I spent quite a bit of time pvping as 
 well and it was fun, but there was such terrible class balance, often times, regardless of your 
 skill at a class, you could get easily annihilated by another class just because of the shortcomings 
 of your own. Also, with raiding in WoW you used to need 40 people to raid the endgame instances 
 and get the good loot. In a raid environment, with a few rare exceptions, each class had a specific 
 role in the raid (healing, dps, or tanking) and if you wanted to raid you had to conform to a specific 
 talent spec, and the endgame class specific epic gear sets only catered to that one role as well.
 
  
  With the expansion that was all promised to change by Blizzard. They said they'd reduce raid size 
 to 25-man instead of 40, to help promote somewhat more casual play. They also claimed they would 
 work harder to make different specs for different classes viable for a raiding environment (instead 
 of pigeonholing each class into a role, a person could choose which to fulfill) . Instead of the 
 grindfest (like the previous honor pvp system was, where basically your rank rose based on points 
 you got from spending tons of time playing in the pvp battlegrounds) a new pvp reward system was 
 devised, and arenas introduced where players would be pitted in small scale gladiatorial fights.
 
  
  On top of these wonderful promises, new areas and 2 new races, as well as allowing each faction 
 access to the previously faction-specific classes, paladins (alliance) and shamans (horde) . All 
 in all this expansion was headed in a direction that almost every player was happy with.
  
  When the expansion went live, it breathed new life into the game and the prospect of being able 
 to spec freely while still being viable for raiding, being able to use skill in pvp fights and 
 get rewards based on wins and not a time consuming point grind.
  
  Sadly, the major sore thumb this game had before the expansion (class balance mainly in pvp) is 
 still a big problem, if not worse. Despite the changes made to the game for the better, this glaring 
 flaw in the games design really brings it down. As far as I'm concerned, given equatable skill 
 and gear, every class should have a good chance of beating any other class. I know there's no way 
 to balance diverse classes 100% with each other but they should at least give their best effort 
 to maintain a more level playing field.
  
  In conclusion, the new areas are great, the new races are well made and fun to play, the graphics 
 in the expansion locales is much improved (especially in the new instances) and its a pretty addictive 
 game, assuming you have enough time to devote to playing it consistantly. The pitfalls of the game 
 are mainly that it is still a pretty big timesink (you have to spend quite a lot of time playing 
 in order to really make any progress) , and that class balance is nearly nonexistant. It has the 
 makings of a great expansion and a great game, but the unwillingness of Blizzard to remedy these 
 problems makes for one dissatisfied customer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Well i must say january 16th was some day for wow geeks like myself. I have played a little less 
 than a year when it released but i was very ecxited.
  To install it was **** of course. And i couldnt really log in. So four days after i tried again, 
 and this time it worked. I sat down. Open my account, watched my crappy warrior (as i didnt have 
 time to raid so had standard blue gear) and were ready to go on. When i was standing infront of 
 the portal i thought well lets just rock through this and go 70 as fast as possible, so maybe i 
 could join a good raiding guild, and possible earn some epics now that i have more time playing 
 so i walked through (another annoying loading screen popped up, took 10 seconds, which is alot 
 on my computer :P) well i got through, zoomed out and WAUW! I mean WoW never really had such an 
 amazing graphics, guild wars, and lord of the rings online, those games are way more beautiful, 
 but world of warcraft have this cartoon thing, which i in some ways find charming. The quests in 
 outlands was more or likely easy abit of the same, but to go through them and explore with youre 
 buddies, now that was fun, and to compete and see who could reach 70 first (of course when i was 
 61, some geek named eteris, no offense dude dont know if u read Gamespot reviews, i mean youre 
 a great guy, but relax a little :P) well i bursted through every area in outlands, and every place 
 was cooler than the other, at 65 when i reached an area named Nagrand i looked around, it seemed... 
 well not so fantasy likely, rhinos, owls, and talbuks (looks like thin goats :P) trees, and plains. 
 BUT (!) then i looked to the sky, man! Two moons, northern lights :P and islands above my head 
 floating, that was so cool! At 67 the game started to piss me off as i think the quests was more 
 or likeyly the same, but then i finally after 7 days (then i got hacked) and another 3 days = 10 
 days (for you folks who sucks at math there is the result, i suck myself, this required a calculator 
 - joke *cough*not stupid* cough*)
  
  Yeh! 70!! finally, now the game could really start, end game instances, new gear, all the new abilities, 
 and my precious flying miunt (of course 280% had to have the fastest)
  
  As i slowly began getting my tanker gear, i suddenly got into new guilds, and i had so much fun, 
 guildies was very nice to me, and you know what? These ten levels i worked, was actully quite fun, 
 new areas that were funny, and new buds, and loads of guilds (even started getting offers from 
 raiding guilds! that was cool, never tried that!) Alot of new gear, new classes (have a level 70 
 draenei shaman by now, which i play way more on than my warrior but the hack, warriors are still 
 fun) I strongly advice u to start playing WoW if u want an online mmorpg, as there is way more 
 challenge than guild wars, but okay GW is pvp based, which wow of course also is, but more questing 
 and raiding if u ask me, depends on server, and how much u wanna geek pvp (BORING!)
  
  Graphics = Outstanding, with its own charm
  
  Sound = aah the music so beautiful, though u 
 can get tired of Cant do that or not enough rage when it comes from a gnome warrior with an annoying 
 voice :P
  
  Gameplay = AMAZING!
  
  Value = couldnt be better, unless it was virtual reality as i would like to stick my sword up another 
 ones *** while freaking yelling **** u bastard, never ******* play ******* smart again ill whoop 
 youre tiny ****** blood elf ass u **** some players do think they are bigger behind a keyboard, 
 there for they call u stuff and that pisses me off, and this was my answer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WGamingR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  There is no computer game that so completely and effortlessly draws people into it. Many self-described 
 hard core gamers rant that WoW invents no new features that haven't been found in other MMOs. Those 
 people and the reviewers that pander to them, however, miss WoW's single biggest achievement: making 
 a deep MMO that is accessible to a wider range of gamers. Through WoW's carefully designed level 
 progression, especially in the first few hours of play, a complete n00b can quickly get into the 
 Azeroth experience. From there, the familiar addictiveness of RPGs takes hold. What is it about 
 RPGs that drives the obsessive/compulsive leveling and completing that we have all felt? At the 
 heart, its a neurotic desire we act out in our daily life - the quest for status - combined with 
 our healthy love of exploration and discovery. WoW's social aspects make the most of the MMO conceit. 
 As an accessible MMO, it brings a wide variety of people into a shared community. My guild is primarily 
 populated by nice folks who care less about end-game instances and more about being funny and smart 
 while they are playing. And because there is a wide range of people playing, everyone can encounter 
 people they like (and hate) no matter what social group they are used to hanging out with.
  
  And with WoW, the out-of-game experience is at least as compelling as the in-game one. Resource 
 sites like thottbot. com and wowhead, the custom UIs that are available everywhere, the macro exchange 
 forums, the almost infinite discussion forums on every aspect of the game, and the countless hours 
 that I've spent just thinking about my characters, my gear, my quests, my recent adventures... 
 all these aspects give me more of a feeling of secret identity than I've ever felt with a computer 
 game. World of Warcraft is more than a diversion or an entertainment. It's a precursor to the Matrix 
 and a throwback to the more communal days of hunting and gathering. Everyone who claims to be interested 
 in the future of western civilization must experience Blizzard's magnum opus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Ok everyone is saying that World of Warcraft and the expantion is great. So what does 
 the expantion have to offer? Well there are two new races the Blood Elves for the Horde, Draenai 
 for the Alliance, two new starter areas to go with those races, a new trade skill (jewelrycrafting) , 
 the level capacity has been pushed up from sixty ti seventy, and there is a whole new multi-zone, 
 multi-instance area for high level characters to grind around in, called the Outlands . Quests 
 are plentiful and very faction-based; the number of faction points you gain for low-level quests 
 has been increased dramatically, making it easier to work up to Revered status with your home city 
 or other cities, should you choose to do the grind.
  Once you hit level seventy there is really nothing eles to do unless you want to wonder around 
 aimlessly or start up another character. Graphics: The graphics I found are not the best I have 
 seen. Yes they are nice and colorful, but not polished like Guild Wars.
  
  Sound: The sound of it is not bad. The sound effects of the basts of magic and all are not bad. 
 Value: It's an addivtive game but this is not my type of game. I don't like Fantasy themed games. 
 Also there is not much replay value in this game after you maxed out on leveling. Also if you have 
 loads of time and money or you have no life this game you should avoid. There are plenty of other 
 great games to play out there so don't resrict yourself to one game.
  All in all this I give this game 6.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davorg22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  The first major improvement in the game comes with the extension of the level grind. There is a 
 vast difference in the enjoyment of leveling a character from levels 1-60 and from 60-70. While 
 the amount of experience is relatively comparable, the mechanisms in place make it a completely 
 different animal. With the original game, leveling was thought of as one of the main aspects of 
 the game and designed to take a long time to do with very little continuity or help to speed you 
 along. Instances were designed to be for gear rewards and something you did rarely in between your 
 bouts of leveling. With The Burning Crusade, the quests were designed to make you feel like you 
 were accomplishing smaller tasks within a grand scheme, and they actually helped to develop the 
 plot and a feeling that you were a part of the game rather than just trying to beat the game to 
 get a level.
  &middot; Auchindoun was formerly a sacred burial site for the draenei. It then became the fortress 
 of the Bleeding Hollow orc clan. It was nearly destroyed by Alliance forces during the invasion 
 of Draenor. The Shadow Council almost destroyed the tomb and the surrounding areas when they summoned 
 Murmur, who is said to be the primordial essence of sound. It consists of four different 5-man 
 instance wings ranging in level from 63-70. Players recieve lower city reputation for slaying monsters 
 here. The 4 wings are called, The Mana tombs, The stekekk halls, The aunchindi crypts and The shadow 
 labyrinth.
  &middot; Caverns of Time lie below the Tanaris desert in Azeroth. It is where Nozdormu the Timeless 
 One, head of the Bronze Dragonflight and Dragon Aspect of time, makes his home. The Caverns of 
 Time is actually comprised of three instances, in which players will be able to experience significant 
 events of Azeroth's history and prevent them from being altered by a mysterious foe: Thrall's escape 
 from Durnholde Keep, Medivh's opening of the Dark Portal, and the Battle of Mt. Hyjal. Players 
 receive Keepers of Time reputation for defeating enemies in the Old Hillsbrad (Durnehold Keep) 
 instance and in the Black Morass (Dark Portal) instance. It is not certain what reputation will 
 be awarded in Mount Hyjal but it has been speculated that The Scale of the Sands a secretive subgroup 
 of the Keepers of Time will be the associated faction, as Scale of the Sands reputation is required 
 to enter. Mount Hyjal is currently the highest tier raid instance but is not open on the public 
 servers.
  &middot; Coilfang Reservoir is a subterranean pumping station operated by Illidan's naga forces. 
 Lady Vashj herself personally oversees its operation. There are three 5-man instance wings ranging 
 in level from 62-70 and a level 70 25-man raid instance. Players recieve Cenarion Expedition reputation 
 for defeating enemies here
  &middot; Gruul's Lair is the lair of the massive ogre demigod, Gruul. It is a 25-man raid.
  &middot; 
 Hellfire Citadel was formerly an orc fortress, and housed the warriors of the Shattered Hand and 
 Shadowmoon clans. More recently, Illidan has converted it to his own uses, and is breeding an army 
 of fel orcs within its walls. There are three 5-man instance wings, ranging in level from 60-70. 
 There is also a 25-man raid instance Magtheridon's Lair that has yet to be opened. It is believed 
 that this raid will follow the pattern of Onyxia having only 1 raid-boss and a handful of lesser 
 guards. Players recieve Honor Hold (Alliance) or Thrallmar (Horde) reputation for defeating enemies 
 here.
  &middot; Karazhan was once the shining ivory tower of Medivh, the Guardian of Tirisfal. After Medivh's 
 death, however, the tower and the land around it were blighted and cursed. The powerful nexus of 
 ley energies beneath the tower still remains, however, as well as the myriad of treasures accrued 
 by the powerful wizard. It is a 10-man raid instance.
  &middot; Tempest Keep was created by the Naaru to serve as both a fortress and a means of transportation. 
 However, after arriving in Outland and leaving the keep, Prince Kael'thas and his blood elves stormed 
 in and took over. It now serves as the prince's base of operations in Outland. There are 3 level 
 70 5-man instance wings and a 25-man raid. Players recieve Sha'Tar reputation for defeating enemies 
 here. The instances are called The Botanica, The Arcatraz and The Mechanar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithalan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first stated playing WoW over a year ago, I was completely caught up like so many other 
 people. However, upon reaching level 60, the game soon became more of a waiting game - waiting 
 for your guild to do raids, waiting for others to get gear and time to go on said raids, etc. Trying 
 to coordinate 25+ people's busy real life schedules for game raids can be complicated at best, 
 a nightmare at worst. So it was safe to say that when I heard that the Burning Crusade's content 
 would be more oriented towards smaller instance groups, I was elated. I assumed this would mean 
 far more time spent actually doing instances and raids, and far less time grinding materials and 
 levelling alts. I was soooo wrong.
  
  Having said that, I'll explain what I liked about the game first. Levelling to 70 is a whole lot 
 of fun. The new continent, the Outlands, is full of different landscapes and factions, making questing 
 fun due to the variety. The quest rewards you can gain in the first zone quickly bring any non-raid 
 geared 60 up to par. There are enough quests in each zone too that you can pick and choose according 
 to your style of play. Moreover, as you gain reputation with various factions, more and more quests 
 open up. It is quite easy to get a character to level 70 without ever grouping or going into a 
 single instance, making the expansion ideal for anyone who prefers solo play. However, group play 
 is also given its due in the drive to 70. Most of the best quest rewards are only available from 
 group quests. A major bonus is that some of the new instances (Ramparts, Mana Tombs to name a couple) 
 are quite brief which makes them ideal for a casual weekday evening. The new races are an interesting 
 addition as well. The new starting zones seem to have a visual flair lacking in the original game. 
 The draenei capital, the Exodar, is probably the prettiest city in the game. The quests are more 
 involved too, making the first 20 levels far more interesting for the aspiring draenei or blood 
 elf. My biggest problem was the availability of classes for the new races. I always liked the exclusivity 
 of paladins for the alliance and shamans for the horde, but the expansion ruined this. Now all 
 classes are available for both sides. For me, it took away some of the uniqueness of each faction. 
 Jewelcrafting as a profession is also a nice addition. The ability to make necklaces, rings and 
 trinkets is especially useful at low levels, and crafting socketable gems at high levels is invaluable.
 
  
  Now I can turn to what's wrong with the expansion. My original hope for increased gameplay with 
 less downtime grinding, etc was quickly shattered after reaching 70. I really thought the concentration 
 on smaller instance groups and the addition of heroic level instances would allow for far more 
 instance runs and challenges. Nope. A huge problem with the game is the faction grind. In order 
 to advance to the bigger raids or run heroic level instances one must attain certain ranks with 
 many of the new factions in the Outlands. It's really not that hard to do in most cases, but the 
 downside is that it is extraordinarily repetative. Running the same instance over and over and 
 over just to earn a few rep to get one step closer to the heroic key for that faction can get tiresome. 
 This is especially the case for the Lower City faction in which the only way to get the heroic 
 level is to run one instance repeatedly. Even worse, to run an instance on heroic, every person 
 in the run must have the heroic level key for that instance, which means not only do you have to 
 get the keys, you have to wait for everyone else to get them too. As for raids, the problem has 
 switched from trying to get 40 people together for Molten Core or BWL to trying to decide who to 
 leave out for the 10-man Karazhan run. So instead of spending a lot of downtime waiting for eveyone 
 to get together, you now spend a lot of downtime watching other people in the guild go on the raid. 
 It encourages cliquism in guilds to new and unprecedented levels. I watched the top 4 raiding guilds 
 on my server disintegrate due to cliques and shear boredom.
  
  Boredom brings me to my next problem. The professions in the game got some very interesting upgrades 
 (except for engineering which is now almost useless - I really felt sorry for my best friend who 
 loved engineering pre-expansion and now wishes she never took it) . Tailors can make gear that is 
 actually worth sewing. Alchemists can brew a variety of really useful elixirs and potions. Specialization 
 in the professions makes them more interesting - for example, alchemists can specialize in elixirs, 
 potions or transmutes, giving them a small chance of making more than one item on a single set 
 of mats. However, the benefits of the new crafting abilities is far outweighed by the one thing 
 that all the top new items need - Primals, whether of the elements or the dreaded Primal Might 
 or Primal Nether. Primals are the expansion's version of the original game's elemental essences, 
 but there are more kinds. In addition, primals can be made by combining 10 motes of that element 
 into one primal, and the motes drop far more often off certain mobs than the essences ever did 
 in the original game. But herein is the problem - everyone needs motes. Lots and lots of motes. 
 Basically if you are at all serious about your professions and gearing up for raids you need to 
 be farming motes. Constantly. You want those Frostweave Boots? Better be ready to kill 400 water 
 elementals. Your guild need enough Major Fire Protection potions for a run? 40 elementals per potion 
 please. And if you need one or more of the Primal Mights, not only do you need 5 primals of other 
 kinds, but you also need an alchemist to transmute it for you. And many of the better items require 
 more than one primal might. Blizzard tried to accommodate this mote problem by creating an Elemental 
 Plateau only accessible by level 70 toons with flying mounts, but since everyone needs motes for 
 everything, the plateau is always full of people racing each other to the next spawning elemental. 
 There are other places in the Outlands to get motes, but those are generally overrun with grinders 
 too. So not only do you need 400 elementals for those boots, you need to kill them in competition 
 with many many others. This is not a fun way to pass the hours of your weekend. And unfortunately, 
 this is the way the majority of time is spent in the Burning Crusade once one reaches 70. I loved 
 the charge to 70. It was great fun to have a flying mount, enter new instances, play new races. 
 The scenery is good, the back story line entertaining. But once you reach 70, a certain ennui sets 
 in, grinding becomes everything, and sadly a once fun world turns into the same thing the original 
 game was at 60 - hours of boredom interspersed with the occasional extremely fun raid or heroic 
 instance. Unfortunately the hours of boredom made me turn to other games for entertainment. Overall, 
 though, it is a good game, and even if you never do much after hitting 70, the journey there makes 
 the game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  World Of Warcraft is a great game, but after playing and trying to level and running through instances, 
 and doing long quests, it just gets boring. It's addictive at first, but after grinding and leveling 
 and leveling and leveling and trying to get better gear, It gets boring. After playing for a year, 
 I gave up. WOW is a game where you get friends together and play in one room and run things, then 
 it's fun. But playing by yourself, I had no interest of playing. Now with all the private servers 
 and new Warhammer Online and Lord of Rings Online, WOW justs seems like another MMO. I think WOW 
 is more of a 12-year-old game because that's all that is on. Little 12-ear-old kids running around 
 with their level 70 Warrior, failing school talking trash about how they soloed BRD last night, 
 just got annoying. Another thing was trying to find people to run instances... Most of the time 
 the people are snobby and **** I think the generation of WOW is going into extinction. More and 
 better things are going to take the World of Warcraft over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterbeef1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought WoW a few weeks before, i never thought of buying the expansion. When I had 
 $40 I decided to buy it because I wanted to make a Blood Elf. I love the expansion, I love all 
 the new things I love to play my Blood Elf Palidan. The expansion is very cool, because it allows 
 players to get to lvl 70 and go to outlands. So if your addicted to WoW like I am buy this expansion 
 and be amazed. So go buy it and make a new character or grind to lv 70 and get epic gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_gamespot
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  (Context: I've been play off/on for two years; I have a pair of level 61 characters and a new level 
 40 character) .
  
  In the original version of WOW there was no end-game (dungeon) instances, this was added in later 
 in order to satisfy the appetite of the ever growing population of level 60's that were inhabiting 
 the game. The rewards were great, but it was time consuming to learn how defeat an instance and 
 allow you to farm it for it's loot.
  
  In subsequent patches, instances were only opened up if you had reputation. It was possible to 
 eventually get the reputation to open up the various instances, but it required a significant time 
 commitment to do so in order to get the reputation.
  
  If anything, the Burning Crusade makes this worse. Any player can get from 60-70 in a reasonable 
 amount of time, but an enormous time commitment is required to get keys and reputation to move 
 through the hierarchy of dungeons, quests and other activities to reach the highest instances. 
 This appeals to the hardcore gamer who seems to have the ability to play many hours on weekdays 
 and every waking hour on weekends even though they have full-time jobs or school. But it represents 
 an almost insurmountable obstacle for the casual gamer; me.
  
  While I used to play the game 20-30 hours/week, recently I've only been able to invest 5-10 hours/week 
 in the game because of all the things I do in my real-life. That means I'll advance at a rate that 
 is so much slower than most everybody else. People in my guild have been playing since TBC was 
 released and they are about 1/3 up the hierarchy to get to the end game dungeon. Probably 2 1/2 
 months of play since reaching level 70. If they are playing 30 hours/week, they have spent at least 
 300 hours. Assuming they are 1/3 of the way up the ladder, that means they will require 800-900 
 hours to get to the top, assuming the ratio of time remains the same. If I can manage to play 10 
 hours/week .. this equals 80 weeks about 1.5 years -- or $270 in monthly game fees.
  
  Like my tag line says, how much time do you have? How much money do you want to spend (on a $40 
 expansion pack) ?
  
  I can understand the appeal to a hardcore gamer, but Blizzard has some how left out the casual 
 gamer in order to provide the maximum entertainment to their hardcore players. In doing so, they 
 have made the game unattainable for me. This is very different than the original WOW game where 
 the effort to be attuned was very shallow; and the gear you needed was easily compensated by stronger 
 players. But the game has changed where you need the very good or better gear to even attempt the 
 instances ... this means an even larger time investment just to get gear to play. It means repeating 
 instances dozens of times to get the pieces you need for these instances.
  
  As a result, I've concluded that reaching the end game in the expansion pack is an unattainable 
 goal and simply too hard (because of time) for me. Why should I even bother to spend the time if 
 I'll never get to see some of what I paid for with the money I spent for the expansion pack.
  
  I feel completely satisfied with my game play, my accomplishments and if I decided to continue 
 to play, I'd continue to enjoy it. WOW set the stage and showed the rest of the developer world 
 the formula that allows companies to generate $120 million/month in revenue. Instead of investing 
 more time in a game I can never win, one where the rules for playing are in constant flux, I'd 
 rather play some of the new MMO's or just give up on the MMO entirely because it represents such 
 a time suck on my real-life -- which is far more important than a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortbob
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft the burning crusade was a very great expansion. Until you reach level 70. It 
 very boring and if you want anything you have to be a full time WoW junky. I think that when you 
 get to level 70 there should be more to do and more raids and PvP. The arena's get boring after 
 awhile but it was worth getting for getting to level 60-70 is VERY fun and many different quests 
 and fun things to do. If you want to get it i recommend it, you can still make new classes and 
 level them. So i think it was very fun till you are 70 and that once you are 70 it lacks stuff 
 to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! It is way to addictive, and all of my friends got so addicted to it that 
 it was the only thing that they would talk and think about! It was all they did all day and night! 
 They would play this game all night then have to come to school tomorrow and they would look dead! 
 DON'T BUY THIS GAME! It's fun, but really boring if you're not really the MMORPG kinda person, 
 (me) if you want a fun MMORPG and you're like me play COH, (City of Heroes) it's much better and 
 much less addictive! DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallmankids
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is indeed a great game. It incorporates many great things of the MMORPG genre 
 while adding slightly new touches and a somewhat better look to RPG games. In essence yes it is 
 a revolutionary game but I do believe that the monthly fee goes a bit far. I know many people have 
 debated about this issue. I simply believe that for what the game offers the little minor updates 
 here and there arn't worth my 18 dollars (CDN) a month. Just my two cents on that topic. Otherwise 
 WoW is everything it should but that is when it first came out. With the expansion it has become 
 a slightly better game but only with new content not much new game play or features that we havn't 
 seen before (except flying mounts of course) . I believe wow will soon only be played by the elite 
 aka. people with accounts almost full or full of lvl 70 character's and this is because of 2 things: 
 1) other games of the Genre that don't cost money but offer the same experience of play minus a 
 few things (Guild Wars, Titan Quest and their relative expansions) and Directx10 I believe the new 
 graphics and enhancements that could be made to this game will happen in dx10 on another game (Hopefully 
 an improved version of WOW in the form of Diablo Muahaha) . Although the monthly fees are a minor 
 set-back don't let it discourage you because WoW is a great game with plenty of things to offer, 
 so if you feel the urge go ahead indulge for this once and have fun but if you are weary of the 
 monthly fee take a look at the Guild Wars series or Titan quest both great games with no monthly 
 fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I didn't actually want to write this review until I had really explored all the content even in 
 a minor degree, but recently I have been compelled to speak my mind.
  
  To get it out of the way, Outland is AMAZING! The features of the world, the quests, the NPCs, 
 and all the new content that I have seen has been great. I love the fact that I can build an armor 
 set from 5 man dungeons or 5 man quests that makes me into a hero. I also like the fact that there's 
 always another piece of better equipment out there for me to strive for. It's great. I have a world 
 to live in other than my own.
  
  But Burning Crusade is a FULL TIME JOB and getting the best armor is OVERTIME, and if you're not 
 on a personal mission to actually get all this glorious armor and weaponry there's.... not much 
 to the game. Because of this, BC wears me out. I get home from a long day at work, a day of the 
 utmost frustration and effort, only to see more of it in the game. Full party wipes, no groups 
 available, 20g repair bills, the 10th run of the same dungeon without a drop of my freaking paladins 
 shoulders... and I'm just thinking to myself... please unmake this game and end my misery.
  
  But I always go back to it because WOW has NO competition. Back to my original point, why I 
 am writing this now rather than after I went into the Black Temple and all that jazz- I'm mentally 
 stretched on my limits to abide Blizzard's crap. In other words, HOW MANY TIMES ARE WE GOING TO 
 CHANGE THE CLASSES OF THIS GAME? I mean honestly, I've been playing for 3 years now and I still 
 have to wonder what spec I need to be to get a god damned group! Ret? Prot? HOLY???? Which will 
 it be this month? What nerfing of another class will force ME into filling their flaws?
  
  And that whole Azeroth place? TOTALLY OBSOLETE!
  
  We've gotten to the point where we are beginning 
 to see what I like to call Generi-Craft. Generic game play based on a system of endgame concept 
 fluctuation with the introducing of new content rather than roles and lore. Horde can't handle 
 big raids without crying out for the abilities for a Paladin, they get a Paladin. Alliance can't 
 do battlegrounds because Shaman rock the very being of WSG, they get Shaman of their own. Yeah, 
 okay, so now the classes between the factions are even and all available for either side, WHY ARE 
 WE STILL SWITCHING THEM AROUND? It's not a PVP issue. It's a PVE issue. And Blizzard's idea of 
 PVE is ALWAYS CHANGING!
  
  This is what I want to do. I want to wear plate, I want to support, I want to heal a little, but 
 mostly I want to also break skulls with a large hammer. I can't do it all in WOW. It's getting 
 to be time to find another game.
  
  Don't ask me to roll a new character either. I've just pushed a boulder of a job up a sheer cliff 
 in getting to where I am. Rolling something new would force me to knock that boulder down and start 
 all over gain while someone peed in my eye or something horrible and completely awful like that. 
 WarHammer, Age of Reckoning looks good. I'm excited. Simply put, Blizzard will continue to dump 
 new content into the game, a game designed for casual players and because of that there will alway 
 be hardcore gamers who do it all in 72 hours causing Blizzard to rethink their content and add 
 new stuff that make it even more lengthy to get through, leaving us mostly casual fellows in the 
 dust and saying Oh my god, I have to do HOW MANY heroic runs to even get attuned for Black Temple???? 
 and then our faces will melt off from the radiation of the screen all the WarCraft fans will be 
 forever blinded BUT they'll release new BRAIL content to grind good gear that you can FEEL and 
 weapons that have auto detection for their targets but at that point the only people who will play 
 are 12 year old kids and a few parents who need to find away to connect with their children because 
 they haven't mastered the art of conversation, meanwhile more content will be added but most people 
 will not live to see it because about the time you get the freaking key to get in you've graduated 
 college and have two kids and a mortgage, negating your ability to play this game any more and 
 your ability to complain about the CONSTANT RESPEC of your class which really isn't your class 
 anymore, but what blizzard wants you to play as for the idea of the endgame which will never be 
 the same from month to month, and the introduction of a new class would throw their whole freaking 
 world off balance into some sort of death spin where most of us live anywhere because honestly 
 after playing 8 hours straight to get my FREAKING PALADINS SHOULDERS you get kinda dizzy. Oh, a 
 patch is coming up, I better read the notes and find out what I'm ReSpecing to.
  
  WH: AoR FTW Q4'07
  
  You like to swing a hammer, heal, buff and AOE? Change games with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avitu666
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  I've reviewed the Original World of Warcraft earlier, and while I wasn't totally negative towards 
 it, I was far from impressed either (having played Ultima Online, Dark Age of Camelot, Everquest 
 &amp; Everquest 2 before, there was nothing really interesting and/or new to be found in WoW) .
 
  
  So the pro's and cons in my original review still stand, but I can add the following:
  
  PROS:
  
  - Two new races
  - new profession.
  - Draen'ei are a pretty cool looking race
 
  - Lots of new content
  
  CONTRAS
  
  - Blood elves look gay...
  - New profession (gemcutting) is nothing new. I've been spellcrafting gems in daoc for nearly 5 
 years
  - Horde Paladins &amp; Alliance Shamans? not cool
  - PvP still sucks
  
  There's some interesting new content, but (in my opinion) the contra's outweigh the pros by far.
 
  In my opinion, WoW isn't bad at all (far from it) , but I believe there are are several far superior 
 Mmorpgs out there, making WoW just an average one.
  Maybe the name of Blizzard is the main reason of it's success, and not it's gameplay.
  
  The 
 thick of it is: those that are already fan of the game, will probably not be disappointed. those 
 (like me) who aren't big fans of it to begin with, will probably find nothing that pleases them 
 here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShattyFattmas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  TBC is a great expansion, its adds lots of things to do at lower levels (if you pick a new race) 
 and of course higher level content. It does however fail to change anything in the middle levels. 
 Regardless, it adds hours and hours of content and areas for you to explore. If you didn't like 
 the original WoW, you wont like this. Its still the same core game. If you didn't like wow's endgame, 
 I'd suggest giving TBC a try. It gets rid of the old 40-main raids which use to be quite hectic. 
 The new dungeons are fantastic, and the new cities are amazing. Overall, this is what a expansion 
 should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayedThemAll
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I've played World of Warcraft for over two years. I've come to the conclusion that this game is 
 ultimately fruitless. Yes, it has great graphics, great game play, but the value just isn't there. 
 The time you put into this game does not equal the rewards. If you want to spend your life playing 
 a video game just to get the best gear to have it constantly being replaced, then this is a great 
 game for you. If you just want to make friends, don't play this game. The only thing people care 
 about is gathering loot, and being cool. Go outside, find real people and be their friends.
  
  The game just takes way too much time to accomplish anything reasonable. There is no ultimate 
 goal and there never will be.
  
  Stay away from this game, focus on games with ultimate objectives and challenges. Your items are 
 only good for 3-6 months before it's replaced by a new patch, new dungeon, and the sad thing is 
 everyone has the same game.. everyone looks the same, everything is the same.
  
  IT's not worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oringinalgamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Burning Crusade plays the same way that the original World of Warcraft played. The same 
 controls and icons, with maybe just a few more spells to cast. That really isn't a bad thing seeing 
 how World of Warcraft was easy to pick up for first time MMORPG'ers. Graphics: Same old engine 
 here, Outland sure does look good whne you are able to visit. The spell castings and animations 
 are still great even for the new races.
  Sound: The sound is by far the best aspect of this game. The sound track for Bruning Crusade is 
 really good. The theme at the menu can get you really excited on you first few visits with the 
 expansion. But other than that you cannot access the new sounds unless you are high enough to enter 
 Outland.
  Value: While this game is great, you really cannot get the bulk of this expansion unless you are 
 a level 58. That can bother some people who have not even come close to hitting that mark. This 
 will actually drive some people away from the game but really most people that have just bought 
 the game probably are here for the two new races. Which do add some new content for people who 
 cannot access Outland and are whilling to have a new alt character or maybe a new main. Overall 
 the game is a buy even if you are too low of a level to access the bulk of the game. Of course 
 new content will always be added for all people so there is plenty of stuff to do here in the world 
 of Azeroth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  An amazing ame, up to the standards the original set and worthy to its title. The gameplay is truly 
 innovative, simple-a follower of Diablo-but yet hard to master. The graphics are nothing special 
 but few bother with them, the sound is amazing just like in previous games and its price is great. The 
 tilt... well... ive spent over 2000 hours on it. With this game however Blizzard too ok a great responsibility. 
 They created a life sucking, blood draining game which makes ur fingerts numb and your head ache. 
 But you, you're just too involved. A lot more could be said about this game, like the huge map, 
 the vast variety of quests and items although often repetitive but what truly matters is this. 
 This game is not here to relax you whatever you may think. It's here to break your bones and make 
 you spit blood, sweat more than if you play football. It is like a hidden ruby, wonderful, perfect, 
 amazing, accompanied by a curse. If you are fed up with everything and want a game to make up for 
 all the empty spaces in your life this is it. You'll dream of it, think of it and wake up every 
 day to play it. However if you indeed dont want to play a game and sit in front of a computer 24/7 
 stay away from this. Many of us took it to relax, and many thought it relaxed us but WoW comes 
 along with many dificulties pulled straight out of life, a struggle for power, leadership and appreciation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazoric
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I realy enjoyed most of the content while leveling up to 70. There were plenty of quests, great 
 5 man instances, and intersting exploation of the world. However upon reaching 70, everything becomes 
 the same old grind. Everyone has to get keyed for heroics by becomming revered with multiple factions, 
 everyone has to be keyed in order to enter karazhan. There isnt a whole lot of content that you 
 can just pug for decent rewards. I enjoy the arena PvP and what it has to offer, but during the 
 downtime between arenas there isnt a whole lot of content you can do without a dedicated guild. 
 It would be nice to see more open content that players can enjoy without needing an extensive reputation 
 or key questlines to access. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pansav
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first played WoW I was so surprised about the environment of this game and that it could 
 take you to a place where you forgot anything else. It firstly grabbed my attention and slowly 
 became a large part of my everyday routine. Therefore I became an addicted player as million others. 
 Wow TBC is just a continuation of Wow. Nothing new to refresh players and give them that extra 
 sense to start playing again. The maximum level is raised, which means more questing, which no 
 longer is interesting. It became a mechanical thing to do to gain new spells and gear.
  
  Whoever was just sick of raiding will be even more now in the TBC since it raises the standards, 
 and the already owners of t3 or t4 will just have to be put into more and more hours of never ending 
 raiding and obeying orders of demanding guild masters. t3 and t4 owners will also realise that 
 the time they spent to gain that epic gear was just a waste of time. Players reaching closer to 
 level 70 gain gear that is equivalent to t3 from quest rewards.
  
  Concluding, the magic is gone. For me, I wasted my money on TBC and two years of my life trying 
 to build something that could offer me nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I played WoW since the release date and i've spent and insane amount of time on it. When The Burning 
 Crusade was released it was like all the time I previously used on this game was utterly wasted.
 
  I'm not saying WoW is a bad game, infact it's a great game, but at some point you'll realise that 
 it's too straight forward and not very skill based at all, in the end it all comes down to who 
 spends the most time raiding and farming and in my opinion that's not fun in the length.
  
  How ever I did have a ton of fun in the beginning of the game, but when the game changed to one-minded 
 raiding and raid progress it just got lame.
  And The Burning Crusade wise it just spoiled the game utterly.
  
  If you want a game which 
 you can spend a massive amount of time on and meet a lot of people (that youll never get to REALLY 
 know) then pick WoW.
  
  If you want to be challenged and play a game where you have full control of your character, don't 
 pick WoW.
  
  Gameplay: Fun, but no skills involved.
  
  Graphics: Cartoonish and not very well done, a lot of flaws in the graphic all over the game if 
 you look closer.
  
  Sound: Not enough variation, each ability has 1 sound which gets sort of lame after doing the same 
 thing a million times.
  
  Value: Meeeh :/
  
  Tilt: I would rate the entire game lower, but I must say I've thought good of this game and I enjoyed 
 it a some points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayomic1
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has got a great thing going, they have designed a game and now an expansion that just 
 borders on fun. By keeping the game ultimately unfulfilling and never ending a player feels compelled 
 to continue grinding for days... weeks... months... for that new weapon, potion, etc, and that fulfillment 
 never comes (All the while blizzard collects a monthly fee) . The expansion adds a bit of value 
 to the used up game (60-70 is fun) , but the new end-game content is too difficult to be accessible 
 to most casual players (and most guilds) . And the line between work and fun is blurred significantly. 
 Time to move on and play something fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  WoW has always confused me, as an MMOer since the early days of Dark Ages (not DAoC... even further 
 back) and UO I was supprised when WoW gained so much praise. First the game brings nothing new 
 to the MMO univers, all it does is create a light experiance of previously heavy games. When WoW 
 first came out you could find the same experiance on just about any modern upto date MMO, yet people 
 flocked to this one game as if it was the worlds greatest experiance.
  
  I can give it credit for two things, an easy to use gameplay that is very player friendly, and 
 low system requirements. Other than those two things it has yet to offer a truely new experiance.
 
  
  Burning Crusade continues this bland tradition. First you get a higher level cap, nice. Then you 
 get more land, nice. More badies and raid areas, nice. Thats about it, other than more of the same 
 old gameplay their isn't anything new. What makes me luagh is that Blizzard priced the expantion 
 higher than normal as if it were a stand alone game. All that BC has done for me is proved that 
 WoW will continue to make more of the same, untill people get board and leave (in all reality if 
 they have so many fans why should they change) . Once newer titles like Konan, Huxley, Gods and 
 Heroes, Star Trek Online and Tobula Rolosa (spelling) then we may see Blizzard scramble to create 
 somthing new. For the ammount of time they spent on this lackluster expantion you'd think it had 
 somthing new and inovative. Lets look at SOE, they punch out expanded content into EQ2 on a half 
 a year clock, why then does it take Blizz so long to create more of the same?
  
  With that said we have to look down on BC as it dosn't add anything to the world of Gaming and 
 MMOing, hopefuly Blizz gets of their throne for a few minutes to actualy add somthing new and inovative 
 to the univers of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkRoTy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  WoW: TBC IS HERE!!!! Yes the long awaited expansion to the number 1 MMORPG is here!!!! and they 
 still havn't finished it............... As most ONLINE gamers do i look out for all the latest 
 online games for any kind of genre, rpg being my personal favorite. When i first heard about WoW 
 I instantly thought Now there is a concept that works . BUT it doesn't always...
  As much as i love WoW its long awaited expansion is somewhat a let down.... but in the whole a 
 very good expansion.... new races, areas, quests and level cap raised makes this a very welcomed 
 change. BUT with said changes means people who once played their low level ALTS no longer play 
 them and guilds start to deteriorate so on and so forth.
  This new bar to reach makes a new challenge for the people who do not have the expansion (luckily 
 not me) . As their guild mates no longer have time for them (new instances and leveling) . So the 
 old and still vital old parts of the game are now being ignored and so comes to my point...... 
 BLIZ WHY?
  Gamers are greedy... and they all kno it... my self in particular...
  
  With all this in mind it is still a good move by blizzard... even with the hordes of angry subscribers 
 who don't have TBC or are to cheap to buy it knocking their doors down... The only REAL negative 
 by this expansion is the fact that i had to replace ALL my gear i worked so hard to get 2 levels 
 into the expansion..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicksally
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  As a casual gamer, I have canceled my WoW account. The leveling time from 60-70 has breached the 
 line of fun vs. work. Once you hit 70, it's more grinding. Some may say it's easier to get gear. 
 Easier means that it's not difficult, skill-wise, and easier in the sense that you don't need a 
 huge guild to get high-level gear.
  However, it is unimaginably boring in the fact that you have to spend an unsurmountable amount 
 of time getting anywhere, and even when you think you have reached a goal, you really haven't and 
 the grind continues. We're talking days upon days of time played, not just a couple days with a 
 couple hours played.
  When I hit a point where a game is no longer fun, I have to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patton
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off... Ive played WoW since beta... so theirs my credentials now... to the BC. After 3 years! 
 3 years!!!! Blizzard... gouging customers of their $15 a month come up with an expansion. O yeah 
 its gonna rock... the details seem cool.. the movie is nice as always but they and customers included 
 hyped this up. This is not worth $40....45 w/e with tax... thats almost as much as the original 
 game. For what? a chunk of land that you can run across in 10 min? A new profession that sucks 
 because nobody even uses them (because the profession items stink) ? New races... wow... ya great 
 new races but the same classes... why would I wanna be a alliance shaman? Having each side with 
 their own distinct class is what gave them their appeal and made them different. It seems like 
 they put absolutley no effort into this and are striving to pull as much money out of people as 
 possible. All this is, is an attempt to further to original WoW system by adding 10 levels which 
 is a bad idea BTW... and suck out more money of their audience. I quit wow because of this lack 
 of ingenuity.... after the fantastic mmo changing experience... this? Its very disappointing.... hopefully 
 people will see the light and how this is just not fair to the customers. Or their wallets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakyd23
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I got bored of WOW so i quite. I went to my friends house and i looked at this and then i played 
 it for about 2 hours and it is the same crap NOTHING new. So you can go to 70 great then what? 
 So there are new dungeons wont take long to get bored of those. I am not impressed at all with 
 it. I am glad i quite before this was luanched and saved me some money. So if you love bing at 
 a level and being bored then get this game. If not find something else it does not take long to 
 hit 70. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobgonwild
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  great game there are more races and now the horde alliance barrier between shamans and pallies 
 is broken, this isnt the greats blizzard could do IMO, if it is well that sucks, this game is a 
 great expansion to WoW but it leaves so much to be desired such as if your creating a new race 
 why not a new class, but the Outlands is the **** so it kinda balances out so all in all i give 
 it a pretty good score, i think that WoW should come out with a WoW2 or something with some new 
 classes and a few new races and maybe another contient like outland, that probaly far far away 
 from now knowing the way blizzard screws shit up all the time, but who know maybe the will do it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosierman5000
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've had to face the hard reality that World Of Warcrafts war is always going to suck. Yeah it 
 does seem silly that hard decisions can be associated with just a stupid video game, but when you 
 play a game as much as this one demands, it becomes more than just a game.
  
  If the devs couldn't get PVP right this time with an entire expansion they never will. What did 
 we get from this expansion, another battleground, Eye of The Storm. Oh how imaginative it was. 
 It took 2 existing battlegrounds and melded them together. 800 gazzilion dollars of revenue over 
 the last two years and you couldn't hire one guy to come up with anything more innovative than 
 this? I could have come up with something better than this and I wouldn't have charged a thing 
 for the idea as long as I just got to play it afterward. It's crystal clear that player versus 
 player combat is just not a priority with blizzard. PVP in this game is so lame, that blizzard 
 has had to link many servers together, increase the player pool 6-10 times just to get a few battlegrounds 
 going at all, pvp is that boring in WoW.
  
  I play horde on a server called Sargeras, which is extrememly overpopulated, and we can't even 
 keep 1 game of Eye of The Storm open before it's auto shut down due to not enough players. This 
 battleground is the newest and most fresh and already we can't get 20 people to play this game 
 out of tens of thousands of players on the cluster? Classes like the Druid have been nerfed into 
 the ground. The devs admitted they didn't even test the new abilities on classes in actual combat, 
 but rather on tables and models. I honestly don't think there is one PVP enthusiast on the blizzard 
 payroll. The people who like the PVE aspect of the game hate this expansion as well. The instances 
 are so intense that you have to literally spend 8 hours a day farming materials to make potions 
 to last these dungeon fights. And for what? The armor that drops isn't any better than a low quality 
 piece of armor that you got doing an easy quest. Anyone who says this expansion is great, revolutionary 
 or innovative is either:
  
  A) Telling a lie
  B) A fanboi
  C) Hasn't played the expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played WOW for almost 2 years and was expecting and anticipating WOW BC. But only they added 
 2 new races... 2 new races what is a race gonna add to gameplay? the only thing i like is pallys 
 going to boths sides with shammys. The outland is nice but doesn't it take up alot of space? and 
 they give us only 10 more levels for all that space? many people after a week reached 70 i think 
 it should have been 20 levels rather than 10.
  
  Still a great game but as expansion seems they should have added another class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kael_blood_elfe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  By far, the greatest expansion ever released... It brings WoW to a whole new level! First off, 
 the blood elves are pretty damn cool, being able to play as pallies and all, and even the draenai 
 are awesome. But, thats not where the game earns its 10 on 10 rating... no... Outland is the REAL 
 amazing thing about this...
  
  Personally, i`ve never been there, but the wonderful things i`ve heard about it... but anyways... 
 Being able to get to lvl 70 is insane, the new items are insane, the pvp is insane and, ofcourse, 
 the flying mounts are... wanna guess? INSANE. but thats just the beginning! theres jewelcrafting, 
 new skills, new areas to explore, new people to meet... this is by far what every MMORPG should 
 be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft needs no introduction. It's the most widely played  
 in the world. It's a game that has hundreds, even thousands of hours of playability. And finally 
 after some delay, the long-awaited expansion to this benchmark of MMO's has finally hit the shelves. 
 This new addition to the warcraft universe increases the level cap to 70, where much more new things 
 to explore, loot, and kill are unleashed. The new areas in Outland are easily soloable, with of 
 course an exception of some group quests. Add that to many new instances, flying mounts and two 
 new playable races and you have yourself a complete expansion pack, not to say it's without its 
 flaws. The new Draenei and Blood Elf areas may add many things to do from about level 1-20, but 
 there is virtually no new mid-level content. At first glance, Outlands may seem large enough, but 
 that is not to say it is without its problems. In many of the new areas, particularily the first 
 region you visit in Outland, there is an insane amount of competition for quests. You can spend 
 hours camping, trying to find the one mob you may need, and never be able to get it. And some quests 
 are impossible to do pending you don't have any assistance.
  
  Flaws aside, the good clearly outweighs the bad in the equation. With more hours of playability 
 and good fun, this incredibly addicting expansion is a great reason to step into the World of Warcraft 
 Universe if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IntricateDetail
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The first, and probably not the last, expansion to quite possibly the largest MMO RPG in the world 
 is a great addition to the original game. There is a surplus of new content including a whole new 
 world, Outland, the addition of new multi-winged instances, new items, quests and places. There 
 are also a few raid instances sprinkled in to let the hardcore raiders have something to do. Despite 
 all of this, the game is still found lacking in some areas. Player versus player was supposed to 
 have a huge revival with outdoor pvp targets, but that has not made a great impace. There are still 
 balance issues with items and spells, and bugs in everything from quests to items to spells that 
 make doing simple tasks almost impossible. The game is a great addition to the World of Warcraft, 
 but I feel that it is lacking in some of the things that it sought to make great with the expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayze21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I have this game and i gotta say, it rocks.. Ive got a level 70 gnome mage now and i think this 
 game deserves a 9.. mabye even a 10! I would recommend you buy this game and level up your character 
 of even start a new race as both of them have new starting areas and different classes. Goes along 
 nicely with the first game which was also a very good game, If you have world of warcraft the original 
 then this is a must have.. The gameplay is great fun and although the graphics is lacking a bit 
 the relaxing and at points fast-paced music makes up for it. If you want to start a character and 
 race to 70 with your friends, or mabye take your time and enjoy the beautiful scenery? Personally 
 i like slaughtering horde :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33tdaedalus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Burning Crusade uses the same proven formula established by vanilla World of Warcraft, 
 so there aren't too many changes here. Your experience from levels 60 to 70 will be very similar 
 to those from 1 to 60. While the gameplay is still good, it would have been nice to see some new 
 quest dynamics or activities to partake in in Outland, rather than just a straight repetition of 
 what we have already seen in the game before.
  
  Graphics: Obviously, World of Warcraft isn't a shining beacon of graphical acheivement, at least 
 in a technical sense. The lighting isn't great, the models aren't bursting with polygons, and the 
 textures aren't hyper realistic. However, The Burning Crusade has a magnificent art direction that 
 makes the game beautiful despite the fact that it isn't the most graphically advanced out there. 
 The zones of Outland pack an artistic, visual punch, from the haunting-but-lovely Zangarmarsh to 
 the pastoral zone of Nagrand. Upon emerging on the other side of the Dark Portal for the first 
 time, I was stunned by the wonderful look of the sky above Hellfire Peninsula with its moons and 
 the streaming green aurora above. The Burning Crusade looks very, very good.
  
  Sound: The music of the game really helps set the mood for the zones you are exploring in, and 
 thankfully, it wasn't all lifted from what was already in the game! While the soundtrack isn't 
 fantastic, and that peaceful tune in Zangarmarsh doesn't really fit when you are being shanked 
 by a lost one assassin, it is consistantly good throughout the entire game.
  
  Value: The new zones in Outland are filled with quests and new things to do... if you are level 
 58 or above. In all honesty, if you are not high-level enough to go through the Dark Portal, you 
 can hold off on buying this game unless you absolutely must play a Blood Elf or Draenai character, 
 or if you really, really want to take up the new jewelcrafting profession. Otherwise, if you are 
 ready for what Outland has to offer, The Burning Crusade makes for a great addition to the World 
 of Warcraft experience.
  
  Tilt: The Burning Crusade is a genuinely enjoyable experience, and remains so even after wading 
 knee-deep into it. Even after 70 levels, it continues to be fun and enjoyable, and it provides 
 an incentive to play that most other games lack. If you are high-enough level to experience it, 
 get this game. If you aren't, at least you have something to look forward to once you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanL
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard's World of WarCraft was the breakout title massively multiplayer online RPG's were waiting 
 for, an accessible and enjoyable game that took players to the popular world of Azeroth. This is 
 the very same land in which the WarCraft real-time strategy franchise has taken place since Orcs 
 &amp; Humans faced off all those years ago, and it continues the storyline of the series after 
 the events of WarCraft III. Blizzard's trademark level of accessibility and quality are have been 
 on full display in World of WarCraft since its launch in November 2004 despite some early technical 
 issues, and the game has handled all comers with ease in the time since. Just over two years after 
 the launch of Blizzard's latest masterpiece, however, The Burning Crusade has threatened to tear 
 down a fair part of the empire it has built with some drastic changes to the endgame that overshadow 
 much of the good brought by the expansion.
  
  The Burning Crusade starts off exciting enough, as players can finally pass through the Dark Portal 
 and see what awaits them on the other side. The sky, once shades of blue or orange in Azeroth, 
 turns to to a gorgeous view of space in The Burning Crusade. Planetoids, moons, and ribbons of 
 gas paint a beauitful tapestry above the player, setting the tone for the otherworldly nature of 
 what is referred to as The Outlands , a broken remnant of a once-lively world and the former homeland 
 of the now Azerothian Orcs. This expansion world is broken up into several zones, each quite large 
 and surprisingly unique, though they still take their cues from more terrestial areas in the original 
 game. Areas like the Zangarmarsh, a kind of fungal swamp with mushroom cities as high as Thunder 
 Bluff, really grab the player's attention. Many of the zones in the original game don't quite stand 
 up to the clever and inventive design of the Outlands.
  
  Even more impressive, however, is the starting areas tied to the two new races. With the addition 
 of Blood Elves and Draenei, the Horde and Alliance, respectively, not only attain an entirely new 
 race to play as, but also gain the ability to play two previously faction-specific classes, as 
 Blood Elves can don the plate and holy magic of Paladins and Draenei can learn the powers of nature 
 as Shaman. The starting areas for these races are very impressive, especially in regards to their 
 capital cities. The Draenei civilization is built around the beautiful wreck of The Exodar, their 
 interstellar spaceship, which has crashed headfirst into Azeroth. The Blood Elves inhabit Silvermoon 
 City, or at least a portion of it, since the plague that is sweeping across Azeroth drove a dead 
 scar across half of their capital. These new locales are beautiful, really pushing what World of 
 WarCraft's gracefully aging engine can do. The only drawback is that once the player reaches the 
 end of the new zones (two per race) , they are thrust back into the plain environs they've been 
 trotting around for the past two years.
  
  This is part of the game's problem. Even with new races, there are no new classes, and the areas 
 players spend levels 18-58 or so in are exactly the same ones they've been through before with 
 the same abilities they could don before the expansion. The new quests, both in the new starting 
 areas and in The Outland, are by and large the same, though a few break the mold entirely and are 
 great fun as a result. Still, almost all quests revolve around the same process of killing the 
 same type of enemy over and over again, either to amass a requisite number of bodies or a specific 
 dropped item requirement. While this is not a great drag on the game, it is disappointing, and 
 reminds the player they're stil playing the same game, More engaging, worthwhile quests would have 
 made levelling more fun. More new and interesting quests in the old areas also would have added 
 an element of discovery and surprise to areas long since grown tired.
  
  The Outlands try to break up the monotony of such ho-hum questing with a slew of instanced dungeons. 
 The earlier dungeons are very quick; some can be finished in as little as thirty to forty-five 
 minutes. The catch with dungeons in the expansion is that they are specialized among a given level 
 range, one noticeably smaller than in the original game's content, usually no larger than a two-level 
 range. This is no huge shortcoming, however, and is related more to the expected player progression, 
 as they are usually in an area with dungeons at their level.
  
  Where The Burning Crusade comes short, and really starts to falter, is at end-game content. Whereas 
 the original game supported both 20-player and 40-player raid party dungeons for players at the 
 old level 60 level cap, Burning Crusade's dungeons, at the launch and following few months, are 
 25-man and 10-man runs largely. Again, this is not a shortcoming. Smaller groups allow for more 
 guilds to enjoy content designed for players at the level cap (raised to 70 in the expansion) , 
 and it also keeps the strategies and encounters less chaotic, a bit more structured and enjoyable.
 
  
  The difficulty, ultimately, is what kills The Burning Crusade. While there was definitely some 
 challenging content in World of WarCraft, The Burning Crusade has upped the ante considerably. 
 Instead of simply creating a higher end to the spectrum, however, Blizzard has lowered the bar 
 of entry for players to interesting and endgame content. Not only are players forced to grind for 
 reputation , by doing quests, turning in specific items, and going on numerous dungeon runs, but 
 their reward for all of the extra hard work is content that's too hard for a fairly large portion 
 of the player base. The end result of this effect can be seen on any server in the game. Guilds 
 are breaking up left and right; talented players with more free time are ascending into the upper 
 echelon of the game, while players with less time (or perhaps less skill) are being left behind. 
 Instances of mixed guilds finding themselves without their most dedicated players is common, as 
 the cream of the crop form their own new, smaller guilds, leaving large groups of players unable 
 to proceed. Content almost anyone could paticipate in before is now more exclusive than ever, and 
 the gap between the haves and the have-nots widens. While it is possible Blizzard did not foresee 
 this, and the actions taken are in fact by players of their own accord, the reasoning for this 
 change is directly attriibuted to the new expansion.
  
  The challenge with a game as popular and widely accepted as World of WarCraft is to appease both 
 casual and hardcore players, and this is something that Blizzard has accomplished wonderfully since 
 they first launched WoW in November of 2004. While they will undoubtedly make tweaks to the formula 
 of Burning Crusade over the months and years following the expansion and leading into the next 
 inevitable one, at launch, The Burning Crusade doesn't cut it. It is a small offering of breadcrumbs 
 to casual players and a luxurious feast for the hardcore. Those who can log six or more hours a 
 day are in for a treat; everyone else is going to be left in the dust like never before. This also 
 does not take into account popular classes or guilds with an abundance of a given class, nor does 
 it count certain dungeons that require very specific party balances, all the way down to how a 
 given character's skills are chosen by the player. The Burning Crusade is demanding, moreso than 
 any content had been before. Freedom of how to build your talents, play a favorite class, and other 
 elements are being wiped out by overwhelmingly difficult dungeons that make some classes all but 
 useless.
  
  Blizzard is losing one of the core elements of what made their game so great and unique. One wonders 
 when, exactly, they are going to rectify these issues, and how they're going to lure back players 
 burned by an overpriced expansion that only promises full rewards to the hardcore. The Burning 
 Crusade does nothing if not live up to its name, a trial by fire to determine if a given player 
 has enough time and skill to enjoy the game to the fullest extent, if their class and talents are 
 right to enjoy it. It takes a great game and turns it into something that just isn't so great anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathking29
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  ive played this expansion and ive gotten my character to 70 the good thing is that you got new 
 places to explore and you get to have flying mounts plus to the new battleground its pretty good 
 in my opion if your at a low lvl come on and get the expansion and have more fun in the game then 
 you did before you need the expansion to get to lvl 70 so if you dont go to a store right now and 
 get you just missing out on all the fun us lvl 70s are having if you are in at 70 or are near (67-69) 
 then your getting pretty close to having fun like lvl 70s do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbie_sla
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  does just what an expansion should do. new content, new professions, new environments have an appealing 
 touch to them. however i am not known to be an optimist. all older end game content is now practicality 
 useless apart from the odd giggle as you take out MC with a group of 10 people or storm through 
 ZG as if you were walking through a field of daises crushing them as you go. the new arena system 
 introduces an almost completely skill based pvp system which was well needed, thumbs up to blizzard 
 for that. the battleground is now almost obsolete as most people are doing arena games or exploring 
 new end game dungeons. a worthwhile expansion. but after 2 years of playing the game it is somewhat 
 lacking. the end game dungeons are meh. they are great don't get me wrong. they require skill and 
 precision to do rather than the sheer brute force required in MC and older end game content but 
 after you have been running end game content for years.. you start to wonder... why do i do the 
 same instance week after week to get gear which i surely should have gotten by now.. i believe 
 a reward system would have worked better say if bosses dropped tokens which could be handed in 
 for gear which allowed you to take on new encounters instead of dragging through the old encounters 
 each week with enough speed to let you spend a day or two with your group trying to conquer the 
 new encounters. the introduction of heroic instances allow smaller groups of friends to become 
 much more close and still allow them to get decent gear. great idea. great game but somewhat lacking. 
 but it is possible this expansion's traits count well come to a greater usage in further expansions. 
 an ambitious expansion. just scrapes home.. but leaves plenty of room for future content. overall 
 it is worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seojva
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok. To start off this game is truly amazing. All the additions to an already superb game make an 
 even better one. Believe it. Outlands is just amazing all the visuals, thousands of quests should 
 keep you busy for your race to get to lvl 70. The new races are awsome as well. Draenei's are super 
 cool looking. Alliance, believe it or not, since it has Shamans it has been better in pvp which 
 makes it better for all the Alliance players out there. Blood Elves I dont quite like but still 
 they don't bother me`.
  
  Flying mounts, a great addition aswell. Allthough you have to pay a fortune to get one it will 
 be worth your while. But remember only usable in Outlands.
  
  The new BG, Eye of the Storm is quite cool just mix Ararthu Basin with Warsong Gulch.
  
  Overall 
 if you're a WoW player get this game. It's truly amazing. It adds a lot to this great game and 
 makes even better. Yes, better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xsouljah_89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Obviously you can't ignore the fact that millions of people play this game and love it to death. 
 Burning Crusade is one of the best expansion packs I have ever got. The good thing is that Blizzard 
 has implemented all their knowledge of expansions from their other series' (Diablo I &amp; II, 
 Warcraft II &amp; III, Starcraft) into the perfect addon.
  
  After playing this the first time after attending the midnight launch I can say I was instantly 
 hooked. But as time passed, and the time left on my prepaid account I really debated continuing 
 to play the game. The main reason for this was that boredom set in. When it first was released 
 it was a fresh new look at WoW, and the game was completely different to me. That lasted a few 
 weeks.
  
  Bottom line is after playing WoW since it's initial release, I just got bored. Thats the danger 
 with the series; in my opinion. If you were looking for a reason to 'revive' WoW, this is it, but 
 the feeling will only last for so long.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love the game and all of it's internal content. But, this year I haved moved 
 on to bigger and better things, that is the Australian Army...... and the xbox 360. Besides.... 
 my brother still maintains his own account... so while hes not here I guess I can use it, should 
 withdrawal symptoms set in :)
  
  For all you current/prospective WoW players, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I just cant understand why this game continues to receive rave reviews, its trite, ugly and steals 
 many of its idea's from the true great MMORPG predessesors. It's everquest for kiddies.
  
  Where shall I start.
  
  Highly stylised graphics. This is really a matter of taste, and I cant 
 stand WOW's style. How this got a higher score as opposed to something like everquest 2 which looks 
 absolutely amazing on a high end rig mystifies me, and just goes to prove how biased gamespot is 
 these days. I really wouldnt be surprised in the slightest if it came to light that blizzard pays 
 them off.
  
  Sound, seriously nothing to write home about here.
  
  Gameplay, as I have said before innovates very little, you hand is help for you through the entire 
 game, little gameplay options at high level. Bad unbalanced pvp and the terrible battlegrounds 
 implementation. Stolen many ideas from its predessesors and although polished is so incredibly 
 easy to the point of mind numbing boredom
  
  terrible game community
  
  Boring and generic class options.
  
  Major cop out with the expantion, no new classes at all 
 and no hero classes. Oh now you can make evil paladins .... spare me. They need to implement real 
 evil paladins like the dreadlord. This is a cop out...
  
  Blizzard fanboism insues, but the reality is this game is one of the most overated games of all 
 time. Good for an introduction to the MMORPG scene, and not much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  In an earlier review, I did not give this game the justice it deserved, only because it was an 
 awesome game, but, like bees and honey, too many people overcrowded the servers, and Blizzard failed 
 to keep up with the growing popularity. Since then, I have had much better experiences with the 
 servers, and once again, can have the fun I used to have with this game. The expansion content 
 added is plentiful, but only if your willing to start new characters, or have a character higher 
 than 58. My only complaint is still the massive amounts of noobs that don't know MMO ediquette, 
 but think their the greatest thing because they can slice through this easy MMO game, to lvl 70 
 in a month, and then call everyone else noobs . To them, I say... go try to get to lvl 70 in EverQuest, 
 and come talk to me in 3 years when your only lvl 50! World of Warcraft is a noob MMO game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koawinter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I was a skeptic at first, but the new worlds brought me right back into the fray again with its 
 great background story.
  
  With its great and large world, Blizzard has done a fabulous job of creating a world in which the 
 new music and great background story of the new world brought me right back into starting up a 
 new character, this time, a Draenei Shaman. And even though a lot of it is still left unchanged, 
 it still has great replay value and if the getting past the 20-50 is to hard for you then I suggest 
 going through it just to get to Outlands. And if that isn't enough you should try the new PVP system 
 which FAR outstrips the old one (I should know, I worked that system a lot, getting exalted in 
 all 3 factions) .
  
  All in all if you left the game, then at least give the new races a try and the other great features 
 of the game. It has my vote as a great game, just this time I won't go as far as I did last time. 
 They did a great job in bring back the casual gamer, at your own pace you can do whatever you want. 
 It's great and I liked playing through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Groomster33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Its GREAT! With it topping the charts within a week, this is by far the best expansion ever out!
 
  I could not get it for a week because ever where had sold out. Any World of Warcraft player will 
 definitely need to get this expansion, it so good!
  If your character is level is 60 is so fun, but for lower levels not as good, but still cool. With 
 the new races &amp; classes, good fun.
  
  Once again Blizzard has made a great game which anybody will love, once you have it youll be hooked 
 until youre a pensioner!
  
  I highly recommend you buy it. if you dont have World of Warcraft, get that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnage_Strider
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade was released in January after a lot of hype on Blizzards 
 part. Sadly the game didn't live up to what they hyped it to be. Failing to add anything new and 
 innovative to the game Blizzard just released more of the same that they did in World of Warcraft.
 
  
  With TBC Blizzard introduced two new races to the game, one for each major side (Draenei for Alliance 
 and Blood Elf for Horde) as well as allowing Alliance to have Shamans and Horde Paladins. With 
 this addition we're introduced to new lore and new starting areas/quests. Though fun to level one 
 of these races you're again thrown into the same old grind but with TBC this is harder since finding 
 groups in the lower level areas is hard with addition of new endgame content (unless you sold your 
 soul to a raiding guild and they power level you so you can help out in endgame) .
  
  We also see the level capped raised to 70 and the addition of a new world to quest in, Outlands. 
 We're introduced back to the same old formula we had before, grinding and questing to reach 70 
 and then grinding instances endlessly to get the uber loot from the raid instances. Though the 
 new areas are interesting and the new 5-man instances fun it's nothing new to the game, just the 
 typical go here and kill that/collect this type of quests. Though I find the game entertaining 
 all I'm seeing is Blizzard recycling the old formula. Having two 70's in the game I find myself 
 left with a sense of want since you need to devout more time to the game then you used to to do 
 level 70 instance (most of the 5-mans require 3+ hours to clear and in some bosses are harder then 
 they should be) , and 10 mans requiring even more time then the old 40-mans of the good old days.
 
  
  Overall The Burning Crusade is a good game and adds plenty of new stuff to keep players busy but 
 I'm disappointed in the fact Blizzard fell short in giving us a game that we could truly enjoy. 
 Unless you're in a raiding guild gearing up for the new 10 and 25 man instances I highly suggest 
 you don't invest the money in TBC. The game isn't worth the $40 bucks you spend initially and the 
 $15 a month fee to play if you don't raid. You'll just be wasting money to play a game that will 
 offer you nothing at 70 if you're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  i guess im kinda writing this a bit late to be honest, but i feel i have done most of the content 
 and should be able to give something for you to maybe base an opinion on. basically this is amazing 
 fort those of you out their u like enjoy or just plain love the WoW lore the quests provide a good 
 story for whats going on in The WoW. gameplay continues to be brilliant but i feel i shoul point 
 out that when u do hit 70 u will notice the raw power u have. if u ever plan on taking a trip back 
 to outland the only way an oposing faction is gonna stop u from running havok is if a bunch of 
 lvl 70's stop u otherwise its pure carnage. the flying mounts are awsome but usually its faster 
 to get around on ur normal epic mount because the normal flying mount is 60% faster so even if 
 u r a paladin (which my main is) ur movement tops out at about 75% which ur mount auro which is 
 nowere near the 120% u get with the normal epic bt once u get the epic flying its a diff. story 
 its movement speed is 280% which u WILL notice how slow and lame ur old epic was when u return 
 to azeroth. content wise they put in eough quests to effectively level you to at LEAST lvl 62. 
 so even though outland does kinda feel smaller then azeroth its content is about equal. the new 
 races are awsome but unexpectedly they dont seem to favor the classes everyone thought they would 
 e. g. blood elves are avrage mages when compared to the gnomes the best blood else class a re the 
 paladins and the rogues because they benefit morefrom the racial +dodge and + resistance. the dreanei 
 are an excellent edition and the shaman class feels refreshedmabe its because the tottems are so 
 much cooler. overall this is a must get if u are already a WoW player however if ur not take the 
 opportunity now since the release has rebalanced and reseted everyones chars and equips its a great 
 time to be a WoW player and an even better time to start playing.
  
  n/b: the learning curve time i have filled in apllies to newcomers (the more complex aspects of 
 builds u will learn further on as u play and speak with other people) their isnt really anything 
 new to learn for current WoW players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoeshine60ace
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -- New quest remind us of how fun it was leveling when we first played the game
  -- 60-70 isn't as hard, and any casual player can do it easily
  -- Dungeons are quick, which 
 is good for casual players, and the longer dungeons, have unique bosses to fight
  -- flying mounts are fun
  -- gold is much easier to make
  -- gems are a nice touch
  -- dranei's 
 are cool new race
  -- Game gets even more addicting
  -- New places are fun, and some are amazingly design, and a nice environment to level
  -- The 
 lower member requiremnt for higher level dungeons make it easier to engage in with friends, or 
 guildies
  
  Cons:
  -- Some Classes need to be fixed
  -- Some servers are either packed with lag, or have no people in them
  -- Dungeons can be very 
 hard to find if on a low server (like me : ( )
  
  Overall, it does what an expansion should do... expand.. Nothing more i can really say... I was about 
 to stop playing WoW then BC came out, and now im addicted again lol.. If you play WoW it definitly 
 is a must to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuide
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: It has not changed sine level 1, kill 8 wolves or collect 4 wolf pelts that have a 5% 
 chance to drop. Raiding will require massive amount of time because of attuments and pots/potions. PvP 
 just got worse as there are no rewards for bgs and only arenas. Certain characters are needed in 
 the arena whist other classes are not at the highest level of arena play.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Warcraft is starting to show its age and there are a few bugs in BC, Silvermoon was nicly done 
 but compared with other games coming out this year it pails in comparison.
  
  Sound:
  
  Awfull ! Same as before, I prefer to listen to my own music whist grinding away.
  
  Value:
 
  
  If you play WoW like its ment to be played they you will get your moneys worth but at a cost to 
 your health and social life.
  
  After BC i quit the game, same old thing with no new features. If they release a new class in the 
 next expansion i might come back but by then there will be more competition from the new wave of 
 mmorpgs.
  
  BC was a missed opportunity... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_Analyst
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft first made its appearance in 2004. The game immediately drew large crowds in 
 with the electrifying name in Blue, Blizzard. Blizzard promised a large, highly immersive game 
 world and innovative approaches to party combat and world player vs. player (PVP) battles. While 
 Blizzard delivers on all fronts, much of the World of Warcraft (TBC included) keeps you going in 
 hopes that something better will come, yet it never does.
  
  World of Warcraft is a massive multiplayer online roleplaying game. These types of games are by 
 farm the most popular in today's gaming society because thousands to millions of users can log 
 into a game world and all interact with one another in an attempt to represent their personal preferences 
 (character choice) , style (armors/clothing) , and attitude (chat) in what many say, is a glorified 
 chat room. Games such as Maple Story, Final Fantasy XI, Guild Wars, and World of Warcraft are by 
 far the most active in the gaming community. Typically these online roleplaying games have you 
 create a character, which you of course must level up throughout the course of a set amount of 
 levels. Each level unlocks new abilities and weapons/armor that you can use to you guessed it, 
 keep leveling.
  
  Blizzard makes this no different with the World of Warcraft. You choose either alliance or horde 
 as your primary allegiance and simply choose your character from there. The horde has the option 
 of undead, tauren, troll, orc and blood elf. The alliance on the other hand may choose between 
 drenai, human, night elf, gnome, or dwarf. As one would guess, alliance and horde are put against 
 one another which plays a very important role should you choose a player vs. player server. Immediately 
 users can choose a roleplaying server which simply means that your goal is to battle the in game 
 monsters and join others to bring a world of Warcraft alive. Users may also go towards the route 
 of a Player vs. Player server where your primary goal is to go hunt down your opposing faction 
 (alliance or horde) both early and late game. The choice of your character is rather bland, but 
 the different races and their abilities are quite varied.
  
  The gameplay of the World of Warcraft is rather diverse. Users can pick many different classes 
 ranging from Paladin to Rogue. If you want to shoot things with guns or bows the option is available. 
 Each class has different spells and talents that can boost your ratings (such as strength) or simply 
 do a set amount of damage to an opponent, possibly causing certain effects. The World of Warcraft 
 offers up to 70 levels for every player which of course means that you'll have quite an arsenal 
 of spells and talents to worry about. Knowing which spells and talents to use in any given situation 
 is important, but many guides are online which tell you how to play your class to its best potential. 
 Since these spells and talents are available at higher levels, the question comes down to, "How 
 do I get to those higher levels?"
  
  In the World of Warcraft you can do two things to level. Quest and grind. Questing means that you'll 
 accept a quest or task bestowed upon you by an in game character (computer controlled) and by simply 
 completing it you gain experience and rewards. Grinding means you find a certain monster and simply 
 kill that type of it over and over until you level. Both of these tasks start to lose their novelty 
 after level 20 or so because it's the same thing over and over. This isn't different from most 
 RPG's, but the game fails to take a leveling system in a different path such as Guild Wars. Guild 
 Wars largely relied on questing and missions to advance the storyline. Upon completing the final 
 Guild Wars mission, you basically hit the top level. Therefore, the actual time required obtaining 
 a final character and experience end game (final level) content was minimal. World of Warcraft 
 simply requires an extensive amount of grinding at levels 1-60, and a lot of questing at 61-70. 
 Of course you can group with other people and quest/grind any time you wish, but the above methodology 
 is generally the proven method for leveling quickly.
  
  The problem stems with the whole methodology of the game itself. You grind early on to get to a 
 higher level. Each level keeps you going because you have another level to look forward to. In 
 the end, you just want to experience that final content. Level 70 is finally reached and now you 
 get to experience the end game content. But what is that content? In a phrase it is simply far 
 too tedious and a total letdown. The World of Warcraft largely relies on your character's personal 
 armor and gear should you wish to be a dominate force. Only after obtaining this gear and/or armor 
 can you use any amount of skill to pose any real threat. While many may argue or dispute this fact, 
 if a player is under geared, he has a significant disadvantage going up against anyone that he 
 faces in a dual or multi-tiered player vs. player setting. The question posed is, "How can I get 
 the top gear then?" Simple enough right? Wrong. The game uses instances which require parties of 
 5-10 or 25 to run a more complicated version of the game world. In this setting you must find a 
 specific group of players to run an instance or complicated area with. This usually means you must 
 find a warrior, mage, healer type, and a couple other classes should you wish to make it through 
 these areas with ease. What is the problem with this? You can expect to be waiting to find groups 
 for quite a long amount of time just to get in an instance. After getting in an instance your group 
 can still die which may end up in players leaving or becoming frustrated putting you back at ground 
 zero.
  
  Why are these instances important and why should you have to do them? Well one of course is to 
 level up. But the other is to get all the great gear that you'll need in player vs. player or end 
 game. So does this mean that you're doing all the same instances over again once you hit level 
 70 to get your great gear? Yes. What does this 'great' gear do for you? It just allows you to simply 
 enter a higher level zone or instance to get other great gear. What does that great gear do for 
 you? Simply the same thing over again. What does the final gear you ever get do? Allows you to 
 experience player vs. player in which you have to hope everyone else is as highly geared as you 
 are. How long does the average instance take to run? 2-3 hours without finding a group. How many 
 instances do you have to run to get 1 piece of gear (out of 10+ slots) ? Possibly 10 or more. The 
 requirements for the reward are simply out of hand and only people that literally have all day 
 and nothing to do but sit on their computers will experience these great armor sets and end game 
 zones. Why is this completely biased and pointless? Because people that can't sit on their computer 
 all day are at an extreme disadvantage. In Guild Wars you could level a character fully and obtain 
 very equal gear to your opponents within a few weeks. In World of Warcraft it will take months. 
 This means that your skill in World of Warcraft has very little to do with your winning percentage 
 because gear plays such a huge factor. When the time required to get the gear is off the charts, 
 there is nothing really to look forward to. The only real incentive to player vs. player is to 
 get gear all over again. I rarely encounter players who do player vs. player in World of Warcraft 
 for fun.
  
  In addition to the gear imbalance, many classes are simply far too powerful while others are far 
 too weak. After recent patching, priests received significant downgrades in their role in both 
 player vs. player and roleplaying. Therefore, most of the class feels that have to quit or simply 
 start a new class. Meanwhile paladins, warriors, and warlocks remain largely overpowered and are 
 very preferred in parties. This leaves other classes in the dust because there are certain classes 
 that are only useful in certain roles. Guild Wars was dominant in approaching player vs. player 
 because every class was important and had to be considered or countered when playing against one 
 another. Blizzard's solution to correct class imbalance is to consult the community but each community 
 has a class who all want to be more overpowered then the next. The result is simply mind-boggling 
 and many people will altogether stop playing their class until the next patch or 'fix' is out. 
 Simply ridiculous coupled with gear requirements.
  
  Graphically World of Warcraft is impressive. The environments are immersive, each have a distinct 
 feel, and render character movement rather well. The Burning Crusade introduces flying mounts, 
 but you cannot use these mounts in the old areas of the game. Although the feature would've been 
 neat, the amount of re-coding that would've been required was far from practical. Every area in 
 the old world (Azeroth) is rich and has a distinct feel to it. The new areas (Outlands) are a love 
 or hate atmosphere. Some of the areas feel that they have been ripped right out of Blizzard's other 
 games (Hellfire  Diablo 2 and Netherstorm  Starcraft) while other areas are simply out of place 
 (Nagrand  a giant wilderness area that seems to have nothing to do with any other area) . For a 
 continent that appears to have very dark or threatening areas, some simply do not fit and would 
 seem more suited for the other continent. The fact that 1-60 and 60-70 characters are basically 
 isolated to their respective continents is rather disconcerting. I personally do not see how 1-60 
 differs from 1-70 in how players interact with one another. Basically 1-60 characters will be on 
 the old continent while 60-70 simply have nothing to do in the old continent. The end result is 
 level segregation.
  
  The continents and areas are rather huge, but the time requirement to simply travel is beyond surreal. 
 It can take 15-20 minutes on a paid mount to travel from one end of a continent to another. Simply 
 provide teleporting systems (such as Morrowind) for fast travel and spare a player's time. The 
 game does offer other means of boosting your speed but it is still far from practical. Otherwise 
 there is quite a bit of areas to explore. Should you die in the game, the travel time is even more 
 painful. You simply assume a spiritform in which you must run back to your corpse. Generally the 
 spiritform spawnpoints are not to far from your location of death, but at times it can take you 
 20 minutes to run back (all because you fell off a cliff too far) .
  
  Monsters are all vibrant but typically feature different variations of themselves between zones, 
 continents, instances, etc. Bosses are not impressive at all compared to Lineage 2. Ultimately 
 they are about 5-7 times your character size and have big swords or weapons and chant a few lines 
 about how they'll dominate you. Forget bosses filling the whole screens, and the ones that 'sort 
 of' do will require such insane grinding and gear specs that only the hardcore players will get 
 to. Sound in the World of Warcraft is below average. The same recycled background music is looped 
 over and over and is far from anything that I'd even want to listen to. Maple Story, Secret of 
 Mana, Zelda, Final Fantasy, and a few other repeating background tracks I actually listened to 
 for quite some time before I put on my own music. World of Warcraft background music was muted 
 within the first couple days I got it. There is no character speech in this game, and most of it 
 is limited to 1 liners, grunts, moans, or death sounds. Far from anything impressive and every 
 character, mount, attack has one sound to it, recycled over and over.
  
  Overall World of Warcraft is a revolutionary MMORPG in that it takes mostly every idea or conception 
 had by many other companies and simply fortifies it. The game is 99% bug free, has excellent server 
 support, excellent admin/gm support, is very strict on hacking and scamming, and updates content 
 regularly. However, the content itself is far from solid and does not offer best practices when 
 compared to other games in terms of roleplaying and especially player vs. player. The game requires 
 immense amounts of time to simply experience content that otherwise appear to waste more of your 
 time. Maple Story players experience a similar environment, but the environment does not base itself 
 on player vs. player and the reliance on other players or gear. The expansion does not offer anything 
 new to the game itself (other than a few classes and content that was already present in the original 
 game, or was discussion in this review) . World of Warcraft is game that will suck you into it, 
 until you realize that the fun you are hoping to have, end game, has simply zero point to it. World 
 of Warcraft is a reward fest. If you love rewards, getting godly gear, and showing it off to someone 
 else, you'll love it. Until you realize that someone else has more godly gear and rewards because 
 they simply have more time to play it. Expect your playtime after level 70 to decrease significantly 
 as you trek onwards through repetitive gameplay (obviously does not apply to everyone  but simply 
 a majority) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkHunter1961
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is by far the best game out on the market right now; no exceptions. Extremly 
 addicting, World of Warcraft can get even the most unskilled, uninterested gamer completly obsessed. 
 I myself just recently created an account and am now a level 26 hunter (Kivaa) , and I cant stop 
 playing. This is also an extremely interactive game on which you can play with your friends, level 
 with them, create parties or even guilds, and people are generally very helpful (if you join the 
 stormscale server, ask for help from legion of the Firebird) . I give world of warcraft a 9.6 out 
 of 10, and suggest that all those who read this and are at all interested go out and get the game. 
 But make sure you can contricute enough time to it, beacuse it really becomes part of your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaker123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The game has its pros and cons. like it is highly repetitive. it has great graphics but is not 
 as repetitive as guild wars. the point is this game interested me. and if it interests me its a 
 great game. there may be times when the online server gets confused and it is weak in security 
 so hackers easily steal accounts. that is a down. an up is that the server works really fast and 
 most of the time is never down making it easier for players to battle their gaming hearts out. 
 i have been working on the security problem and i assure you the server will be protected with 
 good virus blockers. this game is one of the greatest i know so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamousFreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  WOW has done it again making something that everyon can love. WOW: BC was proubably the greatist 
 expansion to date for any game out there. Adding two new races and a new alliance class is what 
 sold it for me. The Draenei and the Blood Elves were great additions to any Warcraft players list. 
 Jewelcrafting was also a great addition, every class or race can use it and it helps everyone out. 
 Outland was also an amazing addition to WOW. if your high level and can go there now or if your 
 just starting you cant wait to get there. There are amazing drops and even better enviorments. 
 All and all i am amazed with this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  well i stopee playing for a while and i was like ill jsut play some other time but then i herd 
 about the realease of BC and i had to see if it was worth it and wat do u know it was this game 
 delivers the same as the first installment but adds 2 more races and they're pretty kool races 
 i prefer blood elf ive just only stared up my new character but i jsut love the depth this game 
 has it could actaully be a life. The lvl 70 cap is kinda hard to reach and the pricy flying mounts 
 are amazing to look at but like i said pricy. Over al like the review said this is how all expansion 
 packs should be. End of story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I think I pretty much said all I can in the review Title. But due to the 100 words requirement 
 all I have to say is:
  
  These people have some of the best music I've heard in a while. Graphics are decent enough, Cartoony 
 look is nice to me
  Gameplay is more of the same, Which is Instance or Grind so that's why it's fair
  Value what 
 was it? 30-40 for a game which adds alot more of the same? might be worth 20 at max. In short I've 
 seen much better deals for expansions.
  Tilt: i'm kinda against WoW in favor of War but if you enjoyed WoW and aren't sick of the Endless 
 Grinding and Instances, I'm all for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Pros.
  New areas, but nothing that really feels new.
  Ability to PvP against your own faction.
  New profession Jewelcrafting.
  New music. (as you 
 can tell, Im starting to struggle with the pros.)
  
  Cons.
  No new classes.
  Class imbalances still exist.
  Same quest grind.
  Hard earned epics now worthless.
  Repetitive 
 reputation grind once at lvl 70 (again)
  
  New Content.
  There are new areas and new mobs to fight, but its not much different from what was received 
 with the free patches when Sithilis was expanded or the new instances AQ, ZG or Naxx were added. 
 Why am I paying additional for something that was previously given as part of the standard patches 
 ?
  
  Game Play.
  It just doesnt change: kill x of this, collect y of that. Again, again and again, I could handle 
 it for 60 levels during WoW, but now with another 10 levels of grind for BC the mind just cant 
 find enjoyment from this type of repetitive game play anymore. The bombing runs were something 
 different but theyre the only new quests Ive come across. Blizzard need to spice it up at least 
 a little: massive NPC sieges, or more incentive for world PvP. The most fun Ive ever had in this 
 game is when the Guild went for a coordinated assault on Iron-Forge.
  
  Classes.
  Imbalance continues to be a major short-coming. Warlocks &amp; Hunters and to a lesser extent Paladins 
 are way too over powered. Probably the first expansion pack Blizzard has released with no new units.
 
  
  Graphics.
  Probably unrealistic to expect these to be improved, due to the shear amount of work involved with 
 updating the engine &amp; textures. In some ways Im sure it helps with sales, since the machine 
 specifications are lower and run on a lot more PCs than other offerings out there.
  
  Sound.
  No different from WoW, except for the music, I think one track sounds like its straight 
 out of Diablo 2.
  
  Overall.
  The expansion probably came out after I was pretty much over the hill with the original  since 
 my slightly jaded review. Still gave it a try, but after being at the top end of raiding, ie: BWL 
 about to take on Naxx, and to suffer through the level grind and then attempt effectively the same 
 top end raid grind with 25 people instead of 40, the WoW spark has faded. I realize there are a 
 lot of you out there that still enjoy WoW, so good luck to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wispluII
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  hy, i wanna say i dedicated this review to Daniel Alter, i don't know too much english, so if i'm 
 doing any mistakes, and you wouldn't understand..... you'l figure it out. i don't whant to say that 
 is a bad or a **** shet couse i'm playing it every day. But it is not a great accivment for blizzard 
 entertaiment. and about that crossing that mount trought flying mode is something great a great 
 idea but they could do more. they could do this game more than he is. more than a game. more than 
 they think they could make him. but they didn't thay didn't done enything intresting, exept that 
 part with the flying, but some are not working i am refering to the dragons. and the other ones are 
 fully bugged. i'v told you oance that my english isn't the best. not even myregular language isn't, but 
 this is life. you must live it. I don't know how sound in you're speach but here it is a poem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-holy-one1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I never played this game but as i heard its the greatest game ever created.
  Maybe they are right but maybe not.
  From photos i saw at gamespot I think i'ts better than i 
 heard, the graphics are perfect, the sound don't no didn't heard, gameplay is superb. Blizzard is the 
 best company of creating online games. Especially for Warcraft Series like: Reign of Chaos ,Frozen 
 Throne, WoW etc but the burning crusade is the best of all. Actually i give the maximum of points 
 to this game because of it's online best game.
  If there were 100 contests the WoW Burning Cr. would won all of those awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timonius
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  First, my disclaimer... I do not own Burning Crusade, but played WoW from the very start, packing 
 it in nearly a year ago. Since then I've followed its progress (or lack thereof) through close 
 friends that play the expansion. I instead became embroiled in another MMO EvE Online , a game 
 which sits firmly at the other end of my personal scale. Trying to draw a comparison between the 
 too, may show why:
  
  Service
  It's no big suprise that all companies supplying an MMO have complaints, it's a simple fact that 
 this should happen with thousands of subscribers all with different levels of information, understanding, 
 and patience. The care and devotion shown by CCP (the makers of EvE) rivalled Blizzard when I noticed 
 the following. The game is reguarly taken down for scheduled maintenance 1 hour a day, at the same 
 time each day. This is unobtrusive, and can often finish early. Small changes and adjustments keep 
 things in check that could later prevent large crashes and failures (a painful memory from my WoW 
 days) . Patches aree handed out quickly to combat bugs, rather than saved for months to be released 
 in larger sizes. Logging in can often mean spending an additional 30 seconds whilst the latest 
 issue patch is downloaded and upgraded.
  
  WoW has just had it's first expansion, whereas EvE online has multiple, the latest being Revelations 
 (currently a third of which has been bestowed upon us) . I ask all seasoned WoW players to remember 
 what WoW was like on the intial day of release, and what it was like just prior to the expansion 
 pack. Everything added in that period, everything given to you, all changes made, new instances, 
 loot, modes of play etc. were given to you for free. Why now pay for what is essentially a fraction 
 more?
  
  PVP
  All the big boys (and girls, and marsupials) like to play rough. PvP was fun in WoW until EvE opened 
 my eyes... Comparitively the PvP system, and indeed different server types make for a complicated 
 (in a global sense) and limited affair. EvE boasts totally player controlled areas where you must 
 fight to protect what is yours, or fight to take what isn't. What's more, if you lose something 
 in battle, or indeed against NPCs, then it's gone. The hazard of loss may be new and frightening, 
 but revitalises what can be considered one of the most important aspect of any game. I challenge 
 Blizzard to have a system that allows hundreds of players to pit themselves against hundreds more, 
 on a single battlefield at any one time, and thus change the world they reside in by force, or 
 even by diplomacy. The battles are epic, tactical and descicive. Not the smack-talking, loot-based, 
 queue-driven affair we've come to know... You blow someone up and sift through their wreckage... 
 Essentially like killing a Shaman and taking his purple's.
  
  Community
  Like WoW it boasts its fair share of external community sites... Comics, radio, roleplaying, etc. 
 etc. Nowhere however is there a deep sense of community like there is in EvE. Players form vast 
 corporations (guilds) that can further join alliances. The EvE galaxy has a central section of 
 safe space that is policed. Even so vast, and legal wars can break out between corporations and 
 alliances that spill over there from their natural habitat. This of course would be the un-policed 
 area that surrounds (and is indeed much larger than) the central safe haven. Having players in 
 control of the world, able to construct and claim what they believe to be there's is amazing. Two 
 years on and the WoW forums are still rife with posts reference Guild Halls.
  
  Scale
  It's huge, very huge, it's possibly too big by some standards. A new region of space was added 
 (free of charge I might add) that showed particular strives on behalf of the company to offer more 
 content, and new battlegrounds. Outlands is small, and indeed wholsome affair for the first few 
 days, but quickly becomes tiring. With EvE, there is only ONE server (excluding the test server, 
 which is open) . 33,000 players reguarly connect to the same galaxy to play, at the same time. Meaning 
 all that happens in EvE, effects everyone. They further this through classy reporting and story 
 instigating actions of their own.
  
  Balance
  One of my huge peeves was the idea of balance in WoW. I must admit I was too sucked into comparing 
 each class, the shame of it being, if everything were equally balanced, where would the fun in 
 choosing be? Surely the only difference then would be which buttons you press at what time? I've 
 now grown accustomed to EvE, the four available races have access to four different sets of ships, 
 and you can learn each others, and use all types of weaponry and items. When you create your character 
 you even set your base attributes (which don't change) , and your skills (which do) . No two players 
 therefore are alike, where they choose to make their strengths is where they become proficient 
 in. And even then, ships rarely sit side by side and exchange blows, allowing numbers to take control. 
 Piloting the vessels takes tact, and skill.
  WoW took their only form of uniqueness from the players, by allowing each side to share the same 
 class types, no doubt its cut down on the number of Shaman vs Paladin threads, but was it really 
 worth it?
  
  Levelling
  It's hard and doesn't pay unless you're remotely unorganised. It's not experience based, meaning 
 farming is a thing of the past (at least for skills, money is another matter) . Instead your currency 
 is what keeps you alive. Ask yourself this... What will I do when I hit lvl70? . I know I'll still 
 be advancing for many years to come, with no sign of a skills cap in sight.
  
  So, I hope this doesn't appear that Im simply plugging another game, but it pays to compare what 
 claims to be the best MMO, with one that prooves it is every time I log in.
  
  EvE-Onine offers a free 14 day trial, in which you can experience 5% of what the game has to offer... 
 Try not to get blown away :)
  
  Timo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  ok this is the BEST xpantion pack EVER for the best gane EVER! (but you know that already) the 
 real deal with this thing is all about Outland. ya, its only for higher lvl players (like myself) 
 but its really awsomr. you really done have to get this X pack if you are only going be the dranie 
 and the blood elfs, cause its cool at first but after lvl 20 or so, you just go back to the same 
 lvl'ing places you dide with the othger races. as for the outland, its F'EN AWSOME!!! the evirmenst 
 are rendured beautifully and the sky is soooooo cooool. there is so much more quests and its just 
 everything for a die hard wow fan. so bottem line, get it if you are goning to the outland, but 
 if you are oonly gettten is for the blood elfs and the dranie, the you MIGHT want to pass, but 
 that up to you. ^.^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightviper85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  The Good and Bad about the TBC.
  
  The Good
  As I experienced the TBC I have seen many improvements, such as in graphical and game play. The 
 things that rely came out are the quest rewards and the drop items, new citys with marvellous 
 views, and not to forget the top of the top Flying Mount that people where all waiting for.
  Not to forget the new skills, witch rely improved the gameplay wile raiding.
  The new race Draenei 
 and the Bloodelvs verry nicely done.
  The new system of reputation and tokens that is nice and very time consuming, this will keep you 
 going for ever. I also noticed the new giants in each continent witch made the game much challenging 
 .Well done for that and looks very nice.. :)
  
  The Bad
  
  Lv70:
  This is what rely amazed me, there where players who in one weak or less where lv70.. This is to 
 easy..
  
  Items:
  I was seeing green and blue item's taking over epic items Tier 2/3
  this rely mest up the players in equipping these green and blue items and loosing all there resistance..
 
  I also noticed that there where allot of non nusefull items with stat's that dont belong to the 
 appropriate wearer.
  -
  Overprized Mount's: Now this is the part where it ticked me, spending 6000g on an epic mount that 
 can only be used in Outland... Im sorry but this is not worth buying just to be used in outlands. 
 Receipting the game and setting it for out of outlands would have been a much better thing to do.
 
  -
  Auction House/AH:
  This is very bad. Not putting an AH in Outlands is just not right.
  No comment about this...
 
  
  This all I have to say, but in the whole run this game is very nice and you should try it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  After leveling my rogue to 60 and decking him out on the Bronzebeard realm, I just had to get this 
 expansion. I'll list my feedback in different categories.
  
  Graphics - Definity dated, but appeals to the people who don't have powerful computers and want 
 to continue the game. Still have a cartoonish look but thats the trademark. Environments and characters 
 are nicely detailed still and solid. Sound - Don't even think about this usually, but the sound 
 is very good and definitly matches the environment and gameplay. Pretty much the same as the origional 
 WoW, but some new environments have really cool effects such as the thunder and lightning in the 
 Netherstorm region.
  
  Gameplay - Superb interface, but ability activation needs to be more responsive. Good camera. So 
 many options to customize gameplay. PvP is simply ok. Questing does not get repetative and it is 
 not too challenging to level a character. Still, same as the old WoW.
  
  Other - The two new races are useless and silly. Thier mounts are truly g**.
  LOTS of new territory 
 and dungeons to explore. Nice new gear and solid professions. Silvermoon city is glitched and tells 
 you Stormwind directions. NO class trainers or Auction Houses in outland. Bottom line is the game 
 is missing alot, but nothing that can't be fixed with a patch. If you enjoy the main WoW, get this 
 expansion, it gives you alot. - Centurion Salazar, 70 Undead Rogue 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zogman81
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have been playing WoW since its release over 2 years ago. I have stopped a few times for many 
 months and weeks but have returned after a 3 month hiatus to play Burning Crusade. So far I have 
 yet to level my 60 mage and 60 rogue to lv 70 but what I have experienced so far in Outland is 
 more of the same, not to say thats a bad thing but that is really the one thing I think needs to 
 change, how to change it? No idea, its a system that works and gives the player things to do.
 
  
  As for the new races I started both a Dreny and BE, shaman and pally of course. I have leveled 
 my DR to 31 so far and the first 20 levels were new and fun seeing some of the starting island, 
 same with the BE's but then you head to the mainland and your stuck doing the same quests you did 
 before.
  
  Like I said in my other reviews Gamespot gives higher reviews to games that are good but dont deserve 
 them. I guess its just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hordekillah
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Lets talk about World of Warcraft and its expansion. Im sure at this point in time all of us have 
 taken a stab at WoW's pvp system or at least understand the concept. Many of us long term wow players 
 had started to grow weary and tired of blizzards lack of class balancing/redundant gameplay/loot 
 or nothing concepts. Many of us had grown furious over the last few months at the rediculousness 
 of warlocks/hunters and the shaman/pally loot tables when we could even level them yet. I waited 
 though, while many others quite the game, especially warriors, I waited. I told myself, Burning 
 crusade will not only fix the classes that are overpowered, but it will give us new content .
 
  
  What has blizzard done better with BC? Nothing........ If anythign blizzard has shown us its incapability 
 at doing anything productive. The arena system? Arena is fun, if your a druid/warlock/hunter/shaman. 
 Any other class can burn in hell, at least thats the feeling I get from blizzard.
  
  Oh, but many of you are thinking, But they gave us a whole bunch of new instances, most 5 man and 
 even a few 20 man . Yah right, they gave us a couple new instances then put out the keys for the 
 same exact boring isntances just harder....... I dont plan to waiste my time going to ramparts, 
 just because it drops purple Heroic items........ Its the same old boring instance I did at 61, 
 I wouldnt go back and do it for fun now, why would I go to it for loot? Pure lazyness and the lack 
 of caring from blizzard makes me sick. Also, god forbid you guys put in a ticket, the gm's will 
 answer you allright /copy /paste.
  
  As soon as you start to experience the world as a level 70 you will realize that 50$ and 1 week 
 later, that all BC is, is a copy of beign a level 60 on WoW regular but new enviroments to explore (which 
 get boring, real fast) .
  
  Questing = go kill soemthign then come back. Blizzard made no attempt whatsoever to improve the 
 questing style of the game, and if anything made it more tedious, vexxing, and mind numbing. Oh, 
 and you better have a 5 man group thats ready to waiste their lives away, becasue most of the 2 
 day quest chains end in a 5 man group killing a elite mob that drops no loot, and gives quest prizes 
 that you most likely cant even use. Unless, of course, your a druid/paladin.
  
  Ok, So I establish that questing is redundant, pvp is redundant, arenas are unbalanced, and the 
 enviroments are boring. So what does that leave? Nothing..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sszac4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  if you like WoW get it but if you dont or your getting tired and hoping for some redeeming fun 
 like me there isnt that much.
  
  Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. 
 Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill Flanders. Kill 
 Flanders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  For some people, such as myself, who thought WoW was getting overdone, the BC brings fresh new 
 environments, along with the two new races, and other great things to keep you playing till 70.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are same as WoW. If you don't have WoW, then you should know that the graphics 
 are a bit mediocre for the reason that everybody can play it, regardless of computer power.
  
  Sound- The music is okay, although you are so concentrated on the game that you usually forget 
 it's playing :)
  
  Gameplay- Won't get old for a while with the BC.
  
  Value- Great value. This is a great xpansion for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socalnick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  It would very difficult to improve on a game that is near perfect like WoW. It would almost seem 
 risky to make drastic changes to this game. However, I must say that Blizzard did a solid job of 
 creating an expansion pack that makes the right amount of changes to an already great game. It 
 gives new life to level 60 characters and a reason to start a new character with the addition of 
 2 new races. The great gameplay is still intact. The new Outland zone pretty much puts all current 
 level 60 characters on even ground. It's like you're a level 60 noob all over again playing this 
 game for the first time. That's not necessarily a bad thing. You start out with these relatively 
 easy quests in outland (kill this number of this, go here, get this, get that, etc.) . Even though 
 these quests are easy like the ones you started out at level 1, the big incentive to do these quests 
 (other than getting xp) is that the loot is INCREDIBLE! The first green item i got that dropped 
 off a mob was a dagger that was better than ANY purple or blue item I had! These items are the 
 equalizer of this game and pretty much makes it seem like a totally new game for high level players. 
 The quests in outland are similar to the main world (with a couple new types like bombing run ) 
 as well as the instances. This is a perfect example of if it ain't broke, why fix it ? The new 
 world pvp areas don't seem that great at the moment. If one side (ally or horde) controls a majority 
 of set points in the zone then everyone in that faction gets a buff. it's really no biggie and 
 since I'm an alliance player, I've noticed that there aren't that many horde to pvp against. If 
 you don't have a high level character (58-60) or you are the type who would like to start over 
 with something new then you can always opt to create a new character with the new Blood Elf and 
 Draenie races. It is well worth it too. The new lands are totally new and just as incredible if 
 not better than the current starting lands. Also, the new races are actually better than the current 
 races in the game with their new racial abilities. This could be good or bad since now the new 
 races have an edge over the others slightly tilting the balance of power to the draenie and blood 
 elves. However, if you're a horde who wanted to play a pally or an alliance who wanted to play 
 a shaman, then I guess it's worth it. Another drawback is the fact that once your blood elf or 
 draenie hit level 20 then they pretty much have to go to the original lands which is expected. 
 The graphics are pretty much the same. It's not going to push your $500 videocard to the limit 
 or anything. Still even with the somewhat dated graphics, the new lands and mobs are still beautiful. 
 People always talk about the art style of WoW and it is just as good as before. Outland has it's 
 own atmosphere and character as well as the new draenie and blood elf lands. This shows that it's 
 not the type of graphics engine you have but how you use those graphics. Good job by Blizzard.
 
  
  The music and sound have always been good with WoW. It still is with Burning Crusade. Even the 
 intro music when you log in is slightly tweaked to sound better. When it comes to music and sound 
 it is all about mood and the music fits the themes of the new worlds perfectly. Value is where 
 this game falls. I know it's a major upgrade and Blizzard did add a lot of content. however, $39.99? 
 I think that is a little too steep for an expansion pack. $29.99 max would be the right price. 
 Heck Blizzard already has 8 million subscribers. They didn't have to jack up the price. WoW is 
 still the best game out there on ANY platform. 8 million people can't be wrong. Burning Crusade 
 pretty much solidifies its greatness. No other MMO comes close. Guild Wars is pretty good especially 
 with no monthly fee and excellent graphics but it's just not as socially interactive as WoW which 
 is key aspect of MMO's. The new game Vanguard (i. e. Super Everquest ) pretty much reminds why most 
 of us left EQ for WoW in the first place. I'm sure GW and Vanguard have their niche fanbase. Those 
 that like a single player feel in their MMO would like GW. Those old 'hardliner EQ vets that refuse 
 to change to WoW might like the slow, grinding (no instances? You're kidding me!) , and I guess 
 challenging gameplay of Vanguard. Just remember, there is a fine line between challenging and flat 
 out frustrating (I don't care what they say, losing xp for dying is NOT a good thing) . As for the 
 rest of us who just simply want to have fun, WoW is the game and if you want to experience WoW 
 at its fullest, you need Burning Crusade as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  My, my. After leaving the World of Warcraft some time ago, I have returned to review the Burning 
 Crusade.
  This rekindled the fire. This brought me back into the world of Azeroth! The two new races, the 
 new Outland, and content! Revisiting some old sites, such as Goldshire brought back memories, but 
 there are memories to be made in a place called Outland!
  The sky is breath taking with what resembles the Aurora Borealis, streaks of green light up the 
 sky revealing the world around you. You are ready.
  
  You will engage yourself in new quests, alone, and with others. Your epic armor will be replaced 
 with greens! I know! The thought of your teir3 being obsolete to greens! It brings back a feeling 
 of leveling your character through the early stages again. While it can be a grind to get to 70, 
 the new content will overshadow it making it hardly noticeable. There are new weapons to collect, 
 new adventures to go on, and new people to meet! Its a different world, but yet the same. The only 
 complaint I have is it is only 10 levels until you cap again! But some can grow to miss being the 
 level cap. Think of it as a short Hyades from it, good to get away from it for a while, but after 
 the leveling is done, its good to be back.
  
  I think that everyone that stopped playing should unfreeze their accounts, even if its just for 
 a short while. And join the adventure. Once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mordster
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  WOW as we all know, is quite the phenominom. It is very addictive, sorta like crack. As far as 
 on line games go, this one is one of the best that I have played, and I have played just about 
 all of them.
  
  However, while the expansion is good, there is nothing really new here. You get to level your charater 
 a few lvl's and master a few new dungeons. Once you have done that, all that's left is, well, do 
 it again. It is like throwing a minnow to a great white, still hungry. I suppose you can't put 
 too much in just one expansion, after all don't want to give away the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  World of WarCraft is not the most detailed or highest end graphics and sound MMORPG on the market... 
 but it DOES support 8 million PC accounts. Millions of PCs with different hardware configurations 
 and connection speeds all linked up to this MMORPG, grinding away in some form of electronic harmony.
 
  
  Blizzard didn't go for 'cutting edge', but instead focused on an artful design that looks good 
 but also plays well on the widest range of PC hardware. Personally, I think EQ II has better graphics, 
 but I do not believe that it would be playable with 8 million accounts.
  
  WoW is the KING of the PC MMORPG games until somebody releases a game that can attract and support 
 8 million accounts. Blizzard gambled on a 'mass appeal' platform, and it paid off.
  
  Now that I see multiple level 70s including the new races running around my server, we'll see how 
 long Blizzard can hang on to those 8 million accounts... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roszkowski
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played the orginal World of Warcraft and couldn't seem to find endless possibilities? 
 Well sorry my friends, looks like your going to need to harder because Wolrd of Warcraft The Burning 
 Crusade is finally IN!
  With 2 new playable races: the Draenei (THE BEST) and the Blood Elves (No comment) , you've got 
 an extra big piece of land/continent called The Oulands (Very BAD) , you also have additional flying 
 mounts to help you get over certain terrians safer, faster and in one piece. You also have additional 
 weapons, shields, armor and tons more items. You also have new Dungeons, new Raids and and more 
 items to get from them. There's million more stuff i can tell you but this is just another quick 
 review from Roszkowski.
  
  P. S : GO! DRAENEI GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raugastino
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  WoW had me in the beginning. I'd suffer through the numerous hours required to upgrade the game; 
 however, after they fixed the PTP system and things ran smoother, I felt life was good.
  
  Then comes Burning Crusades. Not only do you have to re-install Burning Crusades for every upgrade, 
 but you're required to re-install WoW. How pathetic is that?
  
  So, I'm offering the devs of Burning Crusades a challenge...
  
  Each time I have to re-install 
 Wow, as well as Burning Crusade for your upgrades, you lose a point. Everytime I have an upgrade 
 and don't have to install them, you gain a point.
  
  Please, prove me wrong... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sans123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  In the draenei the Alliance now has a race that has strength up to the Horde's tauren.
  
  Like any great expansion pack, The Burning Crusade doesn't just offer more of the same, and it 
 doesn't cater exclusively to experienced players. It offers a lot more of the same, and it also 
 adds a number of new features that can be enjoyed by newcomers and level 60 veterans alike. Perhaps 
 the most significant additions introduced in The Burning Crusade are the blood elves and the draenei -- two 
 new playable races that have made the paladin class available to the Horde faction and the shaman 
 class available to the Alliance faction for the first time. Both of these races have quite fascinating 
 backstories that are revealed both through their respective intro movies and via in-game quests 
 and conversations with non-player characters. Like the eight previously existing playable races 
 in Azeroth, the blood elves and the draenei begin their adventures in specially designed starter 
 areas where you can play without having to worry about bothersome high-level opposing players for 
 the first 15 to 20 levels of your character's existence. Thereafter, the new races join the rest 
 on one of Azeroth's two continents, where there are more than enough quest-filled environments 
 and dungeons to keep you busy to level 60 and beyond.
  
  It's only possible to advance beyond the original game's level 60 cap if you own The Burning Crusade, 
 which unlocks new player skills and talents for characters through to level 70. It's conceivable 
 that you could advance through many of the levels post-60 without ever visiting the new Outland 
 realm, but it'd be a far more time-consuming and less profitable process because quests in Outland 
 offer significantly more experience points and gold. Furthermore, Outland is the only place where 
 you can advance your chosen professions beyond the previous skill cap of 300 to gather all-new 
 resources and craft powerful new items. All of the existing professions such as leatherworking, 
 alchemy, cooking, and enchanting can now be pursued to a maximum skill level of 375, which is also 
 true of the new jewelcrafting profession.
  
  Along with engineering, jewelcrafting is undoubtedly one of the most interesting and useful professions 
 to pursue in World of Warcraft right now. Every profession in the game serves a purpose, but many 
 of the items that can be made by weaponsmiths and tailors, for example, are no better than those 
 that regularly drop from enemies and subsequently appear in major cities' auction houses. As a 
 jewelcrafter, you'll initially spend your time and resources making simple rings and necklaces 
 that afford their wearers small attribute bonuses. As your skills improve (and the materials you 
 need become less common and more expensive) , you'll learn to make powerful trinkets, rings and 
 necklaces that can be used to buff the attributes of other party members as well as your own, a 
 handful of weapons, and gems that can be socketed into new pieces of armor and jewelry to make 
 them even more powerful.
  
  Skilled crafters can make items that have empty sockets for gems, and you'll occasionally be offered 
 them as a reward for completing a quest. For the most part, these items are quite hard to come 
 by, though, since they rarely drop from anything but dungeon bosses and the like. Choosing gems 
 for your socketed items gives you an opportunity to tailor your gear to your character's chosen 
 talent spec and play style, and many classes even have multiple endgame armor sets to choose from 
 now for the same reason. Bonuses to basic attributes such as strength, stamina, agility, and intellect 
 are now augmented by bonuses to far more specific skills, such as attack power, dodge rating, and 
 hit rating. Before The Burning Crusade, it was generally quite obvious whether or not one item 
 was better than another, but there are so many different factors to consider now that choosing 
 which equipment to use often has as much to do with personal taste as anything.
  
  If you're not already wearing epic gear, expect to replace everything you own within hours of going 
 through the Dark Portal.
  
  Even the relatively common gear that's available in Outland is better than much of the rare and 
 epic equipment that has been dropping in Azeroth for the past two years. Those of you with complete 
 sets of epic armor will find that it's good enough to get you through most of the new continent's 
 quests and dungeons, but everyone else's equipment becomes obsolete within hours of them stepping 
 through the Dark Portal. The new gear serves to lessen the gap between hardcore dungeon raiders 
 and more casual players, and as a result, the Outland quests are neither too challenging for relatively 
 inexperienced players nor too easy for those in the minority who can truly claim to have beaten 
 the original game. The fact that the playing field has been leveled somewhat also makes player-versus-player 
 encounters more enjoyable now than they've been for some time, which is just as well given that 
 almost all of the new Outland environments have PVP objectives and rewards.
  
  You're free to ignore these world-PVP objectives if you wish, but they offer a welcome distraction 
 from the occasionally repetitive nature of questing, and you don't need to devote an awful lot 
 of time to them to enjoy the benefits. In Hellfire Peninsula, for example, capturing three strategic 
 locations will earn you PVP reward tokens that can be put toward a new ring, weapon, or gemstone. 
 And in the Bone Wastes of Terokkar Forest, the first faction to simultaneously control all five 
 of the PVP towers is rewarded with six hours of damage and experience bonuses anytime they do battle 
 in the area. Perhaps the most interesting world-PVP objective can be found in picturesque Nagrand, 
 where the Horde and the Alliance are constantly battling for control of the small town of Halaa 
 in the center of the map. The faction that controls Halaa can purchase special items and turn in 
 quests there, and they will be protected by up to 15 high-level guards anytime they visit. The 
 rival faction, on the other hand, can climb aboard wyverns and fly overhead on bombing runs in 
 an attempt to kill the guards before storming the town, although the takeoff and landing points 
 for the wyverns can be temporarily taken out of commission by players on defense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefmenton
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  well, i have to say, its was well worth the wait, i am one of the many level craving self centerd, 
 grind till yer blind warcraft players.. a year ago when my main hit level 60 i found myself in a 
 tight spot.. no more BMR crap! what the hell was i gonna do now? i lost all want and need for my 
 quests, i just needed EXP!!!. so i did what lots of us did, i rolled an alt, then another, and 
 another never getting back that feeling of gaining exp for your main char. that being said, finaly 
 here is the long waited expantion. and after dipping my toe into the lava through the dark portol, 
 i offer the following.
  
  slow down!!! smell them burnt roses, make the next 10 levels last as long as you can. explore, 
 have a beer. and learn to play your main again.
  
  if you must , grind an alt to lvl 70. but keep your main just under the cap. if blizz stays honest 
 and provides us with another add on in 08, then you can just keep the story rolling along. dont 
 ring that bell and end up putting your main back to sleep, learn to fish, get that skinning level 
 up, map molton core by pencil.. hell get a girl friend and get her into the game. just dont have 
 to re-learn how to play your best friend.
  
  Baldric
  62 warrior
  Bloodhoof 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  ININTRO
  The story of Burning Crusades goes something like this; a powerful demon from a closed off world 
 that was destroyed centuries ago called Outland has come back to haunt the inhabitants of Azeroth. 
 Only the most experienced players may enter this land to fend off the demon and his hellish army. 
 A call of arms has been sent to every citizen to battle this foe. Enter the Dark Portal if you 
 wish. That is the premise of this new epic battle. Blizzard released the original World of Warcraft 
 (WoW) three years ago. The game is still a huge seller despite the expansions release. The World 
 of Warcraft: Burning Crusades (BC) is an expansion that does not disappoint. Blizzard thankfully 
 did its research into what people wanted in a new expansion. It was critical of them to do so. 
 The number of copies Blizzard sold of BC is very impressive for any game. The game is doing well 
 not only because its an expansion to a wildly popular game but its doing well because of its new 
 features, new races, and the updating of aging graphics and sound.
  
  FEATURES
  The new features are not noticed at first glance. The only new features that you may notice is 
 two new races running around Azeroth. The next thing that may be noticed is a new profession jewelcrafting 
 (only obtainable in new cities like Exodar, Silvermoon, and Outland for now) . Not only does this 
 new profession make jewelry (as the name implies) but this new profession helps the new socket 
 armor found in Outland in a way that was only a dream before. The new armor can be customized with 
 jewels hence the importance of the new profession. The armor is not only new and better but several 
 epic items that were end game pieces are quite literally obsolete. Along with new and better armor 
 are the weapons for high level players. Amazing looking armor and weapons can already be found 
 on players who have already achieved the new level cap of 70. With so many new green items that 
 out perform blue or purple items the playing field has become so much closer to what it was in 
 the beginning. The most noticeable feature is Outland and the Dark Portal. Outland looks nothing 
 like Azeroth. With so many new features and quests available in Outland that no one has come close 
 to finishing the game to date. Quests of course are quests but the next thing that is the most 
 anticipated and talked about before the games release is the flying mounts. They are impressive 
 and add so much to a games dimension. The new features add so much to this game.
  
  RACES
  The new races of WoW are very unique from one another. The Horde finally gets a good looking 
 race while the Alliance gets a demon for its new race. The Blood Elves of Silvermoon are a new 
 and beautiful race for the Horde and the Draenei of Exodar are a new and powerful race for the 
 Alliance. With these races comes something that was once unique to each faction. The paladin class 
 is now available through the Blood Elves and the shaman class is now available through the Draenei. 
 Each class has a rich history and they can be found through out Azeroth even without BC. The new 
 races give a chance to each side to enjoy the new classes first hand. A balance was met with these 
 two races and I believe Blizzard did a good job in developing each one. The new races are a fantastic 
 addition to WoW.
  
  SIGHT AND SOUND
  The scenes in WoW were good for its time. It was not the best graphics but it was beautifully done 
 with what they could use. The same can be said about the sound of WoW. It wasn't impressive but 
 alright for the time. With the BC expansion the look and sound has been updated. The graphics have 
 been improved and are visible in Outland, especially in the sky. The sound has been upgraded to 
 actual orchestra soundtrack. Even though this is all improvement the games itself is showing age. 
 The face lift is keeping it from total let down in that respect, but with new massive online games 
 like Lord of the Rings with its graphics being superb coming soon the artistic scenes of WoW are 
 imperative. The look and sounds of WoW are okay but the scenes beautiful too look at still.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  World of Warcraft: Burning Crusades is a really good expansion to a great 
 game. Few companies have accomplished what Blizzard has done with BC. The game I like, but I find 
 myself looking for something different. Many times I find I just don't want to mess with certain 
 quests and decide to go to an alternate character I have, leaving the expansion material behind. 
 The new expansion has given me something to work with for my original character but as I have said 
 the use of one type of character can get boring. Therefore if you do hit a boring point like I 
 do try making new characters, like a new Blood Elf. With so many new things going on in the game 
 its hard to get bored with the game itself. Mixing it up is something one has to do sometimes. 
 In the end the game is a good choice to play and buy. I plan on playing this game for a long time. 
 Go out and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Now when i say this game is addicting i mean it. You can seriously lose track of time while playing 
 this game with all the new quests and areas to explore. The only problem is that once you explore 
 all these new areas and take a look at some of the new quests, its more of the same **** just a 
 different wrapper. You still find yourself having to grind, whether it be instances for items, 
 mobs for xp, or quests for rep, it has to be done. Boss encounters are standard fare. When you 
 use the LFG system its still going to be tank, healer, 2 dps, and possibly a crowd control class. 
 But thats not a bad thing because if its not broken we sholdnt fix it right? Peronally id like 
 some strategy to my games instead of doing the same thing over and over until brain dead. It would 
 have been better if blizzard introduced more classes to this mix instead of just 2 new races. On 
 my server dranei are hard to come by because none of the alliance plays them (being horde i was 
 looking forward to killing them) and blood elves have almost completely taken over the horde. Druids 
 have replaced warriors as main tanks so warriors youre just S. O. L. And everyone and their mother 
 complains how overpowered warlocks are still but guess what were not that overpowered anymore. 
 Take a look at mages and druids. Druids are out DPSing rogues now and mages can 3 shot people. 
 While im sitting there DoTing away taking longer to kill. Well sometimes.
  After spending a month playing this game I seriously doubt this should have been an expansion pack 
 because it feels more like an update patch to me. Like when they added Naxx. The new areas are 
 small but they have a lot of quests packed closely together to give the illusion that its a big 
 wide open area to explore. The new battleground is smaller than WSG and is extremely unbalanced, 
 once one team gets a marginal lead youre pretty much screwed. But after all that my biggest grip 
 is the gear. I was hoping that after 2 years blizzard would get the bright idea to add new models 
 but theyre still the same old rehashes except extremely overpowered. Quickly replacing some of 
 the things you weekend raiders spent months getting. That graphics engine bothers me as well, i 
 think its time for an update when i see games like oblivion or gears of war and then i look at 
 this and still see pixels for eyes and stiff capes.
  The music in my opinion is the best part of the game, especially the loading screen and the new 
 racial capitals. But once again its more of the same and the other new areas try to use that same 
 music and change the tone slightly to make it appear new. It simply overall doesnt feel inspired 
 like the music from the core game. But anyway all that aside, if you like what youve been doing 
 the past 2 years or so get ready to do it some more because it hasnt changed at all.
  
  *EDIT* Having just reached level 70 i can say this game is a total waste of time. BG's are broken 
 and repetitive, arena is extremely difficult thanks to the class imbalance. While endgame instances 
 can take up your entire afternoon, causing you to miss out on something called life. I cancelled 
 my account after reaching 70. There was nothing to do except grind rep, honor, and gear. Wait wasnt 
 i already doing that at 60? Hmmm, deja vu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinonvision
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  The expansion is really great, although there is only two newly races added. I wish WOW could have 
 expanded the game with more races, and greatly expand the world of the two newly races. I play 
 as the blood elf / warlock which is cool, but after starting in that realm for the elf, I find 
 myself back in the Undercity doing the same quests I did with the old WOW. I do not mind doing 
 this to improve the kills rate, but its a repeat all over again. If WOW would have made more quests 
 in the world the races were started, I believe the expansion would have been excellent! Other than 
 that, the game is still great, and fun to play.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piquet2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  The good:
  - 2 new races with new starting areas
  - new crafting profession
  - new relatively big continent to explore
  - loads of new dungeons
  - finally some fun and 
 worthwhile world PvP
  - an 'acceptable' alternative to raiding with new arena system, though you still need &uuml; ber 
 gear to compete
  - a massive amount of new quests
  - new talents and spells
  - grinding for faction has become a lot easier
  
  The bad:
  - endgame is still heavily focused 
 on raiding leaving very few other options, which might disappoint some people (like me) . So tier 
 6 equipped players will be able to mow down people who aren't into raiding with great ease, making 
 battlegrounds very imbalanced and not about skill, but solely about equipment.
  - no new classes
  - classes are still very imbalanced
  - old high-level content is more or 
 less obsolete and dead now
  - will be a lot harder for people w/o the expansion to get a group for high level non-expansion 
 instances 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miked1213
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  It is time at last. I have explored the farthest reaches of WOW. Despite what the opening title 
 to BC says I AM READY. This was one of the most anticipated Expansions that has ever come out. 
 Yes I was in line at 12:00 to get my copy. I logged in and was blown away by the first thing that 
 I saw when I walked through the Dark portal. I giant Demon Lord attacking Groups of horde and alliance 
 troops. OH MAN THIS IS GREAT!! I Gave this expansion such a high mark cause I have always wanted 
 to go through the dark portal and see what was beyond and now I can. The new zones and starting 
 areas for the two new races are beautiful. I would liked to see some more creativity on the part 
 of the devs to make some new classes but that is ok. I am sure that they will do something soon. 
 I have not explored all the new areas but am looking forward to being able too and Kick some demon 
 Butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deleterguy
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  first off!
  the bad things:
  the game is kinda boring after playing a long time.
  sooooo many children in this game!!! really you can't believe it!
  the graphics are... medium not 
 good but not bad either.
  all the areas are contested.
  all those ally will kill you on sight!
  and then the GOOD things:
  the world is big and got 
 some unique areas.
  many players.
  fun pvp stuff in the outland.
  and some children in the game are funny lol!
  big cities lalalalalalaalalalalal.
  and that's 
 it i hope you read this and think that this is something for you!
  thanks for the 1 that agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybersonix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Its a great expansion but they could have put ins ome more. The original WoW was really good. But 
 there were things they could do better and most of it they did in Burning Crusade. lvl cap raised 
 to lvl 70 is very good, 2 new playable races are good. To bad Draenei looked like that though. 
 And i just don't get it why they are alliance. Becous what i remember in Warcraft 3: TFT Blood 
 elf and the naga did help them. Its good that they made new instances and a new continent (outland) , 
 but they could also do something new to the lower lvls like new instances whit new weapons. to 
 bad blizzard didn't think about the lower lvl. The graphics are getting old, outdated. The sound 
 is still good though. The gameplay is also still good. Its good that it supports addons. you can 
 really customize your interface. Thats good, so you can play it your way. Well this expansion is 
 worth getting. Not if you don't have a lvl 60 or 58, and don't wanna make a new character from 
 the 2 new playable races. Then its pretty useless. Blizzard did nothing from lvl 20-58. But if 
 you have a lvl 58 or 60 or/and wanna get a new character from teh 2 new races. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerV
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  The new epics and levels are alone worth the expansion. The new factor is very gripping and it 
 adds at least another generation wave of players that otherwise might have not jumped onto the 
 WoW CRAZE! Get this game if you love RPGs and time will for surely be your enemy in this game! 
 The best part of this new expansion is it will allow for less parties that in the past were necessary 
 to be apart of anything monumental. Expect to see alot of new players gaining on the old players 
 that once held domination items and experience over them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bko3456
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Have to get this is the best game ever!! Its so addicting so much new containt like outland and 
 two new races blood elf and dreani this is the best!! New flying mounts and new mounts! tier 4 
 and 5 armor sets! I give this game 9 out of 10 and the best of the warcraft seriers! And avaible 
 for direct online download its the best best best BEST BEST OF WARCRAFT ever if u have regular 
 warcraft then u need to get the expanision now! So go to your store and buy it now or download 
 it from their site! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gummigammi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Being World of Warcraft fanatic I had to buy this game as soon as it appeared on shelves.
  
  I installed the game and started exploring the new 'Outlands'. Here's the outcome:
  
  Graphically 
 game is as the original WoW, new races have a couple of more polygons but major parts of the game 
 are still same old.
  
  Difficulty of the game seem to have gone bit down (or it just could be because I've played enough 
 characters to level 60) as starting areas of new races give you money more easily.
  
  Sounds are same as in original. I got bored to them after some hours, just endless clangs of swords 
 and armors.
  
  If you enjoy original WoW this is a MUST buy and will keep you enticed until the next expansion 
 in 2008.
  
  Some afterthought; Like I mentioned, for a WoW fanatic this is a must buy, but new players might 
 want to wait until they level their characters to level 60 to see if they really like the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeldorDK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  No reason buying this if you have never played World of Warcraft, unless you totally want to play 
 the 2 new races (Blood Elf or Draenei) . The new expansion gives 2 new races and some new items 
 to new players and gives a whole new world to players at level 55-60. Entering Outland is an Amazing 
 thing to do, all new quests, epic items in with green text (talking about the items you get at 
 level 62 which are better than the epics you had at level 60) .
  
  I could recommend people to play this awesome game, if they have a level 55-60. Now, im not quite 
 sure that if you buy the expansion you will get both World of Warcraft and Burning Crusade. What 
 so ever, you might want to learn how to play the game in World of Warcraft (1'st game) , before 
 you jump into the scattered realm of Outland.
  
  And dude.. Play on Grim Batol, it rocks your socks off. (Horde of course)
  
  I stopped playing 
 World of Warcraft just as the expansion came out, so I played on my friends account till level 
 20 (Draenei Warrior) , then I was happy. But I will play World of Warcraft again when I come home 
 from my 10'th Grade Pre-School stay. (Takes 6 months) . And then I hope you will /whisper me on 
 my overpower mage or Priest and say: Hey dude! That review of yours was friggin awesome, lets go 
 and get teh flying mountz babeh! 
  
  See you all! Hope the review helps you to stand up, walk down to the local game store and buy the 
 sock rocking game :) .
  
  (Message me on Game Spot to get my Character names if you take the whisper thing serious.. See 
 you in-game the 13th of August!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  I like Wow a lot, but I won't give this game a perfect 10. Yes indeed, this is a good expansion 
 that any WoW player SHOULD buy. but I must admit that it would have been better if there was more 
 new zones for the new races, because after the 2 new zones for each, you get back to the old school 
 yet so boring same place, and, it may, for some player destroy the pleasure of starting a new character 
 of these race and play it trough lvl 20-60. But nevertheless, the new continent is great. the look 
 of the place is really really cool. the sky are pretty good looking, and the instances are well 
 decorated and immersive. the difficulty might be hard, and some player may be offensed to have 
 bought a 300g epic weapon that, in the expansion is worst than a lvl 60 green item. (Just like 
 me with brightwood staff) . Oh well, anyway, I think they should have added new classes. that would 
 have been great. the new profession is cool, but sometimes, it make quests to be ridiculous. at 
 lvl 20 for example you can get a ring (normally not in the expansion, it's like the first you can 
 have) but in this case, you can have a better ring that you can create a lvl 13... same for the 
 necklace. This may let you down while doing the quests when you know the reward sucks. But in general, 
 the graphics are not improved (except the sky, and some new effects) : (thats really sad) . the 
 lvl 70 are just overpowered, but there will always be new content to add more challenge. This game 
 is a MUST for any WoW players. The musics are really immersive and original. Also, what less to 
 expect from blizzard that a OMFG crazy good looking cinematic (this one is SOOOO crazy) (i like 
 when the guy cut people in 2 peices) . This game in general wont let you down because of all the 
 new content added (flying mount, dongeon, lvl 70 cap etc) There could have been more, but surely 
 the next expansion will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevman69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  if u remotly like any of the diablo games or you enjoy playing runescape this game is defently 
 worth the 10 dollars a month yes i kno it sounds like alot but u can buy a gamecard and only have 
 to pay evey three months the games graphis are smooth as a mmorpg can get the music is epic as 
 midevil air and the interaction with others and quest fall to no other so if you are any kind of 
 fan of rpgs you should sell your social life for this one because there is nothing else out threre 
 like this so join the giant nerd army 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Well I've given WoW-BC a good month of play time and am pretty much stumped as to what they've 
 actually been doing all this time.
  
  Let's look objectionally at what they added. 2 new races, nice yes but considering there is no 
 new classes then there is little point to it except for the novelty factor. Most people already 
 had all the level 60's of whatever class they wanted by now. A draenei shaman is still a shaman 
 and a BE paladin is still a paladin. Where are the hero classes, a lvl 70 isn't a hero class, you'll 
 pick up like 2 or 3 new spells to your UI and that's it. The
  
  1 new profession, ok great, except i'm already a miner/blacksmith so no use to me. All I'm left 
 with is some pretty zones i've worked over with a month and now left with the same problems at 
 level 60. Just grind faction rep or pvp, World pvp is still dead no matter how they try and make 
 it more enticing. Which means all i've got is basically the arena, which has a whole 2 maps which 
 are so small they honestly could have been designed in about a day. And eye of the storm which 
 is nice but again gets repeptiive since i'm so tired of AB/WSG so that's all I play. PvP is still 
 pretty horribly broken many classes still have balance issues.
  
  I just don't think thisd was worth the price for what little was added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_vs_B_ownz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Thus begins another epic adventure as you set out into the world of Azeroth, World of Warcraft: 
 The Burning Crusade has arrived. This expansion puts in new elements, as well as using the original 
 world to create an immersive gameplay experience, and although the gameplay does feel borrowed 
 from the original, there are many Easter Eggs to keep you busy for a long time.
  
  Possibly one of the most important part of any game is the graphics. You will always get people 
 solely buying games on simply the graphical power, but that is not always the only thing to look 
 for in a game. Although this games graphics do not come anywhere near the engine seen in Gears 
 of War, or Valve's Source Engine, it reaches a whole new artistic scale. There are vast open-ended 
 environments, as well as cavernous dungeon crawls through instances. From there nobility you feel 
 as you walk through Stormwind, and see the massive statues of the Alliance's more recognizable 
 figures, to the feeling of a land long lost you get as you walk through the remains of Silvermoon 
 City, the graphics truely set the mood for this game.
  
  The sound is always where Warcraft has shined in its making. The chill you get during the voice-over 
 from Illidan when you first see the trailer is enough to make any gamer's spine tingle. From the 
 peaceful starting area of the Bloodelves', to the almost apocalyptic feeling you get as you soar 
 through Outland on your flying mount, the sound design allows for the mood to truely be what the 
 developers where looking to give you when you play the game.
  
  The value is always an important part of MMO's, most of them come with a monthly fee to play, and 
 this is no exception. The initial fee of $40, and the monthly fee of $15 can really make a hole 
 in some people's wallets, but that should not keep you from playing. This game is well worth the 
 initial and monthly fees to play.
  
  What more could be in an expansion you ask? Why there are two new races added to each side, for 
 the Alliance, the Drainie, and for the Horde, the Bloodelves. These two races also add much more 
 to the game as for each side can now play as a class that was previously unavailable to them, now 
 the Horde can play as Paladins, and the Alliance can play as Shamans. Also the total land mass 
 in the game was increased by 30% with the addition of Outland and two new starting areas for each 
 of the two races.
  
  Altogether with World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusades is a solid expansion that although it barrows 
 much from the original, it also adds much more. From the at times chilling sound design, to the 
 occasionally comically overstated weapons, this game is a gem nobody should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyercho
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The Burning Crusade it had to be something amazing extending the gameplay and making you think 
 I wanna play play play ... This is not what happened. First it came too early, second the did not 
 extend the gameplay but exatcly the the opposite - it has cut the old gameplay which was much larger 
 and added the new one which is not even half of it. Take the dungeons for example, who will go 
 Blackrock Depths, Blackrock Spire, Molten Core, Blackwing Lair? The ordinari green items in Outland, 
 the new continent, are just better than the the ones who Ragnaros drops... You will say, of course 
 they are better, they are higher level . Yes, they are higher level, but level 61 green should 
 NOT be better than level 60 epic. The graph of item evolution in mindless! There is like 50-70% 
 jump in the quality of 57 (for example) level item in Azeroth and level 57 item in Outland, this 
 is Outrageous!
  If they fix something everything will be perfect!
  
  The rest of the game high level as it should be! Good job Blizzard! But is the word good enough 
 for you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanyc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  For 40$, the expansion gives new high level content, one new profession, some increased PvP options, 
 and two new races with starting areas. The high level content includes new items, new zones, new 
 music, and new monsters. If you're up by 60, this is awesome for you. The new races have brand 
 new starting areas, story, and quests for low levels. Everyone from level 20-40 will experience 
 little change, unless they start a new character or begin jewelcrafting. Content for players from 
 20-59 has remained for the most part unchanged, so players in that bracket get little if any benefit 
 from this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Blizzard Ownage.
  
  Flying Mounts - Level 70's - New Areas - EVERYTHING!
  
  Its just addicting as drug. The one who says WoW is bad.
  Should die :) . In my opinion i liked 
 the expansion because the new races and new areas, also the new features of mounts and stuff.
 
  
  The LFG tool its bad for sure. I rather like the classic one (channel one) .
  So, yea I have a life an a 67 warrior. I might do some others players to 70.
  
  WoW needs time 
 - Gotta spend time to it as you spend with your wife.
  But yea, its has good GFX and stuff.
  
  Buy WoW and youll be the best gamer ever :P
  
  
 Peace WoWzers.
  
  GG:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft sat a high standard for MMORPG's, and thus also the expectations for any coming 
 expansion to the sucess. Now the expansion is here, and it's satisfying.
  
  When I first bought this game I did it mosly for the level cap increase, from level 60 to level 
 70. But when I got the game I quickly got my eyes up for the two new classes. Unlike most other 
 races they are probably the most original races by gameplay standards. They have the ability to 
 silence and drain mana unrestrained by what class they are. Blood Elf also allows Horde to play 
 as Paladins.
  
  As for Draenai they increase the chance to get a critical strike, and they can heal regardless 
 of class, which is also pretty neat. They bring the ability to play shaman as Alliance.
  
  A new continent has arrived which can be entered through a dark portal, and leads the story into 
 that of Illidan the betrayer, one of Azeroth's arch enemies.
  The new continent, Outland allows players to play in a new enviroment with stronger enemies, and 
 much better drops. To boot you can also aquire flying mounts, and enter new and challenging instances 
 both in Outland, and in Azeroth.
  
  Musically there isn't much new music for the continent of Azeroth, but in Outland there is a totally 
 new and beautiful score. The continents and scenery are beautiful, and the enemies have new ways 
 to take you down for instance blinking, or teleporting behind you. The biggest question you can 
 have if you already own WoW is the question, is it worth it? My answer would be, yes. There is 
 a lot of fun to play the new races, and you have a new continent, and ten new levels to enjoy. 
 If you're new to WoW I would suggest you play the original until you know this is a game you can 
 really stick to, or else you could feel it was money wasted.
  
  I cannot really find anything really negative to say about Blizzard's expansion for their game, 
 the only minus is perhaps that you have to be high leveled to really enjoy this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Burning Crusade. The two words that all World of Warcraft players couldn't wait to stick their 
 teeth into. The whole new continent of Outland, introduced for high-level players to continue leveling 
 to 70, and an even better playing experience than Azeroth, was probaly the biggest thing that the 
 players wanted.
  
  However, there was a whole lot more of new things to see and do than just head to 'The Red World.' 
 The risky, sometimes controversial, gamble Blizzard took of introducing previously Faction-specific 
 classes to the opposing faction, has certainly paid off. Horde Paladins and Alliance Shaman may 
 of seemed a bit dodgy at first glance, and I was one of the people to shun the idea, but Blizzard 
 have really taken a smart move, offering a whole new experience to Horde and Alliance.
  
  The two new races also may seem a bit muddled. The cunning, often cited as Beautful race of the 
 Blood Elves alligning with the Horde always seemed a bit peculiar, but already the Blood Elf Paladins 
 are finding their way in the difficult Horde world, with Paladins really giving the Horde the boost 
 in instancing. Draenei, an Ugly race, at first glance would seem a bit more at home in the Horde, 
 with their Shamanistic ways and such, but Blizzard have done a flawless job incorporating them 
 into the Alliance. Jewelcrafting was another new feature offered in the expansion. Jewelcrafting 
 basically offered the player socketed items, similiar to that of Diablo II, as well as making Rings, 
 Necklaces and Trinkets, previously items that only dropped from mobs in raids and dungeons, and 
 purchasable from vendors.
  
  Blizzard, perhaps the leading innovator in the MMORPG industry, also offers Flying Mounts, offering 
 those dedicated enough new content through the element of accessing previously unreachable places. 
 Only usable in Outland, acquring the flying mount is a crucial part of any players leveling process.
 
  
  40-man raids such as Molten Core and Blackwing Lair are now a thing of the past. Whilst completing 
 them needed hardcore, talented and well-geared players, they also needed numbers. Often the game 
 in 40-manners would be a little lax, with no real stress on the tanks, DPSers and healers. However, 
 Blizzard have lowered the raiding cap down to 25, meaning each persons role is more refined and 
 crucial. Healers need to be on top form, and tanks need to be well geared, as a different way of 
 raiding takes place. However, for previously non-hardcore guilds (Such as my own) which frequently 
 never made up the 40-man, it is much easier to get the numbers required for raiding. A small upside, 
 but positive nonetheless.
  
  Drawing to a close, Burning Crusade has improved on what was originally thought unimprovable. The 
 addition of the two new races and a whole new continent, the raising of the level cap, and a whole 
 lot more, means that you can rest assured that you will be enjoying this game for a long, long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternaldj
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I've played many MMO's (Everquest, UO, PSO, DAoC. AC2, RO, FFXI, EVE) and most of them 
 were pretty enjoyable. I started World of Warcraft since all my friends forced me too pretty much. 
 When I first played it, the game was pretty fun and I enjoyed it. Then as time went by and I just 
 grinded and grinded my levels it's fun rating started to decrease. The game itself is mind-boggling 
 easy and could probably be played by animals. I never came close to dying at any time and I pressed 
 pretty much 2 buttons over and over again killing everything in my level range with ease. Note 
 that I wasn't a hardcore player either, I played a couple hours per day and didn't have the best 
 gear possible. Eventually I gave up hope for this game seeing that pressing 2 buttons again and 
 again to kill everything in my path was no fun at all. This game is very simple and easy to play 
 which makes it a little enjoyable since you don't have to think about anything and what to do. 
 The community in this game is downright bad (could have just been my server) but I had a bunch 
 of little kids running calling people ZOMG, UR n00B quit ilfe oogmgomg you don't have epic and 
 stuff like that. Overall this game starts out pretty fun, but loses it's edge pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirtapk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game is great overall, but is not enough. The graphics, and game play are excellent, so is 
 the music. The only problem is that moving the max level up by 10 isn't going to do much, maybe 
 if it went up 20 or more, ya it would be better. Gaining ten levels will quick for the experts 
 at WoW.
  
  The new skill is interesting, but more skills are must. Crafting can give you a bunch of time to 
 waste, but it will become boring. There are other factors, but i won't go into them. Probably not 
 many people will care about them anyway. Once again an increase of 10 levels for the max level 
 will not take long to accomplish. And the price for a patch like this is pretty high. Maybe it 
 would have been better to wait a while before buying. Like reading the reviews to see what others 
 think of it, will give you a better idea of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The biggest achievement Blizzard pulled off here is taking what was already one of the most well-crafted 
 MMOs ever created and upstaging themselves with an even better product. And as much as people love 
 to complain about Blizzard's customer relations, they really and truly made this expansion pack 
 for the people who play the game and integrated two years worth of feedback to turn WoW into an 
 even more accessible and fun game.
  
  Starting with quests, the level of detail and plot outline is at a higher level than anything in 
 the base game. The most stark contrast is roll a new character in the base game and compare the 
 quests and lore you see with the quests and lore you see in the Draenai and Blood Elf starting 
 zones. It's night and day. Blizz immediately draws players into storylines that matter and capture 
 your imagination. The detail continues into Outland for max-level characters. The sheer volume 
 of quests is staggering, and the depth those storylines take you reach a level never touched in 
 the base game.
  
  On to instance design, those dungeon crawls that always looked amazing in the base game but could 
 become a chore or a grind and sometimes felt a bit disconnected to the zones in which they were 
 placed. Blizz set their high water mark early with The Deadmines in Moonbrook, and no other instance 
 ever really came close to that level of story integration and plot unfolding as you dove through 
 it for the first time. In Outlands, Blizz finally brings the dungeon crawl back to that awesome 
 level of story integration into the zone (Coilfang Reservoir has some of the best lore) and MUCH 
 more compelling boss fights that each have a unique tactic and style to its own. Kharazan itself 
 is the carrot at the end of the stick, and it delivers on all fronts. Beautiful level and environmental 
 design, and its own storyline that takes you through a 10-man raid zone but keeps quests going 
 throughout the instance. A far cry from stuff like Ahn'Qiraj, which sort of just plopped you into 
 a zone to kill stuff with no real quest lore to carry you through anything.
  
  Much has already been said about the graphics and art direction, and it's plain to anyone that 
 the zone design reached a new high both in terms of how cool the environments look but also in 
 how realistic the terrain feels. We finally have crags and cliffs and plateaus and rolling hills 
 and natural realistic features to the terrain. Zangarmarsh is a highlight, but zones like Hellfire 
 Peninsula and Nagrand feel truly lived in and weathered by time and nature.
  
  All told, I'm amazed I'm still playing a single video game after two years. The fact that this 
 game just become even better and more compelling is an incredibly tribute to the people creating 
 this stuff at Blizzard and I can't wait to see what they continue to do with this universe they've 
 created from the ground up in the years ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanone3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I bought the Burning Crusade the day it hit the stores. It loaded flawlessly and I've been riding 
 around killing stuff and completing quests ever since, at every opportunity. If you have a significant 
 other and/or kids who need your attention, you might want to consider if the consequences of buying 
 this game are worth it. Or you might have to hire a surrogate significant other..... it's that addictive. 
 The play areas are huge, with seemingly endless quests and monsters to kill. If you are a loner, 
 never fear, there is plenty to do to level up that doesn't require groups. If you love the dynamics 
 of group play, there are plenty of instances, none of which require a 40 man raid. Yes, that usually 
 means you don't have to scour the globe for people to group with. The loot is better, the money 
 rewards are better and the monsters have some different abilities to deal with.
  Good thing I believe it's a sin to sell your soul for something. I just might for this, otherwise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lart
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  First of the good things.
  The leveling from 60-70 in the outlands is fun. There are many things to explore, and the stories 
 are overall great, if you take your time.
  On the other hand, this experience is quite short and you can reach the final level quite fast.
 
  
  Openpvp has been made worthwhile, even on unbalanced realms.
  Many small 5 man dungeons offer a nice diversion from the normal leveling.
  
  The bad things:
 
  Rendering everything you got and found in the old world worthless. Item Balancing completely broken. 
 I. e. 1 manable quests rewards beat epics from 5 hours heroic dungeons.
  Badly tuned heroic dungeons (unfinished)
  Badly tuned raid dungeons, requiring special group 
 setups, horrible trashmobs (timesink) and respawn timers.
  ID system does not allow you to raid in different goups, making raid stacking much harder.
  Minimal 
 endgame content.
  Timesinks and faction grinds, running the same content over and over again for broken loottables 
 and rewards.
  Resistance fights are back, prepare to run stupidly tuned heroic instances over and over for your 
 resistance equipment.
  
  Overall this content patch/addon gives a great leveling experience and an endgame that looks broken 
 beyond belief. The price itself for a content addon, that is missing in most areas of new features 
 is a bit hefty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guggu
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited expansion to the GOTY-awarded MMORPG 'World of Warcraft' that was released back 
 in November 23rd 2004 - World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade; finally arrived on the shelves, 
 January 16th 2007. --
  Pros: Level-cap raised to 70, new zones and dungeons, 2 new races, 1 new proffession, great soundtrack.
 
  
  Cons: Most of the pre-existing content are now useless, Desperately butchered lore for the game's 
 advantage, no real differences between the player-factions, mediocre story, very repititive quests.
 
  --
  
  A little more than two years has passed since the release of the original game, World of Warcraft. 
 Being very simplistic designed World of Warcraft is very user-friendly, both in terms of system 
 requirements and ease-of-use.
  
  This haven't changed in World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, which is both a good, and a bad 
 thing. WoW: TBC brings a lot of new stuff to the table; some being- level-cap that has been raised 
 to 70, a whole new continent called Outland and of course, the new proffession Jewelcrafting.
 
  
  There are many new zones and dungeons, flying mounts (That is ONLY useable in the new continent) 
 and of course the two races Dranei, and Blood Elf. Unfortunately, this is pretty much all the new 
 major content that there is. One would believe that the expansion would include something, revolutionary 
 to cater to their playerbase of 8 millions, but yet, no. It seems like Blizzard's creativity that 
 they had back in the '90ies, have faded away, just like all the original creators of World of Warcraft. 
 There is much that Blizzard have promised for their games during the years, one being guildhalls 
 for Diablo II, that obviously never happened, nor did it happen in The World of Warcraft that was 
 released a few years later. My major aspect of a MMORPG is the community, and I have yet to see 
 anything at all - in a game of Blizzard's - that actually promotes the community, like guildhalls, 
 or player-housing.
  
  As I mentioned earlier in the Pros and Cons section; most of the pre-existing content in WoW are 
 now useless, with many thanks to it's younger brother; The Burning Crusade. As you enter the Dark 
 Portal, the entrance to Outlands, for the first time and see that new Mars-like landscape, only 
 to get a big-letdown once you loot your first item - that it is on-par or even better than that 
 epic equipment you have been grinding for months, in the original game. That's not a good first-impression 
 in my opinion - having to realize that all that time, the grinding have been a simple waste of 
 time. Not to mention that you get gear from solo-quests, that is much better than your used-to-be 
 top-notch gear from the original game. In terms of risk-vs-reward, WoW: The Burning Crusade - is 
 kingdom of heaven in the eyes of casual players.
  
  I know that less than 0.001% of WoW's population are hardcore fans of the Warcraft RTS games and 
 takes lore very seriously, unlike a major portion of the population. But lore, isn't something 
 that you simply change with a snap of your fingers.
  
  The game should be based on lore, not the other way around. The quests themselves in the game show 
 a great lack of creativity and ideas.. since every quest are basically the same. Kill X, Get Y - 
 repeat 
  
  Blizzard went the Microsoft-monopoly way: Step 1: Make a product the cheapest way possible.
  
 Step 2: Advertise as if your product is better than it really is.
  Step 3: Overprice your product and release it.
  Step 4: Force people to upgrade. Step 5: Swim 
 in cash.
  Step 6: Repeat. One thing that I actually did find excellent in Burning Crusade was the sound.. but 
 that's pretty much it.
  
  Conclusion: World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is very simple like it's predecessor, easy to 
 play and easy to learn. I recommend this game to the people that thought the Original World of 
 Warcraft was good, but wants more. World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is basically, the original 
 World of Warcraft in a shining new box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_Hakked_WoW
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Please, devs, there is almost NO new gameplay in this expansion. what happened to seige 
 weapons? hero classes? player owned  these are all things i would 
 have payed 50 bucks for. Two new races? wow. how does this bring anything new? the same old classes 
 just in a new skin. exciting. its the same old thing as it was before, you brought almost NOTHING 
 new to the table considering you had TWO YEARS to do this expansion ArenaNet (guild wars) can do 
 5x this much in 6 months. but it is wow.
  
  Graphics: Horrible. There really isnt much about hte graphics anyone could enjoy.
  
  Sound: 
 Now this is where WoW shines. Wow is one of the few games i can keep the sound on for more than 
 a month of playing. Value: Its really not worth 50.00 bucks for so little it brings to wow
  
  Difficulty: people play wow because its easy. Easy difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natedogg9610
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the original World of Warcraft you'll love it even more now that the Burning Crusade 
 expansion has finally been released. If you've never played World of Warcraft before, than you're 
 in for an extremely large, immense and phenomenally enjoyable RPG experience after buying this 
 game. The depth of this game gives the hardcore fans enough content to last a life-time but then 
 again the casual players will find exactly what they're looking for to fulfill the quick thrills 
 of modern video gaming.
  
  This game is so good I would go purchase a brand new computer just to install and play it.
  
 
  I've played all different MMOs and every other gaming genre out there. This one takes the cake... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlo619
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is like cigarettes, once you start, you cant stop, i have played wow since 2004, i had 
 to stop a while ago because it took over my life, then i went to a friends house and played the 
 expansion and then i couldn't stop, i went to pick up a copy as soon as i was going home, and i 
 played it for about 25hours the first time i got it, everything about it is perfect, the level 
 cap was raised just enough to get you to have fun while not making you feel you made a completely 
 new character, and outland is amazing, but the best part is all the new dungeons, i do one everyday 
 since i got it and im still not bored, but if don't know whether to buy it, believe me buy it, 
 NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  All original games have always gotten better rating then their expansions and most sequels. Its 
 just how it works. Pros: The burning crusade Gives a whole new world to the already big world of 
 warcraft. Gives wow gamers an entirely new set of gaming fun. Adds a lot to the already existing 
 game. It balances out players that have been playing since it came out and players who just got 
 to lvl 60. Cons: The new stuff in outland pretty much outshines everything in azeroth. With nearly 
 nobody in azeroth anymore, they kinda let a waste to it. Blizzard has made it even more time consuming 
 now. Its taking a lot of time to lvl a simple lvl past 60. they've doubbled the experience requierd 
 and it doesnt get any easier along the way. Some ppl may look at this as good. Now I got something 
 to do! But I still stand for my earlier statement, this game is not about how good or well you 
 play it. It is about how much time you spend playing it!
  
  Good work blizz you have achieved to make ppl all around the world super adictiv and have made 
 an expansion to the best and greatest game ever. Woohoo! people are actually having serious problems 
 with this game. And it has gotten as serious as drugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buck_n_burn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Back to the 5 man instance, horray. No more relying on 40 people to run something. Content is good., 
 plus blizzard is constant working on new material. I am impressed so far.
  
  I love reading reviews about how wow crashes there computer, blah blah blah, most games will crash 
 time to time. I havent had any of these problems. I recently went to nvidia and can tell the difference 
 in how objects are rendered compaired to ati. Seems fine anyway.
  
  Got a kick out of the review talking about bots in SS and tanaris, dont really know what this has 
 to do with anything. I think a lot of the bad reviews are coming from people that didnt have enough 
 nerve to sell there account before the expansion came out and now there tier 2 / 3 is worthless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordtorka
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics are the same they have been for years, and the gameplay hasnt changed much 
 at all, this expack has raised the world of warcraft even closer to video game perfection than 
 it already was. Not only did it provide days upon days to the amount of time for a new player to 
 reach the level cap, it also allows the already end game players to level even high and enjoy the 
 game even more. This is the only game that I can think of where you can spend 100 or more days 
 playing and not get bored. The monthly fee isnt even that bad considering that with all the time 
 you spend playing WoW, you really dont need other games, so you save the money that you would 
 have otherwise spent renting or buying other games. Making WoW that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sporkum
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This is infact a great expansion as far as MMO expansions come. Everything you expect and more 
 in terms of new content for experienced players to WoW; yet still inviting to people brand new 
 to the game.
  However, Blizzard really let down alot of its long time RTS fans who know the story and can see 
 straight through the gaping plot holes in their now swiss cheese thin backstory. Call them what 
 you will, the race formerly known as High Elves would not ally with corrupt Undead or Orcs after 
 what happened to their homelands on several occasions. Lets not even talk about the insane grabage 
 made up about beings of Light as to the Dranei side.
  All in all, they slaughtered their own story to make some soft reason to allow each faction the 
 full class spectrum :P Whats the point of choosing either side if theres no real tactical differences.
 
  Game = *****
  Story = * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft came out two years ago, and was easily one of the best games of that year and 
 the best MMORPG to ever grace the market. Now, two years later, after a long wait, it comes out 
 with an expansion, is it worth the wait to all eight million players, or is it not worth paying 
 40 bucks for. Well, it depends.
  
  If your a veteran whos played for over a year or so, and you're already level 60, than ur wait 
 is worth it. But if your new or a mid level person, then really thers not too much here for you 
 to offer. Sure there are some things in it that you can do at any level, but if your already happy 
 with what you have, or are not in the mood for professions and anything, then you'll be left in 
 the dust. However if your a level 60 veteran, than your totally going to have fun with this, cause 
 all of you people who are all up and here and stuff can explore a new continent and get higher 
 rewarding quests and money, plus new gear. Not to mention a flying mount if you're a rich snob.
 
  
  The graphics in the game show some age. Not only at this time are they getting dated, but environments 
 are starting to look odd for this day around, and some of the detail isn't enough anymore. Characters 
 still look nice though, and the BLoodelf starting area is artistically amazing, its just the other 
 parts where they are beginning to fall.
  
  There are two new races to Burning Crusades, the BLoodelves and the Draeni. These two races have 
 some very interesting backstories, but the Draeni are unoriginal and nothing special. They're area 
 is is definatley like an afterthough, spreading jewels and such around everywhere. The Bloodelves 
 are very interesting though, and prove a much more fascinating backstory and a much more artistic 
 area to start in. The draeni are like an Alliance Tauren and the Bloodelves are like Horde Night 
 Elves.
  
  The sound in the game is still stellar and great. There are the same great tunes to cities and 
 wilderness areas, and great sound effects. The voice effects for NPC's are also nicely done.
  
  The gameplay is pretty similar to World of Warcraft. Only, it plays just like it. Although 
 this isn't a sequel, the gameplay should have some new ideas by now, such as guild warfare and 
 such. If there was a little more variety to the gameplay, this would be a much better game.
  
  There is little value in the game. For mid levels and newer players its not a great idea to 
 spend a full price on this. If your a level 60 veteran though, your good to buy this, cause its 
 worth it to you. With all in mind, World of Warcraft the Burning Crusade, gets a 7.1 out of 10. 
 Yeah, bet you didn't see that coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggertjrr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  How WOW is new and exciting.....
  
  1. WOW has been, and always will be an action/adventure RPG game. I can only ask those who keep 
 reviewing saying its the same old WOW, been there/done that routine... What the heck were you expecting? 
 .. a FPS? Comeon, WOW delivers on all fronts... fantastic storyline, awesome new quests, incredible 
 new zones with new creatures and monsters, brand new skills and talents, A FLYING MOUNT, new classes, 
 a new BG, new equipment, and it goes on and on and on. 2. Im also amazed at how many of you review 
 saying.... Well I played for 2 years and now its gotton boring What were you doing for two years 
 while you played? Hating every minute of it? Was someone holding a gun to your head forcing you 
 to play? No... you were absolutely astounded at the complexity of the game... I still learn new things 
 almost weekly despite playing for almost 2 years now. If you have played your toon (I play a rogue) 
 for any length of time, and you have somewhat of a brain (which disqualifies many of you) , you 
 realize that fighting in WOW is situational... ie. different combat strategies and tactics for different 
 classes and situtions. This holds true in PVP, PVE, as well as in dungeons. I'm constantly having 
 to analyze the environment and play my rogue accordingly. Its absolutely incredible!! NO game has 
 ever captivated my attention like WOW!! Its pure genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruiparvo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  WOW The Burning Crusade is a great expansion that features lots of features never introduced to 
 WOW, including the two new races: Draenei and Blood Elf. This two new races are the most important 
 feature in this expansion, but there are many other things such as the jewelcrafting profession.
 
  If you have WOW buy this expansion, you will love it.
  If you do not have WOW buy both of them, the expansion and WOW.
  This is also a good game because 
 it never ends.
  This last part is only for filling
  THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME 
 IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE 
 GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME 
 IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE 
 GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME 
 IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE 
 GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME 
 IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE 
 GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME 
 IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE 
 GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! THE GAME IS GREAT! This last part was only for filling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that it took Blizzard more than 2 years to come up with this, especially considering 
 the amount of money they are probably getting, from the eight million subscriptions they have.
 
  
  The problem with this expansion, is that it doesn't really add anything new or exciting. It expands 
 upon what is there: a formula that is tired and old. You still do the same repetitive quest lines, 
 the same grinding, and so on.
  
  The biggest problem with this MMO though, is how easy and shallow it is. This becomes very apparent 
 when you reach the endgame, and find yourself doing the same old instances. Another major problem 
 this game has, is its sense of community. How can the world feel alive when everyone is in an instance 
 somewhere? How can you have a sense of community, and challenge, when there isn't a huge incentive 
 to group. One other thing you'll notice, is the lack of lack of maturity in the community, as soon 
 as you log in. All the constant trash talking and bickering, you'll think you're playing a FPS 
 on X-box live. If all that kiddy crap isn't for you, play another MMO, any other MMO, and you'll 
 be happy you're not playing WoW.
  
  One of the good things about this game though, are the graphics. Sure, they are cartoony, but what 
 people who criticize it for that don't realize, is that they artistically beautiful, and more imaginative 
 than any other MMO out there. It's a fantasy world, and it's one of the few games that doesn't 
 require you to use your imagination when looking at it. It's what a fantasy world should be. The 
 beauty is all there. Great artistic style, and more importantly, very distinctive.
  
  After paying $50, plus $40 for the expansion, plus another $400 in subscription fees in the last 
 2 years, it becomes even more apparent that this expansion is lacking, and is too little, too late. 
 The rate at which content is added, is way too slow, especially given the amount of money Blizzard 
 has. It's even a bigger slap in the face, because this expansion adds nothing revolutionary to 
 the game, just the same old thing, for another 10 levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wardenb
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, posibly game i have been waiting a life time for, on Jan 
 16th 2007 i qued outside my local game store a hour before it opend, i was there before everyone 
 else, i had the first copy, i got the bus home installed it the exitment was too much to bear... 
 i was instantly hooked back into the world of warcraft, i loved seeing the new outland areas the 
 Fel reavers in the first area looked awsome, about 40 hours of play later 3 lvl's lots of instances 
 and some pvp, i realised, that the game was basicly the same as the last, kill, gain xp, kill, 
 gain xp, kill, gain xp, and so on the idea of leveling up bored me, i left the world of wacraft 
 for good...
  
  The best game i had ever played had killed itself, with its first expansion pack, i had spent many 
 hours grinding in pvp, going to 40 man raids, enjoying AQ 40 BWL and a few times naxx.... and to 
 see my gear being replaced in a few moments by green items that could be brought off the auction 
 house.... no this was not for me.
  
  The gameplay to world of warcraft has always been a very simple, you click and wait, there is hardly 
 any skill needed one for the most part, getting to lvl 60 from lvl 1 is rather boring, not only 
 is it boring but it takes ages, and then when you get to level 60 you can start playing the game, 
 before lvl 60 the game is basicly nothing, the PvP was the only part in the game i still enjoy 
 today, its a shame that TBC has mucked that up.
  
  The Graphics are outdated, and cartoony, they work very well with the game and it is ment to run 
 on almost any computer,
  
  The audio on world of warcraft is superb, there is nothing like hearing a nice score while you 
 charge into battle.
  
  Its Value is diferent for everyone, if you want something to consume your life (thus meaning you 
 iwll be playing alot) then it becomes good value, but if you are a casual gamer and do not play 
 more than 5 hours of it a week then it no longer becomes worth the &pound;8:99 a month just to 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stain1ess
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  In reviewing the new expansion, which you can't really access unless you've reached level 60 in 
 the original world of warcraft, I have to give some background on my overall experience in the 
 Warcraft game. I really enjoyed the starting areas and the way they brought you into the game and 
 universe. The questing and grouping was fun. The tradeskills and economical system seemed intimidating 
 to a self professed n00b , but I eventually grasped the concept of both to become average. Once 
 I became fully enveloped and efficient, and I finally hit L60 with my priest, which I became really 
 goad at being a support player. Got aggressive and changed from healer to shadow (damage) then 
 found I was having a hard time getting good gear and the fact that I had run out of beneficial 
 quests to solo became a bit annoying. I had gotten this priest up to L60 on a PVP server, and I 
 really enjoyed the atmosphere, and became good at dealing with fighting against other classes, 
 including rogues and the occasional inexperienced shaman. But ultimately I wanted to finish quests 
 and raids without constant being ganked or distracted continuosly by an opposing group of five 
 while i'm trying solo to complete quests, so I made the move to a pve server. Rolled a rogue and 
 found that more to my liking and got that to 60 as well. My experience was that Blizzard takes 
 into account alot of the balancing issues but still maximizes the time it takes you to reach some 
 goals. At $15 a month, they want you to take forever and make it as much of a time sink as possible, 
 for obvious reasons. For those that want to argue of having a life vs not having a life this could 
 be a separate topic of itself and probably not paramount when writing a review of a game's worth 
 or value. it is still just my opinion. The original game had tons of content but still the issue 
 for me was trying to feel like i'm getting my $15 worth every month because even if I'm not on 
 a super tight budget and can afford it, I want to get the most out of it and get the most out of 
 my money. If you have an addictive personality, you can imagine those all night just finish this 
 one more quest binges. So I cancelled my original WoW monthly subscription account a month or so 
 after I hit 60 and my guild began mainly doing bi-weekly dungeon raids and working for the drops. 
 Our guild leader set off on farming rep and that was such a time sink to me I didn't want to spend 
 hours and hours killing the same templars for the same drops to turn in, even if the weapons and 
 loot you eventually acquired seemed to be super elite. (I hate Silithus) When raiding dungeons, 
 our guild master used the master looter system and the leader was quite knowledeable and fair when 
 dispensing with who acquired the drops based on consistent attendance, class, and need. It worked 
 out well but as I said I grew tired of the same old grind and I cancelled the scrip as I lost the 
 motivation for logging on for 3 hour dungeon runs or farming rep.
  
  So 4 months go by and Burning Crusade comes out. I resist. I resist. I break down and buy burning 
 crusade. I managed to hold out for a week. They said in multiple previews that the amount of content 
 in the Burning Crusade was so vast and there would be enough for it to take you as long to go from 
 Level 60 to Level 70 as it did from 0 - 60. This is not true, from my perspective. I have been 
 playing for about a week and a half at most and im easily right about to hit L68. Some of the quests, 
 areas, and objectives are alot of fun, and I like the option to play or bypass the pvp objectives 
 in each area, but can we please get past kill 30 clefthoof bulls, 30, ravenous windrocs, etc, type 
 quests? These types of grinds to me are an annoyance, and simply repetitive of the original wow 
 content. although sometimes they can be a necessary annoyance since they do give good XP and gold. 
 I've managed to solo some quests that suggest that should be done as a group, but others I have 
 run into the same 2 or three people working the same quest line and grouped up with them and got 
 a great deal done quicker and I do say when that happens you feel a great sense of accomplishment. 
 To me the keys to the Burning Crusade being a positive experience for you are having the extra 
 money to spend every month and it not being an issue nagging you in the back of your mind, finding 
 a group of friends that play about the same amount of time as you, that have the same objectives 
 in mind, that have a good attitude and you enjoy working and playing together with and enjoy what 
 the game has to offer. It offers so much and is easily accessible to n00bs and hardcores alike. 
 Sometimes I really like to quest solo. There's enough content to where you can likely solo quest 
 to L70 (at 68 with minimal group help, so assume so) if thats your play styel. There is just so 
 much content and quest types that both casual and obsessive personalitiy types can be easily pleased. 
 But wait, what about these obsessive personality types? Some are just obsessive about having to 
 complete as much content as they can and play for 10 hours at a time. I'm not usually that type 
 of person, but at $15 a month I find that I feel pressured and unable to play at a leisurely pace 
 and enjoy all it has to offer due to the financial aspect of the subscription. I want to have it 
 there for me to play but when i'm paying a premium for it I feel obligated and can easily prioritize 
 that and neglect other areas of my life. Now dont take this as im some guy warning you the dangers 
 of these types of games, but I would be remiss if I didn't admit and confess the impact this has 
 had on me, mainly due to the financial investment this game ultimately requires and my need to 
 feel like I am maximizing my investment. I don't disagree with the subscription aspect of the content 
 at all. I am glad they are always installing patches, anti-hacks, adding new content, adjusting 
 skills, talents, quests, dungeons, etc. I had to respec for the third time when I fired up the 
 Crusade because they changed rogue tree. These are some of the good aspects of a subscription based 
 MMO game.
  
  But truly, buyer beware, even though it's a grind, and there is alot to see and do, you can find 
 yourself really trying to accomplish alot in a short amount of time if you are on a budget and 
 know you probably will cancel after the first month or two. I do like that this game has it's own 
 look and feel, and the interface is so natural I, a self professed first time MMORPG n00b have 
 found myself unable to play Guild Wars or other MMORPGs that don't even have a scrip fee that I 
 rant and complain about, simply because its not wow .
  
  I wish this had been a major patch, or even hellfire being a patch, then nagrand, terokkar, etc, 
 later. I shelled out $50 for the original game, and I just shelled out another $40 for an expansion 
 and then another $15 to basically play it for one month, because I have too much other things in 
 my life to justify spending that monthly fee every month. It can be a very addicting game and it 
 also has alot of fun elements as well. I do realize to the hardcore players that raided MC and 
 all the dungeons to get their high tier gear are upset because now the L63 - 66 drops are quite 
 comparable. I actually prefer this now because I don't want to have to join a guild, do a 4 hour 
 raid on the one chance that the dragon I have to kill is going to actually drop the shadowcraft 
 spaulders and then an even lower chance that I will be one of the three rogues that rolls the highest 
 to get the drop. If in a guild as I mentioned before it's not much of an issue for GETTING the 
 loot but now it is overall due to the amount of time you put in to get it. Blizzard is trying to 
 please everyone and overall they've done an excellent job at it. With 8million subscribers paying 
 a minimum of $12.99 a month (if you do the 3 month recurring) , that's a ton of money for being 
 able to play the game. Support from Blizzard HAS to be massive, to host and maintain all those 
 servers, so I can't complain too much that they have to charge, but where is the balance. They're 
 certainly not losing any money and in my opinion would garner and possible reacquire more players 
 with even a minimal price drop in the subscription.
  
  So i DO like the aspect of being able to just grind and quest. I actually enjoy questing most of 
 all and this is the main reason I bought the expansion. I hate the Nesingway guy though, because 
 I just dont even want to bother with killing 30 ravenous windrocs just to go kill the named Gutripper 
 windroc. Like my title suggests, it's too much like that old familiar girlfriend that you have 
 really fond memories of and then you spend a little too much time with her again after being away 
 from each other for awhile and you start to get reminded of all the little things that ultimately 
 ruinded it for you.
  
  Overall, I still have to give the game a good rating, based on the gameplay, environment, storylines, 
 and generally massive amounts of content that is available. It is still very playable on my aging 
 computer, and although the graphics are dated, the game has a style all it's own that makes it 
 largely a non-issue. The lore and stories they have put into the game and questing lines is just 
 amazing. The amount of work and time that has to go into such a large game as this is almost as 
 mind blowing as the amount of money Blizzard is raking in. Will they forever ditch starcraft since 
 they can keep riding this cash cow? And with their plans of releasing a new expansion every year 
 or two, why can't they all be patches? We're already paying a monthly premium and then we have 
 to pay $40 extra each year or two to access content when we're already loyal and established customers? 
 I appeal to Blizzard to lower their scrip fee, even if it is by 30% or 50%, and I would more likely 
 continue my relationship. Right now I still really like you but this is one high maintenance girlfriend 
 that requires alot of attention and may be ultimately aggravating if not taken with the correct 
 attitude.
  
  P. S. for those that make over 50K a year, and have lots of free time and make most of their money 
 off investments instead of working 20 hour days, and don't have a girlfriend that requires alot 
 of attention, just add 2 points to my overall review score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok now I know people will be thinking '5.0?! This guy has no idea!'. Unfortunately I do...
  
  For me 'The Burning Crusade' is too little, too late. Simply for the reason that it doesn't 
 actually add much. Admittedly it adds a whole new planet to explore, Outland (Which isnt so great 
 as the planet has been blasted to bits and is evidently small) . Within this 'Outland' (A. K. A Draenor) 
 you will find nice scenery. And that is about as far as Blizzards creativity took them... Everything 
 else is a simple re-skin of other mobs found on Azeroth. With the difference of a few added spikes 
 here and there.
  
  For those gamers who played WoW at 60 grinding their way to tier gear this is going to be upsetting. 
 Why? Because within 20 minutes in outland a random green drop will be better than what you have 
 spent over 50 hours trying to get. I had a level 58 and went through to the portal. Doing 1 quest 
 I was given a new staff (Druid) . It was evidently better than 90% of the weapons in the Raids on 
 Azeroth. And as a lvl 58 I was basically doing the same damage as a 60 with tier gear on... I of 
 course didn't mind but for those who have spent hours grinding their gear surely it would send 
 them nuts...
  
  As ive said the scenery is very interesting. I grew bored of the first part within the first day 
 or two but found Terrokar Forest and the other adjacant places to be nice eye-candy. Again filled 
 with mobs that are just re-skins of what you had in Azeroth. Again with the difference of spikes, 
 or in some cases just enlarged a bit. You can get hours of fun out of this game im sure if you 
 don't mind grinding and grinding and grinding and grinding... With some added grinding. But for 
 me ive been there, done it and now I just don't want to know...
  
  As we all know World of Warcraft has been out for around 2 years now. For as little as what The 
 Burning Crusade offers I seriously ask myself 'Are Blizzard taking the p***?!'. 2 Years! For an 
 expansion pack that brings you about as much content as a diet coke gives you sugar!
  
  I have been playing since the open beta and will be stopping shortly as to be honest I don't see 
 Blizzard offering anything new. The updates are never REAL updates... They just make one class 
 awesome for a few months then pull them back down and call that an update.
  
  As ive seen in another review also. Characters arn't unique... They are all the same and everyone 
 eventually goes for the same gear. Which makes getting it REALLY hard if it is classed as a 'rare' 
 item. I also agree that for what content they actually give they are charging too much.
  
  Blizzard have clearly run out of ideas and are generally struggling to keep this game running. 
 Their creativity is of the same standard as you would expect from a slug and generally after 2 
 years of play it's gotten damn boring. They even have re-skins of the tier gear. Believe me I have 
 seen it! Same lvl 60 tier gear just a different colour... And thats creativity for you kids! Thanks 
 for the cash...
  
  Generally im HIGHLY disappointed and don't recommend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberomega
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Long before burning crusade came out, there were plenty of people who had complained about the 
 level cap being raised, how their items would become out of date, the ones that they spent all 
 their time working on, and how they wouldnt have need to play the game anymore because of all the 
 time they invested into the game.
  
  Well unfortunately for them that wasnt true. While most items are replaced by the time your level 
 66, anyone in tier 2 or 3 armor is going to be using it right up until 70. I myself made 70 in 
 9 days from 60, and I still have a little bit of my original gear that I have yet to replace.
 
  
  Burning Crusade may have been a disappointment to few, but it was a blessing to most. The game 
 offers vast, beautiful new zones that wow you the moment you enter them (forgive the pun) . From 
 Thrallmar in Hellfire Peninsula to Area 52 in Netherstorm, the game offers hundreds, if not thousands 
 of new quests for the player to immerse themselves in. Every zone is unique in its own way, and 
 although Blades' Edge Mountains lacked in quests, it made up in unique perspective.
  
  The instances are like a breath of fresh air from the instances we all have been running over and 
 over. Hellfire Citidel offers 4 new instances, 3 of which are non-raid, and have Heroic modes to 
 them. Though I have not yet had the chance to try out Heroic mode, once I do, that shall be another 
 story for another day. Coilfand Reservoir also offers 4 wings, one of which leads to Lady Vasj, 
 naga queen who helped Prince Kael'thas in his time of need. Pumping throughout all of the Zangarmarsh, 
 water is thrown into these sewers where you must fight naga, broken, and a slew of other opponents.
 
  
  Auchindoun, a personal favorite, has 4 wings as well, each with its own theme, from Ethereals, 
 mummified energy beings, to Arrakoa, a bird like race, much resembling the Skeksis from the movie 
 The Dark Crystal .
  
  Tempest Keep, one of the harder instances to run, is only accessable if you have a flying mount 
 or a very patient warlock. Four wings make up this instance, three of which are satelites to to 
 the central building, which houses Prince Kael'thas, leader of the Blood Elves.
  
  Dozens of new monsters and creatures litter the land in Outland, as well as the new zones of the 
 Blood Elves and Dreanei. I'm sure you have all heard enough about Blood Elves and Dreanei, so I 
 won't delve too much into them, aside from the fact that Blood Elf rogues are amazing. Horde, prepare 
 for many wins in battlegrounds.
  
  I haven't yet had the chance to try out Eye of the Storm, but from what I myself have heard, it 
 is a lot of fun.
  
  The Caverns of Time is so unique, that it isn't exactly an instance, but more of a story line. 
 When you are in Durnholde Keep rescuing Thrall from imprisonment, you don't exactly need to do 
 this, you could instead walk over to Old Southshore and see a little bit of story that Blizzard 
 threw in there. Our good friends Herod (as a boy) , Mograine, and Kel'thuzad himself are there doing 
 whatever it is that they do. The Black Morass is mostly an endurance fight, but the rush makes 
 it fun nonetheless.
  
  As for the Battle of Mount Hyjal, It is going to be some time until anyone gets there. The instance 
 requires you to run just about every instance in Heroic mode, kill Lady Vasj and Prince Kael'thas, 
 craft a key and run through numerous quests, as well as finish both Durnholde Keep and the Black 
 Morass before you can even enter it.
  
  Overall, if you play World of Warcraft, get this expansion. If you don't have World of Warcraft, 
 get the game so you can get this expansion.
  
  I have always been a Warcraft fan, and World of Warcraft continues to not dissappoint me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius76
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this review short and sweet, for those that don't need an essay. If you're a current 
 or former WoW player looking for more content, TBC is well worth your $39.99. This is probably 
 the greatest expansion pack released for any game ever, let alone an MMO. It really raises the 
 bar for what was considered epic and adds to the already impressive lore of Azeroth. On to the 
 pros/cons:
  
  Pros:
  
  -Lots of new content to explore. It will take months to see it all.
  -Outland is HUGE with beautiful 
 and varied environments.
  -Flying mounts! -Gear balancing. Green drops that equal/better previous epics.
  -Tons of new 
 quests.
  -10 new levels of talents/skills/spells.
  -Tier 4 and 5 armor sets!!!
  -New lore/storyline developments (yes, some of us care) .
  -New 5-man instances!
  -25-man content!
 
  -Heroic instances for lvl 70 adds new flavor to old instances.
  -New World PvP content.
  -Jewelcrafting/socketed items add new customization options.
  -New items/recipes for existing 
 professions.
  
  Cons:
  
  -Blizzard recycled a lot of weapon and item skins for new items.
  -Some buggy/broken quests.
 
  
  Overall the good heavily outweighs the bad. Sure, the servers were laggy and prone to crashing 
 on the higher population realms at first, but considering the number of active players I think 
 Blizzard's implementation of the expansion pack was great. If you're one of the vocal minority 
 that constantly gripes about the game on the official forums and elsewhere, I'm sure you'll have 
 a lot more fuel for the fire. The rest of us are more than satisfied with TBC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clocktalk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  There is nothing that quite can explain the feeling i get when i play WoW The Burning Crusade. 
 This game is truly a game that everyone should try at least once because once you do, there is 
 no going back you will be hooked. Everything from the awsome quests , to the beautiful envirornments 
 will have you in AWE. The fun you can have battleing other players or grouping with a fellow faction 
 to take down the most nasty of bosses is truly a enjoyment beyond all others. I have been playing 
 Wow for 2 years and still do not ever get tired of it thats just how addicting this game is. I 
 sudgest you go out and get your copy today. ITS THAT DAMN GOOD and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSmileyFace
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Now i played origanl WoW for like a year non stop then once i got to 60 and full epiced it just 
 died off. I was excited hearing they have a new expansion but i thought why are we paying for this? 
 Yeah i bought it finally my friends made me cave into the idea of getting it and sadly im not impressed 
 on why it is an expansion. Blizzard has always done this they call something an expansion when 
 only they are releasing SOME new content and new areas. I personally think this should be a patch 
 more than anything. Since i can remeber Diable 2 and Diablo 2 LOD the expansion brought some new 
 stuff and areas but i think it shouldve been more like a patch. I find yes Burning Crusades fun 
 and stuff but why buy it when i really think it should just be a patch. All in all it was good 
 but not worth the extra money i think blizzard needs to get a hold on what is really an expansion 
 and what is really a patch cause on my Orignal WoW box it said endless game play and i thought 
 it was gonna be free since they have me paying 15$ a month to play the game but guess i was wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jreenen
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I can understand why WoW is so popular, if you like easy grinding fast leveling and not even care 
 about getting a skilled player in MMORPG's its the game for you!!!
  I also understand Blizard choice in making it an easy game, everybody has to like it so lets make 
 it easy. The game doent challange me feels very static and scripted and it is totally out of balance.
 
  Graphics are good, sound is good, lore is great! (thats why i am so disappointed in this game, 
 very good lore very sad challange) .
  
  Sorry for all the WoW fanboy's and gir'l's but thats the way i feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I have finally bought into the hype and bought into the World Of Warcraft Franchise, purchasing 
 both the original game and its expansion pack.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, unless your playing with friends or your not easily distracted, the game 
 tends to drag on. The best way I have found to level is by completeing the vast ammount of quests 
 the game has to offer. About an hour into the game you begin to notice quests take a bit long to 
 complete on your own.
  
  Graphics for the game arnt bad, but could be better. For the most part are relitivly smooth showing 
 nice color contrast, but, there is still the minor bugs/glitches in them that tend to draw your 
 eye from the whole picture.
  
  The game does however have a large replay value. You have a choice between the sides (Alliance 
 and Horde) and the 5 characters the pertend to either side. Following that each one of those characters 
 have anywear from 4-8 job titles to choose from, each title having three skill trees to build on 
 leaving possiblities for characters almoast limitless.
  
  If your into role playing games with tedious tasks, complex builds and playing in a large online 
 community, or just like chasing small animals with large swords, World Of Warcraft: Burning Crusade 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anatoley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to play. It is worth all of the money it costs. There are some bugs to this 
 game but every game has bugs. The grinding from 60-70 is very easy and wont take even someone who 
 plays only a little a day long to hit 70. Also flying is the coolest thing added to the game. It 
 is worth the money to pay just to fly around doing nothing. It is a very addictive game and i believe 
 it to be a masterpiece. You should go out and buy this game as soon as possible. It is worth all 
 the money to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this expansion is amazing, I am just starting and I am astonished at how beautiful 
 and entertaining it is, the new places and landscapes are full with amazing live environment and 
 creatures, graphics are very well done, more details and colorful, all places you enter makes you 
 feel that your living in a dream world full of fantasy and magic, cities in special, very beautiful 
 and well made, and lots of new quests and instances to do, and if this is not enough, you have 
 two new races to try, each with new abilities.
  
  Bottom word, I love this expansion, and no need to say that Blizzard outdone itself this time, 
 very great job Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hob0j0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It seems like all the player reviews I've read that are bad because they are whining over how the 
 game is addicting. They say it's crappy, but if it were crappy, why are so many people addicted 
 to it. Burning Crusade is a great expansion to a great game. I will admit it is very addictive, 
 but it is very fun at the same time. -----Gameplay: It's the same old WoW gameplay. It's still 
 fun. There is so much more to do now in Outlands. Tons of new quests, armor, instances, and even 
 flying mounts. Getting used to Outlands is a challenge at first, but once you get used to it, it 
 will be a breeze.
  
  -----Graphics: The graphics look like they may be outdated, but with so many people playing, better 
 graphics would just create more lag. Still some of the environments look beautiful although they 
 are kind of cartoony.
  
  -----Sound: The sounds are still great. The music goes well with all the new lands. The clanging 
 of swords. The footsteps as you walk through a city. It's all still there.
  
  -----Value: Burning Crusade is $40, which is kind of expensive for a expansion. It is worth it 
 though, that is, if you have a level 60 character and can goto the Outlands. If you just want it 
 for the new races, you should probably wait. Besides Outlands, it is pretty much just a big patch. 
 Wait till you have at least a high level 50's character.
  
  -----Overall: Burning Crusade is a really great expansion. You just need to be able to pull yourself 
 away from the game so that you still will be able to maintain your social life. The people that 
 downgrade it because it is addicting are wrong. It is not a bad game at all. Once you try it, you 
 will see. Burning Crusade is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  At this point it's easy for me to say that the Burning Crusade did deliver. Two new races, the 
 Outland, an array of new five-man dungeons along with large scale raid dungeons. The amount of 
 new content packed in this expansion really is mind-blowing; and it's not all just about quantity. 
 TBC really captures the lore from the previous Warcraft games and implements and expands upon it 
 in the new areas. Going to the Caverns of Time for the first time is mind-blowing. While you're 
 saving Thrall from Prison it hits you: this really is what everyone wants to see in a new expansion. 
 The music is astounding everywhere in the new areas, it blends in perfectly. The art and design 
 is beyond what anyone expected, just watching the DVD with the collector's edition really gave 
 a clear example why. Overall, TBC really was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC2pwnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  After 2 years, the first World of Warcraft expansion pack has finally come out! Many new features 
 come with it, such as 2 new races for you to fight the opposing factions with, The mystical Draenei, 
 which can be the formerly Horde-exclusive class: Shmans, for the Alliance, And the Blood Elves 
 for the Horde, which can also be the formerly Alliance-exclusive class: Paladins. Characters of 
 level 58 or higher can fight in Outland, the former home of the Orcs and Draenei and the current 
 base of the Burning Legion. The level cap has been raised to level 70 and those at level 70 can 
 use flying mounts that you control in outland. Burning Crusade is a major improvement to the near 
 perfect mmorpg, and the best game of all time and the wait and the $40 are more than worth it. 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I feel as though The Burning Crusade was just what WoW needed at the time because I would notice 
 other players beginning to grow bored of the overly played content and the fact that people had 
 already acomplished most things whether it be quests, raids, or suits of armor. The raise in level 
 cap, addition of new items, weapons and armor not only for higher level content but as well as 
 low level content (Draenai and Blood Elf) stirs things up a bit and makes them interesting. Also 
 the new lands to explore, both beginniner and Outlands, makes the game interesting again because 
 there are new areas to explore and new situations to encounter. Of course all games have a downside 
 or two and in my opinion the only two I have seen are people lower than the level requirement for 
 Outlands reaching one of the main cities via mage portal and the extremely high cost of a epic 
 flying mount that is only summonable in Outlands.
  But overall it puts a new shine on the game and I hope to see more improvements and newer additions 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indigo42
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Great game, great xpansion, New races are awesome
  Outland is huge, tons of more gameplay
  
  And i have to say that there is nothing wrong with this xpack! The races are very well balanced
 
  And Outland has the perfect ammount of quests, objectives, and even PvP
  
  The arena is an awesome idea
  The new honor system is good to
  also the new armor and weapons 
 are awesome
  
  Now you dont have to raid to have top gear, you can do PvP and the arenas to get great weapons 
 and armor, and there fun! you can get a friend and do 2v2 if you wanted! Great ideas
  Great Xpack
  Great GAME! if you love WoW or just love gaming Period, pick up this xpack you will 
 not regret it and you will have tons of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigano
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  First time I played World of Warcraft I became addicted immediately. I've been playing for hundreds 
 and hundreds of hours, and I'm still playing to this day. I got this expansion within the first 
 24 hours it was out and started playing. I became even more addicted, especially to the Bloodelf 
 race. Although most servers I was on were too busy to actually do some serious quest/grinding, 
 I still liked all the new features included in this expansion. The new Jewelcrafting profession 
 is another good addition and makes the game for diverse. You can now really play the game any way 
 you like!
  
  Because the biggest part of the expansion is the world of Outland, which is only accessible when 
 you're level 58 or higher, this expansion gives the most value to experienced and veteran players. 
 This makes Burning Crusade a not so great expansion for beginners, but it can still give new players 
 a more versatile world to interact with. The new races both have their good and bad qualities and 
 in my opinion they're balanced quite good.
  
  Blizzard has opened the possibility for Horde players to make a Paladin character and for Alliance 
 players to make a shaman character. This little addition I think wasn't really a good step for 
 Blizzard to make. Now there's virtually no surreal difference between Horde and Alliance. But for 
 some players this may be a life saving add. Whatever takes your fancy.
  
  On the whole Burning Crusade is a great addition to the world of Azeroth and will open new doors 
 to those who have been playing for years and found themselves with nothing to do. New players can 
 enjoy the new races, items and classes. Fun for the whole family! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuerillaGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying: this game is good; very good.
  
  It's going to take you a while to get to 70.... and it's not going to do your homework while you 
 are getting there. There's no point going into detail about this expansion pack. If you already 
 play WoW, (unless you live under a rock) you've known about this expansion pack for ages, and have 
 known all the details as they have been revealed in the build-up towards the opening of the portal. 
 Basically, get the trial of WoW and see if you like it. If you do, go out and buy WoW and Burning 
 Crusade and play it. There is no reason for anyone who has an existing WoW level 60 to complain 
 about this game. It's simply more of the same of what everyone loves, and it works!
  
  But, unfortunately, as I hinted at above this game wont do your homework. Moderate yourself because 
 its going to take away ALOT of time, trust me. Or maybe dont buy it and live your life... your choice. 
 This game scores a 8.7 from me because it's a good game, regardless of the fact that it's kind 
 of addictive and takes alot of time away.
  
  I spose it is up to you to decide wether you want to involve yourself and become dedicated to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I love World of Warcraft and this new addition just makes and already great game better!
  
  The two new races have great racial abilities and bieng able to have a Shaman for the Aliance is 
 pretty sweet! Jewelcrafting adds some very neat items and so does the new socketed items and weapons! 
 Mobs drops are better then tier 1 armor from raids! Plus the already great storyline is continued 
 into outland through the Dark Portal (get you chars to lvl 58 ppl!) New mounts too to add a lil flavor 
 to the game, especially the flying mounts which are needed to reach some of the high level content 
 in outland. Very neat. Don't wait folks, get it today!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosierman5001
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I'm very cautiously optimistic about the game. I am all about the pvp. Last time I reviewed WoW 
 it wasn't so good. If I took 5 minutes to take a crap I missed honor that someone else got and 
 now he gets the rank 14 armor which isn't near as good as pve raiding gear. That was the problem. 
 It was impossible for 99% of the wow population to get competitive gear.
  
  The new PVP system with the burning crusade is what should have been put in the first place. I'm 
 not getting free epics. I have to spend alot of time pvping to get them, but eventually I will 
 get them. Instead of spending 16 hours a day over 13 weeks, I can expand that around MY LIFE. Sure 
 it may take a year or two, but eventually I'll get there. Systems like the current pvp system need 
 to be in the game as we've seen from the old pvp system, there are people out there with no life, 
 no goals, no ambition. Just absolute wastes of space who will participate and ruin the system for 
 everyone else by way over doing it. The last thing I like is I can finally work towards my armor 
 set doing what I like, PVPING. I don't even have to spend all night in a pve instance hoping for 
 a chance for a piece of armor just so I can go out and pvp with it. PVP for PVP armor. It's so 
 simple and should have been there from the start.
  
  I'm approaching this with caution though because I haven't seen what comes out of the top instances 
 yet. As long as the pvp armor remains competitive, there will be no problem. It doesn't have to 
 be the best armor, it just needs to be competitive. If raiders start taking weapons out of pve 
 instances and into battlegrounds that have double the dps as pvp weapons, we're going to have the 
 same problems all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Ding !, Exactly two weeks after the release of The Burning Crusade (TBC) Ive hit the new level 
 cap of 70. Now I am a fairly casual player however Ill admit that Ive spend allot more time playing 
 the past two weeks, Why ?.
  
  The answer is simple Blizzard managed to improve their already great World of Warcraft in almost 
 every aspect.
  With new races, a higher level cap, new area's and ton of new quests TBC does what any good expansion 
 should do; just add allot more fun and content.
  
  I've seen allot of negative comments on the web about TBC, most of them focus on the game just 
 adding more of the same .
  Well they are right, however in this case this is more of the same that people already enjoyed 
 during world of warcraft and will most definitely also enjoy in TBC.
  
  A few things that especially amazed me about TBC are the amount of new quests that are available 
 to you in the new area's and the looks of those area's. If you don't enjoy doing instances or simply 
 grinding xp there's more then enough quests to get you to 70.
  And while the game still holds true to warcraft's more or less comic graphic style blizzard has 
 managed to make some of the new area's look truly amazing.
  
  The new races are cool and fit right in with the rest of the bunch. And while I had some doubts 
 about the fact that both the Alliance and the Horde would be able to play as their former opposite 
 side specific class. It does work out and allows for some variety in instance tactics and group 
 play style for both of the factions
  
  Are there no negative sides to the expansion then ?, well I have yet to find any. The only negative 
 part I could mention is that you can lose yourself in the game just because it islike the original 
 world of warcraf, Highly Addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has once again proven that they are a top notch game development shop. The quality of 
 this expansion is astounding. The content in the Outland is immersive and there is lots of stuff 
 to do both as a solo player and with a 5-man group. I personally play with an established 5 man 
 and it's obvious the expansion was designed with that and solo play in mind. If solo and 5-man 
 is your preferred style of play and you have a level 60 character then you won't be disappointed. 
 I haven't played much with the new races so I can't speak much to that topic, but I have tinkered 
 around with them and it's pretty much the same as starting any of the other races. The new newbie 
 areas for the new races look amazing as do the new races themselves. One last comment that I would 
 like to make about WoW in general is how great this game looks graphically. IMO, it's a true artistic 
 masterpiece with near perfect technical execution and to Blizzard's credit they pulled it off without 
 making the system requirements over the top. For me the cartoonish, exaggerated look of the game 
 really works for me. I prefer it over more realistic looking games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotboys
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  The expansion does what it's supposed to do... expand the World of Warcraft. And it did it in the 
 most impressive way. WoW is the best game in its genre, and the expansion takes it a couple of 
 notches up further. I've been playing this game for two years and have maximized the experience. 
 I am an avid PC gamer who would rather spend $5,000 on a brand new machine than get a console for 
 almost 1/10th of the price. No other game has made me want to keep playing for this long. If I'm 
 not saturated, then they must be doing something right to keep me coming back for more.
  
  And by the way, all the negative reviews can be categorized under the following:
  
  1. Forking 
 over another $39.90 and paying $15/month to play is extremely expensive therefore WoW sucks.
  2. WoW can't run very well on old PCs therefore it sucks.
  3. All WoW players are nerds and need 
 to get a life, go out and make a buck instead of wasting away in front of the PC... therefore WoW 
 sucks.
  4. Classes are imbalanced, can't PvP anymore therefore WoW sucks
  5. It makes you grind to get anything decent therefore WoW sucks.
  6. It's not that good, Blizzard 
 could have done better therefore it sucks.
  
  My response to the negative reviewers:
  1. If you're too cheap to pay $39.99 and a $15/month fee then you really shouldn't be playing video 
 games at all. Instead of giving useless comments, go out and find a job.
  2. If you're too cheap or too poor to upgrade your old Windows 95 Pentium II PC, then don't bother 
 playing MMORPGs at all. You don't even have the right to comment. Go play solitaire or tetris.
 
  3. I'm a WoW player. I have my own business, I'm married and I have kids. I make time for my family, 
 I make time for hardcore raiding and I make time for my business. L2 manage your time.
  4. Sigh... L2Play your class.
  5. Anything worth getting in the real world requires a bit of 
 hard work. Therefore I have no qualms of this being reflected in a virtual world. It's a game, 
 but like any other game, your rewards are achieved through hard work. Laziness in the real world 
 gets you nothing, laziness in a virtual world is the same thing. If you're too lazy to play a game, 
 then quite whining and just sit on the couch and watch TV.
  6. If you can do a better job than Blizzard, then by all means do it and I will pay YOU $39.90 
 and $15/month. Otherwise stop belting out your self righteous, hypocritical, uneducated remarks 
 on people who have achieved something you will never ever be able to.
  
  On that note, if you know nothing about the game/ if you're too lazy to play the game/ if you're 
 unskilled and useless/ if you think you are better than the people who made the game/ if you think 
 you are actually worth something and your opinions matter/ and if you think you can get la*d more 
 than anyone else on the planet and WoW players can't... just shut your hole and stop commenting 
 because you aren't contributing anything to the readers of gamespot.
  
  WoW and WoW: The Burning Crusade is the most fantastic experience you will ever have in an online 
 fantasy role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  ok, so as my title suggest- i see this game as a game with two faces. the first face is a very 
 enjoyable game that has many good points about it. the massiveness of this game is something to 
 behold. literally a world of war.... it is tremendously likeable which speaks about its appeal 
 to many different gaming groups. i can see why kids are drawn to the game because of the cartoonish 
 nature of the design. the interface is generally easy to use and the camera angles good.. the second 
 face... tedious. the game is very repetitive in nature. you have to spend hours and hours on end 
 sometimes to get a level. bottom line though is this is a great game. highly addicting so... keep 
 that in mind. not for everyone but should be good enough for most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustinSnell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot should have had a review by now though. There really is no excuse for Gamespot to not 
 have reviewed this 2 weeks after the release. I am getting close to wanting to cancel my membership. 
 For that and also they are forcing me to write more than I want to.
  
  Since it's still telling me I have to write more words (lame) I will also say that WoW is awesome. 
 You need to spend some time with it to really apprecite it. And the same goes for this expansion. 
 Which is probably why they are taking so long to review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkNeji14
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  only raise lvl cap to 70, no new classes, A TON of new bugs, overhyped, spend ur sumthing on something 
 better until this game is lowered down to $20, this game is only fun if u have a friend in real 
 life to play with and or a guild tat does raids and stuff, $40 is not worth it ( i play this at 
 my friend's house unless a new update raise lvl cap to 80 then its recommended but until then just 
 stick to the original its more worth playing and not a rip off
  they need to get an update to fix the bugs imediately bcuz the PC get restarted when i check talents, 
 look at other pple's gear, and the pictures are blank sometimes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Those who gave BC 4.0 or lower are looking forward for an entirely new WoW game. They don't get 
 that BC is only an Expansion pack.. not a new game! Dont expect revamp in graphics, because what 
 WoW has now is good enough. Blizzard is smart to not overloading the average Joe's video card. 
 Hell, i can play this game on my crummy laptop with normal frame rate! That's what sells!
  BC just makes it more interesting especially to those who've been at lvl 60 for 2+ years now. Every 
 PC game expansion patch always starts buggy, but Blizzard is doing a good job in fixing them. It 
 only takes one day of the week, 3-4 hours for Blizzard to perform maintainence. Those who hate 
 Blizzard for that are probably the ones who goes crazy if WoW goes offline for a few minutes. They 
 need to chill. Anyway, WoW rocks! And rocks even more with BC! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When World of Wacraft launched, it hit a sweet spot unknown in previous MMO's: the balance between 
 time put in and what you got out was in a much better balance, making the game very fun. Critics 
 were let down by the fact that your played time hardly seemed like an MMO. 15 days to get to 60? 
 That's level 30 in Everquest! But let me remind you that just because you put in more time in other 
 MMO's, it doesn't mean it was all fun!
  
  Enough of selling World of Warcraft to you, what makes the Burning Crusade fun you ask? I'll start 
 from the get go: the expansion adds two new races, and their respective starting zones. New players 
 will (and should) be drawn more to these races, as the Blood Elves add the 'beauty' to the ugly 
 horde, and the Draeni add the ugly to cookie cutter alliance. Yet beyond their new cosmetic differences, 
 the new starting zones make the old ones look horrible. The Blood Elf starting zone throws so many 
 quests at you, you can't be bored. The new Tranquillen reputation is easy to earn and has some 
 good rewards to pick up to help you level. And it has some good item rewards that rival and sometimes 
 dwarf the old items you could get in the level range of 1-20.
  
  But Outland is where the Burning Crusade shines. This isn't old World of Warcraft, where going 
 from levels 40 to 60 took a lot of grinding and questing, along with some zones that really annoyed 
 you (the Plaguelands, anyone?) . From level 60 to 70 (or even 58 if you want) , you're questing non 
 stop if you want. There are so many quests out there, its hard to not feel overwhelmed. The rewards 
 however are entirely worthwhile. If you're not an epicly geared character, you'll be getting new 
 items from quests and drops immediately. Molten Core geared people will start finding replacements 
 as early as level 60 or 62, with people in BWL gear waiting until maybe 63 for some upgrades. People 
 in Naxxrammas or Ahn'Qiraj stuff might end up waiting until level 65 or even until 70 to get some 
 replacements. The thing is, it was worth it to be geared out for the release of Burning Crusade. 
 The early levels were so insanely easy for epicly geared characters, but they tetter off into the 
 same realm as everyone else about level 65.
  
  In the end, Burning Crusade is great, and the best part about leveling up my alt will definetly 
 be in Outland, after the start in the Blood Elf zone. If you play WoW, you need Burning Crusade, 
 and if you play any MMO, you need WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milton297
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  WoW Burning Crusade is a great expansion pack to a great MMORPG, the level cap is raised to 70 
 and the thought of a flying mount is very attractive to the hardcore gamer. My main issue is with 
 the new races, they just aren't really involved. They are more so just thrown in there for a reason 
 to add the previously faction exclusive classes (Alliance-Paladin, Horde-Shaman) to the other side. 
 The Dranei and the Blood Elves are nice, but seem to be more of a novelty at the moment. Hopefully 
 future patches will expand more of the new races' background with instances and content. I have 
 a 31 Blood Elf Mage as of today, 2 weeks after the expansion release, and that's after I quit for 
 5 months. AND It is true that some grinding may occur to reach 70, but I wouldn't say EXP grinding, 
 more so gold for that flying mount. With so many 60's sticking to Outland now, it shouldn't be 
 an issue getting a group together for instances and quests. My last gripe is that it seems the 
 old endgame instances such as Molten Core and Blackwing Lair now seem obsolete, since the new gear 
 in Outland shines far above what you get in these 40 man raids, which I believe have been bumped 
 down to 25 man with a heroic difficulty (Halo??)
  
  OVERALL It's a good game, all of you haters out there just shut up because you haven't played it. 
 You're entitled to your opinion, but just shut up, you're even more of an A**hole for posting how 
 geeky people are for playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Burning Crusade, what can we say about burning crusade. Everything people expected, and more. Flying 
 mounts are a wonderful new addition to the game. Nothing more exciting, then some level 70's flying 
 to your rescue as your getting ganked, and these heroes coming doen fromt he skies.
  
  It is nice to have the extra 10 levels, with new areas to explore and quest in. All with new looks 
 and feels to them, different Mobs with different styles of skills, adds a new challange to the 
 game. The new Jewcrafting profession, is a nice addition, aloowing that new gear to be customized 
 to your playing skill, and alowing the enchants on top of that, can make your epic weapon, that 
 much more destructive.
  
  The new races look pretty good. Its nice to have a new race that actually looks pretty hot on the 
 horde side. Finally, and they look better then the Night Elves!!!
  
  I reccomend this exp. pack to any WoW player, and hope you enjoy. See you on the Battlefield!!!!
 
  
  -Kindora-UD Rogue- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Dungeons, battlegrounds, quests, trading, raiding, hot spots... This game has it all and once you 
 get all the 'unlockables' you need (if ever!) , you can spend the rest of the time helping friends 
 destroy the opposing faction for hours on end. More races, more areas, another continent! There 
 is so much more to this game now, since hardly anyone had explored it all BEFORE the expansion. 
 Value on this game is more than any other game I have ever played. Even if you think you won't 
 have fun playing mmorpg games because you don't know anyone who plays it, this game makes it easy 
 to meet people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSpam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  So let me explain what I mean. Remember how in Aliens they spent the entire second half of the 
 movie with the no man (or little girl) left behind mentality and they risk all to save everyone? 
 Exciting right? Ok now remember in Alien3 how at the very beginning of the movie everyone but Ripley 
 is dead thus negating everything they fought so hard for in the last movie moot in the first 5 
 minutes? Well welcome to World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade.
  
  Right off they bat there are green quest rewards and drops that are far superior to the purple 
 items you worked so very hard for before the expansion. Is this a bad thing? Well I haven't heard 
 any hardcore WoWers complaining just yet. You have to understand that time spent in any MMO is 
 basically disposable as the content could change at any given point in time. Think grinding for 
 your Jedi slot in Star Wars: Galaxies only to have it given to everyone freely later on. This is 
 kind of like that. Prior to BC I spent a great deal of time trying to get even my Tier 1 set at 
 level 60. Not any more. Now any old drops will more then do the trick. It's all brand new again 
 till we hit 70 and start the grind for gear all over again.
  
  The new races add little more then new things to look at and new combinations such as Paladins/Shamans 
 now being cross faction available. There are new quests and rewards in the starter areas, but it's 
 really all about the level 60+ content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC-Dirtracer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game rocks, there is no 2 ways about it. With the addition of the Bloodelves and the Dranei 
 The balance in the game has been perfected. Finally for the horde there is a class available that 
 can heal and has strong ass armour from the get go. And the Dranei create the class that has been 
 needed for a long time for the alliance to allow melee players (read paladins) to have a race that 
 is strong and has sufficient mana to be effective at healing. For further review read the score. 
 Whilst i have yet to explore outland i have friends who let me play their characters out there 
 for a bit and it is what the end game has been lacking, insanely powerful monsters and plenty of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excalibredeadly
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  if you were to ask me what mmorpg is the best now, the past and the future... world of warcraft 
 still leads by a massive amount. look at the colourful graphics and the number of quests? how about 
 the number of races and professions? can any other game beat that? i dont think so. those people 
 who gave a bad review just gave a somewhat lame excuse for not buying world of warcraft. they cant 
 afford it... from an unbiased point of view, i think this game deserves an 8 and over. new mmorpgs 
 should come up with new concepts if not forget making another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  To all you WoW heads, I appologize if I come out fair and square but we've been scammed once again 
 by Blizzard. After nearly 2 years of wait the community of warcraft finally recieves their copy 
 of what is to be one of the biggest patches for a price. Confused are you?
  
  The armor and weapons introduced in WoW is about the same exact thing you get when you level from 
 1-60. We go from T1, T2 and T3 to old looking crappy gear we once had at lvl 20 coming out of Dead 
 Mines. Is this game geared for the hardcore raiders? The time it took me to get to 70 was about 
 the same time it took me to get to 20 when I first played WoW and thats not a long time.
  
  Hmmm... let me see. Kill birds and collect 30 feathers. Kill wolves and collect 10 meat. Kill 15 
 Orcs, 15 shamans, 15 warriors. Ok now that the zone is done where do I go? Oh yea, to the next 
 zone so I can kill more things and collect more loot to turn in for XP. Am I missing something 
 here folks? Last time I checked I was 60 and considered LEET that's been in 40 man raids for endless 
 hours collecting gear that I cant use anymore. Why in the world are we killing beasts and collecting 
 garbage to turn in as quests?
  
  So whats up with the aggro range? Oh yea, we're leet sauce huh? I guess we can take the aggro since 
 we're 60 going on 70. Can you explain the constant crit % of the mobs? No you can't. Were you smoking 
 something when you decided to make epic flying mounts 5000 gold? Let me guess, if your a farmer 
 you get an epic mount? I've made over 1k from 60-70 and pretty much bought the normal birdie who 
 is considered a mount for access. What do you mean access. Well, the birds are meant to reach places 
 you normally cant on foot. How do I travel from location to location more quickly? Well, you have 
 to be a farmer or purchase gold on the Internet in order to afford an epic flying mount. Ahhh... 
 now that makes a whole lot sense.
  
  How will the instances be. Hmm... grind 5 man instances with bosses equivelant to black wing lair, 
 get massive rep and oh yea grind more instances and hopefully you can get in the 25 mans. Im sorry 
 my WoW head junkies, this game failed to meet our expectations. We ask for an expansion and we 
 get a patch. Im not impressed at all considering the ammount of money blizzard gets for this game 
 and the poor job they've done. Have you seen the blood elves? They can steal mana by using racial 
 traits? Oh yea, they can be Paladins. They also have a city thats HUGE and beautiful a world of 
 it's own. What do we get? Half breeds of Cows and Elf with horns from space. I've played this game 
 since beta and I DO NOT believe blizzard has made good progress or introduced anything thats new. 
 Same old Warcraft, same old gear and same old time needing to be spent to enjoy the full effects 
 of World of warcraft.
  
  We are all junkies and most of us are angry but yet we still play this game because we love it. 
 Let the good times roll and hope that the next expansion will actually live up to its expectations.
 
  
  Blizzard faillure ftw!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaGansky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  My one biggest complaint is that the green items are SO GOOD. It makes me feel like the countless 
 hours I spent PvPing to rank 14 and time raiding BWL/Naxx/AQ40 are a bit cheapened. It's needless 
 to say frustrating when green items are better than my epics.
  
  I like the early instances, Ramparts, Mana Core, and Slave Pens. The grinding is easy but annoying 
 because it takes so darn long. But it's been fun too, grinding with guildies. The Blood Elf start 
 area is a lot of fun.
  
  I'm definitely looking forward to hitting 70 and getting a flying mount. And of course arenas and 
 raiding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnytheFuture
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  After playing the originial, I'd say that the additions of new worlds, flying mounts, two new races, 
 and jewelcrafting, this is for the most part a successful expansion. Business-wise, Blizzard no 
 doubt leaves room for another expansion, and more to be wanted.
  
  What would I like to see?
  Increased customization:
  If I'm a rogue, shouldn't I be able to 
 run like a ninja?
  If I'm a Mage, shouldn't I be able to hover above the ground?
  Users should be able to customize their jump, learn new dances.
  
  new Professions:
  Rock 
 cliimbing: go anywhere you like by cutting through the mountains
  Translation: abliity to learn any language, forming bonds between races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptrwntzl
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  I played WoW up to level 60 and raided MC a little before becoming bored with the game and canceling 
 my account. I felt like the game had become more like an endless chore where the only factor that 
 mattered on your progress was time invested in the game. Burning Crusade was blizzards opportunity 
 to maybe change the game for the better but, unfortunately that is not the case. Many people think 
 differently then I do and I can understand that but, when it comes to Burning Crusade it makes 
 me wonder what people find enjoyable. Is grinding that much fun because thats almost all WoW seems 
 to offer? BC is just a new grind for EVERYONE and even betrays the hardcore players by making all 
 there raiding gear almost obsolete (not entirely the armor and weapons are still useful for grinding 
 your way to 70 but level 65 greens stats put them to shame considering the raiding time put in 
 to them) . The cycle is just starting over again and everyone has to regrind to get new items and 
 begin raiding again for higher level items. Flying mounts are an absolute joking seeing as they 
 are restricted to the outlands. After quitting WoW, BC is not going to bring me back into the game 
 for more then the month I bought. If you quit WoW and were hoping to get a something new out of 
 BC all your getting is more grinding. Many people saying how good this game is but honestly i dont 
 see anything but paying 40 for the same game that i bought two years ago. Edit: I competely forgot 
 to mention the new races in my original review. The two new races do add some nice low lever content 
 so for people who like creating alts both the blood elves and draenei are good additions to the 
 game. However blizzards decision to give the horde the ability to have the paladin class and the 
 alliance the shaman class is a double edged sword if you ask me. It stops the complaining of one 
 side having a better side specific class but it takes away the uniqueness of each side. Also if 
 there ever was a recycled new race to be introduced it would be the blood elves. The last thing 
 WoW needs is another elf race and not only that but it really changes the image of the horde as 
 well from being rough and tough, to having elves now running amongst them. Lastly, this expansion 
 really could have used a new class instead of new races because new races or a new class that would 
 be specific to the new races maybe to add to the value of adding them in the first place. Regardless 
 Blizzard only added more elfs, go find me 50 feathers and before I tell you to go find 100 feathers 
 quests and some more dungeon crawls that dont warrant the $40 up front purchase and the $15 monthly 
 payment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aviad61
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  warcraft... one of the best game series i ever played. Blizzard know to work hard, thets for sure. 
 3 years ego World of warcraft came out to a great adventre, thet some players still play since 
 thet. when the Burning Crusade came out, everyone got insane... and they have a good reason... 
 the expantion pack of World of Warcraft give new races, new works. and new places, everything we 
 dream about, and much more. the new two races are the exet races thet was neaded to complete the 
 seria and the amzing crealety of the craters is somthing you want stop and watch it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmdmd
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  WoW was a good game, not all that great, but good. This new expansion is simply more quest grind 
 material . Do not be fooled by the new races sales pitch. Those are simply new looks to the same 
 dumb grind mechanics of the old game. The graphics are ok, as long as you like cartoon-like graphics, 
 the sound is good and environments are very nice. The mechanics and AI of the enemy leave much 
 to be desired. This is a game that poses a mild challenge, if you can call it that. Blizzard has 
 turned this game into a time spent fest, meaning that you are not rewarded by the skill you might 
 develop with your character, but by the total amount of hours you are willing to sink in. In the 
 dungeons, even though they are instanced (your group only gets to enter a private version of it) 
 if you have a party wipe out, magically most of the enemies that you already killed will be there 
 again (This enrages even the most seasoned veteran of the game) . So, After spending 2 hours clearing 
 to the may boss, if you die, you will be forced to re-clear or leave. Again, Time spent . When 
 you are in combat, the enemies simply stand there and hit you over and over as you pummel and beat 
 them. There is no variable AI, this translates to any character being able to beat ANY enemy of 
 their same level, guaranteed, or your money back. The game's AI seems to be designed by a group 
 of drunk 6 year olds. Bosses in the new dungeons follow the same idiotic tank doctrine the Warrior 
 (or heavily armored character) taunts the enemy into hitting him, after a few attacks, the enemy 
 will face the Warrior or Tank for the rest of the fight. So, a typical fight involves nothing more 
 than pushing 2 or 3 buttons repeatedly until the target dies. Because as long as you dont hit the 
 enemy very hard, it will stay facing the Tank until it dies. The economy of the game is based on 
 old gold , players that have been playing for a long time dictate the prices of the items sold 
 on the AH (auction house) and trade channels in general. If you are a new player, be prepared to 
 be gouged for insane amounts of gold for any item that you may want. Blizzard has seen to it that 
 the new flying mounts are out of the average player's reach 2,000 and 5,000 gold. So, if you want 
 one of those, be prepared to grind for weeks and weeks before you can get one.... and hope you are 
 not killed many times in the process because you will spend a great deal of gold on repairs.
  The PVP system, it's ok, but Blizzard screwed over every person that didnt buy the expansion, since 
 they didnt make a lvl 60 battlegrounds for the people that didnt buy the expansion, they are forced 
 to play against players that are up to 9 levels above them, I know, funny to even think about it.
 
  Bottom line, this is a good game, not the best out there. If you look for something easy to learn, 
 easy to play, and definitely NOT A CHALLENGE, get this, you will be out $15 a month and a lot of 
 free time wasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok, getting kind of tired of all the morons who bash the game, and giving it crap ratings just 
 because it doesn't appeal to them. I mean seriously, the game mechanic might not work for them, 
 but visually the game is still a beauty... in any case to the review.
  
  The game enhance what was already an immensely addictive game. Now with a new level cap, dungeons, 
 and quests: you can kiss your social life good-bye for another couple of months. Nevertheless, 
 there's always a good and a bad to all things...
  
  Good
  +New stuff
  --Quests
  --Mounts (flying mounts)
  --Races
  --Profession
  --Dungeons
  --Continent // Zones // Dungeons
 
  --New Equips
  --Skills
  +The level caps have been expanded to lvl70.
  +Making money is a walk in the park in the Outland.
  +Well pretty much whatever was good about 
 the classic still remains.
  
  Bad
  -Ok the level cap has been raised this means back to grinding. Grinding is a pain in the ass and 
 we all know it. Also with this, the once challenging BWL, AQ40, Naxx will soon become a thing of 
 the past. -With the new stuff and level caps, the tier 1 and 2 you been working so hard for will 
 become useless if not sooner then later.
  -The game is somewhat a neccessity. Barely any people plays the old contents of the games because 
 everyone is aiming for 70 or remaking a new race. So if you want to be left out, it is rather neccessary 
 to buy the expansion.
  
  In all honesty, WoW: TBC is really a love it or hate it game. The level cap forces you to go back 
 to grinding and the new equips render your hard-work toward your old tiers seem a waste of time. 
 Nevertheless, the new contents and promises of future contents are worth looking forward to. Also 
 unless you want to wander around the old Azeroth alone, then it's pretty much a requirement to 
 buy it. In any case, I recommend it for all WoW fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaliRei
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  When I started Beta Testing BC, I was amazed by the landscapes and the cool new plots available. 
 I enjoyed the first hour or so immensely. However, I quickly found that several of the class\talent 
 combinations at levels 60+ were no longer viable. Not only are some talent trees broken for use 
 in PvP but they have become sadly outclassed in PvE as well (example: Holy and Disc Priests.) If 
 you enjoyed the past game despite its numerous flaws and don't mind playing 1/3 of the talent trees, 
 you will likely enjoy this game greatly. As for me and those that like to play in a different style, 
 we'll be spending our monthly monies elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterEmil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Of couse Blizzard used a lot of time to make the game trailer good when you start the game up and 
 it looks amasing when you see it. When you play the game in Outland (the new continent) the quests 
 are really rewarding, as many people have complaint that you have to get over 500K EXP sometimes 
 to get a lvl you get an average 10K EXP for each quest and plus the Mob EXP it all lines up again. 
 But there is one little thing, after the expansion has comed out Azeroth is all dead, everyone 
 is in Outland and it can be quite laggy sometimes inthere when you are on a filled up server, that 
 is if you dont have the biggest internet connection. Otherwise again the game sticks to the Warcraft 
 Lore and you get to interact with it. And there is lots and lots of instances to explore in the 
 year to come. A bad thing about Outland is that you cant learn anything inthere so when you hit 
 a lvl you have to go back to Azeroth to learn new spells and upgrade your Proffesions.
  
  The 2 new races are Blood Elf and Dranei, theese 2 races have always been in the game but first 
 now made playable. Again they are fun to play, Ghostlands (for BE) are a little borring from lvl15-20, 
 and the Dranei Shamans are actualle harder to lvl than a normal old class/race. Eitherway the bad 
 thing about being a Dranei Shaman is that you cant learn skills everywhere you have to go back 
 to The Exodar (Draneis Main City) everytime you want to learn a new spell, thats where Jewel Crafting 
 comes in, its the same, only in The Exodar its available to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander3x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  You some of the problems that blizzard have with there servers and game play experince and wonder 
 if there just in it for the big buck, and then they bring out one off the best addons for any game 
 i have seen in a long time, it reinvents a already good game and gives it new life for yet another 
 year, I hope they can improve again with another addon , and according to Warcraft lore there is 
 much yet left to do, and im sure we will see another addon next year expanding the world even more,
 
  
  The only downside is the demise of the normal warcraft world. but im sure over time the balance 
 will be restored to bring back life to what is really now a dieing world as most of the players 
 are in the outland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikoda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing WoW for a while now, i got my first 60 about 3 weks ago, and i got bored, then 
 the Xpansion comes out, BOOM! a rush to 70, now im there.... trying to figure out where to go for 
 my next piec of tier 4-5..... well, simple to say there is going to be plenty to do between now 
 and the next xpansion, and lots of PvP as well! All hail the PvP TWINKS! if anyone is interested 
 in a good matchup, im on staghelm. and i own an alliance guild by the name of Darkened Reality 
 .... i wont give any more info, cant have peeps stalking my, also i am on Llane under the same guild 
 ownership, not so high level there though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Villain
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Long ago, I shelled over $49.99 for the original World of Warcraft. In the many months of game 
 play that followed, my beloved MMO RPG was upgraded free of charge with new, quality content that 
 was added on a monthly basis. I was happy to continue shelling out 14.99 a month to Blizzard, because 
 I felt like I was getting something for my money; I felt like I was getting a game that would never 
 get old. Ah yes, World of Warcraft was indeed a deep, thrilling fantasy world, and it was always 
 changing and getting better. All I was expected to do was remain a loyal subscriber and hand over 
 my money every month until
  
  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade. It promised to be massive, immersive, and beyond comparison: 
 The mother of all expansion packs! Heck, for the price of a full PC game and the monthly fee of 
 14.99 required to maintain a subscription, how could one not have high expectations? After the 
 media barrage of screenshots and videos, I was psyched and ready to begin the epic trek form level 
 60 to 70!
  
  Sadly, the much-hyped expansion pack failed to live up to my lofty expectations. Since 95% of the 
 people playing World of Warcraft have at least one level 60 character, most of them are no doubt 
 itching for some new terrain to explore. Fortunately, Burning Crusade gives players a new continent 
 to roam and quest on. After stepping through the legendary Dark Portal in the Blasted Lands, you 
 will rematerialize in a strange new world that looks an awful lot like the planet Mars with weird 
 gothic statues and ruins everywhere. It has a very alien and weird look to it, making it seem more 
 sci-fi than fantasy. .
  
  Appearances aside, the new continent is indeed large and well laid out, but is still not as expansive 
 as the original WoW world. Veteran players thinking that they will be able to tear through the 
 new world in their tier 3 raiding armor will be in for a rude awakening as fighting any more than 
 a handful of level 63 monsters poses a problem to even the most epic geared players. Fortunately, 
 even green, uncommon loot found in Outland is up to par, and even better in some cases, than the 
 epic armor and weapons you wasted two months of your life grinding through AQ40 and Blackwing Lair 
 for. The fact that casual players are able to catch up to seasoned veterans in terms of armor and 
 weapons within just a matter of hours on the other side of the portal has left more than just a 
 few of the original end game raiders stewing and feeling cheated.
  
  Even if you are not trying very hard, it is still possible rake in 20gold or more worth of cash 
 and items every 45 minutes spent grinding in Outland. You may be tempted to spend your quickly 
 growing fortune by going on a shopping spree in the Auction House, however you will still need 
 to budget yourself if you ever hope to afford one of the new flying months. Buying a flying mount 
 in The Burning Crusade is like buying a Ferrari in real life: you are rich enough to afford one 
 and you want everyone else to know it. Unfortunately, you cant fly this baby to the gates of Darnassus 
 and perch it on a tree to taunt all of those Night Elf newbies. Thats right; flying mounts are 
 restricted to the Mars side of the portal, which is a real bummer. Even with its new dungeons, 
 additions to trade professions, two new races, and flying mounts, World of Warcraft: The Burning 
 Crusade still has a very stale feel to it. .
  
  Even on the highest detail settings, the cartoon-like graphics engine is beginning to look dated 
 and the soundtrack for Burning Crusade sounds significantly less inspired than that of its predecessor. 
 All of the content in this expansion pack should have been implemented in a couple of free patches, 
 or released on store shelves along with a major graphics overhaul and some additional content. 
 Did the idea to introduce new character classes not enter Blizzards mind? Hardcore WoW players 
 will likely grow bored of the two new races within a matter of weeks. After all, a shaman is still 
 a shaman and a paladin is still a paladin no matter what faction you are playing for.
  
  I am disappointed at the moment, but Im not ready to give up just yet. I still have high hopes 
 that I will get my $39.99 worth through the implementation of new, free content distributed through 
 that annoying and suspicious Blizzard Background Downloader.
  
  When all is said and done, 40 dollars is asking a bit much for an upgrade that should be included 
 in my monthly 15. It appears Blizzard has learned how to farm gold off of its subscribers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Burning Crusade offers an amazing amount of play time to what was already a huge game. But there 
 are growing pains, useless additions, and gameplay issues.
  
  Blizzard had a great chance to balance out the classes with this new expansion. But instead, they 
 took the king of the player-versus-player world, the Shaman and made it even stronger by not toning 
 down abilities and adding new abilities such as duel wield. Other classes went from good to godly 
 as well. But just as many classes stayed the same and well known issues with the Priest and Druid 
 classes were not fixed.
  
  One thing Blizzard did do right is look at why the Alliance and Horde sides are so unbalanced. 
 People like pretty characters, so they gave Horde the pretty Blood Elves and Alliance the mean 
 looking (although still awesome) Draenei. The new cities are beautiful. The Draenei city, The Exodar 
 makes you feel like you have stepped into a crystal infused Space Mountain. It's gorgeous and has 
 to been seen through gameplay to be fully appreciated. The Blood Elf city is beautiful as well, 
 giving Horde a pretty city, which they did not have before.
  
  But the problem with The Exodar is that it is placed on an island west of the western Continent, 
 Kalimdor, a continent that Alliance players already do not traverse often. There is no incentive 
 for a player to travel to The Exodar besides looking at the new city because it is so far away 
 from everything else and as far away from the new Outland as possible. You'd think that Blizzard 
 would learn after seeing the low population of the Night Elves' city, Darnassus. But The Exodar 
 is even more barren and it's difficult to bump into another player, let alone a player that is 
 not a Draenei under the level of 30.
  
  The Outland can only be reached through The Dark Portal, hidden away in The Blasted Lands as far 
 away from any Horde city as possible. Fortunately however, there is Shattrath City, the sole city 
 of Outland.
  
  Outland is the only place a player wishing to level past 60 to go, fortunately, however it is large 
 enough. Items that drop in Outland are shocking. You can find a drop off of a monster you can solo 
 kill in 5 seconds that replaces your epic item from a boss in Molten Core which required 40 people 
 to kill. This is not right at all and renders the newly added raid dungeons before the expansion 
 obsolete.
  
  The new Looking for Group function was a great idea. Key word: was. Hardly anyone uses this tool, 
 so you will be forced to use the General chat to find a group for a dungeon since Blizzard took 
 out the LookingForGroup channel since they were anticipating the Looking For Group function to 
 take over.
  
  Good things. There are a lot of sights to be seen in this expansion. There are new types of quests 
 such as bomber runs where you fly over an area and bomb the monsters below which proves to be quite 
 entertaining. Jewelcrafting adds diversity to player-made objects and socketed items are an interesting 
 gameplay element. Monsters are more vocal with the addition of many sound bytes. And nothing from 
 the simplistic game was ruined.
  
  Overall. World of Warcraft is still too simplistic. The community is still plagued by immature 
 people. Classes are still unbalanced. Horde to Alliance ratio is still too small (Horde players 
 only have to wait a few seconds to enter battlegrounds while Alliance players are forced to wait 
 15 minutes at the least and up to two hours) . Servers are overflowing resulting in wait times during 
 prime-time just to play the game you are paying $15 a month to play. The new races are fun. But 
 the racial abilities are unfair compared to the existing races special abilities. The graphics 
 are still holding up with a very distinct art style. The addition of more sound is nice, but there 
 is still no voice over for quests. And finally there are weeks worth of gameplay time to be had 
 in this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaelthas029
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Alright first I want to say is people who keep saying that they hated the original WOW obviously 
 aren't going to enjoy playing the expansion, so stop complaining about a game. This goes for everyone 
 if you did not like the original World of Warcraft you will not like the expansion, don't buy it. 
 If you did like the original this is a great game with lots of material added, a new continent, 
 excellent class upgrades, and of course is highly addictive. One last note, if you don't have a 
 good amount of time to donate to this game, like 6-10 hours a week, World of Warcraft is not for 
 you, it's really not designed for someone who can't invest a large portion of time playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Here we are, 2007, and the first expansion to the multi-million MMORPG World of Warcraft. Now most 
 likely the most popular, well known and most played MMORPG on the planet, it has received an upgrade 
 so massive and well done that you cannot do anything else but to applaud Blizzard for once again 
 scoring. Yet another streak in a perfect row.
  
  Gameplay
  There are alot of new content in The Burning Crusade (TBC) . The first and most important change, 
 is that the character levels has been increased to 70, and that a new continent has become available, 
 Outland. Then comes the two new races, the Draenei and the Blood Elves, followed by a new wonderful 
 profession called Jewelcrafting. To sum it up, there's the main points of the expansion. Lets look 
 a little bit deeper at what these new additions bring to the game.
  
  Character levels now go up to level 70, and these levels fly by. They were predicted to be just 
 as long as the journey from level 1 to 60, but it doesn't take that long. When leveling up, the 
 player notice a bigger stat increase than before which boosts both Health and Mana to new heights. 
 A talent point is also rewarded for each level from 61 to 70, allowing for very powerful builds 
 as people combine previously impossible builds. Leveling is done primarily in Outland, the origin 
 of the Orcs. The Dark Portal which you enter to get to Outland, is the very same that the Orcs 
 used the first war when they entered the Blasted Lands, then called the Black Morass. An instance 
 later on deals with this very event. And once you enter the brand new world, nothing's ever gonna 
 be the same. It's massive. When you exit the portal into Outland, see the big barren, warscarred 
 fields with demons prowling around and the forces of the Alliance and the Horde valiantly defending 
 themselves against the huge pit lords, it's hard to not drop the jaw. Impressive sight for sure, 
 but what's even more impressive, is the amount of content crammed into each zone. Outland is split 
 in seven zones, divided into level ranges to ensure a smooth and content rich progression from 
 60 to 70. This can honestly be said to be true. There are more quests than you can possibly hope 
 to complete within those levels, and if you plan to do instances, the xp will fly by there as well. 
 One needn't to be worried about running out of quests right away, as both sides have their own 
 camps and bases in each zone which leads to an impressive amount of content. There's also a ton 
 of new factions with their own reputations and quests, and alot more focus on outdoor based pvp 
 action which is fun, fast and rewarding.
  
  Back to the zones, the players start off in the warscarred Hellfire Peninsula, but can go into 
 the mystic swamps of Zangarmarsh straight away if they feel like it since the zone contains monsters 
 and quests doable for a level 60 character. After that, it's recommended to visit Terokkar forest, 
 a misty but dark forest with alot of dark history, which also contains a new neutral capital, Shattrath, 
 which is likely to be the home to about almost everyone in Outland since it's centrally located 
 in Outland, with convenient portals to all the other capitals on Azeroth. The wild and exceptionally 
 beautiful lands of Nagrand await after that, and is one of the most beautiful zones the game has 
 seen. Then things become nastier, and the players will have to travel to the Blade's Edge Mountains, 
 a spiky, rocky mountain area with a sky on fire, before they travel deep into the chaotic Netherstorm 
 which is torn apart in the void, and finally to the burning, black lands of Shadowmoon Valley. 
 All the zones are richly filled with mobs, quests, outposts, towns and instances, often split up 
 into several level ranges as well, meaning that there's plenty of incentive to go back to the old 
 zones and finish up new available quests and take a shot at that new instance within your level 
 range, which brings us to the next point...
  
  Instances. There's an instance in every zone ecept for Nagrand, and almost all those instances 
 are divided up into several level based wings, complete with different theme, mobs, bosses, quests 
 and so on. Just the first instance alone, Hellfire Citadel, is split up in four different parts, 
 ranging all the way from 60 to 70+. Each wing can take you a good hour and two to clear depending 
 on the team, and then there's the heroic mode to do as well which is like setting the game to Very 
 hard . These new instances are very well designed, they have the right amount of trash, great bosses 
 which requires tactics to kill and some very good loot. Other instances includes the now functional 
 Caverns of Time which allows the players to go back in time and revisit old events in the history 
 of Warcraft, such as the opening of the Dark Portal and the battle on Mount Hyjal. Then there's 
 also the massive Karazhan located in Deadwind Pass on Azeroth, which was also called the Tower 
 of Medivh. A Magnificent and mystical place, it houses some extremely fun and different encounters, 
 among them an Opera House with battles based on well known works such as Romeo and Juliet and the 
 Wizard of Oz. What is very notable right away, is the improved gear from both quests, drops and 
 instances in Outland. Unless you have been raiding Blackwing Lair or higher, you'll quickly find 
 that your gear is replaced by even greens from Outland. As weird and sad as it feels to see your 
 mighty looking gear go, you just have to admit that the quests are alot more rewarding and tempting 
 when you can obtain great gear from it.
  
  The two new races are the Draenei and the Blood Elves. The Draenei has alligned themselves to the 
 Alliance, and they have a brutal history with the orcs and the Burning Legion. They are located 
 on the mysterious north western isles of Kalimdor, and has naturally allied themselves with the 
 Alliance because of their devotion to the light. The Draenei are the least human of the races the 
 Alliance have, looking more like a combination between a troll and a tauren. They look etheral, 
 theys look majestic, proud and strong and speak with a fun eastern accent. Think bad american movie 
 russian and you'll have it. They are also the only Alliance race who can become Shamans, which 
 causes the majority of those who roll the class to become one. They have their own capital which 
 is built up around the.. spaceship they used to travel in. It sounds a bit strange in World of Warcraft 
 and the lore had to be rewritten, but in the end it's credible enough to work. The Blood Elves 
 however, have alligned themselves to the Horde, finding no sympathy from the Alliance. Many thousand 
 years ago, after the event called The Great Sundering (a result of their magic obsession) they moved 
 from Kalimdor and settled on the Eastern Continent. After the terrible events in Warcraft 3 where 
 Arthas almost obliterated them, they renamed themselves Blood Elves and swore to avenge their kin. 
 Looking for help, they joined up with the Horde, in search of their great Leader now gone mad in 
 Outland. There's alot of history and lore behind it, and it's too much to accurately write in a 
 review, but that's the gist of it. The Blood Elves look like thinner, smaller Night Elves, with 
 some of their characteristics, the typical long ears and brows. They have a more feministic look, 
 but they are graceful and dangerously beautiful. Their capital is Silvermoon, located north of 
 the Eastern Plaguelands. Despite being so close to danger, they are currently relatively safe, 
 and their starting zone is bathed in eternal dawn, dusk and autumn, with a golden sky. The Blood 
 Elves can become Paladins, a very controversial choice by Blizzard. In advance it was said by many 
 outspoken hordes that they would never roll a Blood Elf Paladin, yet the starting area is almost 
 only filled with them.
  
  Both new races have two new start zones, and their own racials which are very good. The Draenei 
 has both a HoT and a increased hit percentage aura, while the Blood Elves has a powerful two-phased 
 ability which allows them to steal mana from the opponent, recharge themselves with it and silence 
 the enemy as an effect of it, making them effective casters against other casters, which is natural 
 because of their knowledge of magic.
  
  The new profession is called Jewelcrafting, and is based around making small jewels and gems that 
 can be used to socket items. Many new items in Outlands comes with a set of sockets, usually two 
 or three. By Shift Right clicking on the item, you can open a small interface where you can put 
 in gems into your item, which will then give you bonuses based on the game. Some gems come with 
 +4 stamina for example, others with +8 Hit rating, or +5 Spell damage, and so on. There are both 
 green, blue and even epic gems, becoming more and more power. Gems can be replaced any time so 
 you're not stuck forever with the gems you have placed, but you will loose the previous gem. Jewelcrafting 
 can be done to make other things as well, including rings, trinkets and neck items.
  
  Graphics
  The engine is the same old, and the game starts to show some age, which is natural 
 for an MMORPG. But in Outland, it doesn't matter. The design and art is so fantastic that you just 
 have to be blown away. From the starry, planetary sky of Hellfire, to the cloudy blue peaceful 
 atmosphere in Nagrand, Outland has an intense feeling and scenery that is hard to ignore. Whereas 
 the old Azeroth sky were mostly passive with some gray clouds, the new skies are a marvel to look 
 at. And it's not only the skies, but the lands, the geography, the usage of new textures and objects 
 that makes Outland look twice as good as Azeroth. The new start zones look good as well, especially 
 the Blood Elves zone which lays bathed in golden atmosphere. It's fantastic. The new races look 
 great as well, but perhaps a little bit un detailed as they look almost too clean and neat compared 
 to the old models. But it's only a minor complaint.
  
  Oh, as usual, the intro video is fantastic, but you probably guessed that already.
  
  Sound
 
  Fantastic music, fantastic sound. The new zones have great background music, you'll find traces 
 of the Ahn'Qiraj music as you traverse the lands of Zangarmarsh, and the impressive tune as you 
 enter the portal the first time just builds on the experience. The voice acting, whereever it is 
 present, is top notch, both in bosses and on the new races. Usually the sound category in a review 
 is the least documented part, and unfortunately it's that way now as well, but there's not much 
 else to say. They did a great job.
  
  Conclusion
  It's not a question if you're going to buy Burning Crusade or not if you're playing World of Warcraft, 
 it's a question of how soon. A little over a week after release, the servers are becoming very 
 stable, the population is spreading out alot more and the players can finally start to enjoy the 
 content to the fullest. With ten new levels with lots of great content, instances, tradeskills, 
 gear, new pvp objectives and the amazing flying mount to look forward to, players got enough to 
 chew on until next year when Blizzard has boldy stated they aim for next expansion. And actually 
 by the look of it, they can soon start working on it, as you'll hardly find a better tuned and 
 polished expansion pack for any MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjam54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is the highly-anticipated expansion to the Best Game of 
 2005 World of Warcraft, the first fully MMO that Blizzard has made that follows the Warcraft story. 
 This expansion introduces 2 new races, the Blood Elves, my personal favorite, and the Draenei. 
 Here is a quick background about each that i will use text talk in. BE r corrupt high elves that 
 have been pushed 2 the edge of extinction cause of the Undead Price Arthas who declared war against 
 them. DR r an alien race that crash landed on Azeroth and have started 2 mutate the land around 
 the crystals that fell with them. Back to regular human language the Blood Elves have allied with 
 the Horde and the Draenei have allied with the Alliance. The expansion also introduces a new profession 
 Jewelcrafting which can allow you to make rings, necklaces, and ect. The third thing that Burning 
 Crusade introduces is the new continent, Outland, that is only available to characters level 58 
 and up so if you are looking to go to Outland at lvl 1 you are out of luck. Outland has continent 
 exclusive flying mounts that you can ride around on. There is a raised level cap. to 70 so you 
 will have 10 more lvls so that equals more talents and skills. This has been my review of Burning 
 Crusade thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has been out for a few years now. Since it's launch, it has spawned fans from 
 all over the world. And when Blizzard announced an expansion pack, fans went crazy and hyped it 
 to be an amazing expansion. And that's just what it is. Burning Crusade's picks up the hype ball 
 of the original game and gives it a push in the right direction, making it a fantastic expansion
 
  
  The gameplay itself varies from person to person. But there's way too much game play to talk about 
 for just one review. Basically, you are sent into the world of Azeroth as a number of races as 
 a certain class and you are left to explore. As most people know, this is an MMORPG, so you will 
 be interacting with other people throughout your whole game experience. This is probably one of 
 the best thing about WoW. The fact that you and personal friends can play the game together. In 
 the expansion pack, a portal a new place called the Outlands opens up and you can go inside and 
 explore it. Most of the things in the expansion are dead on, except for one minor detail. Which 
 is the fact that some of the quests seem regurgitated from the original and pated into this game. 
 Not only that, but some seem unoriginal and uninspired that leave you with an empty feeling. Other 
 than that, the game is flawless.
  
  Don't expect the graphics to blow you away. You've seen better. This game uses graphics from around 
 2002, so it's nothing special. What makes Burning Crusades graphics great is the art style. No 
 matter what zone your in, each zone seems to have it's own art style. One place called Zangarmarsh, 
 for example, is full of tall mushroom, and a very creepy, cool environment with many different 
 nature themed enemies. And each zone is like this, with it's own personality. Another plus for 
 the well done game.
  
  The sound of the game is amazing. From the orchestral themes in the human main city, stormwind, 
 to the ambient sounds of places like Zangarmarsh, the sounds are perfect. When you run, when you 
 do anything, it makes a sound. The sound helps set a captivating mood, that is enjoyable when you 
 play and drags you in. Blizzard put a lot of thought and effort into the sound, and it shows.
 
  
  The value of this game deserves an 11. As you know, it's an MMORPG, so it's pretty much un-endable. 
 The game won't end, which means you can enjoy it, non stop. Not only that, but Blizzard patches 
 the game, adding new stuff, such as new dungeons, new quests, etc. This only adds to the value 
 of an already valuable game to own.
  
  WoW came out 5 years ago, but it's still one of the most played games in the world. With a fan 
 base of 8 million, it was no wonder why Blizzard decided to make an expansion pack. And what an 
 expansion pack. This expansion not only sets the bar for MMORPG's, but it sets the bars for companies 
 and how games shoe be made. This game deserves a 9.4 out of 10, being one of the best games in 
 recent memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DunkelSturm
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Most people here will say that this game is sure a masterpiece, well that may be right cause for 
 the people who can't see past this game, well there's nothing more. WOW was absolutly a fine game, 
 pretty interesting and innovative but ultimately added no much rewarr in the game. What's the purpose 
 of a game that never ends? just like, if you could be immortal, would you be one? I doubt it.
 
  This game (as most MMORPG) tend to extend the gameplay with boring stuff just to look at you one 
 more time and see that other gamers have done the same or better stuffs so you need to do more, 
 it's never ending. There's no fun in a game with no end.
  One can enjoy this game for a while then you will see that there's no so much new to it. New profession, 
 well a profession isn't that much fun though. New races, well as blizzard stated, race in-game 
 is like race out-game, it has nopthing to do with the outcome of your character except certain 
 little details. Adding more classes would be a better add-on. New areas, well that's just more 
 land to boringly explore and more of the old quest to do.
  This add-on could've been much better but ultimately fails at it feeling boring after a short time.
 
  Having spent over 30 hours playing, I can say that this game is as boring as it's predecessor 
 unless you are desperately for playing a game where you switch your reality for a game, in that 
 case, well a neve-ending game just siuts you well. I'm not trying to offend anybody but there's 
 other game out there that deserves your time much better than this game even if you play it with 
 your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: old_guy_476
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  I love WoW, but when I got this game, I went WOW! *buh-dum-chang!* Hehehehehe.. heh... okay no. well 
 anyways, the dranai are awesome becuase I always thought the aliance needed a large, bulky character 
 you can choose (becuase nobody likes orcs or tauren) , and the Blood Elves are cool too becuase 
 now, more people may want to be a horde dude (I always thought I would nvr be a horde dude, but...) . 
 I didnt want to be too generous on graphics becuase they didn't really change, but I still have 
 to give it a great score becuase somehow, the creators made great graphics, with little loading 
 screens (unless going between continents) . (I put learning curve 2 0-30 mins becuase I didnt need 
 any instructions, its that easy to understand) I love WoW becuase the game play is awesome, becuase 
 it schools any other gameplay of other games (like guild wars, where there r only humans=BORING) 
 but I gave the Value only a 9 becuase they could of put some of this on a patch, but then realized 
 it would be a VERY LARGE patch and also I don't think something should go free (sorry all who dissagree 
 [hey that rymes!] ) that includes a new profession, at least a large handfull of new monstahs (maybe 
 even 100 more, but im not sure) , a bunch of new kick-ass armor and weaps, and 2 NEW RACES (Blizzard 
 hasnt made a patch that included races, at least I think) . WoW this is long (fine, no again :\ 
 lol ) but just as a finish up, the flying mounts r cool, the other things are cool, the monstahs 
 r awesome, and any1 who is a freek about WoW as I am, you need this expansion SEE YAH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madappatt1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade will take players to a new realm of adventure and intrigue 
 as they continue to explore Azeroth and the regions beyond. New races to play, new lands to explore, 
 and new levels of power for existing World of Warcraft characters all await players in The Burning 
 Crusade, two compelling new races, a useful new profession, and a pile of other worthwhile changes
 
  
  But it is an expansion, nevertheless, and as such, it delivers in droves, The Burning Crusade does 
 not disappoint to the contrary, it is a vital addition to your game library assuming, of course, 
 that you were a fan of its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  there isnt much of a change to the game until you are a high level (53 i think) because thats when 
 you can go to the new island the 2 new races are great and the blood elfs are just what the horde 
 were missing if you own warcraft ou need to buy it its great the new skills are great and all the 
 new stuff is great. the only bad thing is there is along wait until you can get the good stuff 
 like flying mounts cant be gotten until the character is on level 70 which can take a very long 
 time if playing on the blizzard server 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  My title blurb may sound less than flattering, so I need to qualify it. If you've read my World 
 of Warcraft review, you'll know I recently repurchased the game and started over. I am ecstatic 
 to be back, and haven't had this much fun with a game since ... well, since I first played World 
 of Warcraft! My human paladin made it to level 30 before I actually bought the expansion and upgraded 
 my account.
  
  After the install, I found out I had to download patch 2.0.3 and 2.0.5 again! I guess the version 
 on the CD's that shipped was slightly out of date. After finally getting through the patching woes, 
 I decided to attempt a new Blood Elf or Draeni character. To my disappointment, my two servers, 
 Doomhammer and Terenas both had queues of over 900! I found a Recommended server with a queue of 
 only 165, so I waited. Unfortunately the queue never went down, so I didn't get a chance to even 
 play. The next night, I managed to get into the Draeni area on one of my servers, and created a 
 new Draeni Hunter (no, not a Shaman) . Finding new mobs to complete my quests was difficult, but 
 with my ranged shot, I was able to ninja monsters before others could reach them.
  
  For the first week, I bounced between a Blood Elf mage and my Draeni Hunter, but always went back 
 to my lvl 30 Paladin. I think at this point, I'm more interested in getting back to level 60 so 
 I can go to the new Outland area, but I did abandon my blacksmithing for Jewelcrafting, and I really 
 enjoy it!
  
  So to review the BC expansion itself without crediting WoW itself is difficult, but let's just 
 say, I like the new starting areas and new races. I think they are all well done, and the art direction 
 is superb! The quests are varied and colorful, and not too challenging for beginners, but get better 
 as you progress. Once you new race character hits 10-15, you'll be retreading the same areas of 
 the world you did before, until you hit 60. Unfortunately, I cannot review Outland for you, but 
 the changes they've made in the crafting, the interfaces, etc., are all really worth the upgrade. 
 I'm looking forward to leveling my Draeni, my Blood Elf, and my stalwart Pali! See you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zillafan94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing Wow for a month now but i love it. The Burning Crusade only makes that love 
 stronger. I have not yet had the chance to check out Outland (my highest lvl is a 16) but i love 
 the 2 new races. The Dranai are a gas to play (now evan wariors can heal!) and the Blood Elves 
 don't look very cool but the armor you find in their starting place is awsome.
  As for new locations, Sunstrider Isle is beautiful and the chaos you witness when you first boot 
 up a Drainai is incredible. The Ghostlands and Blood Myst Isle are truly creepy. Lastly, the new 
 monsters are cool: the mana wyrms and lynxs are cool. The giant moths freaky mutations and ravagers
 
  are awsome. Bottom line - buy this game if you own Wow ! If you don't , go out and buy Wow and 
 then buy the Buning Crusade.
  
  zillafan94
  
  (shamans for the win suckas!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius666revan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  When my girlfriend bought me the original World of Warcraft, I was hooked and I only stopped playing 
 for her or for school. Now, with the Burning Crusade, I feel like a kid in a candy store with nobody 
 to check on me. The new races look spectacular, the story gets more interesting and people that 
 play are nicer than before. With the ability to get to level 70 and flying mounts, this game has 
 just become my number one favorite in everything that is RPG, MORPG and MMORPG. Anybody that doesn't 
 like this game either is not fit to play RPG style games or is missing out on something incredible. 
 This game is perfect !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  its there: the day of the launch... due to the lack of stores opening at 00:00 i have the game at 
 10:00.
  11:00 installed upgraded and currently updating
  11:05 done and looking at the startup screen
  
  i make my way from ironforge to the blasted 
 lands to join my guilds group about to go through
  ive been here be4 but then it was kinda dangerous cause of horde gankers and demons.....
  sacrefice 
 my voidwalker to get through without getting ganked by demons and jealous horde
  3 seconds later: wow................... sweet
  
  the twisting nether streching above me and 
 lots of npc's running around
  i walk up to the nearest quest mark and take it
  it seems i need to go to something called honor hold
  i take the gryphon and arrive in honor 
 hold.... laggy... but im there...
  i wander around to upgrade my tradeskills and then im off questing
  first thing i need to do 
 is kill some crusade orcs and gathering wood and iron from the broken seige machines
  both are completed fairly easy cause i dont have to look out for getting huge aggro from an overpull
 
  
  now a week later.. im lvl 63 finished most of the quests in hellfire and half way in the march 
 respecced affliction... (for those who didnt notice im a human warlock on the european server sylvanas)
 
  the use of shattrath city has been discovered by most ppl... including me... i love it there.... it 
 just misses class trainers and auction houses
  
  not yet decided where to go next but so far its been a blast doing all the quests with ppl previously 
 in the guilds i will never be in... (method and nemesis are the nolife guilds on sylvanas)
  the first lvl 70's have been counted and the prices on most items have shot up cause the most ppl 
 selling them are now lvling and dont have time low offer = high price
  runecloth has gone from 1,20g to 2g to just mention one of them
  
  oke but now an annalisis...
 
  
  the amount of stamina has doubled for 60-70... making a strange new balance... longer fights so 
 whiners cant say locks can DoT them to death or mages 1-hit them, rogues stunlock kill or whatever
 
  
  the server have a little trouble sometimes but that will be resolved in a while
  
  the old tier sets like 1,2,3, have become kinda useless at 70 so now i have a chance to get into 
 the good guilds with my gear (you needed at least full pvp to get in before bc)
  
  lots of new spells and talents to throw at opponents and lots of new mob-models so no more boring 
 scaled up spiders and boars
  
  the new shorter dungeons are what i look forward doing myself... i hate those long runs like in 
 brd and mc hellfire citadel: rampants was short and kept a nice challenge so was anything but easy 
 the new honor system is also very nice for the people like me that dont play pvp to much but still 
 like the rewards (the previous system made rank decrease after a time not played)
  
  conclusion:
  
  though some things have to be refined and the warlocks need to be buffed (lol)
 
  it has turned out to be a great expansion which will keep me busy for quite a while to come
  lots of new places and quests to explorer and complete
  and plenty of new items to gather i regret 
 not being able to review the flying mount part but since that takes lvl 70 and im not a nolifer 
 that makes that in 28!! hours ( will make a review later when i have one)
  
  just a last word... if u dont have WoW yet you are a moron like me till 5 months ago GO PLAY WOW 
 AND NOT RUNESCAPE
  
  bc is worth it to buy as a starting player due to the new races which are really cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brihaskell_nz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  I think that Blizz has made a great game better. The new races are a lot of fun, and I found myself 
 looking forward to more of the new quests for the new races. Visually, I've really enjoyed the 
 new areas, and love the attention to the environment given to the game. All in all, any Warcraft 
 gamer really can't go without this update.
  
  I was just a bit disappointed that there were patches to download just after the install, and I 
 couldn't rip into the game on the night of the release, but I'm up and running smoothly now, and 
 haven't docked any points off this review for the frustration in getting it installed.
  
  Thanks, Blizz, for this. Now I gotta get off the site and back to my WoW addiction... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbaler
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... this game is awesome if you have half a brain, and enjoy action-MMOrpgs. I don't understand 
 where people come off saying How does this game benefit your life? . Well hmmm let's think about 
 that.... since when do games really benefit your life? . Sure there are games that are very informative, 
 teach us of history long since past, expand critical thinking etc. Now, in no way is World of Warcraft 
 or it's expansion even close to the lack of brainpower needed such as a first person shooter, but 
 the game is just fun-filled action-adventure.
  
  For those of you that like being able to invest a lot or even a little time of gameplay a day, 
 then this is the game for you. Even if you're 12, 50, male, female doesn't matter. I've seen plenty 
 of people with little or no gaming experience pickup WoW and become regular players.
  
  The game is VERY easy to pickup. You start out with very basic options as far as attacking / class-based 
 abilities, whether they're spells that do damage, healing, or other abilities. Every 2 levels, 
 you visit your class trainer and obtain new or improved abilities, so it's never too long til your 
 next upgrade . There are many MMORPGS where you have to invest a LOT of time just to get any upgrade 
 at all.
  
  Questing in WoW is like no other game, and it very much endless. Yes there are kill X amount of 
 Z and be rewarded with Y. Let's think about this... there are many different types of quests, but 
 I think people get a little to extreme with the anti-wow reviews on this subject. Last time I checked, 
 other MMOrpgs had these types of quests, or just grinding left to do.
  
  The graphics are not from the X-Box 360, nor are they up to par with the PS3. Why is it that people 
 play the game if it doesn't have the best graphics? ..... Well boys &amp; girls.... graphics are 
 not what makes a game good or bad. Yes, glitchy or sketchy graphics can be annoying, but ultimately 
 it's the gameplay that makes a game enjoyable, unless your mind is too weak to realize that you 
 are just playing a game, a program with textures and 3D models to represent other pieces of programming 
 or data. My point is, a game with graphics from 2004 (when WoW was released) and awesome gameplay 
 will most likely be more enjoyable than a game with awesome graphics released in 2007 that is lacking 
 in gameplay.
  
  Although the graphics are a little on the cartoony side, you are able to run the game on it's highest 
 settings, looking rather well, and still have a good framerate. Not everyone has the hardware to 
 run a photo-realistic 3D MMORPG with thousands of players playing simultaneously and react in realtime.... Please 
 the many? or just the few? Believe me blizzard knew what they were doing when they decided how 
 they wanted to do their graphics.
  
  As far as sound and music, both of which are very awesome =)
  
  The game is definitly a MMORPG'ers 
 dream, although it may not be as fun if you don't have others to play with. It's just much funner 
 to play MMOs with friends =)
  
  There is a reason so many people play World of Warcraft, and that's because it's just plain fun. 
 If you don't find World of Warcraft enjoyable, than MMORPGS are NOT for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eitremn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I played the original game to lvl 60, and was getting sick and tired of it. waiting around for 
 however many people you needed to do whatever raid or quest, etc. etc... I was almost ready to 
 quit the game, but i thought what the hell I might as well give the expansion a try. One thing 
 i was worried about come the expansion was the gear that my character had, i never got a chance 
 to do any raids or anything so my gear was very limited, and being a pally that just doesn't work 
 to well. well come the first quest in this game i got a piece of equipment that was far superior 
 to anything i had, and i continued to get better gear, enough so that i was on par with most everyone 
 else in the game. so that right there makes this appealing to me because i'm not hardcore, i don't 
 play it for 10 hours everyday. it irritates me to see all the people that say this game ruins your 
 life and yada yada, i don't get that. it's a game, it doesn't ruin your life for god sakes. i have 
 a girlfriend and a son and a full time job and i still managed somehow to make it to lvl 60+. so 
 for all of you out there that love wow but are getting bored of it, this expansion is just what 
 the game needed! no graphics update, but they're good enough. some new style quests in this expansion 
 too that are pretty cool, one of which is called bombing runs. you get to ride on an armored gryphon 
 and blow things up, it's pretty fun! the new instances that i've done so far (blood furnace and 
 ramparts) aren't the type that take you 4 hours to complete. just 3 bosses a piece and they drop 
 some pretty good gear! so i definately recomend this game to anyone that likes to get together 
 with some friends and have a good time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The expansion to World Of Warcraft sold 2.4 million copies in it's first 24 hours. This eclipse's 
 the previous 24hr record of 240 thousand copies held by.... World Of Warcraft. The release of the 
 expansion marks a pivotal point in the history of WOW, if you don't buy it you are probably quitting 
 the game and if you are staying it makes sense to go through the dark portal to explore the new 
 content and make your character that much more powerful.
  
  Now, the thing that has kept WOW going for these past couple of years, since characters have reached 
 level 60 is mainly a quest for power, trying to get better gear and Blizzard kept adding new dungeons 
 so that there was always more gear to get and it was pretty impossible to finish the game. It's 
 almost like Blizzard are dangling a carrot in front of you that by the time you reach it there's 
 ANOTHER carrot put in front of you to keep you going.
  
  Well, The Burning Crusade is one helluva HUGE carrot. Right from the get go, as you enter the Dark 
 Portal you are confronted by mobs you have absolutely NO chance of beating, even if you had a 40 
 man group. We are talking level 70 elite giant minions accompanied by a HUGE level 72 elite boss 
 named The Pit Boss . It's pretty obvious that your journey through the Outlands will ultimately 
 see you returning to this point to defeat these huge monsters to save the rest of the world by 
 being invaded by them. There are also some level 70 giant elites wandering around Hellfire Peninsula 
 called Fel Reavers. These mechanical constructs are really cool, and will 1 shot you if you are 
 caught off guard and manage to find yourself in their aggro range. Theres a really nice screen 
 shake effect to warn you that they are approaching, and this really gives a sense of the sheer 
 size of these constructs, I mean they already look huge but the screen shake really adds that extra 
 touch of WOW.
  
  The second HUGE carrot Blizzard dangles in front of you, is you can immediately access a quartermaster 
 in Thrallmal where you get to see some level 70 rep rewards, and amongst those is a pretty incredible 
 1 handed mage weapon, but to get it you need to be exalted with Thrallmal and you also need 200 
 gold. If you find yourself in the hall of legends you can also see some of the new level 70 PVP 
 gear.
  
  The biggest carrot of them all lies in the neutral city known as Shattrath. When you see the level 
 70 gear at this place, you may find yourself overwhelmed by the sheer awesomeness of it. You also 
 will realise that you are going to be in this Burning Crusade for the long haul. It's also while 
 exploring Shattrath that you begin to realise just how many new factions are in the game, that 
 is one of the coolest features of this expansion pack. There are more factions that you could possibly 
 become exalted with, so you will end up picking a couple that have rewards that appeal to you, 
 and perhaps this will help to alleviate the problem of seeing the same classes wearing the exact 
 same gear after a period of time.
  
  Oh, and of course I could mention flying mounts, but this was a known quantity of the expansion 
 before it's release. The cheapest mount is 1000g including training, while you will be looking 
 at just over 5000g for the swift flying mount.
  
  What really impresses me about the expansion is how Blizzards artists have come up with brand new 
 environments that look different to anything from the original game. The first region, Hellfire 
 Peninsula, looks very similiar to Blasted lands except for a surreal looking skyscape. The next 
 region you head into is known as Zangarmarsh, and it's an immediate favourite of mine. It's very 
 blue looking, and you have trees that look sorta like giant mushrooms. But it is clear that this 
 area has been designed with an underwater feel, and in now way is this more obvious than when you 
 see some of the new creatures. Fen Striders look like giant jellyfish, and then you have other 
 mobs that look like Stingrays. But because it's not actually underwater you also have giant fly's 
 , ogre's, naga, and bog walkers (who are sorta like the tar elementals found in Un'goro crater) . 
 The next area is known as Terrokar Forest, and in this place you will find worgs, warp stalkers 
 (the ultimate hunter pet) and giant moths. Terrokar Forest looks more detailed than any region 
 from the original game, and you will notice a drop in framerates as a result. By the time you are 
 finished in Terrorkar Forest you will be, like me, around level 65 and still have a further 4 zones 
 to explore.
  
  So, there is a massive amount of exploration to be done in the expansion and a massive amount of 
 accompanying quests. What impresses me a lot about these quests is you wont be running into as 
 many dead ends, ie ELITE quest, that you did in the original game, and what is really really nice 
 is that you'll do one quest and get paid gold, and the very next quest you are given you will be 
 picking from some VERY nice loot. Blizzard wants you to get geared up quickly, and they want you 
 to be level 70 by the time you reach the final zones.
  
  Speaking of gear, a lot of the loot you will be finding on mobs will at first astound you, but 
 after a while you get used to just how much more powerful these uncommon items are. For example, 
 very early on Mages will get a quest reward of a staff that does +33 Stamina, +32 Intellect and 
 +80 bonus damage...
  
  The only real disappointing aspect of the expansion pack so far is the lack of new features. To 
 be fair, a lot of the expansions new features arrived in the recent patches, and as WOW is a constantly 
 evolving game this isn't really that big a deal. Also, the expansions biggest new feature, flying 
 mounts, doesn't come until level 70. I would have liked Blizzard to allow expansion players to 
 take on a 3rd profession, or to implement and in-game billboard system (messagepost/forums) , in-game 
 internet browser and even some form of in-game gambling. Diablo II had vendors where you could 
 gamble gold away, so why not WOW since after all it's already copied all of Diablo II's best features.
 
  
  This trend doesn't stop in the expansion, because we now have socketed items and a profession to 
 accompany it known as jewelcrafting. I wasn't able to try out jewelcrafting, because it would mean 
 having to drop one of my existing professions (which is why it makes sense to add a 3rd profession 
 in my opinion) . The good thing is you dont need to have jewelcrafting to see the effects of socketed 
 items, because there are vendors that sell low level gems and you can spend honor points on higher 
 level 70 gems.
  
  Another great new feature of the expansion is the level cap on professions has been raised to 375. 
 Master Enchanter sounds SOOOO much better than Artisian Enchanter. Enchanters can now enchant RINGS, 
 and they can also create gems for socketed items that add resistances. It also looks like items 
 you create in professions will actually be genuinely used, rather than just being used to skill 
 up. Tailor's can make the netherweave set, and later on can make an advanced version of this set. 
 The fact that you can now craft set items that have set bonuses is really really cool.
  
  Gear plays a huge part in the expansion, particularly if you are a caster. Before the expansion 
 gear was mainly cosmetic to casters, because you were still pretty powerful with no gear. I myself 
 managed to finish a couple of Scholomance runs in fully sundered cloth armor. Gear to a caster 
 pre-expansion was really only adding to your mana pool. But, since you only really learn your most 
 powerful new spells at level 66 gear is going to play a huge role in the progression of your characters 
 ability to deal damage.
  
  In summary, playing through the expansion brings back all those great feelings you got when you 
 first played through WOW. If you have a hunger for more quests, this expansion will more that satiate 
 that desire. If you are a gearhead this expansion has you covered. If you are already sick of WOW 
 then there isn't really anything here to get you excited, but if you quit because you ran outa 
 quests or got bored at level 60 you may want to consider giving this a try. Now if you'll excuse 
 me, I have to get to level 66... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishweredogs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  its good its aswam ad i bet the next one will e aswwmamer im meen all this world of war craft **** 
 is just aswam i meen cmon what online game is better ... this is tehe only good online pc game to 
 kill time be cool and cowzy instead of playn that damn half life 2 of far cry or prey or th new 
 generation of games but like i said buy download rent just try this game out and it will be aswam 
 just make sure you have a high speed calbe or higher internet as for dsl its ok but might see some 
 lag but other then that the games are good and the characters are great....... this game is aswam!!!
 
  
  
  who ever read this review hi whats up and to let you know my life if full of stress!!!! an im an 
 actor (not to brag) well thanks for reading and have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Just like the first with extras. New jewel crafting I messed with is pretty cool. Two 
 new races to get to play as. Shaman and Pallys are now on both factions. New outlands and flying 
 mounts. Graphics: Just like the first. Better enviroments both visuall and artistic. Not the best 
 looking.
  
  Sound: Awsome music and voice acting ( altho there isnt much lol ) But yea the music is awsome. 
 The ambiance is nice too.
  
  Value: 1000+ hours At least. If you have a lvl 60 you will want to get him to 70 for the flying 
 mount its alot of fun trust me.
  
  Tilt: If you like WoW youll like WoW: BC. This might change your mind also if you did not ike it 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dekehead
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I just don't get it... I read some of these reviews praising the new expansion saying how 
 great it makes WOW, and how much different content there is now etc... Am I the only one still 
 doing the same thing I did in the original WOW? Ok, so I don't need 40 people to do a raid which 
 consists of killing X to get the Sword of Z ... No, I only need 25 people to kill Y to get the 
 Axe of Z ... Rinse, repeat, when does it end?
  
  Never.
  
  I guess I've grown tired of killing 37 XYZ's in order to return that quest to have the pleasure 
 of killing 72 ABC's for my awesome Ring of Awesomeness, which will be worth jack-schmitt in any 
 PvP area I want to participate in...
  
  I know what some of you are saying... Good riddance! ... Go play Counter-Strike if you don't like 
 it, you just don't get it man! ... No. I think YOU don't get it. I look at my credit card statement 
 every month, see the Blizzard charge and think to myself - Why bother? What have I achieved, and 
 what's different then the first time I logged in?
  
  Nothing... I quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankmefrank
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  hey! i got it and id like to try going to outlands but not high enough (im 55) just hoping ill bee 
 58 soon so i can try out the new dungeons and all imba stuffs like that: P! TBC is owned!!! im looking 
 forward to trying out the new places!!! get yourself this game! its worth it!! trust me:! P arghh! just 
 talking and talking and talking!!! try this game for your own fault! i know im just talking, cause 
 im bored now and it sucks, not TBC but it sucks to be bored, lol! say say say say talk talk talk 
 talk-. if u play wow get this, if u dont , also get this, u will be happy when u get to try it, 
 cause its owned!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  For a game as big as it is, was it even necessary to make an expansion? I suppose for Blizzard 
 to make millions of more dollars yes. But the only people that will actually explore this game 
 to its full extent are people who don't go to school and/or don't have jobs. To become a level 
 70 and still be in good physical condition and have a healthy lifestyle is basically impossible. 
 This game takes away from your life, and forces your mind to concentrate on it if you get to much 
 into it.
  
  When I played it I was so looking forward to getting to the max level and exploring the biggest 
 dungeons of the game, but I only got to level 53 and that took me over 300 hours of playing time. 
 And doing any quests below level 50 are quite dull. The majority of this game you find yourself 
 waiting around, because in order to do all of the good quests you must first form a party. And 
 forming a party that is actually capable of completing the quest can often be difficult to come 
 across. Not to mention some of the quests take up to 8 hours of playing. And if for some reason 
 you get disconnected and can't log back in... you have to start the quest all over again.
  
  You play because you want to become the best, but the few who become the best are those people 
 that do their grocery shopping at 3am because they have developed avoidant personality disorder.
 
  
  Good games are short and sweet, this game is long and boring.
  
  Positives:
  - Decent graphics for 2005
  - Large fan base
  - Consistent updates
  
  That's about it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatoknight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft is not to everyone's taste. It is insanely addictive, yes. Is this a bad thing? 
 Possibly. But in terms of gaming, it is very well done. The expansion adds some badly-needed endgame 
 content, raising the level cap to 70 and adding five or six high level zones and a ton of new dungeons. 
 Raid dungeons are now 25-man, reducing the need for huge hardcore guilds, and there is a new Arena 
 for PvP. There are two new races, Draenei and Blood Elves, and a new profession. These are unlikely 
 to attract you now any more than before, unless you've been dying to play draenei etc. but add 
 some nice new stuff nonetheless. The Burning Crusade has the same flaws as the original, but these 
 are hardly huge issues. The balance between player vs. player and player vs. environment is still 
 uneasy-sometimes the PvP feels too removed from the world, sometimes much too close. Also, Blizzard 
 does not appear to be scaling the existing level 60 content, and so much of it appears to be going 
 to waste; you used to have to grind the level 60 dungeons for good equipment, but the new zones 
 make that pointless. This is a shame, in my opinion, as there is some great content out there that 
 will hardly ever be seen anymore. The Burning Crusade is a great expansion, and a great way to 
 improve WoW. If you rejected the old one, it might be worth coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostEdge
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game improves on the original in almost every way. World PvP action that's actually GOOD and 
 will stay good and playable for months and months after you hit 70. Dungeons have been made wild 
 and different to try and reduce monotony. Raid sizes reduced, so content is more easy to do, hybrid 
 classes..... are actually hybrid in PvE. The fact that every new outlands zone has something to 
 come back to is what draws me in the most. Done with hellfire penninsula at level 62? Nope, you 
 come back at 70 to do dungeons. Every zone has content for progressiive levelers and high end raiders 
 alike, to keep you coming back. Masterpiece of a game, the only flaws are that certain quests (especially 
 ones where you need to kill a single enemy commander) get camped by loads of people at once and 
 are VERY difficult to do, though I suspect this issue will resolve itself in a month or so. All 
 in all, if you liked the original at all, you will absolutely love this game, it takes the best 
 of everything in WoW and improves on it, though it isnt without its own problems, they seem very 
 VERY minor at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yenkin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  I reactivited my account in November 2006 in anticipation of the release of BC. It was disappointing 
 that it got moved to the new year, but I continued playing waiting until the new content. For WOW 
 players who power level themselves it will add 10 levels which they will plow through in a week.
 
  
  But for the Casual player it does add some new content for the 60+ who are in no real hurry to 
 get to 70. While the zones are pretty much what you expect, full of mobs that are fimilar, Orc's, 
 Buzzards, hogs, inferno's etc...... Which drop the usual type of goodies, cloth, silver, food, 
 drink and the odd Good item.
  
  Through after a few hours in the zones, I expected to have phat loot, but it was more of the same, 
 drop rates for Greens are pretty slow, grey items for vendor trash are non existiant except for 
 the odd broken tusk. Quests are the typical, go out and Kill X mobs, kill X mob get X item bring 
 it back, Go destroy this building etc.... Howerver the rewards blow the pants of anythign in the 
 original world. But it will be the same old story, the guys that can run instance if instance will 
 still be a leg up in PVP vs. the Casual player.
  
  But unless you are planning to play on a PVP server, you can be very impressed with the quest items 
 they are significant upgrades to the greens and blues of the original game. It nice to see new 
 content, new levels, and even new races. I did start a Allinace shammy which is quite fun. Always 
 enjoyed my horde shammy.
  
  What would have made the game, is a couple of new classes in my opinion. Yes the overlap of Shammy's 
 and Pally's now will breath some new life into those on the Allinace and horde side, but still 
 the game would benefit from a couple of newer combat classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Finally the portal has opened! Too bad though the elite guards, which were standing in front of 
 the portal before, were removed a couple of weeks ago and replaced with a huge encampment, which 
 is empty (up till now that is) . I would've loved to fight my way through the elites and make a 
 jump to safety into the portal. Well anyways, on entrance you'll be facing a battle between alliance 
 and horde ??-elite NPC's. First you'll be thinking WTF? to soon understand that you don't have 
 to join in, but instead you can go down the stairs to either right (alliance) or left (horde) to 
 find your first FP (Flight Path) . Surprisingly this FP takes you to Honor Hold (Alliance) without 
 having you explored it's FP over there first on foot.
  
  Once you've taken up your first quests and start your exploration, you'll notice the area's are 
 pretty crowded with NPC's and many of 'm operate in little groups. So, stay on your mount and don't 
 get stunned!
  
  If you find a safe spot, be sure to look up the sky, it's beautiful! You'll see nebula's and planets 
 with great lighting effects.
  
  A quick look on the map learns that the new continent is a gigantic floating rock. Where you could 
 make a safe jump into the sea in the 'old' world, you'll here be jumping to a certain death.
  
  To gain lot's of Experience Points (XP) , be sure to explore all area's first before doing your 
 quests. The XP you gain varies between 1050-1180 for each area you discover. These points can differ 
 because it depends on your current level, and so far I haven't explored all areas yet.
  
  Is the add on more of the same? Yes it is! Does that make it a dull boring game? Most certainly 
 not! There's loads of new stuff, I personally am looking forward to January 24th when the battle-arena's 
 will be opened, here you can fight against little teams and gain honor and arena-points by which 
 you can buy special items.
  
  Well, I'm off to go and hit 70 so I can buy myself a flying mount. (I'll probably have to sell 
 my car to gather up enough gold) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid-Maddox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  If you were ever a player of WoW, that didn't give up on their characters before they reached level 
 60... I suggest you go to your local game store, and pick this expansion up... (supposing you haven't 
 already)
  
  sure the graphics aren't anything new, sure the combat system is still the same, and sure the monthly 
 fee still exists... to me, this game doesn't require ULTRA awesome graphics... you play this game, 
 because of it's gameplay... you may, or may not love this games gameplay... and if you don't, why 
 even bother reading a review on a game you don't even like in the first place? there's many MMO's, 
 and this is just one of them... those who don't give up on this game, appreciate everything it's 
 given them... it's incredibly hard to maintain a Massively Multiplayer Online game, and Blizzard 
 has shown for the most part, that they've come a long way since WoW first came out in 2004... I'm 
 honestly, excited to see what happens next in the World Of Warcraft...
  
  (on that note, I'd just like to say that I hope Blizzard comes out with brand new classes for the 
 next iteration of their expansion...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  SO far burning crusade is pretty impressive. the art work for the blood elf cities is incredible 
 and unusually bright for a horde race. iv just been playin the 2 new races most of the time and 
 blizzard did a good job on the quests and maps.
  only problem is that its graphics still suck but remain friendly. and the crappy monthly fee which 
 is harsh on us without jobs. fun game loads of new content.
  if your a WoW fan this is a must have. the new level cap will take you about as long as it took 
 to go from lvl 1-60. roughly same length for 60-70 which is awesome. blizzard knows what they are 
 doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoNu7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Two years since the previous World of Warcraft and its expansion has finally arrived. While this 
 expansion did have many new features and looked very promising, there's still more to be had.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Nothing new tech-wise. There seem to be some more particle effects in some of the new zones. At 
 the same settings, my framerate drops from about 32 in Blasted Lands to 25 when I hop over to Hellfire 
 Peninsula, and the issue 't seem to just be the larger number of players. You'll also notice that 
 textures seem to be even more colorful and detailed this time around, and some of the new zones 
 look very eye-catching. The old world zones have not had much of a revamp graphics-wise. The high 
 elf models have recieved the new blood elf models, but that's it. The new races look decent, but 
 to keep up with the game's cartoony visuals, they look just as funky as the old races. I don't 
 exactly like the models, but that's just preference.
  
  It's still the same old cartooney stuff, with a few new twists.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Same old 
 gameplay. The combat system is virtually the same, but with new spells, abilities, and talents, 
 players may have to rethink some of their tactics.
  
  Difficulty is the same from old WoW. If you're the run-of-the-mill type of player, you'll find 
 a decent challenge from regular mobs. Players seeking something tougher will discover their wish 
 in player vs player and in some of the elite mobs that wander around the zones.
  
  There's more variety and surprises among the new mobs however. For example, in Hellfire Peninsula, 
 there are these Dune-esque worms that crawl around below ground, and above ground, they appear 
 to be piles of dirt shifting around. Upon walking over the dirt, the worm will pop out and start 
 spitting venom at you. You'll encounter many other surprises, but I'll leave those up to you to 
 discover.
  
  The quests also have a little more variety to them. You'll run across more Player vs. Player based 
 quests, you'll have quests where you ride on a flying mount and drop bombs on enemies and/or structures 
 below you, and more. The majority of quests however are the same old kill, deliver, and collection 
 quests.
  
  Player vs. player combat has recieved significant changes since World of Warcraft came out, and 
 at this moment, it looks quite shapely. There are some new imbalances created from the spells and 
 talents introduced in the expansion, but those should be fixed soon. Already, some of the overpowered 
 classes are getting toned down. The two player vs. player systems are nice, enabling competitive, 
 or grind-style combat. What Blizzard should do though, is add some more variety. 4 battlegrounds 
 and only 2 arenas seems to be a tad short. Adding 1 or 2 new arenas, and perhaps a 5th battleground 
 with a  gametype would be awesome.
  
  The instances seem to cater even more to casual players, which is a great move by Blizzard since 
 that is their target market after all. Some of the new instances take only an hour to finish with 
 an average group of 5. The raid dungeons are capped at 25 people, so it won't nearly be so hard 
 to find raiders to raid with.
  
  Gameplay is mostly the same. The grind seems to have been shortened, and there is a lot more variety 
 this time around in terms of how you choose to grind.
  
  Sound:
  
  Most music is very mild, in keeping with consistency. New menu screen music sounds hot, but everything 
 else is fairly average. They don't sound worse than your pet myna singing a karoake, but you won't 
 remember them forever either.
  
  New monster and spell sounds are pretty decent, and they're what you'd expect from the original 
 WoW in terms on how much they'll entertain you, although there's nothing new that beats the murloc's 
 mrglrlgrrrgrlrlr! There is however a new human boss mob wearing plate by the name of Sinkenj Yoreel 
 who yells LEEEROY JENKINS when aggroed. Just kiddin'...
  
  Sound effects are great, but music could have had a little more work.
  
  Overall:
  
  Great 
 expansion pack! But like I said before, it's not flawless. Game imbalance still permeates the wonderful 
 World (s) of Warcraft. This has been stated a billion times by others, but the new Blood elf and 
 Draenei zones just don't seem to be very well-integrated into the old world. Aside from the fact 
 that the draenei land is too far off, it's really the whole thing about how there's a loading point 
 between the old and new zones. I realize that adding the new zones directly to the old world server 
 would probably require a redo of its architecture, but come on Blizz, you've stressed the importance 
 of seamlessness for everything WoW-related and then you do this? Surely there must be a better 
 (albeit probably more costly) route. Some might argue about the fact that instances aren't seamlessly 
 integrated either, but this is different. These aren't instances we are talking about, nor are 
 they separate continents like Kalimdor, Eastern Kingdoms, or Outland.
  
  Aside from TBC's imperfections, if you're still playing WoW, or have played it and actually enjoyed 
 it, then this is the expansion for you! Otherwise, go pick up something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetreaper
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The tagline says it all - Blizzard has somehow managed to not only match, but exceed the absolutely 
 ridiculous amount of hype that this expansion has generated over the past year or so. What follows 
 is an honest review from a highly-experienced player of not only WoW, but MMO's and video games 
 in general.
  
  First off, a word or two about the original game: it is not only by far the best MMO ever made, 
 but arguably the best game ever made. I've been through many, many video games from all different 
 platforms (starting with NES, and going all the way to current-gen, with lots of PC thrown in) , 
 and there simply has never been a game on any platform that has captured my attention, and then 
 held it as vigorously as this one. I have devoted well over 1000 hours playtime to this MMO over 
 the past two years (!) , and have been an officiating member of a guild that has downed Nefarian 
 (Trivial, Hyjal Server) . Everything about this game - from the thrill of exploring a new area for 
 the first time to your first instance run to destroying that MC Boss for your first epic - is just 
 sublime. People can nitpick all they want about this game, and despite its flaws - few and insignificant 
 as they may be - no one does it better. In fact, no one ever has.
  
  That said, you can imagine my skepticism when I bought The Burning Crusade - how could Blizzard 
 possibly hope to improve on such a masterpiece? Simple - by taking everything that made WoW such 
 a gem and improving on it. By quite a significant margin, I might add. First off, the amount of 
 new content is just amazing - they've managed to add 25% land mass to a game world that was already 
 much larger and much more ambitious than anything the MMO genre had ever seen. Anyone here ever 
 played Everquest? City of Heroes? FFXI? Phantasy Star Universe (ugh) ? The amount of new real estate 
 in TBC is more than you'll ever see in the complete versions of those games, and it looks a hell 
 of a lot better, too. From the very moment you step through the Dark Portal, you step right into 
 the middle of a huge battle between the armies of Azeroth and the demonic minions of The Burning 
 Legion. From thereon out, it just gets better - the barren expanse of Hellfire Peninsula provides 
 an absurd amount of quests, all of which are actually relevant to the backstory. What's more is 
 that they're interesting to do! As you discover more, the game just gets better; I dare anyone 
 to step into Zangarmarsh and not be floored.
  
  From a gameplay perspective, the core mechanics haven't changed much. And thank God for that. World 
 of Warcraft was home to some of the most balanced and intuitive gameplay blueprints I had ever 
 experienced, and I'm glad the folks down at Blizzard didn't decide to fix what wasn't broken. All 
 they did was add stuff to refine the experience even more - the new talents make sub-specs even 
 more specialized, and yet somehow manage to bring even more balance to the general selection of 
 gaming styles. The combat mechanics are spot-on - do yourself a favor and ignore any trolls who 
 say a certain class is played the same way, regardless of spec. Anyone who knows anything about 
 WoW will tell you that one of its appeals is its sheer variety - an arms warriors plays COMPLETELY 
 different than a fury-specced warrior, for instance. Combat rogues and assassination rogues have 
 very little in common. The expansion builds on this even further, giving us the extra talent points 
 to further specialize in a certain tree, or spread them out for a more decently-balanced build. 
 That said, a warrior will still beat a rogue in combat 90% of the time, even though there are basically 
 three distinct play-styles per toon. I've yet to see how this is a bad thing, and applaud Blizzard 
 for practicing restraint in this area.
  
  Furthermore, the game looks and sounds great. Sure, the graphics aren't state-of-the-art, but the 
 artwork and execution of the art concepts in this game more than make up for any technical shortcomings. 
 The world is alive and colorful (unlike every other MMO ever made) , and the game just LOOKS excellent. 
 Not to mention the sound has been improved upon quite a bit - each zone thus far has had its own 
 selection of quality music and sounds, all of which fit the atmosphere perfectly. The actual sound 
 effects are very well-matched, and the voice acting is a showcase of excellence. No awkwardly-voiced 
 lines about doomsday here; Blizzard really knows how to make an immersive game, and WoW: TBC is 
 their best effort yet.
  
  All-and-all, The Burning Crusade is a marvelous expansion to what I consider a revolutionary game. 
 It says a lot that Blizzard feels confident in charging $40 for this add-on; it says even more 
 that nearly 8 million players are willing to pay that sum for a continuation of what has been nothing 
 but an absolutely sublime gaming experience. I can't wait to see how WoW evolves in the future. 
 If this is any indication, we are in for one hell of a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazama_Devi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  First time reviewing, so I just explain my scores:
  
  Gameplay 10
  
  Come on, the battle systen, classes, PvP, Raids, etc etc... even the quests are fun to do. Sometimes 
 repetitive but still fun.
  
  Graphics 10
  
  The graphics, certainly not the best graphics like... iunno Ghost Recon AWF? However the graphics 
 are wonderful and very unique. Cannot find a game with graphics like this (thats not Warcraft-ish 
 like ro so)
  
  Sound 9
  
  The music at times fits the mood, the place and so fourth. Also gives the place an epic feel. As 
 for the sounds itself, sword hitting swords, bigs, voice acters, heck even the sound of the magic 
 casting fits to the game!
  
  Value 9 Good price now if thats what value means also you get alot out of it. I dont know what 
 but trust me
  
  Tilt 10
  whats this? iunno what its for really but if its the learning curve, if your completly new to the 
 series of the MMORPG, or the game itself, it will take bout 30min to an hour. If your familiar 
 with the concepts of MMORPGs (Guild Wars, Ragnarok Online, etc) it shouldnt take you long. Took 
 me 10 seconds really to get used to. No joke. Great story too, very epic... and fits to the game 
 and quests.
  
  Overall: 9.8+ to perfect.
  
  I really love this game. I not an complete addict to it (you know, no-life people) but I love the 
 game. Its fun too, even the simplist stuff is fun like just killing boars for the first time, getting 
 armor, and such. The only drawback is, its pay to play, so ya. Not the best reviewer but i think 
 its good enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaddix55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  When I first waited in line for World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade at midnight at my local 
 EB Games, I was pretty excited to be #11 in line out of about 150-175 people. I went home to install 
 in and stayed up for about 5 more hours playing the game and checking out my new Blood Elf Paladin 
 and Draenei Shaman.
  
  I must say that the content in this game is massive, there are hundreds and hundreds of new quests, 
 items, and story-lines to keep one occupied for months.
  
  What disappointed me, though, was the abrupt ending to the new content as you transition back to 
 the old, until reaching the availability of Outland at Level 58.
  
  In both the Draenei and Blood Elf areas, a player can quest there until about their 20th Level, 
 and then it is back to the same old game, and looking forward to Outland and other fun things that 
 come with the expansion.
  
  All in all, this expansion is a must-have, and one of the best products I've seen come from Blizzard 
 in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pr2424
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Blizzard has done very well making this expansion. I don't have the time to play hardcore like 
 I used to but thats not WoW's fault lol. The game looks amazing and it brought new life to some 
 areas that where getting boring. It will be interesting to see how raid groups use the new races 
 in raid groups seeing we have done w/o them since WoW's beginning. If I had to have any critisisum 
 about WoW is it's still not geared toward the casual gamer so trying to get great armor/ weapons 
 it pretty had to impossible : (
  
  I did give a perfect score because like I mentioned above time to play it the users problem not 
 blizzards. Overall this game makes you want to play this game like you're playing it for the very 
 first time all over again. Well done Blizzard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthorsen
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Oki, Micro review for TBC:
  
  Let's start with the obvious: TBC is AWESOME! It expands on all that made WoW so great, adds tons 
 of new content and delivers on all fronts. I could spend days to tell you how awesome it is.. But 
 why bother? You have to experience it for yourself.
  
  Now, if you are a WoW player.. Quit reading and start playing. If you are not a WoW player (or 
 you are playing some other mmorpg game) ... get WoW and TBC, sign the dotted line to sell your soul 
 and GET ONLINE DAMM IT!!!
  
  Oh, and did i mention that Hellfire Penensula's general chat channel is like Barrens chat 2.0? 
 That alone is a selling point!
  
  But seriously, get WoW, start playing and see you in Outland! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonmichael14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is all about adding on to the WoW 8 million people know and love. If you didn't 
 like WoW before, you won't like it now. Burning Crudade adds a great deal of great new content. 
 The new races are both very fun to play. Their starting areas are well made and interesting to 
 explore. Outland will be the main draw of BC for the veteran WoW players and it does not disapoint. 
 Outland is crazy to say the least. Lots of fun and interesting quests. So bottom line, if you like 
 WoW you will love this. If you do not, this will not change your mind. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjake2004
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Haven't we been all waiting for such a long time to finally see more epic adventures and high level 
 of gaming from World of Warcraft. At a first glance the expansion doesn't seem that big of a deal. 
 Bah just 10 more level. a few new places to visit, only 1 new profession, 2 new races and possiblity 
 to play any class on any side.
  
  Well lets see why I fell off my chair. First of all, socketing items is a concept blizzard had 
 introduced in the epic game Diablo. A lot of Blizzard fans were surprise at first that wow did 
 not ship with socketable items right off the bat. But hey there was so much to fit in 1 box that 
 they had to comprimise i guess. So there comes this new profession to make all this available. 
 Gem Crafting. The gems that will be craftable will make it so that 2 players with 2 identical set 
 of armor will infact have totally different benefits from how they have socketed the armor. One 
 could add gems to add more dps in his attacks. While his buddy might buff up his armor to give 
 him more mana and mana regen and healing bonus. This is an awesome concept.
  
  The new racesintroduces shaman for the Alliance and Paladin for the Hordes. These 2 class were 
 upto now unique to the respective faction. Now anyone can live in a bubble.
  
  But what is the most awesome part of this expansion is the Outlands. This place is wicked. The 
 views are so facinating and at the same time breath taking. I can remember walking through the 
 portal the first time and arriving in the Outlands and just stopped. My eyes took about 2 minutes 
 to adjust. The whole landscape is awesome. Also the creatures you encounter are another thing out 
 of this world. See the Outlands is not your ordinary vacation destination. This place is deadly 
 as its pretty.
  
  There is so much more to say about this expansion thats is awesome such as flyable mounts, level 
 70, a bunch of new instance and raids. Simplified 20 man raid instead of 40. This way you can raid 
 in 2 hours instead of 6. The loot that drops in Outlands is so awesome also.
  
  I recommend this with a 10/10. This expansion is awesome and will add hundred of more hours to 
 my pleasure. I hope you like it as much as i do.
  
  Have fun
  
  MrJake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The original WOW was amazing itself, but the addition to WOW, The Burning Crusade, makes everything 
 even better.
  
  There a ton of new add-ons to the game. The level 70 cap is now live, although takes a **** load 
 of time to get to, from 60-70 it probably takes about 12days playing time. I wouldnt know 'cause 
 im only level 65 to date.
  
  I started the new profession of jewelcrafting. Its easy to level up if you have about 300 gold 
 to spend. My jewelcrafting is already 325 and I've spent about 250gold.
  
  Graphics look sharp, exspecially in the new continent of Outland. The creatures look really detailed.
 
  
  Overall, the new expansion is amazing in all ways.
  
  This game is really for those people who love a game that will last forever and have the longest 
 amount of playing time. Although you do need a lot of patience to play it, which I dont have at 
 times =X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The world is quickly expanding, ever month or so a patch comes out.
  But now its for real, the Burning crusade is released and this expansion adds a whole lot more 
 then a patch.
  The game adds two new races to play, an entire new continent and of course flying mounts.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  The WOW gameplay stays intact, with more variety added.
  The two new races are fun to play and the new zones look beautiful.
  +Expansion adds a whole 
 lot more variety
  +New dungeons and raids are great for hardcore gamers
  +Entire new continent is truly amazing
  +New pvp options
  +Nice bug fixes and balances
  -Questing 
 is still boring
  -Getting to lvl 70 takes another while
  -Monthly fees are still there :S
  
  Graphics:
  While the graphics are not the strongest point 
 of warcraft, the environments and art are!
  +World looks great, with each zone having a different environment
  +Great art design
  -No real 
 improvements in the burning crusade
  
  Sounds:
  The music of TBC is still impressive, while i dont really like the childish monster and character 
 sounds.
  +Music still impressive
  +Nice battle effects and environment sounds
  -Childish monster/character sounds
  -Again not many improvements to the sounds of wow
  
  
 Value:
  Again tbc offers a lot of content but due to the monthly fees the value drops
  +Adds a whole lot more variety
  +New continent and dungeons/raids are great
  +Flying mounts 
 give you a goal (as they are quite expensive)
  -Questing keeps getting boring -Monthly fees
  
  Tilt:
  +Still very impressive
  +Great new 
 intro
  +Excellent lasting appeal
  
  TBC is a faithful expansion to wow and is worth a try.
  bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Are you a World of Warcraft adict? If you are, there is no question you bought Burning Crusade 
 on day 1! Maybe you're afraid to open it. Please, don't be, it was well worth your $40. The standard 
 World of Warcraft is huge to begin with. Now with BC it's off the charts! Literally! Once you hit 
 level 58, you get a new continet called The Outland and it looks amazing. You can now use flying 
 mounts, but the downside is that you can only use them in The Outland. Hey, maybe you're an noob 
 and you just picked up World of Warcraft and Burning Crusade, go create one of those new races 
 that now completely out-shine all of the others. Do you fight for the Alliance? Make a Dranei, 
 they have the ablitity to be a Warrior, Palidin, Shaman, Mage, Hunter, and Warlock. What's cooler 
 than a big blue guy with hooves. Or maybe you want Night Elves on the Horde's side. You got the 
 next best thing, or better: The Blood Elves, that are the Nicole Richies of WoW, who have the classes 
 of Palidin, Mage, Shaman, Rogue, Hunter, and Warlock. Plus, if you choose those races, you obviously 
 need an orgin. You get 2 new places with tons of new quests. This make me very very very happy. 
 I loooooooooove quests. If you are one of the small population who haven't gotten this Expansion 
 Set (Inside boxart joke) or you are one of the very small population that doesn't have WoW, then 
 pick them both up!!! NOOOOOOWWW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Alright, I really despised WoW, but my brother just picked this one up and its pretty nice. For 
 now, none of the servers are that laggy, the grafux look alot better, the blood elves and the drainei 
 are pretty frekin sweet, and the weapon designs are very kool. I wud suggest this to anyone with 
 the original WoW, even tho it was very very very lame. Any PC owner should have both of these games! 
 Drainei are a very weird lookin class early on, but later they look very kool. Blood elves look 
 cooler, but they rnt a better overall race. Have fun pikin up this game as it is quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_desert_man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  WoW: TBC is really nice for those in lvl 60... Outland is really funny easy to lvl and get a lot 
 of cool stuff . B Elfs a really cool but i don't like this with that B elfs can be palas and draenei 
 can be both Paladin and shaman that suck soo Blizzard have maked a little misstake with that . 
 but it will be really fun with Flying mounts soo yeah.... but i really like the game and the story 
 but i think Blizzard could have maked it better buteverything can't be perfect so I'm happy ! 1 
 problem is that the servers get a bit laggy in outlands but on mornings and nights it's nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floydshayvious
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  The core mechanics remain virtually unchanged from the 1st installment - which has its strong points. 
 Two new races - one of which look oddly familiar.
  
  My debate on this expansion is the fact that most new content is very cosmetic. The male blood 
 elves bare a striking resemblance to re-skinned and re-sized female night elves, and the females? 
 Scrawny night elf females. The new alliance race, Draenei, have elements of re-used, re-sized, 
 re-skinned models, as well, only pieced together (like the Succubus tail/legs and tauren arms for 
 instance) . The males look rather off balance and top-heavy. Everything feels rather re-skinned 
 and oddly familiar everywhere you happen to go, with strong exception to the starting areas. Honestly 
 - it seems rather rushed to me. Very little new is in the game prior to reaching level 60, but, 
 if you have the hours on hours (on hours) to dedicate yourself to attaining such a status - there 
 is some worthwhile endgame content with the addition of a level 70 cap.
  
  (Although - when I think of that. I cant bother but to recall that South Park line We dont have 
 accounts... we have lives. )
  
  On the other hand - the soundtrack, in my opinion, is quite impressive. Some areas provide a fresh 
 new sound that is quite pleasant with a set of headphones.
  
  The graphics have remained unchanged. But there is talk in the future of such an update.
  
 
  The value has been jolted back to life - if at least until the initial aww neat! wears off within 
 most players.
  
  This expansion deserves praise - yet has done nothing, again in my opinion, to revolutionize the 
 original concept and gameplay.
  
  If you have the $40 to burn - and have been a patient and loyal player - then by all means give 
 it a try! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhunt49
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is a wonderful addition to the franchise. It really lives 
 up to the hype brought upon it in the many months of waiting for it to release. WoW: TBC adds four 
 new zones in Azeroth (Two for the Blood Elves, two for the Draenei) , a new profession called Jewelcrafting, 
 and a HUGE new world: The Outland. Once level 58, you can travel through the Darkportal, and arrive 
 at Hellfire Peninsula. Once here, you will probably just be amazed at the new sceneries. It has 
 a look unlike any other that we have seen in WoW. Anyways, once you arrive, you will just be overwhelmed 
 with quests... one after another. Once you finish one quest, one more pops up. So if you love questing, 
 well... you'll actually enjoy leveling. Blizzard has done a fantastic job at actually making the 
 quest meaningful and fun this time around. You could spend countless hours just doing quest and 
 probably not get bored in the process.
  
  There are also socketed items now, similar to Diablo II. That is where the Jewelcrafting profession 
 comes in. Jewelcrafters can make various different rings, necklaces, trinkets, and stones that 
 can be placed in socketed items. These stones will give the items a attribute boost, and will further 
 allow players to customize there players gear, and in an end result, creating even more diversity 
 between the players. Another thing that Blizzard has done well is that they have though about all 
 of the players. They know that there are no life people with the best gear imaginable that they 
 have gathered up over the years from being sixty so long, and then they know that there are your 
 average joe people. So, what Blizzard has done is made the new items in the Outland out do most 
 of the epic gear that the best players have. Right away, the first couple quest you do will have 
 armor/weapon rewards. The quest rewards on the average quest are green, but you will find yourself 
 replacing almost all of your blues with greens quickly. I had replaced about 4 blues with greens 
 within the first level. I am level 61 and just replaced my Obsidian Blade with a green sword... that's 
 how amazing the items are. So anyways, Blizzard has designed the new world to where the average 
 players will be able to keep up (in the begging) with the hardcore players.
  
  All in all, TBC has the same core gameplay as the original. I look at it as being a huge patch 
 to the game, because it doesn't actually change anything... just adds tons of new content (and might 
 I add, this content is a must. You will feel like a complete idiot running around in Ironforge/Orgrimmar 
 and seeing all of these people that are 61+, and you being stuck at 60.) TBC is a must buy for 
 any player of WoW. The low level zones with the two new classes are fun, but i really don't have 
 the energy to level up another toon from one to 70. So, most people will benefit from this Expansion 
 if they have a 55+.
  
  Prepare for (more) addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfMorning
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  You absolutely can not give this game a 10/10. What they do, they do well in this add-on. But without 
 some new classes to play, it does not deserve a ten rating. They really got lazy on that aspect. 
 The rest is just cosmetics.
  
  Not to mention the price tag for being an add-on. Should be cheaper.
  
  Another thing they 
 should have done is make the add-on more integrated into the present world. It really feels added 
 on .
  
  I still wish they would have added generic level sixty classes so you run into the new content 
 with a different class and/or brought some housing into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryax242
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  This expansion is better than the orginal game by far, so many upgrades and so many improvements, 
 flying mounts, awesome new world pvp (if you play on a pvp server its just fantastic!) . Large vast 
 zones, Tons of fun new quests like bombing runs from a flying mount, amazing graphics, the world 
 is so much more detailed and beautiful. All the zones of outland are are very rich and colorful 
 with awesome weather effects and awesome effects like wars constantly being fought all around you. 
 Bilzzard finally got it right by lowering the raid amount, instances are loads of fun with your 
 friends and even in pick up groups. The sound has gotten alot better, music is great and fits the 
 zones perfectly. Hands down the best game and most advanced MMORPG on the planet and they keep 
 makeing it better. Now the game is actually fun for the casual players aswell and not just for 
 the 24/7 raider/power gamer.
  
  You can hop in, get an adventure in outland play for a few hours and feel very satisfied with your 
 time that you spent, its not like old WoW where you could spend days and get your character no 
 where, the time you spend actually means something now.
  
  Awesome game, 10.0 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frosty-Hobo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I found that the burning crusade is very much similar with the 2 new races added. Sure both factions 
 now can play all the same races, but who wants to really level up another alt. I think this game 
 is only worth getting if you are already lvl 60 or very close like 58+ because the game is all 
 about the new continent, and leveling to 70. The dungeons have new and unique encounters that haven't 
 been in WoW before, so its new and refreshing start to the old Molten Bore and BWL, AQ, ZG, NAXX 
 stuff. Plus there are new mobs and a lot different models on the same mobs. So if you didn't mind 
 the 1-60 grind, this will be even more fun. After that you can grind pvp or raid with the lowered 
 number of people in the big raids (25 man cap vs 40 man cap) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft was one of the most addicting games that I have ever played. It was perfect in 
 just about every way. It gave me hundreds of hours of gameplay, new friends, amazing scenery, a 
 complex and detailed world, thousands of quests, sidejobs, such as cooking and fishing, an entire 
 world economy and world-wide cartels, and even an underlying storyline. World of Warcraft: The 
 Burning Crusade extends upon everything that WoW was, adding new weapons, items, quests, continents, 
 races, and professions.
  
  Let's take a look at some of the big things that BC brings:
  
  WoW: BC features two new races: The Dranei and the Bloodelves. These new races were not lazily 
 designed, and are extremely well-thought out, as well as the areas that they start out in. They 
 are simply wonderful editions to the already-existing races, and I think the Bloodelves are the 
 best out of all WoW races. They have outstanding racials, and even add the Paladin class to the 
 Horde's disposal.
  
  BC also features a new profession, Jewelcrafting. Fitting hand-in-hand with Mining, Jewelcrafting 
 is an excellent profession easily woven into the already-existing game. I have enjoyed the Mining/Jewelcrafting 
 combo, and don't really know anyone who doesn't like this addition.
  
  Perhaps the most revered addition to World of Warcraft is Outland; through the dark portal it lies. 
 Outland is meticulously designed to perfection, and is definately a sight to see. The scenery and 
 enemies you fight there drastically change with each move from place to place, but the excellent 
 design stays with each location. Outland is a perfect blend of everything that the World of Warcraft 
 has to show scenery-wise.
  
  The new weapons, items, and quests are similar to the past, and just as fun as ever.
  
  There 
 is even some good storyline added into the game, with Illidan Stormrage finally making his big 
 appearance in the World of Warcraft in Outland. The graphics in the expansion are excellent. Everything 
 from Outland to Deatholme to the new capital Silvermoon is excellently-crafted and shows off the 
 beauty of design that Blizzard possesses. Just like in the original World of Warcraft, I can find 
 myself humming songs from the opening cinematics and big fights throughout the day. Impeccable 
 music is an essential to any good game in my opinion, and WoW: BC definitely covers that.
  
  The gameplay is even more outstanding than the original, if that is possible to believe. The gameplay 
 is probably what keeps me addicted to this game, aside from the cinematics =D. Absolutely awesome. 
 And finally, the value. This game is worth every cent of its $39.99 price, and even the monthly 
 fee. I had quit World of Warcraft a few months back, but this game revived my passion for the game 
 with ease, and it appears as if it will remain to do so for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugsy44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around fun and amazingand a great expansion to an already great game :D. If you 
 have the original WoW you should get Burning Crusade. Outland, Jewelcrafting, harder raid instances, 
 two new races, new areas, flying mounts, level cap increased to 70, new Tier pvp armor, Alliance 
 can be shamans, Horde can be pallys, Blood elf starting area is almost just like Barrens Chat lol, 
 Lots of people are playing almost all the time, Outlands, ,Blood Elfs have Napoleon Dynamite dance 
 =D , those are some of the great things about the game, if you like Mmo's get WoW and, Burning 
 Crusade.
  
  Note: The collecters edition Burning Crusade comes with over 5 hours of special video, a book of 
 WoW art, and a special in game pet that only owners of the collecters edition can have (good luck 
 finding the collecters edition) Well, to sum it all up, BUY THIS GAME O_o
  
  WARNING: THIS GAME IS SUPER ADDICTIVE AND FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FCB_2100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, I don't want to see anymore reviews from people that said they played the first 
 one for less than a week. If you hated the 1st, explain to me why you went and bought this expansion. 
 Next, if you only played for, lets say, 6 days, and you buy this game, you should know darn well 
 that you can only experience the two new races because most of the content is for veteran players 
 with level 55+ characters.
  
  I'll start off by saying, personally, i was getting bored with my character, a level 48. So I do 
 not have the option of playing in Outland, so I will not try and pretend to know what I am talking 
 about when it comes to that sort of thing.
  
  So far, I'd say it's as good as the first (some of you may have just felt a chill down your spine... 
 it's okay, it's not your fault you have no taste in games) . I made a Blood Elf, and I must say, 
 I really enjoyed the new area that they have going on in there.
  
  The new jewelcrafting profession is a nice addition. And the ability for paladins to join the Horde 
 is cool (depending on who you ask) and vice versa with the shaman.
  
  I know I haven't experienced the game to its fullest, but that will take a while, and I just felt 
 absolutely compelled to say something about these horrendous excuses for reviews ASAP.
  
  I give it a 9.5 based on past experience with the original game (I know, I know, some of you are 
 just dying by this point) because I know that Blizzard did an excellent job, and I would not expect 
 to lose any of the quality in this game (there it is, the killer comment. Congrats on making it 
 this far, you can leave now) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedrummer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The World of Warcraft the Burning Crusade is everything the same, its got two new playable races 
 to add to the 8 that there were already. I thought that the expansion could have added more classes 
 that would have been way more exciting than races. Other wise this is the exact same as the original 
 world of warcraft. The new land is not even accesable till you hit lvl 58 and even if you try to 
 get accross your gunna have a HARD ASS time. I think that blizzard could have waited to put this 
 expansion out and put new and better graphics and more content as in a new land available to all 
 level also including new and exciting classes. The game is still the same old repetitive boring 
 peice of work that it always has been. The old fetch quests and wait 4 or 5 months just to get 
 top lvl. This game is plain old boring. And there are way to many blood elfs its insane. Overall 
 i really dont done reccomend this game to anyone it will just consume your life and you spent money 
 to do it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skiliner2turbo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Well its fun yes, but i don't see why we have to pay 40 dollars just for an expansion talking about 
 pricey, well if u have the money get it its a fun game, me i got bored of it cause i mean lets 
 say u reach w/e lvl u want then what do u do? it just gets boring idk well thats my opinion the 
 games is good though, so for all the fans i say its a must get but not worth the price, guild wars 
 is free and the expansions are not as expensive for me the idea of paying monthly its just idk 
 2 much, because ok the DSL/Cable ok a game ok the bills, its just another bill to all ur bills, 
 but then again if u think u can pay for it go for it, just hope u don't get bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needgameinfo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft Burning Crusade was definately all its cracked up to be. With two new races, 
 the Draenei and Blood Elves, with a new proffession Jewel Crafting, and with a whole nother world 
 to explore, you just can't get tired of it. Now, for you people who say nothing has changed, I'll 
 put it simple, YOU ARE WRONG, it's an MMO (Note the Massive part) you can't just walk in and start 
 a Blood Elf, get to level 5, and decide that nothing has changed cause, guess what, you barely 
 even played it, you're gonna have to play for a while and see all the new changes and the new realm 
 of Outland, then lets see you come to me and talk about nothings changed, what I mean to say is 
 that its gonna take a while to get into the game and get used to it, but just wait till your level 
 60 and about to go into Outland for the first time, wouldn't you feel excited about what you might 
 find? If you don't like the game then thats fine, I'm just saying you should try it and atleast 
 get to level 30 before you decide that its a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Yet another great job by blizzard. Near perfect addition to the game. The graphics are top notch, 
 the new races are great (although I could do without the Napoleon Dinamite dance, ugg) and the 
 new spells and abilities are sweet. Hours of new gameplay, this expansion basically made the game 
 new even to players that have been level 60 for a while. New items, new professions, Horde getting 
 pallys and Alliance getting Shaman. There is a whole new feel to the game and it feels great. Outland 
 has been done extremely well, you actually feel like you are in a different world while you are 
 there. New bosses, rare spawns, rep rewards, item sets. This is probably the best MMO I have ever 
 played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Well, the Burning Crusade finally came out, and a lot of people have been waiting for it. As you 
 should already know, it's the expansion to the wildly popular World of Warcraft, and let me tell 
 you expansion is pretty good. While most of the new content is catered generally to the high levels 
 (level 58-60) , there is things that make this expansion worth it for lower levels. The new races 
 are pretty cool, which are the dranei, who some discribe as octopus people with spaceships that 
 ride on elephants and the blood elves, which are also known as the high elves from the Warcraft 
 RTS series. First off, both come with new starting areas, new factions, new quests and new racial 
 traits, which are both awesome. The dranei can heal, and the blood elves can steal mana and silence 
 foes. There is also a new proffesion, which is jewel crafting which is like enchanting with gems. 
 All this seem new and cool, but if you look at the basic formula it obviously hasn't changed. Those 
 who have moved on or always hated WoW won't change their mind or come back due to this expansion, 
 but for others this is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, Ive been playing WoW: BC for almost 2 days now, and I remember why I was so addicted in the 
 first place. Obviously the first few things that strike you are all the new additions, the Flying 
 Mounts in Outland, the level 70 cap, the 2 new races - The noble Draenei, joining the Alliance, 
 and the mad Blood Elves joining the Horde, and each new race has a totally new starting area with 
 plenty to do.
  
  Whether your going to soldier on from level 60, or if your going to start afresh you will have 
 months of game play ahead, months, there is just so much to do and see, far too much to cover here.
 
  
  The game as before looks (great as expected) , even on a not so good computer. But the nifty interface 
 options let you play around with sound and display functions, making your gameplay more smooth.
 
  
  The music is well placed, eerie, and cheerful all at the same time, and the voice acting is top 
 notch however tongue in cheek - especially the Blood Elves' Dont you wish you girlfriend was hot 
 like me...... jibe, and he does it with an English accent no less. Classic!
  
  As with WoW, the battle system and UI are simple and as customizable as ever, making battle much 
 more smooth.
  
  Its the new content that really needs praise with the introduction of Illidan and Prince Kael'Thas 
 and Blizzards astounding announcement that every year they will release a new expansion; the world 
 monopoly comes to mind........ so here is to one of the greatest MMORPGs ever!!!!! Second Life can 
 kiss ma a**...... cause Stone Cold Wolfe says so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing wow since stress test remains to be one of my favorite games. Blizzard has 
 been working on this thing for some time for sure and honestly with all fo the new content added 
 with this i can see why it took so long to come out, The new races are very cool and offer soomething 
 nice to each one of their factions. Also the outland add on is staggering there so so much going 
 on in the dark portal i cant wait to get my new blood elf ou there. Gtaphics i understand why most 
 people dont like them but honestly i enjoy the look of wow becuase it look interesting and has 
 great art direction and by going with the look they went with ages much better over time. in the 
 end i love this game and now must go back to playing it if your a fan of warcraft to yourself a 
 favor and get online with this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanmason
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game was the best i just bout it on thursday the week it came out and im im pressed the blood 
 elfs are just plan cool but i dident like the darni. But i fould my self lost in the blood elf 
 world and unlike in the human area the quests at the begging aare a little vague like in the numan 
 area you went down a strait path from northshire to westfall but here im very lost but man this 
 game is crazy cool and the starting robes for the blood elfs are great looking but still i find 
 my self quest lost but im shure with a little more playing every one will get used to the new world. 
 i gave this game two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illepic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  For a hardcore raider of the last year, the idea of returning to the quest grind was not very appealing 
 to me at first. But after stepping across the portal and taking in the battleground around me, 
 I must say that the Burning Crusade delivers on just about all fronts.
  
  The quests are generally well laid out and quick. The instances have been scaled way back to accommodate 
 faster runs. The areas are HUGE and teeming with life. Blizzard addressed almost all of the complaints 
 of WoW 1.0 with this expansion. My only complaints are, of course, the starting area lag. This 
 is forgivable when you consider 10,000 people on my server hit the starting area at the exact same 
 time. I expected the first couple of days to be a mad house. Trying to tag mobs in a heavily infested 
 area can more a game of who's got the best AoE than fun.
  
  All in all, I'm really impressed with the new content. It's polished and smart and snappy. You 
 can see the Blizzard perfectionism is all the areas and I can't wait to hit 70 :)
  
  Note: If you don't like WoW 1.0, The Burning Crusade will do nothing to convert you. I'm seeing 
 more than one review here that starts out with I hated the first game but I thought I'd give this 
 a try. BC is exactly what it state it is: an expansion, i. e. MORE of what the first one had (only 
 better!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleCoin
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Guys let's take a look at this game
  First let's talk about the graphics. It lloks great if you PC is up to date but compare with 2007 
 new games it is absolutly SUCK! Gameplay almost the same, get borde if you want somthing other 
 than quest and raid. The new PvP system has some good change but after a while you will get borde 
 of saving the hornor point
  Sound, i never listened, i was playing my songs form my Mp4 at background.
  Features, New but 
 makes no diffference. It looks like Blizzard made somethings that old player went trough over and 
 over again, but very lots of interest from those who are new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackRainDL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  The quests in Hellfire is so much fun and easier too. The loots are amazing ive alrdy replaced 
 all of my champion/Leg gear. Getting gold is so easy now its great. TBC is by far the greatest 
 game/expansion game. TBC will be the game/expansion of the year by far. Screw all you GW player, 
 Screw all of you WArHammer players idc what you all say about wow your just jealous hahh ahha hha 
 ahhah ahha hhahh ahaha ha ahhahha hah ahahh aha hhahahhahah hahhahahhaha hhahahhahhahhah ahh ahaahha 
 ha hhhh hhahha ha hha hhha hhha hha hhha hhha hahahh ahhah haha ahahah ahh ahah haa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apnance
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  It's kind of hard to pinpoint exactly what it is about the BC that turned me off to WoW, but prior 
 to playing the beta I was playing 20-30 hrs a week : (. Something about the expansion just feels 
 vacant, soulless.. The content feels far more contrived than the original. The immersion effect 
 just isn't there like it was in the original. Somehow the content feels noticeably man-made and 
 less organic. Maybe it's just me, maybe I just played too darn much of the original, but to me 
 the expansion feels forced and awkward. I never had any of those OMG moments like in the original 
 the first time you fly into IF. Btw, I have 3 60s, but only played my mage. I got to him to 63 
 before getting tired of the game. I haven't played the game since.
  
  Another thing that drove me nuts, I worked for months collecting epics in the original to get 7/8 
 tier I gear and was really angry to discover that I could pretty much replace all my epics by level 
 62. That totally blew.
  
  Oh yeah, and the flying mounts look kinda lame. I never got to fly one, but they just look fake 
 the way you hover in place.. Overall the game was a disappointment, but hey I got my rl back and 
 still have a gf :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  While its too early to say, the expansion is not all it's cracked up to be. It's got a few new 
 bells and whistles such as new zone of Outland, one new profession, two new races, and an overhaul 
 in itemization, but when it boils down, this game is made for level 60's.
  
  Why do I say this?
  Outland is off limits till 58+, meaning if you just bought World of Warcraft 
 and are not interested in rolling Blood Elf or Draeni, then don't bother picking up that expansion 
 quite yet. Also the old professions are overhauled for 60+ characters, I was really hoping they 
 would add a few more low level instances or something to spice up that average level 40. I guess 
 you win some and lose some.
  
  Boiling it down:
  
  If your level 60, this is a must have.
  
  If your not, wait it out! I know you're missing a 
 profession and two races, but trust me you can't fully utilize most of the content until level 
 60. So my advice to you is to hit the grind, hit 60, and pick this expansion up.
  
  Side Note:
  
  This review can't be complete because I have not run 25 Man Raids, I am looking 
 forward to this but alas, the game is only a couple of days old.
  
  Difficulty:
  Same as World of Warcraft
  
  Gameplay:
  Same as World of Warcraft with a couple of new elements, 
 like Bombing runs on a flying mount.
  
  Graphics:
  After getting a buff in coding, these graphics won't bog down when you and 39 of your buddies start 
 casting spells.
  
  Sound:
  Just as good as it once was, with a few new voices.
  
  Value:
  If your 60 Great, if you're not, = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnliu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I just finished leveling a new blood elf to level 20.
  
  Ghostlands is just beautifully done. You start with this whole zone in trouble, and a new town 
 that desperately needs your help.
  
  Along the way, you follow through the numerous quest lines, pushed back the scourge as well as 
 the trolls. Finally as you finish up all the quests there are, the experience will cumulate to 
 a final showdown with a relatively difficult boss (5-man group required, but not an instance) - 
 which is a great lead-up to future instance encounters for new players.
  
  As you wrap up in Ghostlands, you have a real sense of accomplishment. You saved a zone, you propelled 
 blood elves' standing in the horde, you gain exalted reputation with a faction, and walk away with 
 2 really nice blue items (weapon + cloak) .
  
  And you get send to Undercity, where Lady Sylvannas sings a song (so pretty much a CG ending at 
 level 20) .
  
  I felt like end-game at level 20. It really was that great. Sadly from level 20-60 I'll have to 
 join up and quest with the existing horde areas.
  
  All the fun experiences of leveling a new character returned.
  
  ---
  
  I read a few reviews 
 that are somewhat negative, I feel people who say it's nothing new or it's just the same thing 
 didn't really sit down and try to enjoy all the new content. If you forced your way through all 
 the new content within 1 week - it won't be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Finally the first expansion arrives to one of if not the best MMO game for PC. The long awaited 
 expansion ends up being a good one but not good enough to change someones mind about playing it 
 if tthey dont like WOW. The game doesnt really have many new things but has enough to make it a 
 great expansion. The gameplay is still the same and hasnt changed at all. It though is still really 
 good though. The graphics are really starting to show some age though. They are still pretty nice 
 but need some enhancements. The sound is still pretty good with nice music. Mainly unchaged though 
 too. If you really like WOW then you most likely will like this game. If you do like it, you will 
 be playing it for quite some time. The new adventures are actually pretty good. There are two new 
 races in the game which is great to. Also the level cap has been raised from level 60 to 70 which 
 is also a great thing. There also is a new continent in the game called Outland. There is a new 
 feature called possession of jewlcrafting. There are some more things like items and stuff like 
 that but thats all. It might seem like alot but really it isnt enough to change peoples minds. 
 Overall Burning Crusades is a great expansion though not worth the 40 unless you just love the 
 game. It offers quite some new good features but not enough to make it as good as it could have 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WC3_Legend
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  An Epic World of fun.
  
  I have to say that this is the best MMORPG that has ever been created!
  Of course Blizzard has 
 made the best PC games that i have ever played and ive played a lot of them =) but Blizzard has 
 just out done themselves with the New Burning Crusade expansion pack. In my opinion it blows and 
 MMORPG or any RPG out of the water.
  
  The only draw back that gives me the litle spite is the montly fee... i mean were already paying 
 so much for the game itself... but enough of that. You are still the BEST game makers Blizzard 
 keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaBo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm fully booked these days. I have a lot to do so i'll make this a brief one: Two new great races 
 and starting grounds and then Outland... three letters: OMG! It's massive, huge and hours and hours 
 of new contents and quests. Blizzard really learned from these past two years and made everything 
 so much better. It's so great that... that... well I have no time for this, I have to log on to my 
 realm now. Don't try to contact me in any way. My ass is pwned by choice and if u must say something, 
 make sure it's about WoW and TBC - Alune Adore and I'm ou-tta here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Let's not underestimate the fact that WoW needs combat fixes, not expansion packs. This expansion 
 doesn't fix any of the game-breaking imbalances that hurt the franchize, in fact, in a lot of cases, 
 it makes it worse. Other than that, it adds a lot of content that will keep players coming back 
 for a while.
  
  If you were not satisfied with the way WoW felt or played before this expansion, don't expect it 
 to change your mind. If you were bored before, you're going to still be bored. It's the same game 
 in different environments. Content isn't what makes a game like this enjoyable for me; instead, 
 it's all about the combat system. Is it fun, or is it frusterating? If you were pleased before, 
 then you'll like this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasim64
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  I've been into 2 of the new areas on my mage, who is now 61, and I have to say the new content 
 is amazing. The look and feel of both Hellfire Peninsula and Zangarmarsh is totally different from 
 anything in the previous areas. Zangarmarsh especially is very well done with lots of interesting 
 new creatures and some fun quests. I spent most of my first evening playing there and had a blast.
 
  
  I went with a guild 5 man to the first two instances in Hellfire and they were also fun. Not very 
 difficult for a T2 group that ranged from 60 to 62. The items dropped were very nice. The artwork 
 in both instances is excellent.
  
  The expansion in a way is more of the same but how could it not be without totally changing the 
 game. I've always enjoyed the way the original WoW played and looked so not a big deal. I think 
 the graphics in the expansion show a marked improvement over the original game both in detail and 
 overall appearance.
  
  After playing the original content for just over 2 years it's really refreshing to break into the 
 new content in the expansion. So far everything has been great. I really have no complaints and 
 have had almost no problems. It seems very polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  This is a really great expansion for the already great World Of Warcraft which gives you access 
 to two new race as you all must already know them being the Draunei and the Blood elves, When you 
 start off in the new BE starting area you will enter a beautiful lush area with amazing textures 
 and great effects. As each side now has access to the others original unique classes which now 
 allow horde to to get the healing/Tanking ability of the paladin and the alliance get the mystic 
 abilities of the shaman the war is now balanced out and as more and more people are getting the 
 expansion pack the amount of new paladins and the shamans the race is finally on to get to 70 with 
 the new cap limit of as said a second ago 70 which give numerous 60's a chance to get even more 
 powerful and also opening up the Outlands for high levels to play around in.
  
  With this expansion pack the game is sure to keep going for more years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicEdge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft has long been the number one MMORPG, a place that many feel it deserves. However 
 as time has gone on, some cracks have appeared in the high end content the game provides. For people 
 like myself who are unable to attend big raids on a frequent basis, 60+ is a very boring place 
 to be.
  
  However that all changes with The Burning Crusade! I have not been as excited to log in and play 
 on my level 60 Rogue so much since he was level 59! Some people feel the need in games like this, 
 to be the number one, and to get to the top of everything as soon as possible, however I prefer 
 to have something to accomplish, and thats where the level 70 cap, and the new outlands come in.
 
  
  If you don't have a high level character, TBC can feel a little empty, for people level 20-58 the 
 only new content available to them is Jewlcrafting. However if they start a new character from 
 either of the new races, they will find a wealth of new low end content available to them.
  
  All in all, I feel that The Burning Crusade is an excellent addition to the World of Warcraft, 
 and I expect it will keep me, and many like me, addicted to game for a long time to come.
  
  How long until The World of Warcraft has 10 million customers? Not long, I'm sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKingCrab
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand all of this hate against WoW on some other reviews. Honestly, the game has only 
 been out for a couple of days (I know some of you played the beta... well, I don't care, the beta 
 isn't the exact same thing) . What I also noticed is that most of the people that say the game sucks 
 are the people who have played it the most. Of course it's not going to be any fun for you... you 
 overplayed it. Just think about what it would be like to play FFIV 16 times in a row. I doubt anyone 
 has the pacience to do that. I still think this is a great game. I don't have a level 60 yet, and 
 I'm enjoying it. The new races look great and the new areas look even better than the old ones. 
 Here's what I say about my scores:
  
  Gameplay: I can't give this a 10. Not because it's the same thing as the original WoW (Come on 
 people, it's an EXPASION) , but because I didn't think the original gameplay was perfect in the 
 first place. For most classes it gets repetitive (I use basically the same strategy to fight everything 
 with my mage and rogue) .
  
  Graphics: I'm not a big graphics person. Sure good graphics are nice, but what is having the greatest 
 graphics ever doing if the gameplay sucks, and the sound sucks, and any other part of the game 
 for that matter, just plain sucks. All that would do is make the game more expensive. The graphics 
 for WoW aren't that bad anyways. The art style of the game fist perfectly with the graphics.
  
  Sound: I'll agree that the sound isn't that great, though the orchestrated addition was great. 
 This is just my opinion, though, since I didn't really like the music outside of cities in the 
 first game anyways.
  
  Value: I personally don't like paying $15 a month to play, but if it wasn't worth it I wouldn't 
 be doing it. That's what bothers me... why don't the people who don't want to pay the fee just 
 not play that game? as far as the amount of content the game provides, well there's A LOT on that 
 area. It's a whole new continent, plus the begining areas, and the new dungeons. Plus all of the 
 new items and the new proffession, with all of the other proffesions getting new formulas too.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Most people are like me, they agree that this game is great, but there are the 
 few who have to say it's bad. They say it sucks people's lives away. Well, it does if you didn't 
 have a life to begin with. I don't skip school to play, my grades aren't dropping, I'm not ditching 
 any of my friends (unless I just don't fell like doing what they're doing, but that has nothing 
 to do with WoW) . I also see a lot of people saying that this game is completely based on addiction. 
 Well, why is it so addictive? Because it's good. You can't get addicted to a game that you don't 
 like.
  
  That's all I have to say about this game. I recommend that if you have a WoW account, go get the 
 game soon, and if you've never played WoW, there's even more there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  For those people giving it below a 7.0 ... give me a break you probably played it for a few minutes 
 and got irritated because of all the people in the questing area... or much more likely didnt play 
 it at all and are trying to bring the average rating down. THIS IS AN EXCELLENT EXPANSION, I walk 
 through the dark portal and there is a whole new world to explore, A new adventure, new quests, 
 new EVERYTHING. I have only played the first 2 outland instances but they are fantastic and well 
 put together. OUTLAND is massive, tough, and yet beautiful at the same time. BUY THIS EXPANSION, 
 ignore all the haters (EQ, Lineage Fanboys) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  wow i was looking foward to this expansion being amazing and then what was i thinking no expansion 
 is but i thought blizzard could pull it off but they didnt.
  
  gameplay- nothing really new that was not on world of warcraft same old controls.
  
  graphics-still 
 horrible and bad as they were on world of warcraft.
  
  sound-well you basicly need a amazing computer with an amazing sound card to make this thing sound 
 any good at all.
  
  value-guess its worth it collectors is not though its way to much for this thats an expansion.
 
  
  overall- if you are a world of warcraft lover and are so bored with world of warcraft i guess so 
 should buy it but not the collectors its stupid to pay that much for a expansion not really worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessTDA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade is the best expansion pack you can possibly imagine for 
 an MMO. The game is well refined and polished, and even at launch day, the game had surprisingly 
 little trouble. My server has not crashed yet, and it plays so fast and smooth it's hard to believe 
 how it's even possible. But it was great nonetheless.
  
  Having played in the beta all the way up to level 68 in the beta, and 61 so far in retail, I think 
 I can pretty safely say, that this is the expansion pack of the year, even at this early date of 
 2007. The game takes nearly every aspect of World of Warcraft's game design, and improves it. It 
 also takes quite a lot of flaws and patch them up.
  
  One of the things you'll notice is the two new races. The Draenei on the Alliance side and the 
 Blood Elves on the Horde side. The two new races are, in fact, very interesting. The Blood Elves 
 may be pretty, but they're just magic-addicted madmen. Meanwhile, the Draenei are terribly ugly 
 (and yet cool in some way) , but their goal is noble: They want to rid the world of The Burning 
 Legion.
  
  That's actually what this whole expansion is all about. The Dark Portal opens in The Blasted Lands, 
 and huge armies of demons come through the portal from Outlands, to once again invade the kingdoms 
 of Azeroth. Fortunately, the races of Azeroth were prepared (contrary to Illidan's beliefs) and 
 are now locked in battle on the other side of the portal.
  
  The expansion, like the original game, is very easy to get into. The game sports a simple and slick 
 interface (which has been enhanced over the many months) that is easy to use and manage. At the 
 same time, the game sports so many nooks and crannies of gameplay, and the interface follows suit. 
 THere are tons of things in the interface that you won't need until a certain point. And that's 
 a good thing. It gives a smooth learning curve throughout the levelling progress. This progress 
 is now extended even further as you battle your way through Outlands, and have to face raiding 
 at a later point.
  
  The new areas for the Draenei and the Blood Elves are also very impressive. They both have weather 
 conditions in them, and there are also tons of small objects floating around in the air. It grants 
 itself a level of immersion and awe that not even Oblivion, despite it's technically superior graphics, 
 cannot match. The quests are fun, albeit a bit typical, the items are great, the progression is 
 fun, and the zones are unlike anything we've seen so far. It just doesn't get much better.
  
  Speaking of graphics, The Burning Crusade doesn't do very much in the way of that. The new 
 world of Outlands is as gorgerous and artistic as one can possibly comprehend, and the new skies 
 are just beautiful. But in terms of actual technical presentation, The Burning Crusade hardly adds 
 anything, and looks extremely lackluster in this day and age. But expansions usually don't upgrade 
 graphics anyway, so why should this one? However, this expansion has an artistic value to it its 
 graphics that far surpass the original game. So in that regard, the graphics have been improved.
 
  
  The sound has been improved as well, clearly. The music is just straight out better, and there's 
 a ton more of it above all else. In the old zones, you just have 3-4 minuttes of music for day, 
 and the same amount for night. However, in The Burning Crusade, most subzones contain unique music 
 of their own, and with the music being as good as it is, the music won't really start to bother 
 you before you're ready to leave the zone. And the new zones has completely diffirent music. The 
 voice-acting is, once again, spot on. And there's a ton more of it. The sound is also completely 
 seamless. When I play, I barely notice it's there, because it just sounds so natural and right.
 
  
  So how long is this game going to take you? And, well, the answer is: It depends. If you're rolling 
 a new race, expect a good 250 hours all the way up to level 70 if you're new to the game. From 
 level 60 to 70, there's a good 50 hours I think. But on top of that, you can do it 9 diffirent 
 classes spread over 10 diffirent races. So there's plenty of option, variety, and incentive to 
 go through it again. And on top of that, you have the PvP game and the raidgame after you've already 
 maxed out your character on 70. All of this I cannot comment too much on however. But it's there, 
 so there's plenty of value, even though the game is very pricey. (Which is what causes my tilt 
 of 9 - the cost. This game is expensive!)
  
  This game soaks up a ton of your time, as you can see. And alot of people are completely addicted 
 to this World of Crackcraft . Well, would they be if the game sucked? No. What conclusion can we 
 draw? This game is great; that is our conclusion. This game is a ton of fun, and The Burning Crusade 
 takes it all to whole new levels by providing fixes to the existing flaws in the game.
  
  This game is said to be very casual friendly for an MMO though. But it's also said to be very time-consuming. 
 So yes, it is both, contrary to any other MMORPG out there. This game just strikes a perfect balance 
 on everything in its gameplay. It's not too fast, nor is it too slow. The game isn't too easy, 
 nor too tough. The game doesn't scare all the casuals away, but it still keeps the hardcores occupied. 
 The only balance out of whack is the classes. (Warlocks are completely overpowered, Warriors are 
 severely lackluster to play etc.) This was bad in WoW, and it's still bad in TBC. Let's just hope 
 they can polish that up. (The class balance is why I rate gameplay an 9, not 10.) So was it worth 
 the wait? Yes, it was worth the wait. This expansion delivers on all fronts for existing fans of 
 the game, and adds more of the game that we all know and love. But if you never liked the original 
 World of Warcraft, this won't change your mind - it's just more of the same. (Except it's some 
 better more of the same) And it adds more content. There's alot of people who are complete newbies 
 and haven't even played the original game through that expect this game to deliver to them. Well 
 - it doesn't. You wouldn't expect it to. It makes WoW better, but it also expects you to have played 
 WoW at least a little bit before you jump right into the expansion. That said, the new races are 
 definately also for new players, so anyone can have a spin at those.
  
  So the buttomline is: This expansion makes an already fantastic game even better, by providing 
 new, meaningful content and fixes the most drastic mistakes in WoW's gameplay. And while it creates 
 a few new problems, they are nowhere near as large as the original game's problems. So this game 
 is definately worth getting if you're a fan of WoW, and you should rush to your store to grab a 
 copy while they're still there.
  
  Please note: This is a review of the levelling game up to level 68. I may do a revision of this 
 once I am level 70 and have experienced the endgame content. But for now, this is my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logan494
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  After originally scheduled for October, the Burning Crusade has finally made it to the shelves 
 and it's worth the wait. When you first travel into the dark portal, you are spit into the Outland, 
 the new continent and battle is already insuing. Since you can't take on the enemies that are fighting, 
 you must go to the flight master and go to either the horde or alliance's new faction. Blizzard 
 does a wonderful job of getting you prepared for some leveling by offering tons of quests and quick 
 instances with nice gear. If you like playing the original WoW and have some high level characters, 
 the Burning Crusade is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all i have to say that i never had a problem with blizzard within WoW... only minor problems 
 but got fixed in the same day... people who are already complaining about the 15$ a month fee... well 
 don't buy the expension and go to the movies and go pay the same price for a 2h movie.
  
  Gameplay: I have to admit its more of the same.. do this.. tkae that.. bring it here... kill X of bla 
 bla.. stilll.. if you are to play .. alone.. in a MMORPG.... well i tihnk ur in the wrong game my friend. 
 This is about working together, instances and having fun... if ur not having fun.. stop right away. 
 The new races makes fresh for each side.. new starting zones.. like if u were in a new game... but 
 in an already familiar environment. The new zone is amazing, i havent seen alot of it but still... fells 
 epic.. question with all these mobs around u and alliance/horde always watching when ur low on health. 
 Same mechanics... same everything.. new instances.. new job etc.. everything u already read about.
 
  
  Graphics: They are still great.... Blizzard decided to make their character's blocky with the style 
 they had in WCIII.. i have nothing to complain.. because to accomodate 7million accounts.... so more 
 then 6M players... u NEED to have a game that fits in that many computers... Still graphics are all 
 nice.
  
  Sound: I never can figure when a game sucks in the sound category lol. I guess it dosent.. feels 
 medieval/fantastic... u hear the mail of your armor when u walk.. or the steps of your  
 in every spot.. people say it get annoying and repetitive... well if you are playing 10 hours a day.. i 
 HOPE it gets repetitive.. maybe to remind you to log off and do something else? Or if youre not happy 
 just put some backgorund music.
  
  Value: Well.... for people who arent at least 58.. there is no point really in buying it... only if 
 you wanna make a new character. But to 60s ... its a whole new world that opens to  
 This game is good even if you play alot or only a couple of hours a week. Your achievement will 
 be proportional to the time you pass on this game... but will also be proportional to your lack 
 of real life activities. When playing this game tihnk... are you having fun?.. Really having fun? 
 It is the whole point in gaming..... Have fun people and i hope this review might help you all!
 
  Executus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikewrencher
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Lets face it... Blizzard knows what they are doing. They started working on this almost right after 
 the original game was released. Its an expansion that has just as much install data as the original 
 game. Thats pretty hardcore. If you really like WoW, then the BC is going to be a great addition 
 to you.
  
  First thing first. You are only going to like this if you like WoW. Its not going to completly 
 rewrite the game. I realize plenty of people hate WoW. They want a faster paced game. They grind 
 all the way up to 60 without reading the quest dialoge or looking at the story. They want instant 
 transport so they can just get it done and move on. They want intense graphics. If this is you, 
 you won't like WoW. Go play Counter-Strike, you'll be much happier, I promise. WoW is about immersion 
 in a world. For a roleplayer, it is an ideal setting.
  
  Graphics: Same as the original. There is not much they can do about that. Somepeople are going 
 to have the expansion, others won't, so you can't just ramp it all up. THat being said, Bliz still 
 makes wonderful use of colors and grand designs to make a beautiful game, even with 2005 graphics.
 
  
  Sound: Same grand scores as always. They get repetitive, but they still sound great when you first 
 hear them.
  
  Gameplay: Really, this is a combination of the actual expansion, and the 2.0 patch they released. 
 They have changed it all around. PvP, some crafting changes, an Arena PVP area... pretty much everything 
 adds to the game in a good way. They new world looks great and offers a lot to higher level players. 
 The raid dungeons are very expansive, and even the most hardcore WoW player will take a while to 
 get through all of them. Also, since there are areas you can only reach with flying mounts, they 
 have more to reach even after 70.
  
  Overall, a good addition . It creates a lot more for people to do, and a much better way for them 
 to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiebrad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  As soon as you walk through the Dark Portal, you know right away that your $40 was well spent. 
 I, many other level 60 characters in the game, have been waiting for this for almost 2 years. The 
 first time you see that you gained experience and then the first time you level again, makes you 
 feel like a n00b all over again. The quests are great, the first two instances are very tough and 
 the LOOT! OH MY GOD! I have already replaced my entire tier 1 set with blues and greens! YES, BLUES 
 AND GREENS!
  
  Thank you Blizzard, it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegangsta2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  world of warcraft (the first one) who came out for few years ago was a really revolutionary game 
 ... they scored high and made a game that amued those who played the game... there is something 
 that really disappoints me with burning crusade is that its not like the fist game... if we look 
 at the level cap its JUST 10 levels they could atleast set it a bit higher. many peoples who brought 
 this game hass made lvl70 already !! burning crusade have great story or content , but when some 
 of you play it you will after a while feel that something miss-but still this is the best expansion 
 pack within role playing that i ever played !!! PS.. you should get it too ;D matey !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidforce
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Looking through burning crusade , it's a again a magical world, which you need to discover. About 
 the game it self, the game play is still and is to my opinion the best game play for MMORPG ever 
 made, I've played a lot of MMORPG, almost every one of them had a crappy gameplay. Even though 
 the graphics of the game, ain' t that exciting any more, doesn't make this a bad game/expansion. 
 The features that the game gives are so great, graphics don't matter.
  
  This is my favorite MMORPG of all time. with a great expansion to life up to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marionette_Lime
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  While I haven't been able to play much of the expansion yet, for what I have played it looks amazing, 
 the two new races fit into the WoW universe really well and their starting areas are just beautiful. 
 It's also good to be fighting new starting monsters as it gives WoW a fresh new feeling. The new 
 level cap and profession seem like they're going to be a great addition to the game and I can't 
 wait to be able to take full advantage of this expansion, but as for now I'm just happy running 
 around the beautifully designed new starting areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkc4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  An excellent expansion for the single greatest MMORPG ever created! The dedicated fanbase finally 
 gets what it deserves. When compared to some of the other online games, Warcraft is a little behind 
 the times when it comes to new material, but this expansion was worth the wait. Hundreds of additional 
 hours added which includes 10 more levels, many new quests, and a wide variety of dungeons for 
 the both the casual and hardcore player.
  
  I have played Warcraft since release and I will honestly say this expansion lives up to the hype. 
 If you want a game that sucks you in from the beginning, then purchase this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The review below is based on 120 hours of gameplay on World of Warcraft: Burning Crusade Beta and 
 40 hours of gameplay on World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade (retail) .
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Burning Crusade introduces 2 new races, 4 newbie zones, a new continent to 
 explore (though much smaller than Kalimdor/Eastern Kingdoms) , dozens of dungeons, a new profession: 
 jewelcrafting, socketed items, and Arena PvP.
  
  2 New Races: The two new races are good additions to WoW, but they were made to balance the game's 
 Horde/Alliance population. By giving Horde a pretty race, we will see more people playing rolling 
 Horde than nowadays which makes the population more balanced than pre-expansion.
  
  4 Newbie Zones: The art of these 4 newbie zones are as great as the WoW itself, Bloodmyst Isle 
 and Azuremyst Isle have a more northern Kalimdor/Night Elvish terrain while Eversong looks very 
 bright and beautiful (even more beautiful than Elwynn Forrest) . The Ghostlands have a dark background 
 and is more Scourge-like, but has a different new terrain to Plaguelands. All in all the new additions 
 are great, but not necessary.
  
  A New Continent to Explore: Outland is the place most of the people are looking forward to. It 
 is massive, shattered and feels demonic when you enter it in Hellfire Peninsula, but the terrain 
 isn't the same in Outland. We can see pretty looking regions in Outland as well (Zangarmarsh, Terokkar 
 Forrest and Nagrand look relatively beautiful to Hellfire Peninsula) so there is a variety between 
 the regions and you won't get bored. There are dozens of new quests with storylines at times and 
 they are enough to get you solo to 70. If you aren't a solo fan, there is stuff for you as well.
 
  
  New Dungeons: Blizzard has brought back Scarlet Monastery types of dungeons to Outland: Winged 
 Dungeons. As they sound, each dungeon now has 3-4 wings which are suitable for different level 
 types, and some of them are exclusive to raiders. The dungeons have the same great design as before, 
 and with a lowered raid population (max 25) , every class will have a very important role to play 
 in raids. I feel that the PvE is going to be more skill-based since every mistake will now have 
 a higher impact on the whole raid party.
  
  Jewelcrafting: A new addition, not as great as the old professions however. It is very similar 
 to Enchanting and it stacks with enchantments, but the jewels are only usable on socketed items. 
 You can make rings, necks, trinkets and heads with Jewelcrafting too. Again, a good addition, but 
 not necessary.
  
  Flying Mounts: As they sound, they are mounts which get you high up in the sky, but only usable 
 in Outland due to the graphical and technical problems that Azeroth has. You can get 2 types of 
 mounts, one the normal flying mount which is gryphon (for Alliance) and wyvren (for Horde) and 
 the armoured version of the two are the Epic flying mounts. Also there will be Netherdrakes which 
 are the fastest flying mounts, but they are very hard to achieve (the only known way to achieve 
 Netherdrakes at the moment is that your arena team wins an Arena Season) .
  
  Arenas: 2 new arenas are introduced in the game. Blizzard is aiming to achieve a skill-based PvP 
 in arenas with ladders and ratings, but since there is still a high controversy about the class-balance 
 in WoW, we should see how the arenas will turn out.
  
  What is missing: I love the new 25-man raids. These make raiding a lot easier than before and casual 
 games will be happy with this change. Still, I preferred more PvP love in the expansion. There 
 are a few Outdoor PvP objectives introduced in Outland which are definitely more exciting than 
 Plaguelands/Silithus PvP, but they don't feel very epic. I wish WoW could have something similar 
 to RvR (in DaoC and soon WAR) .
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  While many say that WoW has a cartoony and outdated graphics, I have to disagree. That is true 
 that the graphic isn't high-end, and you see far less polygons on WoW than you see on for example 
 Crylosis, but what is really important here is that first of all, lower system requirements are 
 essential for an MMO in order to get everyone play it. Other than that, the games still looks very 
 nice and the art is awesome. Blizzard has also planned to improve the graphics, but it won't happen 
 anytime soon.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound is pretty much the same as WiW. There are new music added to the game which are, unlike 
 WoW, not sequenced music, but are actually played by an orchestra. Nothing very special if you 
 have played WoW.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  There is a big con about fee-based MMO's. One, they require monthly fees to play. That is OK by 
 MMO players but there is more.
  
  Blizzard is planning to develop an expansion set per year. This makes them focus more on developing 
 expansions rather than introducing free content patches like before. This is a big downside of 
 expansions, where you have to pay for the content that won't be available to you otherwise, even 
 though you are still paying the monthly fee!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10
  
  Verdict: All in all, Burning Crusade is a good expansion to World of Warcraft. Some main problems 
 of the game have solved, such as time-consuming Honour System and large-scale raids. If you love 
 World of Warcraft, you will love it more in Outland, but if you didn't like WoW the first time 
 you played it, don't expect a revolution from Burning Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerc_chaos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  World of Warcraft or the infamous 3 letters that best describe this game WoW.
  
  Now the long awaited holy grail of WoW players is here and it's pretty awesome. The Burning Crusade 
 does everything that Blizzard said it would. Though I can't speak for the level 70 content yet.
 
  
  Entering Outland is fantastic and beautiful. The zones are large and well rendered with a sort 
 of toon like feel which adds to the richness of the game. You start of with a quest to see a flight 
 path guy (Alliance) who sends you on your way into the foray. Your first Instance is the famed 
 Hellfire ramparts a dungeon with a 5 man limit and take about an 1hour to 2hours to finish. The 
 loot drops are good. Even green loot is good in Outland. From about the time you hit outland to 
 about 6 hours after you should have received about 100 Gold from Quests and trash mobs which help 
 you on you way to the infamous Flying Mounts. This is my experience to this point. I feel Blizzard 
 has done a good job with the expansion. I've heard from guildies that the draenei and their starting 
 area are absolutely awesome.
  
  On a side note draenei females are good looking and do have a sexy dance.
  
  Gameplay: If you 
 liked the gameplay in WoW, you be treated to more of the same
  
  Graphics: While not the best, it's quirky and it grows on you. You learn to love it.
  
  Sound: 
 WoW has some of the best sounds from music to character sounds
  Just take the awe inspiring music you hear when you enter Stormwind
  
  Value: With literally 
 thousands of things to do the game is definite value
  (Monthly fees are a bit of an ouch but you don't have to pay if you don't want to play. Ha ha!)
 
  
  Tilt: I love WoW.... it has it downsides but then so does everything else in life. It's all about 
 what you're focusing on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimr9999us
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Outland is a stunning achievement of gameplay and imagination. Just ran a portion of Hellfire Citadel 
 tonight, and the bosses do not dissappoint! Great quests at the start will get you geared up for 
 the challenges ahead; don't worry about not having the tier 3 stuff! The CE is a steal as well, 
 with a dvd, soundtrack cd, hardbound art book...
  
  Sheesh, I've never been so impressed with a release. Any more polish on this one and you'd need 
 sunglasses to look at it.
  
  Go. Now. Buy. Enjoy. lol, back to my mage!
  
  (Last thing, careful spending too much time gazing at the sky... Fels roam the Outlands, and they 
 are not kind to day-dreamers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Hord controlled area of silvermoon......
  
  A level 12 Blood elf Mage completes a quest... only to see a wave of Allies aproching from the 
 north, i could either or simply stand back as my buddies OWN thoes Allied bastards,
  
  World of Warcraft was full of moments like these, But Burning crusade, is just a expansion to the 
 action and also something to take a firm grip on your  at least 
 until your girlfriend leves you for paying attention to your Hot blood elf Chick then her. hell 
 its sooo worth it.
  
  Telling it to you straight, most of the people on the last page that posted from 0-7 on the score 
 sheet are guild wars fanboys or other MMORPGs, THIS IS THE MMORPG of any type of MMO game, Graphicly 
 there is an update, Outland looks great and the other areas have been glossend to a more shinier 
 gleam.
  though dont expect a graphical overhaul, the new races the blood elves and the Dreainei are.... um 
 whats the word im looking for......... INCREADIBLE.... being the first expansion i never thought 
 a game was so diverse till this expansion, not to say too much, its just faaaaantastic. and this 
 and every drop of EPIC! blood of the warcraft series and you have yourself a top notch computer 
 game.. be aware, after playing this you will NOT want to go back to guild wars or any other MMORPG. 
 are you prepared for the Burning crusade?... no matter what you think....
  
  You are not prepared...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titus87
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game can hardly be described with words. Hard to stop playing, just like WoW was and has always 
 been.
  There are most certainly some errors, but no major ones this far.
  Well the servers are a bit laggy atm, but wont be for long. (I hope)
  These kinda games is definitely 
 my type in short words.
  And there are allot of ppl out there that thinks the same?
  It may be cuz I like to meet new ppl, and just the whole concept is great.
  And no I'm not an 
 so called yber geek ^^
  Hope that everyone liked the review and so on.
  Well that was all from me. Cya around in-game or here at Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gene14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game expands on the already award winning 7+ million player MMORPG called World of Warcraft. 
 It keeps the great formula of WoW, as in, it still has the great battle system, loads of new items, 
 an entire new world and a 70 level cap. 10 levels may seem small to some, but once you hit the 
 deck, goin' on 40 man raids to get that legendary Teir 5 armor for your Night Elf Rogue and trying 
 out the new races included, it will easily ruin your life just as WoW did with many others including 
 myself. Great presentation at all times, effects up the wazoo, sound quality is operah perfect, 
 the only problem is the same with WoW, the graphics. Because Blizzard needed to stream massive 
 loads of information at once for you to see miles ahead without any popups or load times, they 
 had to lower the graphical prowess of the game, this is acceptable because of it's general beuty 
 of the game. For $40 (regular package) , this is a MUST BUY if you have WoW and are finished with 
 it (which is practically impossible in the first place) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiroRX
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Mediocre expansion that ignores many of the games existing problems and adds new ones in the process. 
 In PvP hp is now king so classes that rely on burst damage are out the window, the expansion caters 
 only to those 1-20 and 60-70 with a large chunk of the middle wondering wth happened. Can you really 
 blame Blizzard though? Why take time to fix problems when subscriptions just dont stop increasing? 
 I know its a weird thing to complain about, but perhaps MMOs were better with smaller player base. 
 As WoW's pop works it way to 10 million I wonder how much more will the game's real needs and fixes 
 be drowned out by the pop culture noobs that the game has attracted.
  
  Dissapointment is apparently a popular development strategy with the public. Dont be mistaken, 
 8 million people can be wrong.
  
  p. s. www. warhammeronline. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidlee3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is an expansion to one of the greatest games of all time. Look at the pear numbers, eight 
 million people playing as of 01/10/2007. People do not play bad games.
  
  BC will air out up the game like never before. Tons of new content and lots to do. Getting to level 
 your main again is going to be a blast. I think the hardest part is getting rid of the gear that 
 we fought so hard for. New Gear, Mounts, and a new way of life for all WoW players with this great 
 addition
  
  See you in game
  
  ASF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skytbest
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is great! with the addition of two new classes and a increased level cap it adds at least 
 100+ hours just from going to the old level cap (60) to the new one (70) . I think that this game 
 is very hard and takes well more than four hours to learn everything there is. The best part is 
 its not like any other RPS, with hundreds of other things to do, form leveling up to doing pvp 
 or just playing around with you friends. I think that World of Warcraft is the best MMO out there 
 and that it will live forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titusthetiger
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  I was a bit dissapointed. The level 60 content is more of the same. The first twenty minutes are 
 cool, but you get used to the new content way too fast. It get's boring pretty soon. I wouldn't 
 really recommend this game, because it is too expensive. They should lower the price to 15$. That 
 would be reasonable. Blizzard advertises way too much in the normal game, so you cannot actually 
 stick with the normal World of Warcraft. They force you to buy the game. You do get a richer gameplay, 
 more possibilities, but nothing more than that. The designs of the Stairs of Destiny and Silvermoon 
 are awesome though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keptle7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I can't really say alot about this expension yet, For a good review, at least wait til players 
 start to hit max lvl. Wow itself is a great mmorpg, and the expension..... well... obviously makes 
 the game better. Everything is the same, but with 2 new races, new lands, instances, and a profession (Jewel 
 Crafting) . I played the blood elf character for about 2 hours so far, and the new starting town 
 looks really nice. Really makes u feel like you are in a blood elf town. New quests have good stories 
 to it. Also new monsters to kill other than boars, like any other starting towns. Bottom line is, 
 I like what I see so far. and please, don't say that this is the same game right after you got 
 the game... This is MMORPG. It takes time to fully discover the whole game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
