-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World War II: Frontline Command
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worldwar2frontlinecommand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Bitmap Brothers
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 27, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World War II: Frontline Command has some new ideas, but these concepts -- and some of the game's more-standard 
 real-time strategy mechanics -- aren't implemented well. 

  World War II: Frontline Command is a real-time strategy game from a developer that is known more 
 for its style than its substance. Developer Bitmap Brothers previously created Z and its sequel, 
 Steel Soldiers. Z's claim to fame was its zany sense of humor, but it was still a traditional real-time 
 strategy game, and Steel Soldiers was a rather average game too. The company's latest game, World 
 War II: Frontline Command, does have some new ideas, but these concepts -- and some of the game's 
 more-standard real-time strategy mechanics -- aren't implemented well.  

          Many of Frontline Command's missions represent minor operations in World War II, but the 
 game also has some big battles.     

  Frontline Command is another World War II strategy game in which you command squadrons of units 
 that are provided to you at the beginning of each mission, rather than produced from structures 
 you must build. The game's missions require you to complete objectives such as destroying bridges, 
 clearing bunkers, and knocking down radar towers. Strategy games of this sort are supposed to remove 
 resource management from the picture, allowing tactics to take center stage. Frontline Command 
 lets you use 23 different units on the Allied side (the only playable side in the single-player 
 mode) , and it features some interesting twists on the standard RTS formula, though some of these 
 innovations don't work as well as they might have.  

  For instance, one of the innovative mechanics that works well is the game's fog of war. In Frontline 
 Command, the fog of war actually looks and behaves like fog, and things like elevated areas and 
 large objects can block your sight. Furthermore, some units have a wider range of vision than others, 
 and units can be paired up to take advantage of their collective line of sight. However, the fog 
 of war goes hand in hand with the game's treatment of unit sound, which doesn't work quite as well. 
 In Frontline Command, soldiers can detect their enemies by sound as well as by sight. So, for example, 
 crawling infantry are difficult to detect because they are both harder to see and less noisy. Unfortunately, 
 there's no way to effectively gauge how much noise your units are hearing -- there's no audio meter 
 or anything like that. If your enemies do make noise, you'll be able to see their health bars even 
 though you can't see the actual units, but it doesn't seem like this mechanic is as fleshed-out 
 as it could have been.  

  Frontline Command also features an unusual morale system. With high morale, you can perform heroic 
 actions that boost your units' combat effectiveness. High morale can come from trouncing enemies, 
 destroying key objectives, and keeping your troops healthy. Similarly, injured troops are less 
 effective and drag down company morale, so you always need to keep paramedic trucks on hand to 
 heal injured units. In practice, the connection between health and morale means that battles can 
 come to a close very quickly once things stop going your way.  

          The red circle that indicates a unit's range sometimes works, but sometimes it doesn't. 
     

  But you may have a hard time appreciating Frontline's innovative features because of the game's 
 pathfinding and interface problems. For instance, though it's easy to select a small group and 
 direct its movements, selecting a large group of units and ordering them to a destination will 
 often result in one part of the group on the other side of a nearby river, another part on the 
 wrong side of a chain-link fence, and still another part stuck behind a bunker. It's possible to 
 manually select each unit and order it to converge on your destination, but this process is far 
 too cumbersome to be useful. The game also has other, more-minor interface issues, such as the 
 fact that it displays an individual unit's firing range, but doesn't do so for a selected group. 
 Also, the game doesn't let you manually order your troops to attack any hostile enemies they encounter 
 while moving, or to return fire while moving, but your units will sometimes do these things themselves. 
 Furthermore, you can't check your mission objectives once a mission is under way, and some of the 
 objective briefings provide erroneous information, such as in a mission that supposedly requires 
 engineers to destroy a radar tower that can easily be destroyed with infantry grenades.     
 

  Despite its flaws, Frontline Command's interface does feature a few interesting ideas. You can 
 issue orders to your units using a radial menu (similar to the one in BioWare's RPG Neverwinter 
 Nights) that allows you to give special orders to specific units, such as changing to defensive 
 mode, which provides a massive armor bonus but limits attacks to a single direction, or ambush 
 mode, which provides a massive attack bonus but also limits attacks to a single direction. You 
 can also use this menu to order trucks to haul artillery and order troops to board transports, 
 enter buildings, or force-fire on a specific spot.  

          Pathfinding is problematic in Frontline Command. These units were ordered to cross the 
 river, but remain on the wrong side.     

  Unfortunately, you'll need to use the force-fire option often, since your units may not always 
 attack nearby enemies. For example, sometimes mortar infantry will move rather than fire their 
 long-range mortars. But even force-fire is inconsistent -- sometimes units with force-fire orders 
 will become stuck in one place, firing repeatedly on a single area, and other times they'll fire 
 once and stop, so you'll have to go in and baby-sit your units to make sure they continue firing. 
 The game's radial menu groups this and other commands into a single place, but having to open and 
 reopen the radial menu for every last unit and group can be cumbersome, especially with large groups 
 of units.  

  Most of Frontline Command's units have secondary attacks that are triggered using icons in the 
 lower-left corner of the screen. The secondary attacks tend to be useful, varied, and unique, but 
 the interface severely hampers their use. To activate a secondary attack, you must click the corresponding 
 icon in the corner of the screen, but you can click only one icon at once, and if you have many 
 different types of units in a group, which is common, it's impossible to effectively use all your 
 secondary attacks. It's also very easy to end up inadvertently scrolling the map while trying to 
 click on one of the small secondary attack icons. Though the placement of these icons keeps the 
 interface from obscuring the battlefield, that's not much of a benefit when you have to hunt down 
 every last little button.  

  Frontline Command doesn't make much of its nondescript, overused World War II setting. Graphically, 
 Frontline Command seems to be based on the engine used for Steel Soldiers, which was released in 
 2001. Though the new game features more graphical detail, it's still difficult to distinguish between 
 the two, and overall Frontline Command is rather bland. Fortunately, the game makes up for some 
 of its visual inadequacies with its sound, consisting of a strong musical score and deep, rumbling 
 sound effects on the battlefield.  

  Though the single-player game simply follows the war chronologically, it does have some very enjoyable 
 levels. The missions themselves seem somewhat clichd, but they can be fast-paced and quite 
 immersive at times. The entirely Allied-focused single-player campaign spans from the battles surrounding 
 D-Day to the final push toward Berlin. The three major missions, D-Day, the Battle of the Bulge, 
 and Berlin, are all suitably massive. In fact, the sheer enormity of these operations, which give 
 you dozens of units to control, is enjoyable in itself. With so many units on the battlefield, 
 there's almost no time to worry about the imprecise and problematic interface, and you may even 
 forget some of the game's problems, at least momentarily. But these missions are few and far between. 
 In the game's other missions, stealth and silence are often crucial, so many of these missions 
 devolve into slow crawls across the maps that are sometimes suspenseful but often tedious.     
     The graphics are based on an older engine, though there are a few good special effects, such 
 as the one used for these binoculars.     

  There are other strategy games set during World War II that offer a more-consistent experience 
 and better value. Frontline Command offers a single Allied campaign that consists of 12 missions 
 on regular difficulty. The veteran difficulty setting opens up more missions and makes the repeat 
 missions more difficult, but you might wish for an Axis campaign -- or an instant-action skirmish 
 mode, because Frontline Command doesn't have that, either. Even though you can play as the Axis 
 in multiplayer, the game's multiplayer modes aren't especially robust, since only four players 
 can play in one game, no computer opponents can be added, and there are very few custom multiplayer 
 settings available. As such, the game's multiplayer modes don't offer much in the way of variety 
 or replay value. Then again, if you can forgive its unimpressive multiplayer and its problematic 
 interface, Frontline Command's innovative features and gameplay depth may make it worth the trouble. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GMSmigun
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Game installed just fine, but when I try to run the game I get an error saying it is not compatible 
 with Vista (or rather works with a list of older operating systems and leaves Vista) . I know it 
 is an old game, but many other games still work just fine. This software also uses the controversial 
 StarForce drivers. I do not know if the game is not running because the software is choosing not 
 to because of compatibility, or if there is an error causing the problem. The problem could be 
 the game or the StarForce driver, and I cannot find any online support for the game that addresses 
 this issue. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
