-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World War II Combat: Iwo Jima
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/wwiicombatiwojima/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible graphics.
 there's no way to replenish lost health, which makes the game overly difficult and extremely frustrating.
 inane checkpoint system.
 seemingly random hit detection.
 clipping problems, deficient artificial intelligence, lame mission design, weak sound, and more.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.5, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Direct Action
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jul 25, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
From top to bottom World War II Combat: Iwo Jima is a terrible game with no redeeming qualities 
 whatsoever. 

  As if to prove a point about just how awful video games can be, publisher Groove Games has released 
 World War II Combat: Iwo Jima, the second game in a series that debuted earlier this year with 
 the terrible Road to Berlin. Don't let the generic title fool you -- this game is anything but innocuous. 
 Iwo Jima is so dreadfully awful that when playing it, you'll feel more than just the sting of regret 
 from throwing your $20 away. You'll feel frustration, anger, confusion, and amazement at the overwhelming 
 dearth of quality, inspiration, and general effort in this title. Every single aspect of World 
 War II Combat: Iwo Jima, from the punishing checkpoint system and generic mission design to the 
 hideous graphics and bug-ridden gameplay make for a game that is completely without merit. If Iwo 
 Jima proves anything, it's that if ever there were a series that doesn't deserve to be a series, 
 it's the World War II Combat games.  

          It's not even bad in a funny way; this game is really about as terrible as it gets.    

  As the name so plainly states, World War II Combat: Iwo Jima takes you through several missions 
 set on the heavily contested island of Iwo Jima during World War II. You start out storming a beach 
 and move on from there, single-handedly fighting through foggy jungles and crumbling villages to 
 capture the island for the Allies. It's certainly a fine setting for a World War II shooter, with 
 plenty of important battles and heroic missions to draw inspiration from. But the game mostly ignores 
 this material; instead, it uses the name and some brief video clips to set the stage. This is far 
 from effective, though, and you're left with an ugly, unsalvageable mess of a game.  

  As a first-person shooter, Iwo Jima has high standards to live up to on both the PC and the Xbox. 
 But even if this game had come out five, or even 10, years ago, it would have still felt behind 
 the times. It's a first-person shooter, so you start each mission with a few different types of 
 weapons. You have a primary weapon, which is usually a rifle or machine gun; an explosive weapon, 
 such as grenades or a rocket launcher; and two secondary weapons, these being a pistol and a knife. 
 You're given no choice of which weapons to take with you into combat, and you can almost never 
 pick up new weapons during the mission. You can find some grenades, and at one point you do get 
 a completely useless flamethrower, but other than that, you're stuck with what you have.  

  Using these limited weapons, you have to work your way through each level while completing mission 
 objectives. You might have to destroy three radios, take out a couple pillboxes, or sabotage some 
 enemy airplanes. The objectives are all laid out right in front of you, so at least you don't have 
 to go searching all over a level to find what you're looking for. In fact, the game actively discourages 
 you from wandering off the beaten path by placing invisible mines all along the pathway, so if 
 you try to go exploring, you'll get blown sky high. All of the enemies you fight look identical, 
 and they all act like idiots. Some enemies will run right up to you and start firing wildly, sometimes 
 expending full clips from point-blank range without hitting you once. Sometimes the enemies will 
 just stand there and fire their rifles straight up into the air, which is rather bizarre. What's 
 more bizarre is that they'll often hit you even though their guns aren't aimed in your direction. 
 Even more annoying is that the same random fire works both ways. Sometimes when you have a dead 
 aim on an enemy's head, you can blast away and get no response. Other times you can use the sniper 
 rifle for a one-hit kill with a well-placed footshot.  

  To their credit, the enemies in the game are all accomplished dancers. Sometimes you'll see enemies 
 do the jitterbug as they try to move around by rapidly vibrating like windup toys, or you'll see 
 them do a modified version of the moonwalk as they float along the ground backward without moving 
 their legs. They also appear to be experts at doing the robot, as they twitch wildly and spasm 
 about in a way that couldn't possibly be human. But while an enemy will appear to be busting a 
 move, in actuality they're all just busted.  

  Despite that the enemies are entirely devoid of intelligence, they'll still end up killing you 
 many, many times, because they'll usually have a numbers and positional advantage over you. This 
 wouldn't be so difficult to manage if there was any way to replenish your health, but there isn't. 
 There are no medikits, and it only takes a few shots to kill you. There is a checkpoint system 
 in the game, so you don't have to start over at the beginning of a level when you die. But if you 
 pass a checkpoint with low health, you can find yourself in an impossible situation because you 
 can't backtrack but you might not have enough health to survive to the next checkpoint. The only 
 way out is to either start the entire level over again or keep playing and dying until you've memorized 
 the exact placement and behavior of each enemy -- and hope the game's random hit detection works 
 out in your favor. It's an extremely aggravating design, because the game becomes an extended and 
 exasperating exercise in trial and error, and your success depends more on dumb luck than on any 
 measure of skill.  

  If you're sick of dealing with the sloppy gameplay in the single-player campaign, you can play 
 a multiplayer game online with up to 16 players. However, unless you can convince some poor sap 
 to purchase another copy of the game, you're going to have a hard time finding anyone online to 
 play against. We were unable to find anyone to play against with the Xbox version, and although 
 there a handful of people playing the PC version there aren't nearly enough to have a full 16-player 
 game. It's safe to assume that if there aren't any players online a few weeks after the game was 
 released, there won't be a sudden explosion of interest in the game later on. You can play against 
 bots, but the multiplayer gameplay is just as watered down and unpleasant as the single-player 
 campaign. There are the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, as well as king-of-the-hill, 
 capture-the-flag, and last-man-standing modes. None of them are the least bit interesting and certainly 
 don't bring any worth to this game.  

          The checkpoint system can really screw you over if you're not careful, but there's a simple 
 solution: Don't play this game.     

  Visually, World War II Combat: Iwo Jima is a horrid mess of ugly textures, blocky character models, 
 chunky animation, and severe clipping issues. The levels look so drab and full of unsightly hard 
 edges that the short draw distance almost seems merciful. Every area is shrouded in thick fog that 
 blocks out your view of anything more than a hundred yards away. Despite the very jagged, unnatural 
 geometry of the terrain, nothing in the game is truly solid, since enemies often clip through doors 
 and walls and will often clip through the ground or one another. There's very little detail to 
 be found anywhere on Iwo Jima, to the extent that its inhabitants barely even have faces. On the 
 PC, you can crank up the resolution, and on the Xbox you can play the game in 480p if you have 
 a capable TV, but those options don't do anything to improve the look of the game. The sound is 
 no more detailed and is mostly composed of repetitious, tinny gunfire and hollow explosions. There's 
 an occasional, almost inaudible, mumbling from enemies, and the narration that sets up each level 
 is so flat that it sounds synthesized. The music is generic and repetitive, as well, but it's easily 
 the least offensive element of this game.  

  No matter how broke, desperate, or crazy about World War II you are, there's no reason to play 
 this game. If you're looking for a cheap shooter, go to the store and grab any game off the shelf 
 and you're practically guaranteed to have a better game than this one. Whatever you do, don't play 
 World War II Combat: Iwo Jima.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Garbage, trash, King Kong crap, many names have cut into this game's reputation, which makes WW2 
 Combat: Iwo Jima an utter failure. I had read the deeply negative reviews and hatred filled comments 
 on the product, giving me continuous vibes to not even consider buying Groove's typical budget 
 title. In the end, I did end up buying it because of my strange love for budget games and getting 
 it on a rainy day, showed signs that I was ahead for a terrible experience. It turns out, it rained 
 on the wrong day.
  
  I agree with the majority, budget games are mostly bombers and it's always a risky purchase when 
 getting one. Major horrible games such as the Navy Seals and Marine Sharpshooter games are an example 
 of the usual time waisted. Some turn out to be great, such as WW2: Sniper and Army Ranger: Mogadishu, 
 Task Force 121 and now WW2 Combat: Iwo Jima, are examples of games that could surprise you or still 
 dismay you.
  
  I admit it, I enjoyed one of the supposed worst games of all time, and for probably the reasons 
 people hated it. In my opinion, Iwo Jima was just plain fun. More than likely, I would have dispised 
 it if I had played it without the god code. Before you decide to burn it with complete hate, try 
 it over again with the god code and set it to the easy mode difficulty.
  
  Direct Action Games have pretty much created a title that is quite similar to Task Force 121, but 
 it handles pretty well on its own. The graphics are terrible? Yes. The friendly A. I. sucks? Yes. 
 There are a heap of glitches? Kind of. The enemy A. I. stinks? No. The multiplayer is trash? No. 
 There's nothing to it? (variety of gameplay) Heck no!
  
  Iwo Jima can be great fun at every turn. The most fun in this game is contained in the levels where 
 you are situated as a motar commander. Placing explosives on ammo boxes is cool. The maps are open 
 and often believable in look. Destroying tanks never gets old. There is definatley a lot to do 
 in the shamefully 10 level lengthed campaign. In all, there's many things happening around you, 
 visually and with sound.
  
  The first level completely gives it a bad start though, because you're only equiped with a pistol 
 and a sniper rifle, which takes too long to load. Otherwise, the rest of the game is pretty cheap 
 fun. The sound is not bad at all, but the score is as cheap as the game's price. The Japanese also 
 make believable foes with their acceptable A. I. and realistic sounding weapons. Each level is lengthly 
 with a handful objectives to fill. What was the most lame about Iwo Jima, was the ending. You finish 
 shooing off swarms of Japs and it cuts right to the credits. There was so many interesting videos 
 in between levels, so shouldn't they have made an ending video?
  
  Still, I can't recommend this product to many of you hardcore gamers out there, because you'll 
 easily see it as cheap, which is not hard to believe. I'm more than likely, one of the few who 
 enjoyed. WW2 Combat: Iwo Jima, ends up with a lasting value at the end with it's impressive multiplayer.
 
  Like I said, it is missing some crucial things, such as a story and wonderful score and graphics, 
 but it's an experience I wouldn't mind playing again, with the god code though. It is overly difficult 
 with no health upgrades during play, so the code is completely necessary to be able to appreciate 
 the game World War 2 Combat: Iwo Jima, really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hosshosshoss
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  it a very lame game it is so boring and so lame. this is a terrible, horribly boring game that i 
 really hate and think that its a lame game. i do not advise this game. it has terrible graphics 
 and terrible gameplay. the sounds are so unrealistic these are terrible and lame sounds. i really 
 do not advise this terrible game. if u lose health u cannot replinish ur short health. its gameplay 
 is so boring and lame. it is a disastrous game and its so lame and easy. it a very lame game it is 
 so boring and so lame. this is a terrible, horribly boring game that i really hate and think that 
 its a lame game. i do not advise this game. it has terrible graphics and terrible gameplay. the 
 sounds are so unrealistic these are terrible and lame sounds. i really do not advise this terrible 
 game. if u lose health u cannot replinish ur short health. its gameplay is so boring and lame. it 
 is a disastrous game and its so lame and easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMIAxKillaCrank
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Too bad the rating bars only go down to 1....
  
  Viewer Discretion Is Advised....
  
  
  This game... is the  pile of horridly awful s h i t show CRAP 
 filled gongshow I have ever laid my precious little eyes on. If there was a way to continue that 
 insult in a continuous sentance I would. Now let me see... the graphics are rendered on a game engine 
 that at first glance looks like it was created by Gandalf while beating off and throwing up on 
 the can. The gameplay is the most horrifingly god awful piece of **** I have ever experienced. 
 The value.... wait what value? The sound? I would rather take a plate and a knife and scratch the 
 **** ouf the the plate until my ears became so damaged that I would not hear a nuclear explosion 
 go off next to me. 
  
  Is there any use for the game, I tried to whipe my a ss crack but it only cut my butt and I began 
 to bleed so....... I guess you can't even use it for a one time poo whipe. I decided to take the 
 cd and destroy it in the oven. I than ripped it in half, burned it to death again and flushed it's 
 ashes down the toilet. 
  
  I didnt even buy the game or beat it.......... I played it at my friends house. Shortly their after 
 I had to kill him for making this purchase. Anyone who buys this game shall be shot on the spot. 
 Don't but this god forsaken **** show of a programmer's night mare. 
  
  I paid no attention to grammar or spelling while writing this because I wanted to represent the 
 ammount time and effort that went into this piece of s hit. I think the guys that made this game 
 were high, plastered and hammered on booze, cocaine, and x when they made this game in a time span 
 of 7 minutes to sell it and pay for more drugs and whores. 
  
  Dont buy this game please, it will cause irrversable retardation of the brain for your children. 
 YOU THINK you will be doing something nice for them by buying a game but you won't, you will be 
 killing them.. and/or making them want to kill you for being a stupid fuk.
  
  do yourself, your kids and every soul except for the creators of this poo a favor and don't buy 
 it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurdt_rs
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Guys, there's just no getting around it, and there isn't much that needs to be said. Avoid this 
 game at all costs.
  
  Okay, apparently there is more that needs to be said (100 word minimum on reviews) . Don't buy this 
 game. Don't buy it for the graphics, as they were clearly scanned-in construction paper constructs. 
 Don't buy it for the sound, as you're better off treating your ears to an acid coated q-tip. Don't 
 buy it for the gameplay, as you'll find more fun and adventure watching an instructional video 
 on carpet samples. Don't buy it for... dude, just do not buy it.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
