-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World of Goo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/worldofgoo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brilliant design loaded with gameplay depth.
 Varied levels sporting wide-ranging objectives and different types of goo.
 Quirky, surreal sense of humor.
 Fantastic, atmospheric soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The controls can't always keep up with the action.
 Visuals aren't as vibrant as they could be given the cartoony premise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,710 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Brighter Minds
Developer: 2D Boy
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     Oct 17, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Innovative, addictive, and delightfully weird, World of Goo is a superb puzzle game. 

  World of Goo may ship in a plain-Jane box that makes it look exactly like the usual third-rate 
 dreck that takes up space on a back shelf in your neighborhood department store, but this physics-based 
 puzzler is one of the most innovative and addictive games to hit the PC in years. Independent developer 
 2D Boy has hit the jackpot, turning what appears to be a simple building game into what could just 
 be the next casual-gaming obsession right up there with classics such as Tetris and Lemmings.  
 

           Goo balls and balloons are a winning combination.      

  Actually, World of Goo's concept owes a big debt to Lemmings, the early '90s sensation that involved 
 guiding suicidal green-haired goons across 2D levels loaded with hazards. The objective here is 
 rather similar, although instead of guiding lemmings to an exit in each level, you're leading globs 
 of goo across similarly dangerous terrain to pipes that suck them up. This rather odd task is accomplished 
 by selecting the cute, gibberish-spouting blobs and turning them into nodules in framework buildings 
 that reach for the sky and stretch across yawning pits like sticky scaffolding. When your wobbly 
 structure is close enough to the level exit pipe, all of the goo balls that haven't been used as 
 makeshift building blocks then roll over their former buddies to freedom.  

  Well, at least to as much freedom as can ever be offered by getting slurped into PVC plumbing. 
 Each level requires you to "save" a set number of goo balls to succeed and move on, so you have 
 to be economical in the amount of goo used as construction material. If you pass enough goo balls 
 through the exit pipe to the glass beaker waiting at the other end, you win to gather goo another 
 day. If you fall short of the required number, you do it all over again, trying to get your goo 
 to safety in a more ecfficient fashion. Final scores are based both on the number of goo balls 
 rescued and the amount of time you spent in the level.  

  Real physics and the demands of gravity always have to be taken into account, which makes this 
 one of those easy-to-play, hard-to-master puzzle games that gradually takes over your entire life. 
 Goo towers need to be carefully balanced so they don't become top-heavy and collapse into a pile 
 of slime, whereas bridges have to be carefully reinforced underneath so they don't come tumbling 
 down. At times you even need to use special items such as balloon goo to help compensate for the 
 height or length of a structure and keep it standing. This is a lot harder than it sounds. Considering 
 that you're dealing with, well, goo, buildings in the game are inherently unstable and tend to 
 jiggle pretty much constantly. To compensate for this, you need to build by degrees, carefully 
 balancing one side against the other to prevent the whole wobbly contraption from teetering over. 
 Exit pipes are typically a long way from the beginning point of levels, requiring you to really 
 think before you start erecting ridiculously tall skyscrapers or long, arching bridges. Knowing 
 that your entire building could collapse at any moment adds an incredible amount of tension. The 
 feeling is a lot like building a house of cards or playing Jenga. By the time you get within a 
 few meters of the pipe, you're often a nervous wreck.  

  Goo placement is extremely tricky to handle, especially as you move farther into the 48 missions 
 that make up the game's four chapters and epilogue. (Goo collected here is also transferred over 
 to the World of Goo Corporation sandbox mode of play, in which you build the tallest structure 
 you can.) Many levels are incredibly devious. Goo-killing giant windmills and machine gears have 
 to be avoided or built around. Froggy swamps await bridges that aren't balanced properly. Spike 
 pits lining the tops and bottoms of levels lie in wait to kill goo balls tumbling from a collapsing 
 structure. Some tasks are quite surreal, such as the one in which you have to help goo escape from 
 a stomach by scaling a throat and then using eyeball balloons to float away. Just about every challenge 
 here is much tougher than it looks. You typically start a level thinking that it won't be that 
 bad, then spend 20 minutes or more figuring out how to get past the various hidden pitfalls without 
 either causing a structure to fall or using up too many goo balls. That said, you can succeed without 
 being perfect. Clicking on the limited number of time bugs that flit around most levels turns back 
 the clock on your last move, giving you a second chance if you want to reverse something disastrous. 

           Perhaps not surprisingly, goo balls aren't all that fond of giant spikes.      

  A 
 handful of different types of goo have special abilities, all of which have to be carefully used. 
 For example, black goo is rigid and cannot be moved after being placed. On the other hand, green 
 goo can be moved around after initial placement, so you can rearrange structures on the fly. White 
 goo hangs down like long water drips. Red goo can be deployed to act as helium balloons to help 
 keep long bridges in the air over treacherous pits. Yellow goo can stick to vertical surfaces while 
 Skull goo is impervious to being popped by spikes, for example. New goo is introduced early on 
 in each chapter, and subsequent missions progressively ramp up the challenge and force you to put 
 it to good use. This, along with wildly varied levels, keeps play feeling fresh throughout the 
 entire game, even though you're always repeating the same basic task of guiding goo to exits.  
 

  Just a couple of minor flaws interfere with the gelatinous goodness on offer here. Controls can 
 be a problem on some levels in which speed is of the essence. The basic drag-and-drop mechanics 
 often aren't nimble enough to handle those occasional moments when you need to quickly move goo 
 into place to prevent a collapse or some other horrible catastrophe. Given that the goo all bounce 
 around together, it's way too easy to grab the wrong ball when time is of the essence and consequently 
 cause a structure to crumple. It's also too easy to accidentally click on a time bug, seeing as 
 how they tend to buzz around awfully close to your structures. There is no multiplayer, which is 
 a shame because real-time goo building against an opponent could be great fun. At least the game 
 does have something of an online presence, courtesy of the ability to post scores online at the 
 end of every level and see how high other players have built towers in World of Goo Corporation 
 mode. (Clouds float around with the names and nationalities of other players currently online.) 

  Visuals are a little blah for such a light-hearted, cartoony game. There are a lot of dark, dreary 
 colors, and enough black that the hue actually gets in the way and prevents you from seeing black 
 goo on some levels. Brighter, cheerier graphics would have added atmosphere and been a better fit 
 for the surreal Dr. Seuss-like art style. More colors would also have better suited the peppy soundtrack, 
 which does a fantastic job of blending jazz and pop. This music is switched up with every level, 
 as well, further ensuring that you never get bored by lending each level its own distinct personality. 

  All in all, World of Goo plays like you're messing around with a slimy, virtual erector set loaded 
 up with real physics and gravity. Don't miss one of the most original and addictive gaming experiences 
 to come along in years.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dan_151
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  Games like World of Goo are rare. The only game as innovative as this one was Portal. Games like 
 these might come twice a decade and you must play them.
  World of Goo is pure puzzle game. You have to make structures out of Goo (cute little creatures) 
 to reach a pipe where the remaining Goo is sucked (you have to save a minimum number of Goo balls) 
 and you can use the surplus of Goo in the World of Goo Corporation multiplayer mode. In WoG Corporation 
 you have to make a tower of Goo and you can see in the sky , clouds that indicate how tall are 
 the other towers.
  Across the levels you will find signs painted by the Sign Painter. These serve as tutorial and amusement. Through 
 the game you will see that the Goo balls are very similar to the humans and their evolution is 
 presented in 5 chapters , 4 of them being seasons and the Goo balls reach an inevitable end of 
 the world (I`m not saying more `cause i have been SPOILERing long enough) .
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  Sound : 10/10
  Gameplay : 10/10
  Story : 10/10
  Impression : 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thePixelPeople
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are beautiful and entertaining, but it's obviously a kids' game. The 
 physics are the most fun to play with, and the little sounds each gooball makes are funny. It's 
 very smartly done, and the levels are unique and creative. I especially like the sign-painter, 
 who gives little anecdotes that really only make sense in the goo world.
  
  It's fun creating goo scaffolding and being creative and figuring out puzzles, but there isn't 
 enough there to keep my attention for long. You basically just do one thing: create goo scaffolds. 
 This is fun for a while, but I'm not an architect and it would have been cool to see some other 
 unique innovations like a goo cannon or something.
  
  Also, there's a frustrating element when a piece of scaffolding collapses in on itself, leaving 
 a huge chunk dangling around that you can do nothing with. This usually leaves you to start the 
 whole level over again, and you'll likely run into the same problem until you figure out what type 
 of scaffolding you need to create. It would have been much less frustrating and possibly even entertaining 
 to watch the collapsing scaffolding break apart when one of the strings hit an attached gooball. 
 Oh well; here's to a better sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:35 am PT
Review:  An extremely cheap puzzle game for the PC which looks very children orientated... doesn't sound 
 great does it? Well that's why I got such a shock when I started reading reviews that were giving 
 it near to perfect scores. At such a cheap price, it would be ridiculous not to by it... so I did, 
 and it was excellent.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple when you start. Simply drag blobs of goo around to make a bridge 
 for the remaining blobs to pass on, eventually getting as many blobs as possible to the pipe. You 
 need to get a certain amount of blobs in the pipe to pass the level, so use your blobs carefully. 
 But it all gets a bit more confusing when you are introduced to extra blobs such as water blobs, 
 flammable blobs, sticky blobs and more! Vary your use in blobs to get around certain obstacles 
 in levels. Avoid fire, spikes and toxic water, which you often come across. 
  
  So this all sounds pretty easy right now doesn't it? Well when you consider the incredible physics 
 that have been put into this game, it all starts to get a lot harder. One blob out of plays, and 
 your entire blob bridge could give way. 
  
  The main mode is presented in a 'complete one level, proceed to the next' way, with some-what of 
 a storyline (but nothing special) . Each level also has an OCD feature (Obsessive Completion Distinction) 
 which gives you an extra challenge. When you complete this, the level is full completed. 
  
  Another great feature of this game is that when you are not up to completing levels, you can 
 build your own blob tower as high as you can imagine. Signs on the way up say things along the 
 lines of 'what could be at the top?'. I haven't got very far up yet (i focused on the main mode) 
 but the journey up is very fun. Once again, one blob out of place, and hours of work on your tower 
 could be destroyed.
  
  The sound effects of World Of Goo is also great. Splats, squishes, and little shrieks of horror 
 from a blob all add up to make an extremely addictive game full of excellent gameplay, sounds, 
 and more great features, not to mention the excellently creepy soundtrack...
  
  So why didn't it get a perfect score? Purely because after playing a particular chapter of the 
 game for a while, it can get a bit repetitive and sometimes boring. But only occasionally does 
 this happen, as the majority of the levels are very varied.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for any PC owner and especially any puzzle game addict. And less the 
 10, you really can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  Not gonna say much here since its a short indy game and all.
  The good: The graphics and sounds and presentation are all nice, except for the internet stages. 
 Its just ear-rape there. The style and wording are interesting and humorous. The well designed 
 stages are entertaining, but easy. Got it for 5 bucks!
  
  The bad: Its very short. There were about 2 hard stages, and they were only hard because there 
 are luck based. You can build the same structure over and over and get completely different results 
 each times because of the retarded sway mechanic the game has. No motivation to use your extra 
 goo to build a mindless tall tower. Basically every level has you build the same thing over and 
 over, with minor variations depending on what tool (balloons, bombs, ect) that you are given. 
 
  
  Finally, it was a decent game for 5 dollars. I feel bad for those who paid full price. Oh, and 
 don't bother with OCD. There is only 1 way to do each and its not fun, it just isn't. Most of them 
 require borderline exploits to accomplish, not very imaginative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  I know this is a long text but if you dont want to read the entire text, then know that this is 
 one of few best puzzle game in the world. And most of the people loves it.
  
  World of Goo is a puzzle computer game with a strong emphasis on physics.
  The game is built 
 around the idea of creating large structures using balls of goo. The game is divided into five 
 chapters, each containing several levels. Each level has its own graphic and musical theme, giving 
 it unique atmosphere. There is also a bonus meta-game called World of Goo Corporation, where the 
 objective is to build the highest tower using goo balls which the player collected through the 
 course of the game. Players from all over the world can compete, as the height of the tower and 
 number of goo balls used are being constantly uploaded to the 2D Boy server.
  
  The main objective of the game is to get a requisite number of goo balls to a pipe representing 
 the exit. In order to do so, the player must use the goo balls to construct bridges, towers and 
 other structures to overcome gravity and various terrain difficulties such as chasms, hills, spikes 
 or cliffs. Extra Goos recovered in the pipe are pumped through to the World of Goo Corporation, 
 a sandbox area where the objective is to compete with other players worldwide by building the tallest 
 tower possible. Players can also try to achieve the "Obsessive Completion Distinction (OCD) Flag" 
 for each level by completing the level under more stringent criteria, such as collecting a larger 
 number of Goo balls, finishing under a set amount of time or using as few moves as possible.
  Levels and chapters in the game are interspersed with cut scenes.
  There are several types of 
 goo balls in the game, each of which has unique properties. The player must exploit combinations 
 of these goo balls in order to complete each level.
  
  The Wiiware version includes multiplayer with up to four people on the same Wii.
  
  The overall 
 World of Goo is split up into five chapters, each containing a number of levels. The chapters are 
 set over the course of a year in the World of Goo. Each chapter takes place over one season beginning 
 in Summer and ending in Spring.
  
  An additional 'chapter' selectable from the main menu is the World Of Goo Corporation. Goos collected 
 above and beyond the required amount to pass a level are piped out of each of the played levels 
 to here. Starting from just a single triangle of Goo, the aim is to build the highest possible 
 tower. The Goos in the World Of Goo Corporation are unique in that they can be repositioned like 
 Ivy Goos but are black and can only form two connections at once like Common Goos. In the World 
 Of Goo Corporation, towers built by other players of the game are represented by clouds bearing 
 the player's name, nationality and height of the tower, including details on the total number of 
 balls collected by the player and how many were used in constructing their tower. The altitude 
 of each cloud represents the height of that player's tower. An online leaderboard charts the heights 
 of the top 50 towers, as well as the top 10 players for each level of the game.
  There are a total of 48 levels in the game, including World of Goo 
  Corporation .
  
  In 
 an interview the developers stated that the retail version released in Europe will receive an additional 
 sixth chapter, set on the Moon. Few details were disclosed, but reportedly this chapter will feature 
 a freeform sandbox mode, similar to that of the World of Goo Corporation. This addition was then 
 canceled for Wii when 2D Boy announced they were releasing the game on WiiWare in Europe. 
  
  The story is told primarily through the previously mentioned cut scenes and signs encountered 
 throughout the game, which were left by a mysterious figure known as the Sign Painter.
  Initially, pipes appear throughout the land, waking up many sleeping Goo Balls who have gone undisturbed 
 until this. As they are filled with a childlike sense of curiosity and naivete they build themselves 
 towards the pipes. Upon reaching the pipe entrance, the Goo Balls are sucked by the pipe system 
 into the "World of Goo Corporation" main building where they are processed into many products, 
 most prominently a drink. The excess Goo Balls are let outside the Corporation headquarters where 
 they begin to build a giant tower. At the end of the chapter a few Ivy Goo Balls escape from a 
 Corporation building by attaching themselves to eyeballs which have the ability to float. The chapter 
 ends with the Goo Balls "seeing far away new lands".
  In the second chapter, more pipes appear in a very windy desert where a giant power plant is located. 
 However, during the past, the location and appearance of the plant was forgotten because it stopped 
 producing energy. A new Goo Ball is introduced, which is ground up by the Corporation into a beauty 
 cream. Near the end of the chapter the power plant, which looks like a giant woman, is discovered. 
 It turns out that the power plant "ran on beauty" which is (according to the game) a volatile chemical 
 like gasoline. After some of the Beautiful Goo Balls are injected into it, it becomes operational 
 again, allowing the Corporation to open up a new factory.
  During the third chapter it is said that the Corporation develops a mysterious "Product Z". It 
 eventually turns out that the mysterious Product Z is actually the third dimension. This causes 
 much commotion amongst the general population who cannot see where anything is now. World of Goo 
 Corporation tells them to contact tech support in the Information Superhighway.
  
  In the fourth chapter the Goo Balls set out to find the mysterious "MOM" program amongst a vector 
 style environment. Shortly after the beginning the Goo Balls find the object responsible for rendering 
 the graphics. After pumping many of their own kind into the object the graphics render improves, 
 creating a more realistic environment. Near the end they encounter the MOM program who turns out 
 to be a spam bot. The Goo Balls decide to overload Product Z by sending every message in the history 
 of spam to everyone at the World of Goo Corporation. After venturing to the recycling bin and un-deleting 
 everything, the Corporation headquarters explodes, shutting down Product Z while creating a massive 
 layer of smog that envelops the entire world.
  
  In the final chapter, the remaining Scientific Goo Balls are sucked away to the ruins of the Corporation's 
 Headquarters. The final level of the chapter reveals that all the goo has been sucked away, and 
 the massive telescope at the site has been rendered useless as it cannot see past the layer of 
 smog. The Sign Painter reveals in his final sign that he has now become the Telescope Operator. 
 Some fly-like fish in the water connect to the telescope and pull it out of the ground, where it 
 passes the layer of smog and sees the tower of goo that has been built at the former World of Goo 
 Corporation Headquarters, which can also see past the smog. The telescope falls back to earth before 
 it can see what the Goo Balls were building towards. The game ends revealing that they were building 
 towards a new planet populated entirely by Goo Balls.
  A prequel to the original storyline was made that begins two years before the events of the game, 
 when the World of Goo Corporation was just a small company. The Corporation had a plan to set up 
 neon lights on the moon to broadcast advertising messages down to the world below. This world was 
 originally meant to add value for a European retail version of the game, but 2D Boy has since decided 
 to make any additional material available for all platforms simultaneously. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwpa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  I didn't expect much from it when I first saw it. It was cartoonish, but it quickly became addictive 
 and encouraged creativity. I was actually disappointed when it ended which was much too soon. The 
 art is cool and the game play quite easy to learn, but difficult to master. The hardest part of 
 the game is some situations require precise timing which was hard to do with the mouse but I succeeded 
 in completing the levels eventually. It's definitely a fun way to spend time and well worth the 
 price.
  
  When I finished I was hoping there would be more to do. It would be cool to have a level editor, 
 but maybe that would be in the future.
  
  One of the best areas is the sandbox that allows you to build a tower and actually tracks how well 
 you do with others currently playing the game. It's pretty challenging to not only gather the goo 
 balls needed to build the tower but then to successfully construct a tower and climb the leader 
 board in the process. A neat addition.
  
  Kudos and well done, 2D Boys... when is the sequel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazzerz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:47 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, World of Goo is a phenomenal game. It boasts bright and beautiful visuals, 
 a great soundtrack, compelling and unusual gameplay and a charming design. 
  
  But there are a few hiccups in the way. For one, it's hard as all hell. I found myself banging 
 my head on the desk in frustration at some of the more unusual puzzles. The difficulty just ramps 
 up considerably after the very first level, it assumes you know exactly how the physics engine 
 works, it assumes you know all the little nuances of the goo balls which you control, it assumes 
 a lot. And for your sake you better understand everything right off the bat or you'll be restarting 
 levels over and over and over and over and over again.
  
  I don't mind a difficult game, but here its just gets ridiculous real fast.
  
  The other major 
 issue are the controls. The screen automatically pans whenever you move your cursor too close to 
 the edge... no problem right? Wrong. The screen pans whenever you move your cursor even REMOTELY 
 close to the edge. You can be in the middle of the screen and it'll happen, it's a serious flaw 
 and kudos to GS for refusing to ignore it.
  
  It's a good game, but with the few flaws mentioned here it puts a serious damper on the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambusmcgee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing this the other day really not expecting very much. It's a game about Goo, 
 building with Goo-lame. Well at least that is what I thought at first. However, with way too much 
 time and too little to do I decided to find out what all the rave reviews were about. It soon became 
 apparent that I misjudged World of Goo. 
  World of Goo offers a beautifully designed and coloured world of innovated play. Though the game 
 is relatively quick there is a high replay value in the game. The different maps are highly varied 
 and tricky enough to keep one interested  or more likely addicted. The key to the game though 
 is really the physics behind the movement of the Goo. It is necessary to master the physics to 
 pass the levels, or just get lucky enough as the physics can be hard to predict. Regardless it 
 is addictive fun building towers, bridges, and passing by obstacles.
  While simple, the graphics are very good, cartoony but good, and the colours are really perfect 
 for the game. The music is really excellent as well, does not get old nor irritating. Same goes 
 for the story. It is far from a complex twisting plot but it is really good. Something that is 
 enjoyable and doesn't force you to force you concentrate to understand it. It is witty and clever 
 writing that has you paying attention and laughing continually. Who is that sign painter though?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RO-J
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Whatever those 'Books' are.
  
  -Innovative game, not all games have to have as realistic graphics as possible and gorey action 
 scenes with ridiculous story lines and guns, this one proves the point.
  -Fun to play, fun to conquer, the kinda games you get your kick out of when you complete a challenging 
 level or have fun replaying a certain level.
  -Weird but wonderful sound design. This game has fantastic sound design and soundtrack, remember 
 to turn those speakers up for this one.
  -Visually pleasing. Very polished and good-looking games in their context are always good in this 
 aspect, World of Goo is no exception.
  -With all of this, the controls and levels are still good enough to keep you coming back for more, 
 this game has it all.
  
  World of Goo is the first game in a while which I have been amazed that my friends haven't heard 
 of, this game is quite cool when it comes to almost every aspect you judge a game on, stunning 
 contextual visuals, depth of gameplay, a gripping control scheme and some awesome things in their 
 for everyone.
  
  Truly though, I agree with Gamespot, this game deserves a little bit of critical advice, the control 
 scheme is innovative and all that, and this game looks and plays better on the PC any day, but 
 some times it seemes you need to quickly attend to more than one situation or get somewhere quick 
 and the controls are a little too slow, but this is easily overlooked and can topple most competing 
 games in most aspects, no spoilers, play it if you want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperwolf_SN
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Little Puzzle games are worth playing to me, but Goo's are different !
  a nice story, and very cool sounds, a lot of challenges , hard
  
  Goo's can suck you in very 
 easy! Its AMAZING to use different kinds of Goo's to reach your target
  you will have a fun time with "World of Goo" , sure this game is not very supreb , But it worth 
 10 of 10 In Puzzle Genre maybe that because it have a nice story and sounds effect.
  
  and the most Important is the physics when building!! I hope World of Goo 2 will be soon in the 
 markets!!
  
  
  "Reviews must be 100 words minimum. Any disruptive posting - such as excessive exclamation points, 
 duplicate text, or all caps - is subject for removal. Do not copy content from another critic or 
 user review; plagiarism is a bannable offense."
  Thats OK
  
  Enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I was very surprised to see this game come out. I had played Tower of Goo on the 
 internet a long time ago when it was just you, some black goo, and the theme to 12 Monkeys (from 
 which this game gets it's style of music) playing in the background.
  
  Off the bat? I expected a simple structure building game with simple objectives. Then they threw 
 in more species of goo balls to really spice up the game play and set in very unique levels to 
 test your skills at goo building! I'll have to say I gave up on the final levels for now, because 
 that is some challenging stuff, but some of the normal levels had me scratchin my head and running 
 out of goo. 
  
  Yes the physics of the game are hard to get used to, but with a little thought, any of the normal 
 levels can be conquered in two tries or less (with some very VERY big exceptions, I'm lookin at 
 you "You Gotta Blow Up the Head" level!) . But, having spent hour after hour trying to build up 
 my tower in the flash game, I had a pretty good idea of what these little guys could do.
  
  The artistic design of this game comes from this developer's style usually seen in his flash games; 
 very cartoony and very dark. It is often mistaken that he missed the target on creating a rich 
 and vibrantly colored game, but that couldn't have been his goal. The visuals created a mix of 
 silly cartoons and dark overtones. 
  
  The music was also an extremely important part to developing this game's atmosphere. Some levels 
 had upbeat music while others created an air of desolation or pressure. 
  
  All of this, plus a strange and progressive storyline, created a bittersweet quest for knowledge. 
 The darkness and silly style had me absolutely hooked and feeling that this is a world falling 
 from grace seen from the eyes of an innocent, bystanding population.
  
  Great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:35 pm PT
Review:  World of Goo is a magnificent gift for gamers everywhere. It's just right in all aspects of the 
 word, keeps you engaged yet challenged, provides immersive and genuinely fun gameplay.
  
  It's the type of game anyone is drawn to immediately by the stylistic art direction, and once they 
 get behind the wheel they're ensnared by the solid physics based gameplay. You may think physics 
 might not be everyones' cup of tea, but WoG delivers to anyone by almost drawing attention away 
 from the core of its gameplay with an amusing storyline and variety.
  
  Playing this game I literally had people walking past my monitor and going "what the hell is that!" 
 and moments later they were having a go, these are people that swear by TBS/RTS and an FPS'r
  
  WoG is reasonably short, but you wouldn't want it to be any longer, the novelty and charm is 
 there right to the last level, and the ending is great. What can be said about this game in a negative 
 light? Well, very little to be honest. It even offers a world ranked tower building game mode which 
 is challenging and interesting to measure your progress as your standings increase.
  
  Not a negative thing at all, but a level editor would have been the icing on the cake for this 
 game, securing a 10 from me. Perhaps there's one in development after its rampant success (here's 
 hoping!)
  
  As mentioned before the graphics in WoG are fantastic, changing frequently throughout the game, 
 in such a manner that leaves you going "wow, that looks awesome" This combined with the exceptional 
 soundtrack, which is catchy in places, dramatic in others, and brilliant all over.
  
  End of the day? Buy this game, rent it, kidnap someone who has it, whatever. A great game for the 
 ages.
  
  All in all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:53 am PT
Review:  World of goo not only makes you think, but it also has a great story, humor, and ideas. The innovation 
 keeps up with the game, and none of the concepts get old, as the game keeps putting in new ideas 
 as you progress along with the game .
  
  
  The main idea is to keep building towards a pipe with the help of goo balls and collect a certain 
 no. of goo balls with your knowledge of physics and mostly basic instincts.
  
  The sounds made by the goo balls are funny and cute. This keeps you entertained along with a great 
 background music for different levels.
  
  There is another level in which all your extra collected goo balls are sent where you can attempt 
 to build the highest tower against other people from the internet
  
  
  But you haven't played anything until you reach the 4th stage. Everything changes, and the game 
 kind of becomes brand new.
  
  It's a great game that will keep you thinking and entertained for as long as you are playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klanora
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Simple yet fun. This is what world of goo is and it does a very good job at it. Simple in the sense 
 that it doesn't need flashy graphics and effects to make it a great and fun game. Otherwise lots 
 of people wouldn't be able to play it (then it would another one of "those" games.) It's a game 
 really made for everyone, it can get challenging at times but if you don't want a challenge then 
 you shouldn't be playing a puzzle game, hehe. It really is quite a unique and fun idea, building 
 with little blobs. The story is imaginative despite being somewhat surreal but it is great as it 
 is. Best of all it's not that expensive. All in all, the makers of World of Goo have created something 
 everyone can enjoy. Young or old, on a desktop or laptop whether powerful or not. Cute blobs, puzzles, 
 imaginative worlds and an appeal to gamers who just want fun. World of Goo does just that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_shady2142
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  the best puzzel game i've ever seen in my life. the game-play is so cool and it's amazing. music 
 of the game is simply awesome and is't very relaxing when you're playing the game you can totaly 
 feel the conditions, happyness, sadness and all of the fillings that goo bals have. the game has 5 
 chapters that are very interesting. the only diffrenses betwen the chapters is SEASONS. I mean that 
 the first chapter is spring, the second chapter is summer, the thired chapter is fall, the 4th chapter 
 is winter and the 5th chapter is a littel bit diffrent. it's name is END OF THE WORLD. also the game 
 is funny too. because whene you're making a big tower of goo if the goo balls fall down they make 
 a funny noise. the games difficulty is not bad. some times it's easy and some time it's very difficult. I 
 beleave that you will have a lot of fun when you're playing this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1041corning
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  It's a fun puzzle game that really keeps you entertained. They put a lot of effort into the graphics, 
 not just the puzzles. Personally, I enjoy the music and noises the goo make. It makes me happy 
 just playing it!
  
  Out of 5 "acts", I was able to get through the first three pretty quickly. I'm sure it will get 
 more difficult. They continue to introduce new goo that interact differently so it does keep you 
 on your toes.
  
  Each level only takes 10-20 minutes to complete so it's bite size fun! One trick, if you ever get 
 stuck and can't figure out how to complete the level - just go to youtube and you'll see videos 
 of how others completed them. ... sometimes you just need some direction if you are completely lost 
 on how to complete a particular level. 
  
  This game is sure to spawn some copy cats. If you are trying to decide whether to pick a copy of 
 this game up or not, you would be cheating yourself if you didn't give this one a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  -----------------------------------
  
  Gameplay -------------- ( 9 )
  
  Graphics --------------- ( 8 )
  
  Sound ------------------- ( 9 )
  
  Value -------------------- 
 ( 8 )
  
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  World of Goo is an innovative and charming puzzle game, where almost every single level is exhilarating.
 
  
  The controls may be simple but are also tight and responsive enough, and the physics-based gameplay 
 is far from shallow. The only significant control improvement I think the game needed, was the 
 possibility to move the camera with the keyboard arrows.
  
  To beat all the levels will take you around 5-6 hours, more than double the time it takes to beat 
 Portal for the same 20$, and even has a great replay value.
  
  The audio-visual presentation is very well done, particularly the sound design, with a fantastic 
 combination of cute sound effects and an epic flavored soundtrack.
  
  If you like puzzle games or you're looking for games that are different from anything on the market, 
 than World of Goo is must buy. One of the best and most addictive 2D games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  World of Goo is a very addictive game , this game can capture you in a few seconds, is a nice smart 
 and gravity sense game.
  
  The game evolve very good, capturing you into the game strategy actions, making it very fun and 
 enjoyable.
  
  The game is very fun , but there are not original audio/sound in the game , also the graphic engine 
 is so simple it doesn't feature nothing new to this high end graphic era, the game looks a lot 
 like Worms 2 , even some sound effects looks like it.
  
  If you are looking a nice game with cool gravity physics strategy effects to spent some time on 
 it , this game is for sure what you have been looking, as you have to solve in every level/chapter 
 puzzle about physics and gravity :) , the game engine is very good developed that make this game 
 a truly challenge to us.
  
  Other than that , there is nothing new on technology.
  
  This is a game to play and have a lot of fun with it, very different of other games.
  
  I recommend 
 you to at least try this game :) and enjoy something different of what you are used to.
  
  Enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabattavipera
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The game play is great and the little goo balls grow on you. Funny and innovative are the key world 
 to describe the game.
  Great for all ages and for every type of player.
  Today producers rely too much on the graphic engine and publicity. So much that they forget to 
 insert a story, accessible commands or a impressive atmosphere. I do not deny the fact that there 
 are many great releases this year, but this game reminisces of more classical times when games 
 were simple to use, yet hard to finish.
  The creators reminded the public that gore filled games that consume precious hard disk, ram and 
 video are not necessarily better.
  I do not defend Lieberman's side saying that video games are bad, I merely believe that games like 
 this are a welcomed break from the usual routine.
  There are different types of hyperactive goo that you must use to construct a route to the finish 
 of the level, and a lot of ways to create the structure.
  By placing each goo in the built way towards the exit you are motivated to architect a better structure.
 
  There are humorous hints all over the game presented by the famous Sign painter that help the 
 player go on through the stages. 
  Truly a great game.
  I'll toast to the creators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  "World of Goo" is a physics based puzzle / construction game. "World of Goo" is cute, very cute. 
 Small balls (called 'Goo') are joined together to make chains which eventually must lead to a pipe 
 for collecting loose Goo-balls. From start to destination there will be obstacles, puzzles etc 
 to make your job tougher than you think. Physics is heavily but accurately used in the game. Make 
 a wrong move and your chain will break down. It can even make whole thing collapse.
  
  The game is divided into five chapters, each containing several levels. You've 40+ levels to complete. 
 There is a story of Goo-balls which is described every in step. Moreover, you can compete with 
 other "World of Goo" players to make tallest chain over the internet.
  
  Absolutely must-play for casual and serious gamers. How can people miss this gem of a game? I wonder 
 why GS had to give WoG 'best game that no one played' award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama_aza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 1:35 am PT
Review:  The game it self is a lot of fun and has a load of funny stuff in it, you are playing with Goo, 
 building towers of Goo to get to this next point and the funny thing about it that there is all 
 kind of Goo the sticky ones, the groping one and the flammable one as that what I have been playing 
 so far.
  
  The game starts easy if you don't want to do the OSD points as there is some extra point you can 
 get if you want to do the extra challenge for every stage.
  
  Now let's go for the technical material:
  
  1. The graphic is very good for a 2d game as it 
 doesn't require that much to play with Goo.
  2. The Music is excellent as it gives you the great sensation for each level.
  3. The sound effect 
 is hilarious when you pick or kill the Goo.
  4. The game is just fun to play and a bet challenging but if you are looking for a lot of excitement 
 then this is not the game for you.
  5. The extra tool you get when you reach a certain level and go back for the previous level is 
 a very nice touch.
  
  All in all if you can get this game for a good price buy it if not try to get a good price.
  
 
  That's the end of my review, hope to be in help as this is one of my first ones, I will be review 
 more game from now on, some old some new so keep me noted.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFragcat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  Beautifully drawn, wittily written, cleverly crafted, it's an adorable construction- based puzzle 
 game.
  
  The main aim of World of Goo is to use your limited number of goo balls as best as possible to 
 reach a sucking pipe. When you've reach the sucking pipe you have to collect a certain amount of 
 goo balls to move to the next level. 
  Yes, it's a simple idea for game but it's a fantastic idea.
  
  As you play this wonderful game 
 you'll start to come across different unique goo balls which have a certain purpose in each level 
 you play. The most common goo ball is the classic, black goo. When the black goo is placed it becomes 
 immoveable. It forms the backbone of many structures. There's also the green goos, they're the 
 new & improved goo balls which after placement can be picked up again & either set free or moved 
 somewhere else. You also see wooden signs in every level written by the humorous unseen Sign Painter 
 who gives you hints about how to play the level. Every sign is worth reading.
  
  In the first chapter you get to become familiar to the physics in this amazing World of Goo. You 
 get to build through rolling hills, out of frogs mouths & you get to use balloon goos to help you 
 keep up your 20 meter goo wobbling bridge which is flapping like a dog's toungue on a hot summers 
 day. Oh, did i mention you build out of frogs mouths? Ah yes i did, well i've said it again. I've 
 never been this addicted since i was a kid putting coins in a slot machine. Each chapter has it's 
 own theme, the second chapter features levels based on beauty, fame & renewable energy & the fourth 
 chapter is just amazing... i won't go into details, i was blown away when the fourth chapter started, 
 it was like being six years old & walking into a candy shop all over again. Big smiles all around.
 
  
  Everytime you complete a level & saved the minimium requiment of goo balls, any spare goo balls 
 will be collected up & placed in the World of Goo Corporation for you to build your ultimate tower 
 of goo! The aim is to build a goo tower as high as you can & if you're connected to the internet 
 you can see other peoples names with the height of their tower in meters.
  
  Sadly, while i want to tell you how brilliant this level is or how great that goo ball is, i can't. 
 You would hate me for it when you played the game & missed out on the joy of discovering them yourself.
 
  Just trust me when i say this game is bags of fun.
  
  2D Boy have created something excellent here, leaving more room for another World of Goo to be 
 made & i cannot wait until that day comes.
  
  Considering this game is born on a student project i can only call it masterpiece. If i was to 
 call this game just 'goo-d' i would be telling you a lie. No pun intended.
  
  The World of Goo awaits you.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejavu666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  My first reaction when i heard the name of the game , "World Of Goo" , was YUK, sounds sick!!! 
 :D But in spite of my initial reaction, i got the game after checking many reviews, and i can say 
 that this is one hellava game! Its really simple, but dam addictive. Keeps you rooted in your seats 
 for a really long time, and it leaves you wanting for more! 
  
  The concept of the game is really simple. You have these balls, goo balls, and u have a pipe. There 
 is a minimum number of balls that have to be collected for each level. You have to connect the 
 goo balls and make them reach out till the pipe so that the free balls (those that are not already 
 connected) can be collected. Moreover, as you progress through the levels, you get different kinds 
 of goo balls. Also most of the levels need you to think out of the box to find a solution as to 
 how to get to the goal. It sounds really simple, but in reality, its not! The learning curve is 
 kinda steep. Initially some stages might drive you mad, but once u get the hang of it, it gets 
 dam interesting.
  
  Closing comments: World of goo is a game for anyone who is looking out for some fun, rather than 
 a serious gaming. I highly recommend this game to anyone who wants a change from the usual shoot 
 'em up games! 10 out of 10 for world of goo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtos_3d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  The idea of the game is rather simple: you have to build structures using goo balls in order to 
 get them safe to their destination. The game is divided in 5 chapters, each one taking you to a 
 different location on the World of Goo. As you play, your only support comes from a mysterious 
 "Sign Painter", who leaves you all sorts of weird advice and funny comments on a wooden sign board.
 
  
  Most of the stages are relatively easy to accomplish and the game is a bit short. The real challenge 
 though is attaining the maximum number of goo balls in each stage, or the minimum number of moves 
 or seconds spent. This is called the OCD "Obsessive Completion Distinction".
  
  The game also has a multiplayer mode where you reach as high as you can with your Goo tower, and 
 the results are recorded in a ladder on the official website. 
  
  The simplicity of the game makes it attractive for all ages. It has a very friendly interface, 
 nice background settings, and despite it's colorful images it is addictive, so be careful.
  
  All and all i must say it's a great game, and i hope you'll enjoy playing it as much as i did.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastorT
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  World of Goo, this is a puzzle game which requires you to think.
  Sometimes it's fairly easy and you'll complete the level within 2 minutes or so, the other times 
 it's dead-hard and you could end up look the level up at Youtube. com for walk through.
  Which I did at a few levels.
  
  Gameplay is innovative and similar to Bridge Builder (Pontifex) 
 but not quite the same in physiologic, nature and terms of equipment.
  You will have to balance things up depending to the level's terrain (even wind sometimes to think 
 of) and if you have other items with you to help, such as balloons which is frequently used.
  Plus what kind of Goo balls you'll have.
  There are plenty different balls, some of them you 
 like more than the others (IE Green,) , the others you must use anyway.
  
  Music is atmospheric and fits well to the cause.
  
  I was specially fond of Chapter 3 with 
 its 3D 'ness.
  
  Easily one of the top 3 games of the year that I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seto_Akari
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The first time I knew about World of Goo , I thought it was a stupid game! However , when I tried 
 the demo , I changed my mind about it! It is suprising good! It's special! You will be using goo balls 
 to build bridge or tower. There are many species of goo ranging from the most common black one to 
 the albino goo or the yellow one in level "The Third Wheel". They have their own special ability 
 that can help you get through the level. The main object is to reach the pipe that lead the goo 
 balls to World Of Goo cooperation. You will play through 5 chapters with more than 60 level. Each 
 level has its own speciality. Never do you find 2 mission repeat. The World of Goo cooperation is 
 where you will try to build a high tower. The object here is to build the highest tower in the world 
 by many ways. This is the best puzzle game I have ever play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review: World of Goo" ?... is what i first said when i got this game. To be honest it didn't look that 
 good but when i played it i thoughtWOW! this game is great!" i think it is a very good game! 
 It tests your brain in many different gooey puzzles. The gooballs are a cute touch to the game. 
 The funny noises they make are funny. The puzzles require a good deal of thinking in order to proceed. 
 The whole game is filled with fun! Another cool feature about this game is that you can go to the 
 factory and make your own goo creations out of the extra gooballs left over from the levels. Each 
 level as a differentfeel as you get to know what different things you can make the gooballs into 
 to beat the level. The first look at the cover may lead you to think it is a peculiar game, but 
 oh no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This game is great. I think it deserves the medals it got. So! if 
 you are looking for a fun, puzzle, innovative, good game then this is the right game for you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  
  
  I hope you found this review helpful!!!!!!!!!
  
  THANK YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay i am a guy who doesn't like Puzzle games as you have to spend too much of your brains in it.
 
  
  The moment i downloaded this game. It was only 64mb, i felt like giving it a rating of 1.0/10.
 
  
  But as a True Gamer i thought of being patient and it paid off. This game truly deserves a 9/10 
 and is the Best Puzzle Game Of 2008.
  
  So what is World Of Goo? Simply there are Goo Balls. You must connect them to form a Polygon like 
 structure and reach the Pipe to feed it with the goo balls.
  
  The game is Damn Fun and more and more challenging as you go ahead.
  
  The Physics of this 
 game are really Great and even put that Overrated game called LBP to shame. 
  
  Highly Recommended for Puzzle Fans. For Hardcore Action fans like me, do play this game as its 
 a Big Break and a Relaxing (atleast to the hands) game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Gamer_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  Like a SimCity....
  
  World of Goo is set in a 2-dimensional environment, and the basic objective of the game is to move 
 goo balls from one spot to another. You have a pre-built set from which you build, and your basic 
 building blocks are the goo balls. Say, for example, that your pre-built set is a short line. To 
 build on it, you set a goo ball away from the line. Once you set the goo ball, the corners of the 
 line and the goo ball will connect, forming a triangle. You can continue to build more triangles 
 upon the triangle you just built until you get to your destination, and you successfully solve 
 the puzzle if you have enough goo balls remaining that you haven't used.
  Though the game is set in a 2-dimensional world, it very much takes on properties of the world 
 we're familiar with. It's governed by rules such as gravity and friction and motion. I'm no physicist 
 (in fact, I hated the subject in high school) , but everything feels pretty much authentic and I 
 had very little problems with how things played out.
  
  Complex Gameplay, but highly addictive and fun
  
  And though the basic gameplay is a standard 
 'take the goo balls from here to over there by connecting the goo balls till you reach the destination,' 
 the actual gameplay is a lot more complex. You can't simply connect the goo balls and hope to solve 
 the puzzle. There will be obstacles that you have to factor in and sometimes even use to solve 
 puzzles; oftentimes, there are different ways to approach a puzzle and more efficient means to 
 solve them. For instance, if your objective is to cross a gap by building a bridge with the goo 
 balls, you can try and build a bridge by reinforcing the connecting structure in the side that 
 you're building from and make sure that the portion that's crossing the gap is supported enough 
 to withstand the gravitational pull. But a more efficient way (and one that would use less goo 
 balls) is to build a structure vertically (but slightly leaning towards the other side of the gap) 
 so that once it's tall enough, it will topple over and fall onto the other side, a method similar 
 to cutting down a tall tree and having it fall across the gap.
  And the game throws out so many varying scenarios and challenges that the game feels innovative 
 and fresh throughout. There are gaps you have to cross, wind gusts you have to ride, sharp edges 
 you have to avoid, narrow gaps or obstacles you have to navigate, momentum and motion you have 
 to utilize, walls you have to bust through, weights you have to lift up or a protruding knob you 
 have to press down, two objects you have to connect, and you often encounter scenarios that incorporate 
 several of these types of challenges simultaneously.
  
  Many types of Goo
  
  And to meet all the challenges, you're given a variety of goo balls of varying properties and abilities 
 that you have to strategically utilize. There are goos that connect only to two ends, goos that 
 connect to multiple ends, goos that hang down, goos that stick to surfaces, goos that you can fling, 
 goos that act as helium balloons and help you keep a structure up, goos that are flammable, goos 
 that explode, goos that can touch otherwise dangerous surfaces, and you're often given a variety 
 of these goo types to help you in solving the puzzles.
  
  More info please? Or do I have to be Sherlock Holmes?
  
  The puzzles are very well done all 
 around. You're not given any instructions per se, but there are mysterious... hints written for 
 you to read and they're just vague enough to not give anything away but also not leave you completely 
 in the dark. And you're given a specific amount of 'undo' buttons so you can go back if you were 
 to make a mistake.
  The difficulty level isn't particularly high, although some did require of me multiple attempts 
 before I was able to solve them, but they are quite challenging. They're never too frustrating 
 that you feel like the game is unfairly relying on trial and error to enhance the puzzle. Many 
 of them require you to stand back and survey and study the scene before trying to solve them, and 
 there'll come a moment in which a light bulb comes on or you think, 'Ah, I think I see it,' and, 
 upon attempting them either feel really satisfied that your thinking led to the correct solution 
 or make you see that you didn't factor in something that's now obvious to you as you see, say, 
 your structure topple over, which can be rewarding too in understanding that the developers really 
 thought through the puzzles that were far more complex than you initially thought.
  
  This game has an IQ of 300... sorry AI
  
  As with all games that are great, it's not just that 
 the overall quality of the game is good or that it's challenging (and not in a cheap way) ; it's 
 those moments that pop up every now and then that leave you breathless because of their sheer brilliance. 
 They happen in games like Half-Life when you're taking the tram ride or battling the marines or 
 the first time you speak to Jeanette Voorman in Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines and gasp, 
 'I think I'm in love' or the first time you hear the 'cops' song in Sam & Max Season 1 or realizing 
 what's happening to Kerrigan in StarCraft and understanding that this is not just another RTS with 
 a loose storyline that merely serves to connect different scenarios. And it happens in world of 
 goo. I'm not going to describe the puzzles, but when I played the game, there were distinct moments 
 when I thought, 'wow, they really designed this puzzle well' or 'they really thought this one through'. 
 There are moments of brilliance flecked throughout the game, and it is these that make the game 
 truly memorable and gives the game its replayability.
  
  Re-playable
  
  And that's another high point of the game. It has tremendous replay value. Whether you're trying 
 to get more goo balls across or you want to try something different in solving certain puzzles 
 or, as was often the case with Portal, you just want to do it all over again EVEN THOUGH you already 
 know the solution to the puzzle, the game gives you plenty of incentive to play it again. The greatest 
 incentive is in doing the 'multiplayer portion' of the game, in which you build a tower as high 
 as you possibly can with all the goos that you've collected, or 'saved', throughout the game. You 
 compete against other players and you're ranked based on how tall your tower ends up being. It's 
 a very simple concept and may not seem all that challenging (the challenge coming only from having 
 to compete with others) , but it is surprisingly difficult to build a tall structure (and legitimately 
 so) when you have, say, 300 goos with which to build and the structure reaches 25 meters in height. 
 Simply said, the game requires you to pause and think, which is very much welcome when so many 
 games these days simply require only motor skills. You can't just start building one triangle on 
 top of another until you reach the desired height. You have to think and strategically position 
 your goos and reinforce the structure when required and carefully build.
  
  Graphics and Sounds.... Zzzzzz
  
  I can't speak intelligently about graphics and sound, so I'll 
 keep this portion short and stupid. The graphics are very stylish (though nothing spectacular technically) 
 and fit in perfectly with the wacky world of goo. The different goo balls seem to have distinct 
 personalities and their look and the sounds they make reinforce this sentiment. Those that are 
 mischievous look and behave so and the sound they make when you pick them up or drop them go along 
 with this perceived characteristic. The music is appropriate to each puzzle. If the puzzle has 
 goos that are asleep, it will have a very dream-like piece accompanying it. If there are dangers 
 surrounding the goo balls, the game will play an ominous-sounding piece. All in all, I felt the 
 music was very pleasant to listen to and, at the cost of sounding pretentious, I felt they were 
 oftentimes soulful and evoked emotions that are very much appropriate to the given situations.
 
  
  Almost perfect
  
  That doesn't mean that there aren't points of criticism. There are times when all the goos are 
 bunched together, which make it difficult to pick particular goos that you need to use. It would 
 have been nice if you could assign a key to particular types of goos or goos that are specifically 
 part of a structure (that you're able to reposition) and by pressing that key allowed you to pick 
 the one nearest to your mouse of that particular type. And there are other features that I felt 
 could have been useful; for instance, in a rectangular structure consisting of two triangles, there's 
 no way to put a cross beam to further strengthen the structure. And the game fatally crashed on 
 me once, causing my profile to be deleted and all progress along with it. And there was something 
 promised in the game that didn't quite pan out as I had hoped. But these are really minor complaints 
 to an otherwise absolutely unique and extremely polished puzzle game which requires of you thought 
 and strategy and quite often leaves you marveling at its sheer brilliance.
  
  Conclusion
  
  The developer of World of Goo is 2D Boy; the game is $20; and you can order the game either 
 through their website (2dboy. com) or on steam. Do yourself a favor and buy the game. It is quite 
 simply one of the best games to come out this year and I think you'll enjoy it immensely no matter 
 your genre preference. 
  
  ------------------------------------
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: -
  Storyline: 10
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 9.6
 
  Gamespot Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I think it's worth saying it's 2D Boy's first game and I hope they make tons more 
 like it.
  That said, let's go to the game itself: graphics, 10 out of 10. Not only it has great graphics 
 (besides the cute little "tastefull" balls, also the amazing backgrounds and so on) , but it also 
 runs perfectly on almost any computer, haven't had a single problem so far. The interfase is more 
 than user friendly, spite having far too few options (actually, no options at all) .
  Sound, 9 out of 10: the sound of a balloon you attach to a ball inflating isn't something every 
 game do well (and this one does it great) and the music goes perfectly with the game. However, 
 after a few hours it gets kind of anoying.
  The gameplay itself is easy, almost stupid, yet extremely tough at some levels; the possibility 
 of skiping up to 3 levels is as amazing as you imagine, yet the "undo" feature is very badly achieved. 
 The retry button makes it up, though.
  The game is lengthy, but not LONG. Many levels will keep you up all night, but many more will be 
 gone in a few seconds and hopefully never come back. Perhaps an expansion pack will work that out.
 
  Finally, the game has lots of great jokes (and a few not so good) . I think that's what makes a 
 good game great.
  I sincerely recommend this game to almost anyone who likes puzzles. You'll find a funny, nice and 
 original game that will suck you in completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigertina
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Goo-errific, too much fun and highly addictive. After leaving the game, I still saw goo. The game 
 pulls you in and immerses you as though you are part of a goo structure. Could not find a copy 
 at amazon or anywhere else, but did find out you can pay and download it on the world of goo website. 
 Have just started playing it and am hooked. The game is simplicity in that you don't have one of 
 these 2 hr learning curves like some games. Something I'm not interested in, I just like to dive 
 in and enjoy a game. I have not so far found anything wrong with the game. The graphics are fun, 
 the concept is great because you can just start playing. The levels become more challenging, but 
 are not impossible. World of Goo requires some thinking and planning of your design to get the 
 goo to your goal. Definitely worth getting, don't miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funky_Llama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  This would be a stunningly impressive achievement if it came from a large development studio. That 
 it was produced by two people makes it even more incredible.
  The fundamentals of the game are simple enough: you have blobs of goo which you click-and-drag 
 to connect to the rest of your structure, and you use this build to the goal. But the game doesn't 
 rest on its laurels, with various new goos and wonderfully imaginative levels creating a constantly 
 changing and never repetitive experience.
  It also transcends our expectations of a puzzle game; its genre is hardly well-known for personality, 
 and yet somehow Kyle Gabler and Ron Carmel have made a game about sticking blobs of goo together 
 one of the most uplifting and endearing games there is. The plot is never shoved in the player's 
 face; that the sinister 'World of Goo Corporation' is a metaphor for the drab, corporate industry 
 that games development has become will no doubt be lost on most players. But that subtext is there.
 
  The music is beautiful, and a strong contributor to the uplifting feel of the game, and the graphical 
 style is, much like fellow indie gem Braid, artistic and impressive.
  From the easy beginning to the brilliantly demonic epilogue challenges, every level is overflowing 
 with charm and attention to detail.
  In short - there is absolutely no one to whom I wouldn't wholeheartedly recommend this game. It 
 can be found on Steam, on the developers' website, and on WiiWare - however you get it, make sure 
 you get your hands on this stunning piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Trying to keep it up with writing reviews, this time about a simple but amazing game. Before getting 
 started, I may be wrong, but I think that there are many Spanish-speaking gamespotters, so I decided 
 to do a translation (not literal) of the review to Spanish below.
  Indie games are on the grow lately; just to say some titles: Sins of a Solar Empire, Audiosurf, 
 etc. And now, 2D Boy, a two-person developer, brings for our delight a simple yet great and fun 
 game by the title "World of Goo". And it is indeed a world of goo, for all you have to do is build 
 towers and bridges out of little cute balls of goo. Simple as it sounds. Yet that does not make 
 it easy, for the game has an in-game physics engine that will have gravity (wind or both) take 
 anything you try to build in a rush down.
  What makes this game so fun? Each level design in World of Goo is unique, with amazing soundtrack, 
 as well as each type of goo (there are several you encounter as you go through the four chapters 
 and the epilogue) has its own personality and abilities. The game is quite colorfull, acording 
 to the season you find yourself in, and has a great artistic direction (cartoony) . The storyline 
 also hepls a lot. 
  Plus, there are two features that give World of Goo its replayability value. The first is the World 
 of Goo Corporation, where you build the highest tower of goo you're able to with all the exceeding 
 goo from all the challenges. The other one is the OCD or Obsessive Completion Distinction. Each 
 level or challenge has its own OCD criteria, like saving more goo balls (you build all structures 
 to get to a pipe where goo balls are sucked) , less time, less movements, etc. So you may return 
 any time to any level to have your OCD flag.
  In conclusion, World of Goo is deserved to be played by anyone (no age restriction) and I strongly 
 recommend it.
  
  Versin en espaol:
  
  Los juegos independientes estn comenzando a tener una presencia fuerte en el mercado por su calidad 
 y precio; por nombrar algunos ttulos: Sins of a Solar Empire, Audiosurf, etc. En esta ocasin 
 un desarrollador, 2D Boy, que comprende slo dos personas, nos trae un juego para nuestro deleite: 
 World of Goo. Se trata de un juego muy simple, pero a la vez genial y muy entretenido. Los cuatro 
 captulos y el eplogo se tratan todos de armas estructuras con pequeas bolas de "goo" (vendran 
 a ser "bolas pegajosas") en direccin a una tubera que succiona a las que no usaste. Sencillo 
 como se escucha. Sin embargo, el motor de fsica con el que viene el juego complica un poco las 
 cosas, a la vez que lo vuelve muy real. Entonces la gravedad y el viento traen abajo las estructuras 
 hechas a la rpida y sin pensar.
  Pero lo que hace a World of Goo un juego divertido es el diseo nico de cada nivel, junto con 
 la personalidad y abilidades de cada tipo de "goo" que vas encontrando a lo largo de los 48? niveles. 
 La direccin artstica es muy buena con un enfoque caricaturesco, a la vez que segn la estacin 
 en que te encuentres el juego es muy colorido. Adems se encuentra la historia que se va desarrollando, 
 sencilla pero que complementa perfectamente el humor y el diseo del juego, hacindolo an ms 
 entretenido.
  Luego tenemos dos elementos que dan un valor de "rejugabilidad" a World of Goo: World of Goo Corporation, 
 donde construyes la torre mas alta de goo que puedas con el escedente de los niveles y el criterio 
 de OCD, que son pequeos desafos dentro de cada desafo o nivel.
  En conclusin, recomiendo este juego a todos, sin distincin de edad, para disfrutarlo en cualquier 
 momento... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xomder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  to tell you the truth, i'm a first person shooter player, a gamer that has no reason to be playing 
 this kind of games... but World of Goo is something you have never seen before!
  Nobody told me to play this, no! the real case is that NOBODY KNEW IT!!. but i tell you: at least 
 give it a try.
  
  the game it self has beautiful graphics with a combination of well thought maps and good physics 
 that gives you a well atmosphere to play some rare but freak'n awesome puzzles.
  
  the goo here are live jelly balls that you can use to build different structures to complete several 
 puzzles. there are a lot of problems on building this structures: they can fall (gravity) , break, 
 burn, etc. 
  the goo balls are the spirit of the game and they even give their lives on difficult situations 
 for you to complete the puzzle (the truth here is that you have to kill them some times xD) .
  
  all the puzzles are different, so the structures you make on each level are way different to 
 the previous you made before, and all the levels has a special trick you have to discover. in the 
 last levels you would think that some are impossible but they all have a solution (and if you can't 
 do one, you can always youtube it :P) .
  
  well... a fps player like me, playing this type of games... the only answer to this is: THIS GAME 
 IS GREAT!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonmantek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  What It Is.
  A game created by only a couple people, it's astonishing. Using a pretty basic physics engine, 
 that is similar to real life physics, you can feel and understand why everything is happening in 
 the game, balance wise. It's also pretty humorous and can make you laugh at times. Your basically 
 trying to get into pipes every level, and sometimes your not, but that's only on rare occasions. 
 The gameplay changes every chapter so it keeps the game play very unique at all times.
  
  How It Works.
  Well, every level you start with a bunch of goo's and you have to build your way 
 to the pipe. That's pretty much all it is. Later on in the game, the game dramatically changes, 
 and you have more and more challenging levels, with ideas you've never thought of.
  
  My Experience.
  The first time I got World of Goo, I got the crappy mac version when it was ported, 
 which means it was done by some random guy. It ran very slow and choppy and got pretty unplayable. 
 Then later on I got it again, and got through the first levels pretty quickly. I love reading the 
 signs, because they are real fun to read and laugh at. The cut scenes are really simple but also 
 really funny as well. A lot of heart was put into this game.
  
  The Bad.
  Sometimes the physics aspect of the game gets pretty ridiculous, but I guess that's part of the 
 challenge. I also wish you could make your own levels, because the game itself is very very short. 
 You can finish the entire game if you rush through it within 5 hours. The game doesn't have much 
 re-playability, and therefore loses a lot of it's appeal. But, if you bring a friend over, it's 
 great to show it to them, and it's a lot of fun.
  
  The Good.
  I'm glad they put the one World Of Goo corporation level. This level is basically 300 goo's at 
 max, and your goal is to build up as high as you can go. While doing this, you can see your rank 
 throughout the entire world. The most highest I've managed to get is in the 10,000 rankings. As 
 I said before the physics engine is great, but it can be ridiculous sometimes, so it's shared. 
 The amount of fun you have is great, especially with a friend. I think one of the biggest appeals 
 to me is the soundtrack. I loved the soundtrack so much, that I ripped all of the songs, and put 
 it in my iTunes, and I listen to it here and there. It's truly something you can just have fun 
 listening to.
  
  My Future Expectations.
  I'm not sure how successful this game has been, because I heard that 90% of all copies of this 
 game are pirated, which is a lot. I hope the company really gets what they deserve, because they 
 put a lot of work into it, and deserve some cash. I'm also not sure if there will be a sequel, 
 but I'd love it if there were. I'd also love it if they released a level builder. I'm sure some 
 crazy ideas would spawn.
  
  My Rating.
  I give this incredibly unique game, a good 7.5 out of 10. It reminds me of LittleBigPlanet, just 
 a smaller version, and you can't build your own levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  World of Goo was released at a perfect time since I had begun to think that a game had to carry 
 a number above 3 in its title to be considered "good". Well, WoG is the first of its kind and perhaps 
 the beginning of new successful franchise.
  
  The game doesn't have a big epic story. You're really just going around a planet controlled by 
 this Goo Corporation and each stage has its own separate objective like fixing some massive statue-shaped 
 power plant or launching the new "Z product". The storyline is filled with humorous details, however.
 
  
  The gameplay is what makes this title so fun, despite its simplicity. In each level, you have a 
 certain number of goo balls at your disposal and you can connect them to each other to build structures. 
 Alright, at first this doesn't sound like much fun since all you can think of building are towers 
 and bridges. However, you will find that each level manages to challenge you differently and the 
 solution is always unique. Plus, different types of goo balls also make the game more varied, requiring 
 the user to consider which is best suited for what purpose. A puzzle game, basically, except it's 
 not repetitive.
  
  The graphics are okay. The installation is short and the game fits on a CD-ROM but you can still 
 expect some very nice art throughout the game (and humorous, as always) . Good music too but it 
 gets re-used sometimes.
  
  My only issue with the game is how short it is. It's not THAT easy but there aren't enough levels. 
 Perhaps that's the price one pays so that each level is unique. However there is some replay value 
 with the Tower of Goo "mini-game" where you can use the goo balls you collected to build a tower 
 as high as you can. The fun feature is you can compare your tower's height with others over Internet. 
 And the goo count is limited at 300 so people who started playing months ago have no advantages 
 over those who just started.
  
  In short, World of Goo is a fun game for anyone who enjoys puzzle games even slightly. Don't expect 
 it to last more than a week-end though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I recently rented the demo to World of Goo after hearing so many good things about it. I have to 
 tell you, the demo just left me wanting more because I can't get enough of this game. An Engineering/Physics 
 major would get a lot of kicks out of this title, but I'm not either and I love this game. There 
 are so many ways to tackle the missions and I never really felt frustrated when I couldn't complete 
 the objective. The difficulty level, in my opinion, is just perfect so that new and old players 
 alike can enjoy. It's obviously a 2D game yet the artwork is so fleshed out that one can't help 
 but be impressed by the game's engine. What's even more impressing is the fact that it was made 
 by two former EA employees. I may pick this up on my Wii it's easily the best game on WiiWare and 
 a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  World of Goo is an indie game. It's made by 2 guys. Really. I'm not going to let that affect my 
 review, because I don't think that's fair. But World of Goo is still a really really good game. 
 It's kind of hard to describe. It's a puzzle game, which you complete each level by making structures 
 using... goo. Hmm. It's really fun though, and you have a nice sense of accomplishment every time 
 you finish a level. It's divided into 4 chapters, and an epilogue. Chapter 1 is pretty introductory, 
 and really easy. Chapters 2 and 3 are the most fun in my opinion. Chapter 4 is pretty easy and 
 disappointing- the hardest parts just being balancing rocks/other things.
  
  My only complaint is that the levels don't really get any harder. Sure, some of them are a little 
 harder to do, but the puzzle part- figuring stuff out- never really increases in difficulty. 
 
  
  I tried the demo before I bought it, and was really hesitant to buy it- it's 20 dollars, cheap, 
 but from the demo I was expecting it to be 10 or less. I beat the game in under 4 hours.
  
  There's also a little bonus "level" where you can build a tower, and compare the height of your 
 tower to other users- though it gets old quick.
  
  Overall a very fun game, try the demo first and then decide if it's worth 20 bucks to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi_storm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Well, what can i say, in the age of hi-def next gen gaming, one cannot predict how a 2D game will 
 perform but holy cow! WORLD OF GOO really makes you put your thinking cap on from the very start. 
 Interesting puzzles and cheesy comments leave you begging for more. The gameplay is good and simple 
 objectives make the game fun. Colours have been used nicely in the game as well.
  
  Whats more you don't need a Super Computer to play this game. I'd say if you purchased your computer 
 in or around 2004 you can play this game.
  
  There is no Multiplayer instead another level is added where all the extra goo balls collected 
 are available. Here you can make all kinds of structures and see how high other players structures 
 are.
  You can also upload your scores after every level.
  
  No matter what style of games you like, WORLD OF GOO is 'everyone's cup of tea'.
  
  
  
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  BUY THE ORIGINAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Who said that a 3D game with all the newest technologies implemented , with HDR , cool water effects 
 , huge crispy textures , cool physics , weather and all those other must haves today - can make 
 a game to be great , to be played over and over , to be remembered , to be recommended ? Well probably 
 many people - but gaming is more than all those graphic goodies - it's about the story , the immersion 
 in it , the intellectual stimulation , making you think for yourself and not become automated , 
 it is about simple things that become bigger and bigger , it's about wanting to see what is next. 
 A great game is World of Goo - a game with only 2 dimensions , none of all those flashy graphics 
 , just a simple and most interesting game I have played in some time !! Way to go to the 2 people 
 team who delivered us this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoxicado
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Exelent puzzle game, addictive, very fun, nice graphics.. exelent sounds and music... the game transports 
 you to the World of Goo!
  Really refreshing, in this time is like an oasis in the middle of the desert of games.
  I play 
 the game for 3 hours and i cant stop thinking in keep playing, a must have for Game Collectors... 
 and for people seeking fun.
  
  The Good: Cute Graphics - FUN to play - All Ages - Intuitive - Original - Great Sounds
  
  The 
 Bad: Addictive - Not much options to customize.
  
  Exelente juego de rompezabezas, adictivo, muy divertido, graficos bonitos, la musica es asombrosa, 
 el juego te transporta al mundo de goo realmente, refrescante, un balde de agua fresca... un Must 
 have para los coleccionistas de juegos...
  
  Lo bueno: Lindos Graficos - Divertido - todas las edades - Intuitivo - Original - Exelente sonido
 
  
  Lo malo: Adictivo - No tiene muchas opciones para modificar... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draz3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  For years I haven't played a good puzzle
  game! I have to say, this have to be the best puzzle game ever! The difficulty is just perfect. 
 Anyone can play this game, the sounds, place, map, everything suits very well. The concept of this 
 game is unique, which makes it even fun to play! It also have a multiplayer leaderboard... you 
 will understand what I'm trying to say when you get the game.. buy this game! This game gives you 
 good excercise to your brains!
  
  It have about 5 chapter, each containing a number of levels!
  
  This game is created by a very 
 small team, with only three members at peak! They have done an amazing job!
  
  There is only minor fault with the camera controls and lack of a level editor, but the camera isn't 
 too bad, and not much of a problem in this type of game. You will stick to this game long after 
 you finish it!
  
  I give this game 9.5 + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Before the game was in the stores and before i got it and finished it, i downloaded the demo, the 
 name did actually placed my curiosity to run. And something that was worth the download, a game 
 of solving puzzles and adventure on a cartoon world of goo, plus a story in which sometimes i laugh 
 about it how good and silly it is.
  
  As i said, the game is based on a world, a world of goo, and you start a journey and meeting other 
 kinds of goo and a mysterious painter that give you hints along the way, of course, part of the 
 storyline there is a corporation that is getting the goo for their products if that's what i understood 
 from it. But the game play is that you have to get every goo to the pipe, "an escape route" , most 
 of the challenges is how you manipulate the goo balls to make shapes so they can reach to their 
 destination at the end of the level, and mostly the challenge is how many can you get out, Saving 
 the goo balls. As each one of them have different characteristics and functions so you have to 
 think to to use them so they can escape, don't get burned or disappear. And the game have various 
 "worlds" i think is like 5 or 6 and with in them and they have various missions to do so it keep 
 you there, playing for a while and the replay level is high as you might want to get all goo balls 
 out and break the old record.
  
  The graphics are presented in a cartoon style, clean, polished and sharp. So, there is no need 
 for a large spec requirements.
  
  The sound is also nice and goofy, but mostly including the music, in which is very nice for each 
 level and sounds nice with my home theater equipment as i tried it.
  
  Value, and mostly comparing with other games that falls within the 19.99 price tag and other less 
 quality puzzle games, is good, i have nothing to complain.
  
  Final note, the game keeps you entertained for a while, and as it does have a online feature, haven't 
 tried it so cant say much about it. But it keeps you playing, and this is a game that anyone can 
 enjoy and solve things, it would be nice there would be more levels to keep playing forever, probably 
 asking to much already. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  World of Goo... Its hard to believe the game was created by just 2 people.
  
  Especially since the game is absolutely genius, has charming visuals, definitely worth the money, 
 has tonnes of replay value and overall is just an amazing game.
  
  Lets start off with the gameplay.
  
  When you start up world of goo there'll be a menu consisting 
 of 5 worlds (of course you have to start off with the 1st one) and the world of goo Corporation 
 but we'll talk about that later. In world of goo each level you have 1 sole objective. Get a certain 
 number of Goo balls into the tube. Of course there are a number of obstacles in your way forcing 
 you to use your goo to create certain structures so your goo can reach the tube. And this is where 
 the game shines.
  
  The freedom of the structures you can create with the goo is amazing, especially once you get further 
 into the game when different types of goo are introduced, which each have different abilities. 
 The level design is brilliant as in every single level there are some genius obstacles in your 
 path, thus making you use your 'genius' to get past these obstacles. One reason why these structures 
 are so easy to make is because the physics in the game are absolutely spot on and the goo balls 
 bend just how you would expect them too. The physics for each goo ball are different depending 
 on which type you are using and once you unlock some of the more complex types of goo the physics 
 in the game really shine. Another clever part of the gameplay is that not only must you be able 
 to create a structure that can reach the tube, but you also have to do this without using all your 
 goo balls otherwise there will be no balls left to actually enter the tube.
  
  Although the further you get into the game the more difficult the levels get, the levels never 
 feel unfair as if you're clever enough you can always easily work out how to reach the actual tube, 
 actually creating the structure being the difficult part. Still if the game gets too difficult 
 for some, you can go back a move which gives you the ability to fix whatever mistake you made the 
 in the last move you made. The game also gives you the ability to skip a level if you find it too 
 difficult although it limits you to 6 skips for the whole game. There are also signposts (like 
 the one in the picture above) which gives you tips during each stage.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely brilliant and shows that 2D gaming is alive and kicking. 
 Every stage is vibrant and full of colour (although there are some darker stages they are only 
 made dark to suit the mood of the stage) and as each goo has eyes and makes noises its as if every 
 goo ball has their own personality (this becomes more obvious once you unlock different types of 
 goo) . The physics in the game are absolutely brilliant, which is what you expect as the whole game 
 is based on the physics, and although you'd expect it to mainly affect the gameplay it also makes 
 the game look a lot better. The sounds in the game are also pretty great as the music in the game 
 perfectly suits each stage and the sounds that each goo ball makes are a nice addition to the game 
 and add to the personality of the game a lot.
  
  Although there are only 5 worlds in the game and there are only about 8-10 stages per world depending 
 on the person each world can take from 1 hour to complete to 3 hours depending on the skill of 
 the person playing it. Still theres a tonne of replay value and thats where the world of Goo Corporation 
 comes in. In each stage you have a set number of goo balls to collect (lets say 6 for example) . 
 If you then, once completing the level, collected 10 goo balls the 4 extra goo balls are sent to 
 the world of goo corporation. Here you are able to create your own huge structure, the sole goal 
 being to try and make your tower as tall as possible. You can then compare your towers with other 
 people around the world as clouds will float towards your tower telling you the name, country and 
 height of people that have towers taller than you or shorter than you. This players the incentive 
 to go back to stages they have completed and try to complete the stage with as little amount of 
 balls as possible.
  
  The world of Goo Corporation can add 5 minutes replay value or 5 hours replay value depending on 
 how much time you are willing to spend on it but most people will spend around 2-3 hours on it 
 as it is very addictive and it is very enjoyable trying to make your structure as tall as possible 
 especially since you are competing with thousands of people around the world. The actual story 
 mode of the game will take a skilled gamer 4-6 hours to complete but if you enjoy taking your time 
 on a game and are willing to go back and try to get as many balls as you can so you can add to 
 the World of Goo Corporation and if you are willing to spend a long time on it you can easily get 
 10 hours or more out of this game.
  
  Overall, like I said before, the game is beautiful, the gameplay is genius, the game has tonnes 
 of replay value and for $20 this is probably the best downloadable game you can get, for that price. 
 Essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  World of Goo is an outstandingly unique puzzle game that is both addicting and challenging. The 
 game is extremely simple but that will not stop it from sucking in the player into its cute and 
 lovable world.
  
  Gameplay here is extremely basic as I mentioned. It involves the player using these little round 
 goo things and attaching them together to reach a certain destination on the level. All the player 
 does is click and drag these little goos to a location on the level to attach them, though other 
 goos must be nearby to attach to. A single goo can be built when at least two other goos are nearby. 
 And do not worry about placing a goo somewhere because they usually can easily be moved. The game 
 is often forgiving if you goof up somehow, but you are able to fail a level. This happens if you 
 lose most or all of your goos or if you just really mess up. One of the cool things about this 
 game is that you can build some truly fantastic structures, but know that physics most certainly 
 play a part in any success here. The physics sometimes is where the difficulty really kicks in 
 because there are some really crazy puzzles, but often with a little imagination you can work it 
 out. Fortunately, the game allows a "retry" option even during a running level. The game features 
 a fun and challenging single player mode but it also boasts a multiplayer mode where your goal 
 is to build the highest goo tower you can. In the multiplayer mode you build your own tower alone 
 but you can see other peoples' names in clouds in the distance along with their tower height. The 
 trick to this mode is you earn additional goos through playing the single player game and doing 
 well. And the more you have the higher you can build your tower. The single player mode is engaging 
 and extremely addicting, and thanks to the variety of puzzles things stay fresh and exciting. The 
 multiplayer mode is a fantastic and a thoroughly entertaining addition to this great game.
  
  The one thing in World of Goo that stands out is the graphics. It sports an absolutely beautiful, 
 rich, radiant, and color-splashed world. Each level is lush and beautifully animated. Though they 
 look very cartoony they fit the atmosphere extremely well. The levels are also impressive because 
 not only do the levels work sideways but also they work upwards, and sometimes these levels are 
 extremely tricky. Early on the levels are relatively simple and they do not require much thought 
 but later ones will most certainly require thinking. The goos themselves are wonderfully-animated 
 with very fluid motions. The goos come mostly in the same shapes and sizes consisting of one species, 
 but there are several unique kinds of them and they all look great. Though each goo looks almost 
 identical their eyes are generally varied ranging from small to large. The goo's primary job is 
 to connect together to form structures that can go up and down or sideways. The player's job is 
 to complete levels by connecting goos together to reach a given point on the level. These points 
 are identified by a little pipe which, once connected, the level is finished, your score is displayed, 
 and you are prompted to move on to the next level. The levels are the shining gems of the graphics 
 aspect because they are so creatively designed. Though the levels are not overly complex they do 
 render themselves tricky enough to evoke some serious thought. Ultimately, graphics combine a cartoonish 
 look with a lovable, almost plush theme that makes them utterly charming.
  
  Sound is another aspect of World of Goo that is wonderful. While there is really no outstanding 
 SFX to speak of, there are little sounds that the goos make when they are selected or connected 
 to another goo. The really great part of the sound is the music because it a super instrumental 
 collection of tunes that fit the game's whole style of cuteness and lovability. The music has a 
 feel that is both enjoyable and can be hummed along with because they are bouncy and upbeat. The 
 music is not loud or rocky; it is soothing and often has a nice beat to it. The sound is magnificent 
 and it really lends itself to the game and it adds to the game's charm.
  
  World of Goo is a tremendous puzzler that is at the same time worth your money and your time. You 
 can get this game for a super deal of $19.99 and it will be worth it. Though it has serious replay 
 value it may not be for everyone. The game is very difficult in some levels and sometimes it is 
 just downright mind boggling. Despite that the game is an addicting, cute, lovable, adorable, and 
 utterly exceptional piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoozeroo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I wasted several hours and nearly missed a deadline playing this clever game. Fantastic puzzles 
 that depend on physics to solve similar to some of the free bridge-building games (Bridge Builder 
 by Cryptic Sea and at Chronic Logic) , but with a lot more puzzle and atmosphere. You may think 
 that a level is impassable... just keep trying. Gets better and better with play. More fun than 
 the ball games that were popular a few months back (Ballance, Switchball, etc.) and easily rivals 
 Zuma for addictiveness. The game was written by two guys in a "garage" effort -- very worth your 
 time and money. There's not a lot more to say (why require so much damn writing in the reviews?) . 
 Oh, there is a free demo of Level 1 available. Go download that and try it for free (register for 
 a free account on Gamespot and download super fast) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin with a quick rundown of what World of Goo is. It is a puzzle game that involves building 
 structures of various sorts by connecting styled blocks - sorry - blobs of goo, each with unique 
 characteristics. All but the ending chapter levels involve trying to reach a pipe with your structure 
 so that your goo can get sucked into it. The levels are composed of obstacles, some that just impede 
 and others that will destroy your goo if they happen to sway too close.
  
  World of Goo is ambitious, its stylish, its charming, clever, and cute. It is not, however, the 
 greatest puzzle game to grace us with its presence as some would have you believe. It is definitely 
 something fresh and new for the mainstream market, and its from an indie developer, so I can understand 
 why most are quick to overlook its shortcomings and jump atop their soap boxes hailing its second 
 coming (yes, it leaves room for a sequel) . But this doesn't help the developers create an even 
 better game. There are problems with the interface that rear their ugly head on a number of occasions, 
 as well as a few poorly imagined levels. Some of these lead to game time that can be more frustrating 
 than entertaining. Puzzles are supposed to challenge our mind, not our patience (Note: this is 
 not a fact but merely the opinion of the writer at the time of writing and will only be used so 
 far as it supports his argument) . In World of Goo, the challenges were often easy to figure out, 
 but the execution ranged from just right to downright annoying.
  
  Now, don't get me wrong, a lot of the levels in the game were great. Absolutely fantastic. The 
 game mechanic is also something that for the most part feels quite fully realized. Almost every 
 level executes it in a unique way. Which is probably why the poorer levels were so jaring when 
 they arose. The player is left building yet another tower or bridge where a slight misplacement 
 of a single goo ball could mean a loss of structural integrity or balance leading to a complete 
 collapse. There were also cases where a unique goo ball would make an appearance only to be used 
 for a couple of levels and then never to return again. It would have been much more interesting 
 if these balls were made available throughout the whole game, allowing for puzzles to be solved 
 in unique ways with all the tools available to the player. Typically, the placement of the goo 
 was the only variance the player was allowed in the completion of the level objective. The strategy 
 for solving each puzzle is likely uniform for most, which is a shame. For a game with such an open 
 game mechanic and well made physics engine to narrow the player's imagination, or worse yet, force 
 it to conform to the preconception of the developer... it's just not right.
  
  Onto some of the problems with the actual interface. I often felt that I was hampered in completing 
 a puzzle not by my own ineptitude, but by my inability to carry out my will on my subject goo balls. 
 This was primarily due to some poor interface decisions that left me feeling like I was trying 
 to solve a rubik's cube with boxing gloves. At that point, even pulling off the colored stickers 
 and arranging them appropriately can become a measure of endurance. First off, selecting the goo 
 ball you want is often met with challenges, especially in the case of trying to move a goo ball 
 that was already placed (as some can be placed repeatedly) while others are near it. The interface 
 is too lenient in selecting goo balls that move into the range of the mouse, and immediately pauses 
 them when they are in a hover state. The only time one can select a placed goo ball is when there 
 are no other goo balls within the lax boundaries of the mouse, which is sometimes much harder to 
 accomplish than it sounds. The whistle feature introduced later in the game is only moderately 
 effective at making the goo balls move to one location (often they will only lazily meander around 
 it) , the effect ends too abruptly, and often with little aid to the player. There were also a number 
 of occasions where I unintentionally clicked on a time bug, a feature that takes one move back, 
 when trying to select a goo ball. Though not always resulting in the loss of goo balls, it was 
 distracting and could ruin the flow of building. Also there was no apparent way to skip the intro 
 or score board at the beginning and ending of each level, nor escape to the menu during certain 
 segments of the game.
  
  Though I may sound chock-full of criticism, it is the loving kind. World of Goo is not without 
 its interface problems, and at times very linear puzzle designs, but for a new franchise it is 
 a great start. The presentation and style is original and I dare say at times spectacular for such 
 a piece. World of Goo is a really good - or at least entirely decent - title in the line of puzzle 
 games, and I look forward to playing more like it in the future. If you are a fan of puzzle games 
 by independent developers, well, I'm not sure what to tell you. I mean I'm pretty sure I just played 
 something that fit that criteria exactly and enjoyed it. Err... damn. Sorry, can't help you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooter_6_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I have just downloaded the demo of this game for the pc and it was instantly a hit for me. This 
 game is surprisingly very very good. It is one of the most unique games I have played in a while 
 too! I mean how often do you see lots of different games that have goo balls to make into structures 
 and the goal is to get the extras sucked into a tube? The Graphics in the game are pretty good 
 also. The Gamespot review says they are not as vibrant as they should be but they are perfect according 
 to me. The Art style is pretty cool and unique too. The part of the story that I got to see was 
 pretty funny, unique, and interesting even thought it seemed a little vague but it hinted at a 
 much more in depth story to it. The sense of humor was great too, including signs along the way 
 that were always signed in some way, "the sign painter" and always rhymed, joked, or helped you 
 along your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avruble
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I thought this would be too much of a kids game for me but i have found myself playing for hours 
 on end. It is easy at first but by time you hit chapter 3 the game gets considerably more challenging. 
 Thats as far as i am to date. bonus goos that you try to build into a tall tower is fun as well 
 and quit frustrating but satisfying at the same time when you see your giant tower and hard work 
 come crashing down!! 
  
  Each new type of Goo is introduce slowly throughout the game so that you get accustomed to the 
 previous ones. So far i have gotten ones that stick to things, another that doesnt get hurt by 
 spikes, ones that you can use multiple times, ones that can be chained in a long string and another 
 that explodes!
  
  
  A must have for families, but dont be surprised if you find yourself cutting into your kids playtime 
 yourself! !!
  
  Its hours of fun for the whole family !! Simply GOOrific !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turok0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game 
 since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
 Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon Best puzzle game since Worms Armageddon 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkvaltrex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics from Dr Seuss, music from a Tim Burton film and gameplay a cross between Tetris and SimCity 
 make this a refreshing change from the usual first person shooter, RTS and MMORPG crap the PC usually 
 gets. World of Goo is like building things with moving, living, tinker toys. None of the puzzles 
 are that complicated compared to other recent puzzle games (Braid comes to mind) and that's what 
 keep things entertaining. It's a little short, but a lot of fun!
  
  More games like this should be hitting the PC as they can be played on a box that doesn't have 
 a $400 video card or have a monthly fee.
  
  ---===== using this to fill in the remaining characters... how long do they think I'm going to write 
 about this? Am I writing my doctoral thesis on this game? Does this mean Gamespot is going to make 
 me write 800 characters about some shrink wrapped stool sample shockwave based game I get at walmart 
 for $4.99===== --------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f22rf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  The game lets you play with all kinds of Goo balls, each group with a special ability. You job 
 is to construct a stable structure, and reach the levels' pipe (sort of an exit) . It's filled with 
 funny stuff, sarcasm, makes you look in other ways at things and just realy fun. With each level 
 you have a min goal of Goo balls going through the pipe (out of a given number of balls) . The extra 
 balls you collect are going to the Goo balls factory, where you can build the tallest structure 
 you can. The difficulty is pretty good. You start with the easier levels, constructing simple structures, 
 and sucking those Goo balls with no problem. and with each level the difficulty gets a bit higher. 
 The last levels are quiet hard, but with the experience you gain you'll pass them eventually. Loads 
 of fun! lets hope that this brilliant company (2D boy) make another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  I bought World of Goo when if first came out. A week later, I bought a new computer with a Quad-core 
 CPU, 8GB of memory, and a near top-of-the-line graphics card. Along with the new computer, I bought 
 Far Cry 2 and Crysis to showcase my computer's screaming abilities. I also had friends begging 
 me to get back into Lord of the Rings Online and crank up the DirectX 10.
  
  Well, guess which game I spent the most time with? I couldn't stop playing World of Goo until I 
 had beaten it, and I'm still playing it. My girlfriend thinks I'm a dork. I don't care. It's a 
 fantastic game. Crysis and Far Cry are great, but they are incremental improvements on an old theme 
 that began with Castle Wolfenstein 3D. World of Goo, however, combines a fascinating plot, with 
 a top quality physics engine and intuitive controls, plus a liberal dash of humor. 
  
  Any attempt to describe this game will fall flat. Just buy it, you can thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  I don't play many puzzle games to be honest, mostly cause I find them boring and not rewarding enough, so 
 I don't know how your usuall puzzle game is supposed to be; but I can tell you how this one is. I 
 think the gamespot classification says it best it's just plain fun!: P The graphics are good, not 
 that i would expect much in that departament from a puzzle game, the puzzles are not too hard and 
 stimulating, the sound is good and funny, and although it wouldnt hurt if it had a few more soundtracks, I 
 never had to switch to winamp while playing this game.: P The best thing however is how incredibly 
 funny this game is, the ideea, the sing painter, the cutscenes... lots of laughts to be had in this 
 game: P
  It olso has a online feature where you can see the towers other ppl build with the extra balls 
 gathered from the chapters.
  That beeing said i really hope they come out with a second goo game, or at least a expansion with 
 some more chapters.
  Just play it, you'll be "gooed" forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawcool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Refreshing, interesting gameplay, a welcome divergence from popular genre. But it can get repetitive 
 over time. Also don't expect it to be a puzzle game, as you can finish most of the levels by trial 
 and error, or by pure luck. Having said that, the game didn't fail to surprise me a couple of times 
 and there are some really innovative game level designs scattered throughout the game.
  
  If you like 2D game, or want to try something different, or tired of playing yet another FPS clone, 
 give World of Goo a shot. 
  
  Refreshing, interesting gameplay, a welcome divergence from popular genre. But it can get repetitive 
 over time. Also don't expect it to be a puzzle game, as you can finish most of the levels by trial 
 and error, or by pure luck. Having said that, the game didn't fail to surprise me a couple of times 
 and there are some really innovative game level designs scattered throughout the game.
  
  If you like 2D game, or want to try something different, or tired of playing yet another FPS clone, 
 give World of Goo a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelmonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game, most impressive for being such a new company made of two guys (geniuses) . Every level 
 is challenging and makes you think different ways in order to pass the levels.
  
  Great 2D, specially when most of the time we are being used to see the most realistic 3D... good 
 alternative... and also the goo balls are very cute.
  
  The only thing I think is missing is the online part when you can challenge another player. Well, 
 there's something like that wich consists in showing every player score, that way you can compare 
 yours with others, but I would be great if there was like a split screen options for playing against 
 other online players.
  
  The music is very tim-burton-movie-like wich is great. As you can see I think this game is perfect 
 in every single way. Everyone should play this game no matter his/her gametype preferences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guybobsack
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I found out this game was totally DRM/copy protection free so naturally I bought a copy! Please 
 go out and pay the 20$ these guys deserve for this awesome game! The mere fact that there's no 
 CD-Key or anything makes me want to buy every game they make in the future!
  
  As for the game play, simply fun and addictive! Your whole inspiration is to gain more balls in 
 which to build your ever growing tower that you try to build as tall as you can.
  
  Simply fun and refreshing! 10 out of 10!
  If you are curious about buying it, check out the demo 
 on their website. Just Google 'world of goo'
  
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd dddddxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd dddddxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd dddddxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd 
 dddddxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd dddddxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxx xxdddddddddd dddddxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alclarity888
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Take building blocks in the shape of globs of goo and piece them together to reach a pipeline. 
 The pipeline will suck in all of the remaining goo and if you reached the quota for that level 
 you may go onto the next level. Extra goo can be used to build a tower as tall as you possibly 
 can and your tower is compared to others on a leaderboard. 
  
  Gameplay: Starts of very easy and as each level goes by gets increasingly tricky. There are different 
 types of goo in later levels that allow you to manipulate your constructions in different ways 
 in later levels
  
  You will find yourself struggling using strategies that will work for some types of structures 
 but not for others (ie bridge versus a tower) . Frustration levels rise as you almost reach your 
 goal only to have one weak link buckle under the immense weight of your goo, the swaying caused 
 by the goo's movement, running out of goo, or not having enough to meet the quota.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pecozon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Es lo mejor que he visto en entretenimiento basado en puzzle.
  
  Muy entrentenido en todos los sentidos. hay que calcular muy bien para no perder la onda. Te pone 
 a pensar lo que haces.
  
  Te envuelve de manaera que una vez lo empiezas no quieres dejarlo. Yo estoy emocionado con el jueguito 
 este.
  
  Es un Juego 2D pero muy pero muy bien pensado. La gente de 2D se pusieron encima de muchos desearroladores 
 de videojuegos. siendo me imagino una paquea e inicial compaia. si es que acaso sea una compaia.
 
  
  Los graficos son exepcionales, igual que la jugabilidad. que es muy original y explicita.
  
 
  Cada vez que me siento medio aburrido, recurro al juego para de immediatamente ponerme en accion, 
 calculando como hacer para pasar los puzzle que me ponen como mision.
  
  Muchas felicidades a los creadores de este genero. que por sierto es primera vez que lo veo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarnimeda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Woow! There is so many awesome 3D games, that i was not sure about getting this one... But after 
 i got it- i could play only IT!
  
  Physics is phenomenal in this one, and playing with it even without a goal is fun! And here, we 
 have many worlds with many variations in every one of them. Graphics and sound are for this type 
 of game simpy perfect. Difficulty is just right- not to easy to fly through game and not to hard 
 to be on the way of relaxing while enjoying! System requirements- not a problem for really grat 
 majority! And humor- man it's just the way i like it to be. :)
  
  This game is the most addictive i have played in last couple of years. And because of that- it's 
 great that you can ease your hunger for it everytime you have at least 15 minutes free... :D
  
  Audiance for this one should really be everybody! :) I gave it a 95/100, but just because i 
 wanted mooore! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Red Alert3 let me down so badly.. I was really disappointed.
  This puzzle game made my feeling a lot better.
  Very fun innovative game. At last, for a long 
 time, well made game came out.
  Graphics don't matter. The game playing itself has to be good.
  Although it's 2D, it looks clean. 
 cute, and well animated.
  
  
  Good:
  Music is well done. Some levels are hard some levels are easy. 
  
  Well balanced. Innovative 
 puzzle game. Good idea.
  
  Addictive. It's fun. no pressure for playing. 
  
  could be played for everybody. It's not hard at all.
  
  Online ranking is good idea. 
  
 
  
  Bad:
  A little too short. Could have put more levels and little more 
  3D levels in it. 
  
  For just 160mb total capacity of game, maybe not worth buying it..?
 
  
  if online ranking is possible, why not put multiplay for 3 or more people?
  
  Overall:
  Fresh innovating puzzle game, does not ache your head level. but little too short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baton69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Well I will not write a whole review here, because I thin gamespot did a good work with theirs 
 except one thing. This game's graphics are great imo. They are fun to look at and gamespot's criticism 
 towards the black in some levels. It's meant to make the black goos "invisible" of course, it adds 
 difficulty.
  
  This whole game is amazing, and something you've never seen before. TRY IT OUT!
  
  I only have 
 one bad thing to say about this game and that's that you are not able to change the resolution, 
 but hopefully we will get a patch for that soon.
  
  /Baton
  
  This is just to fill up the character minimum This is just to fill up the character minimum This 
 is just to fill up the character minimum This is just to fill up the character minimum This is 
 just to fill up the character minimum This is just to fill up the character minimum This is just 
 to fill up the character minimum This is just to fill up the character minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, this game owns. Low price, high value, great looking graphics, addictive gameplay 
 - did I miss a reason to buy this game?
  
  Oh, there's not DRM, so you should support the developers for this choice alone. 
  
  Basically 
 this game is about little globs of goo you join together to solve puzzles, but if I had to put 
 it in a category I would call it more of an adventure/puzzle. Drag a glob of goo to attach him 
 to his buddies and let the other goo globs creep further toward your goal. Okay, it sounds lame, 
 but play the demo. Most demo's are in the 1 gig range, this will take a minute to download the 
 whole game! So try the demo.
  
  I'm all about supporting the little guy, so buy this game and help 2D boy before EA gobbles them 
 up and puts securom on every single thing they do.
  
  Creative game everyone with a brain can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhand44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Me personally working with a group making an indy game seeing a game from another of our brethren 
 that is getting play on major sites it amazing. This game I have played and am using their physics 
 engine in my teams game I am just left breathless that this game started with two guys that worked 
 at a Starbucks building the game. I played this game from demo and when I downloaded it found that 
 it was just a great physics puzzle game. I feel that this game and other games like Audiosurf will 
 get some of us indy developers out there and the ability to get some marketing. Nothing that would 
 compete with the big boys but give us an ability to make a life out of making games that are very 
 different than what is coming out and keep games honest. I can't wait to see what they come out 
 with next and will support anything that they need to lift up the indy developer. I think that 
 use indy's bonding together and co-operating will make us stronger and give out games a larger 
 audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjames7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  World of Goo is fresh and exciting. The game is paced perfectly; it never leaves you wanting to 
 bash your keyboard against the screen, yet still challenges enough to give you a full sense of 
 accomplishment. For added challenge and replay value, there is an OCD (Obsessive Completion Distinction) 
 award for each level. OCD requires completing specific challenges that change from level to level. 
 Think of it like achievements.
  
  The season changes, the atmosphere changes, the gameplay changes; World of Goo constantly reinvents 
 itself yet never strays from the solid foundation you started on.
  
  The art style fits the story (yes, a puzzle game with a story) and the music sets the mood perfectly. 
 In fact, the music in the game is absolutely amazing. I would very happily buy the soundtrack if 
 and when it becomes available.
  
  I can't recommend this game highly enough. The PC version has a few updates to look forward to, 
 but the Wii version has built-in co-op play. It's hard to go wrong with either and you owe it to 
 yourself to at least check out the demo. If the free demo doesn't leave you with a taste for more 
 goo I personally guarantee your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyodwyer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  (Written by 'Barry White' of CitizenGame. co. uk)
  
  
  Back in the day (several years ago now in fact) there was a little game called Tower of Goo, knocked 
 out by the fantastically-named Kyle Gabler. It was a simple proof of concept, a prototype - use 
 little balls of black goo to construct a tower into infinity. Drag a goo ball near others and it 
 will form little struts, out of which all manner of weird structures can be assembled, the goos 
 chirping and squealing as you build. For such a simple game, with no ultimate goal, it was astonishingly 
 addictive. I sank whole weekends into playing it when I first discovered it, and if you fancy a 
 go it can still be found at The Experimental Gameplay Project.
  
  
  Fast forward to now. Gabler, together with just two other people (under the banner 2D Boy) , have 
 used that simple construction mechanic and their charming goos and taken them to a sublime new 
 level. World of Goo, as the title might suggest, is literally a world away from little old Tower 
 of Goo, packing in more ideas and charm and cleverness and charm and personality and charm than 
 a simple indie puzzle game has any right to have. Did I mention it's got charm? World of Goo is 
 absolutely brimming with it, and it's the first thing that will hook you - the animation of the 
 goo balls is absolutely perfect, their little audio cues eliciting laughter on more than a few 
 occasions. I'm nearly sure one or two have even got charisma. The aesthetic of the chapters and 
 their constituent levels mixes a bold, colourful style with splashes of Gothic and the surreal, 
 while the brief looping music suits the levels to a tee, continuously adding to the atmosphere. 
 Loading it up will bring an instant smile to your face, and finishing it... well, that might even 
 bring a tear.
  
  
  Thankfully, underneath all of that artistic creativity is an extremely well tuned and crafted puzzle 
 game. The objective of most levels is to move a collection of goos from a simple starting structure 
 on one side to a pipe on the other. The first few levels are quite simple, teaching you the basics 
 of goo manipulation as you build bridges or towers of goo to move the rest towards the pipe, which 
 will suck them away towards the mysterious World of Goo Corporation facility. And then, once you've 
 gotten comfortable with that, the game throws you a twist - often in the form of a slightly peculiar 
 challenge and spicing things up further by introducing you to new types of goo. And it's here that 
 World of Goo proves its worth over and over again. The mechanics never change, but it just piles 
 new idea upon new idea as the chapters progress. There's black perma-goo, green goo that can be 
 pulled out from existing struts and put somewhere else, inflatable goo, there's even... No. I can't 
 possibly spoil it. A lot of the joy in playing is in sitting mildly bemused, wondering what new 
 quirk the game can possibly surprise you with, only to have your expectations confounded on the 
 very next level. 
  
  
  And there's even a meta game, harking back to the game's origins. All the goos you collect from 
 the various levels end up at the World of Goo Corporation, an infinitely sized level where you 
 can use your amassed goos to construct a tower up in to the sky. With an internet connection the 
 game dials home and logs the height you've managed to reach, and it will visually represent other 
 players' attained altitude with little labeled clouds. If that isn't enough to get you replaying 
 levels in an effort to extract every last goo you can, each stage has a special "OCD" requirement, 
 a difficult set condition such as collecting a preposterously high number of goo balls from a level 
 or completing it in a certain number of moves. Even with out these inclusions the levels themselves 
 are such a joy to play, and so well designed, that you'll find yourself dipping into them again 
 and again, trying out new methods or routes to the goal. There's hardly a mis-step in the whole 
 thing, and only one or two design niggles such as the difficulty of selecting a specific goo ball 
 out of a crowd. The rest is so confident and consistent that you'll forgive such problems almost 
 instantly.
  
  
  The absolute insane thing though, is the fact that this is the first proper game this tiny indie 
 studio has ever produced. World of Goo is just so polished, so perfectly formed and brilliantly 
 conceived, the fact that three men can produce such an imaginative wonder should be putting other 
 larger commercial developers to shame. And it's proof again that the indie gaming scene is absolutely 
 brimming with great ideas and potential. One of the other great accomplishments of World of Goo 
 a little down the line, I hope, is that it will show publishers that such strange, risky games 
 really can be worth backing. The game is already a big hit on Steam and in massive demand from 
 2D Boy's own site, and we'll see a version on the Wii before too long now.
  
  
  I realise I may be gushing a little. My praise could be a little over the top, but really, I'm 
 just utterly convinced you need to play this game. It's rare to see something like this, done to 
 such a high standard and with such panache, and that alone makes it important. And it's a true 
 indie success story, which makes it all the more worthwhile supporting. You'll laugh, you might 
 even cry, and you most definitely will be entertained. It's an experience that will leave you feeling 
 all gooey inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enuff27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Really "sticky" game. I am stuck in a challenging puzzle in level 1 but who cares, really fun and 
 CUTE to be exact. The music, interface, effects and the flexibility of the game plot really gets 
 going. Whenever I can get my mind off of my work the question comes to my mind: "how the hell am 
 I gonna form that long bridge without poppin' the bloody balloons". Yes, that's the case (and suggestions 
 are appreciated!) . Before that it was "who shall I buy for the right full back and shall I even 
 consider getting another tall defender" for Football Manager 2008, but since 2009's demo is right 
 around the corner, why not play with some goo instead.
  
  I really do recommend the game, extremely fun and relaxing. Before even finishing this very first 
 one I am looking forward to the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 17thDreamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  We all liked Portal, and we all cried when it was over. Well, the same goes for World of Goo.
 
  The focus of the game is similar to the old school Lemmings, where you are given a goal, and you 
 must try and have as many surviving "Goo"s make it to the end as possible. This is done by creating 
 structures from connecting them together, which are also influenced with the various physics elements 
 of the different levels.
  Many have described this game as having the "perfect learning curve" and that is most certainly 
 true.
  The puzzles are great, the art and style is fun and creative, combining the feel of Loco Roco with 
 something of a Tim Burton-esque feeling.
  The game is short, but that makes it easy to be given various challenges on every level, so that 
 you never feel as though you are repeating the same thing again. Instead, you sometimes have to 
 realize that structures that have worked before will not work on the current level, because of 
 things such as wind, spikes or fire.
  Overall, World of Goo is definately a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  You probably haven't heard much about World of Goo yet, but I predict that you soon will. Once 
 the word spreads about this mind-bending masterpiece, I believe that World of Goo will be recognized 
 as one of the best puzzle games of all time. This game is incredibly innovative and fun. It is 
 game that is well worth your twenty dollars and then some.
  
  The best puzzle games of all time, (e. g. Lemmings, Lode Runner, etc) all have a few things in common. 
 They start off relatively easy by introducing some simple and versatile game mechanics, giving 
 you an opportunity to learn the basics of the game while solving simple puzzles. Then, they add 
 progressively harder challenges, giving you new tools and tricks to deal with them. When they are 
 done teaching you a set of rules, they take the training wheels off and let you solve problems 
 as you see fit. Later puzzles can only be solved after learning some tricks from previous puzzles. 
 Humor and presentation always help.
  
  World of Goo has it all. It starts with a great concept. In this game, you build rubbery structures 
 by connecting dots (known as "goo balls") together to form a wobbly lattice. Different colored 
 balls have different properties. Red balls burn, black balls can only be placed once, green balls 
 can be moved repeatedly, and so on. Sort of like Lemmings, most maps have traps, like spikes, that 
 will wreck your structure if it sways or hangs into them.
  
  The concept is novel and ingenious, but it doesn't end there. It is implemented to near perfection. 
 The physics engine in the game is robust, and everything in it happens procedurally. General concepts 
 like weight, friction, and inertia are modeled adequately. Building a large structure is difficult 
 and it requires precision, since the bonds that hold everything together are not rigid and will 
 fold under a lot of weight. Thus, you must find ways to stabilize structures, like placing balls 
 in spots that reinforce the base. Mechanical Engineering 101, eat your heart out.
  
  The game does a great job of giving you a substantially different challenge with each puzzle. They 
 range in difficulty from moderate to hard, and they are all satisfying without being overly frustrating. 
 By virtue of the freedom that you have in placing balls, each puzzle has a nearly infinite number 
 of solutions.
  
  To top off the immensely fun goo ball building mechanics, the game comes with a colorful, cartoonish, 
 and wacky presentation that comes right out of the insane asylum. What else would you say about 
 a game where one of the challenges is to build a structure to climb out of a stomach? Each level 
 is marked by a sign that leaves cryptic, slightly humorous messages that give you the feeling that 
 somebody is watching or guiding you. It features cel-shaded, 2D graphics that look great despite 
 the minimal technology required to produce them. The balls themselves have a lot of personality 
 and make energetic noises whenever you place them. It is all very unique and unconventional. World 
 of Goo seems like a collaboration between a Nobel Prize-winning MIT engineer and a demented artist.
 
  
  World of Goo comes across as a game that was extensively play tested before it was released. It 
 is every bit the charming and highly addictive experience that a great puzzle game should game. 
 Upon completing each puzzle, the first thing that you will want to do is begin the next one. To 
 your delight, you will find that there are at least a few dozen of them, and none of them will 
 disappoint you, giving you full value for your money. Every year or two, a game comes along that 
 reignites and my passion for and my faith in gaming, and this year, World of Goo has been that 
 game. It is the best game that I have played in a long time, and it is well worth your twenty dollars 
 and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zechs13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  After spending a total of 14 hours (attempting to build a 25m tower is a pain) I finished all of 
 the story levels and realized how much I had been sucked in by the little goo. 
  
  Now I realize that JnWycliffe has written a much more extensive review, and a good one at that, 
 so I won't even try to waste anyone's time with anything alone the same lines. 
  
  You play a manipulator of the goo and you use them to build infrastructure to move the goo farther 
 down the pipeline to the next level. Some levels have you building towers, others bridges. There 
 are even moments where you build structures to endure explosions and act as slides to bring other 
 goo toward the pipeline's entrance. This may sound all bore and no gore, and that is not completely 
 true; with the lack of twitch shooting and corpses there is the think-fast play style of World 
 Of Goo.
  
  I really, really enjoyed this game and I didn't expect it at all. The game play is simple but exciting 
 in it's own right. The level design can be quite mind boggling at times and this can extend your 
 playing hours into the late night. This is easily the best puzzle game I have ever played. With 
 a $20 price tag, this game is worth it's weight in gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JnWycliffe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  I haven't played that many puzzle games; the one that was most memorable and the best I've played 
 thus far is The Incredible Machine by Dynamix/Sierra (unless Portal is considered a puzzle game) . 
 And I'm not a big fan of the so-called 'casual' games; I like my blood and gore, thank you very 
 much. So I was a bit dubious about World of Goo and only bought it because my friend was telling 
 me how much he loves it and the price seemed fair at $20. I am extremely pleased with this purchase, 
 and World of Goo is now my favorite puzzle game that I've ever played. Umm... which doesn't say 
 much, so I'll amend that with "World of Goo is one of the best games of recent years."
  
  World of Goo is set in a 2-dimensional environment, and the basic objective of the game is to move 
 goo balls from one spot to another. You have a pre-built set from which you build, and your basic 
 building blocks are the goo balls. Say, for example, that your pre-built set is a short line. To 
 build on it, you set a goo ball away from the line. Once you set the goo ball, the corners of the 
 line and the goo ball will connect, forming a triangle. You can continue to build more triangles 
 upon the triangle you just built until you get to your destination, and you successfully solve 
 the puzzle if you have enough goo balls remaining that you haven't used.
  
  Though the game is set in a 2-dimensional world, it very much takes on properties of the world 
 we're familiar with. It's governed by rules such as gravity and friction and motion. I'm no physicist 
 (in fact, I hated the subject in high school) , but everything feels pretty much authentic and I 
 had very little problems with how things played out.
  
  And though the basic gameplay is a standard 'take the goo balls from here to over there by connecting 
 the goo balls till you reach the destination,' the actual gameplay is a lot more complex. You can't 
 simply connect the goo balls and hope to solve the puzzle. There will be obstacles that you have 
 to factor in and sometimes even use to solve puzzles; oftentimes, there are different ways to approach 
 a puzzle and more efficient means to solve them. For instance, if your objective is to cross a 
 gap by building a bridge with the goo balls, you can try and build a bridge by reinforcing the 
 connecting structure in the side that you're building from and make sure that the portion that's 
 crossing the gap is supported enough to withstand the gravitational pull. But a more efficient 
 way (and one that would use less goo balls) is to build a structure vertically (but slightly leaning 
 towards the other side of the gap) so that once it's tall enough, it will topple over and fall 
 onto the other side, a method similar to cutting down a tall tree and having it fall across the 
 gap.
  
  And the game throws out so many varying scenarios and challenges that the game feels innovative 
 and fresh throughout. There are gaps you have to cross, wind gusts you have to ride, sharp edges 
 you have to avoid, narrow gaps or obstacles you have to navigate, momentum and motion you have 
 to utilize, walls you have to bust through, weights you have to lift up or a protruding knob you 
 have to press down, two objects you have to connect, and you often encounter scenarios that incorporate 
 several of these types of challenges simultaneously.
  
  And to meet all the challenges, you're given a variety of goo balls of varying properties and abilities 
 that you have to strategically utilize. There are goos that connect only to two ends, goos that 
 connect to multiple ends, goos that hang down, goos that stick to surfaces, goos that you can fling, 
 goos that act as helium balloons and help you keep a structure up, goos that are flammable, goos 
 that explode, goos that can touch otherwise dangerous surfaces, and you're often given a variety 
 of these goo types to help you in solving the puzzles.
  
  The puzzles are very well done all around. You're not given any instructions per se, but there 
 are mysterious... hints written for you to read and they're just vague enough to not give anything 
 away but also not leave you completely in the dark. And you're given a specific amount of 'undo' 
 buttons so you can go back if you were to make a mistake.
  
  The difficulty level isn't particularly high, although some did require of me multiple attempts 
 before I was able to solve them, but they are quite challenging. They're never too frustrating 
 that you feel like the game is unfairly relying on trial and error to enhance the puzzle. Many 
 of them require you to stand back and survey and study the scene before trying to solve them, and 
 there'll come a moment in which a light bulb comes on or you think, 'Ah, I think I see it,' and, 
 upon attempting them either feel really satisfied that your thinking led to the correct solution 
 or make you see that you didn't factor in something that's now obvious to you as you see, say, 
 your structure topple over, which can be rewarding too in understanding that the developers really 
 thought through the puzzles that were far more complex than you initially thought.
  
  As with all games that are great, it's not just that the overall quality of the game is good or 
 that it's challenging (and not in a cheap way) ; it's those moments that pop up every now and then 
 that leave you breathless because of their sheer brilliance. They happen in games like Half-Life 
 when you're taking the tram ride or battling the marines or the first time you speak to Jeanette 
 Voorman in Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines and gasp, 'I think I'm in love' or the first time 
 you hear the 'cops' song in Sam & Max Season 1 or realizing what's happening to Kerrigan in StarCraft 
 and understanding that this is not just another RTS with a loose storyline that merely serves to 
 connect different scenarios. And it happens in world of goo. I'm not going to describe the puzzles, 
 but when I played the game, there were distinct moments when I thought, 'wow, they really designed 
 this puzzle well' or 'they really thought this one through'. There are moments of brilliance flecked 
 throughout the game, and it is these that make the game truly memorable and gives the game its 
 replayability.
  
  And that's another high point of the game. It has tremendous replay value. Whether you're trying 
 to get more goo balls across or you want to try something different in solving certain puzzles 
 or, as was often the case with Portal, you just want to do it all over again EVEN THOUGH you already 
 know the solution to the puzzle, the game gives you plenty of incentive to play it again. The greatest 
 incentive is in doing the 'multiplayer portion' of the game, in which you build a tower as high 
 as you possibly can with all the goos that you've collected, or 'saved', throughout the game. You 
 compete against other players and you're ranked based on how tall your tower ends up being. It's 
 a very simple concept and may not seem all that challenging (the challenge coming only from having 
 to compete with others) , but it is surprisingly difficult to build a tall structure (and legitimately 
 so) when you have, say, 300 goos with which to build and the structure reaches 25 meters in height. 
 Simply said, the game requires you to pause and think, which is very much welcome when so many 
 games these days simply require only motor skills. You can't just start building one triangle on 
 top of another until you reach the desired height. You have to think and strategically position 
 your goos and reinforce the structure when required and carefully build.
  
  I can't speak intelligently about graphics and sound, so I'll keep this portion short and stupid. 
 The graphics are very stylish (though nothing spectacular technically) and fit in perfectly with 
 the wacky world of goo. The different goo balls seem to have distinct personalities and their look 
 and the sounds they make reinforce this sentiment. Those that are mischievous look and behave so 
 and the sound they make when you pick them up or drop them go along with this perceived characteristic. 
 The music is appropriate to each puzzle. If the puzzle has goos that are asleep, it will have a 
 very dream-like piece accompanying it. If there are dangers surrounding the goo balls, the game 
 will play an ominous-sounding piece. All in all, I felt the music was very pleasant to listen to 
 and, at the cost of sounding pretentious, I felt they were oftentimes soulful and evoked emotions 
 that are very much appropriate to the given situations.
  
  That doesn't mean that there aren't points of criticism. There are times when all the goos are 
 bunched together, which make it difficult to pick particular goos that you need to use. It would 
 have been nice if you could assign a key to particular types of goos or goos that are specifically 
 part of a structure (that you're able to reposition) and by pressing that key allowed you to pick 
 the one nearest to your mouse of that particular type. And there are other features that I felt 
 could have been useful; for instance, in a rectangular structure consisting of two triangles, there's 
 no way to put a cross beam to further strengthen the structure. And the game fatally crashed on 
 me once, causing my profile to be deleted and all progress along with it. And there was something 
 promised in the game that didn't quite pan out as I had hoped. But these are really minor complaints 
 to an otherwise absolutely unique and extremely polished puzzle game which requires of you thought 
 and strategy and quite often leaves you marveling at its sheer brilliance.
  
  The developer of World of Goo is 2D Boy; the game is $20; and you can order the game either through 
 their website (2dboy. com) or on steam. Do yourself a favor and buy the game. It is quite simply 
 one of the best games to come out this year and I think you'll enjoy it immensely no matter your 
 genre preference. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
