-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worldwide Soccer Manager 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/footballmanager2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 TV match view is a godsend for stats lovers.
 New assistant-manager features work well.
 Huge database and range of teams.
 Still incredibly addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New match engine is visually glitchy.
 Still distressingly addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 17, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 391 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Nov 18, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Football Manager 2009 may not be a beautiful game, but it's still compelling in the extreme. 
 

  In any great football team, strength comes from stability. Wholesale change doesn't breed success, 
 but incremental improvements usually do. This is also the case for Football Manager -- or Worldwide 
 Soccer Manager, as it's known in some regions -- as developer Sports Interactive has demonstrated 
 with the continual progress of the franchise since its rebirth in 2004.  

  You start out by creating a manager, who for the first time can be female, and you then choose 
 to work for one of thousands of clubs in more than 50 countries. Launched straight into preseason, 
 you have to try to get your house in order and make any last-minute signings before playing any 
 games. With your management in place, you have to decide on your first team to take on a few friendly 
 matches before the first season gets underway.  

           The international game plays a part even at club level, because players get called up 
 and injured.      

  Football Manager 09 covers pretty much every conceivable aspect of being a real manager. Before 
 matches, you have to give your team words of encouragement -- urging them to "do it for the fans" 
 and other such platitudes -- and set up instructions for dealing with the opposition players. If 
 there's a player whose temper may fray a little easily, you can instruct your players to mark him 
 very closely and tackle him hard in an attempt to frustrate them. If there's someone who you know 
 will be particularly dangerous, then ideally you want to make your defenders close him down whenever 
 possible.  

  During the match itself, you can control your formation and lineup at all times, but major changes 
 won't come into effect until a stop in play. Other more subtle tweaks, such as wasting time when 
 you're trying to hang on to a narrow margin, can be made instantly via the tactics menu. These 
 changes do add up to significant differences on the pitch; fail to pick up the opposition's target 
 man and you're scuppered, but take advantage of an opponent's lack of width after a substitution 
 and you can make a game turn on a sixpence.  

  Although the differences in the actual gameplay of Football Manager 08 and 09 are not as marked 
 as they were between 07 and 08, there are a number of notable improvements to justify the upgrade. 
 The headline feature is the new match engine, which has finally made the transition to 3D. This 
 serves to increase your immersion because it helps remove the feeling that you're just poking a 
 spreadsheet.  

           The TV view is great, but the engine that it surrounds has a few teething problems.   
    

  However, the new view isn't without its issues. Although some players are recognisable, the vast 
 majority lack the appearance and movement of their real-life counterparts. There are also innumerable 
 visual inconsistencies with the way players run, turn, and move, all of which put a damper on proceedings. 
 Another thing that may grate is the fact that stadiums are not shown in this view, either; they 
 appear simply as odd grey blocks around the pitch, with no detail whatsoever and little to differentiate 
 any one ground from any other. Although the ability to watch the crowd rather than the players 
 would be a foolish move, the lack of anything surrounding the action is an odd choice that further 
 serves to give you the impression that the engine isn't ready for public consumption quite yet. 

  However, the change of engine does bring with it a few perks. The TV view is a boon because it 
 offers a range of customisable information displayed around the action. This can include your players' 
 fitness, how well they're playing, and even detailed notes about what the team as a whole is doing 
 well and how they could improve.  

  Some of the less obvious changes are just as rewarding. After the revamp to the help and wizard 
 systems last year, your right-hand man has now been improved to help you get the most out of the 
 game. Whereas before he would pick your team when you were too lazy to work out who your best 11 
 were, now he gives comprehensive feedback when asked about your players, tactics, or the opposition; 
 in fact, he's the man who offers all of the real-time match-day feedback. This can be useful, even 
 for experienced managers, especially when you're driven to distraction trying to work out why your 
 all-star team is a goal down to Scunthorpe.  

  Training has also received some subtle tweaks to make the setup more realistic. You can no longer 
 put your charges through unreasonably harsh regimes to boost their skills without expecting to 
 see a drop-off in performance due to overwork or injury. Then there's the obligatory overhaul of 
 the 300,000-player database, retaining Football Manager's place as the most authentic game in its 
 genre.  

           If you make an enemy of the fans, don't expect to stay in the job for long -- no matter 
 how ridiculous their delusions of grandeur.      

  Outside of match days, the game looks very much as it did last year. The visual style that was 
 introduced in FM08 is still very much in evidence, but the game lacks music and there are very 
 few sound effects outside of matches. Online play exists in the rudimentary form that has existed 
 in the franchise for many years, allowing for directly connected players to control teams in the 
 same league, but this is unlikely to be of interest to any but a very select few.  

  Football Manager 09 feels like a much lighter update than last year, and though the match engine 
 does represent a major new feature, it's definitely flawed. That said, the improvements around 
 the engine do serve to enhance the match-day experience, and the core game still sucks you in with 
 its immersive and comprehensive gameplay, even if it's not the most attractive game in the world 
 to look at. Football Manager 2009 is a great game that captures the highs and lows of following 
 a real football team, and it once again manages to justify the ticket price, even for those who 
 coughed up last season.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FamicomRudi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The Football Manager 2009 is an absolutely addictive game. It makes the football game interesting 
 and exciting as it is in the real football world. It simulates quite well the life of a manager, 
 its difficulties, its considers and even the excitement of winning and losing titles. The weakest 
 link of this game is the graphic engine. The graphic engine has nothing to do with reality... Though 
 it's still a significant improvement from last versions. The game gives the player good access 
 to data about players teams, and tactics, although, unfortunately, you can not pose a player as 
 a central forward or a striker... It's still the same, and it does disappoint in some way. Apart 
 from that, the tactical game is quite flexible, while you can choose several tactics, from 3-3-4 
 to 4-2-4. In my opinion, the mental aspect of the game adds some challenge to the game, which makes 
 it even better! If you are in doubt whether buying it or not, my recommendation is buying it. I 
 can't deny that the graphics engine is pretty backward one, and hopefully someday it will be better, 
 and the sound is nothing to expect. If you are looking for an Academy Award soundtrack, this is 
 definitely not the game for you. But its great game play, the adjustable tactics and a manager-like 
 experience, makes it a worthwhile buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruxster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  What i would like to point out first of all is the fact that when I purchased this title I was 
 not overly conserned about how the graphics were going to look on the 3D match screen, of course 
 I was a little intrigued, and the thought of being able to see my team easly on the pitch was always 
 going to be a benifit, and indeed it is, I love the way you can see how your player is reacting 
 under the current instructions, and ask him to do something different the 3D engine provides a 
 more diverese perspective of the affect the change is going to have, helping you make quicker decission 
 on wheather or this player needs a rest, put into another position, although another good thing 
 the players may improve as the game goes on, example: J Jenas was having a mare for about 50 minutes, 
 i decided to consider taking him off, but asked him to start dribbling more, low and behold the 
 player started playing better and making some great through balls cut the defence in half, he even 
 nearly got an assist, we lost the match 3 v 1 away to sunderland, cisse with another amazing industrial 
 burst of brilliance.
  This game draws you in and spits you back out with a bungie attached to you.
  Watching your player 
 kick the living daylights out of the oppostion to try and get back into the with an equaliser, 
 because you told them at half time you expect nothing less than a result, is quite frankly excillerating, 
 10 minutes to and you on the edge of your seat as your striker gets put through by your new midfield 
 singning looking for his first assist, the shot clips the bar and over, you start wonder if this 
 is the muddy slide down hill, and then your new mid signing rockets one in the top right with 2 
 mins remaning.
  what a game what a game, if you want graphics, fifa 09 ps3, but to really get inside the world 
 of football, breath it eat and sleep it, buy FM2009, this game provides so much infomation on todays 
 players and staff, gives you masses of alternatives on how to make your team play and has so much 
 depth you start belive your the manager, of course im sure its not as wonderful as the real thing, 
 but must be close as we can get in the advanced age, I would personally like to thank SI for this 
 peice of genius software, and for keeping me up till all hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The major change in Football Manager this year was the introduction of a 3-D match engine. The 
 no frills animation will not blow you away, and in other senses it will not impress you. With this 
 new feature, the flaws of the football manager match engine are clear to see with the 3-D engine. 
 
  It finally gives you an insight as to how unrealistic Football Manager is sometimes. If for instance 
 an attacking midfielder on the opposing team comes forward your centre backs will often decide 
 to take it in their own stride to lose the striker they are meant to marking to try to get the 
 ball off the attacking midfielder coming forward. Thus releasing the striker to be alone and with 
 a simple pass and shot, a goal normally happens. This is annoying due to the fact that you have 
 specifically told your centre to stick to the striker and not to veer off and press another player. 
 Thanks to the 3-D engine we get to see this flaw. Furthermore when a ball is cleared by the opposition 
 back to your half you'll often have a stampede of your players charging back to get the ball, often 
 at least 4 of your players. It's just bizarre, it is just not real. Sometimes the whole game can 
 feel like a matter of luck. 
  Personally I've never really understood how these managerial games can be considered realistic. 
 At the end of the day, there just NOT. It's perhaps the closest thing to becoming a manager, but 
 it doesn't bloody work. There are a lot of things which Football Manager doesn't have which you 
 could do in real life.
  And I'm not having a rant at this game because I'm bad at it. I'm at the moment 3rd in the Premier 
 League with Manchester City. Yet despite quite a few wins I've ran out of patience with Football 
 Manager and can't accept it as realistic as people go on about. Certain features are also missing. 
 For instance, in my view there should be an option for varying the space between your defence, 
 midfield and forwards. This would help and the feedback never bloody shuts up about how, 'there's 
 a gap between the defence and midfield which the opposing team could exploit'.
  Furthermore there isn't much difference to its previous versions of Football Manager. Having seen 
 and played some previous games in past seasons it grates to see the game similar to previous versions. 
 Nor are there any real new features, the major one being the 3-D match engine which only shows 
 how corrupt Football Manager's match engine is.
  I think it's pretty obvious where I stand on this game, just don't bother with it. Waste of money 
 and total waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotku08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first lets get the problems out of the way. Yes, the game had a number of bugs when released 
 but most these have been rectified with the first patch. Yes, there were a lot of problems with 
 activating the game on launch day and downloading the game from steam, a hell of a lot of problems 
 but again this has since been resolved. Yes, the 3D engine can act weirdly and players act strangely 
 at times but come on, did anybody really expect it to match FIFA or PES?
  Thankfully once you get beyond the initial issues this game is exactly what it claims to be, the 
 most realistic football (or soccer) management game on the market. The level of depth is as amazing 
 as ever and is possibly even deeper that in previous versions. Some people have claimed it is too 
 difficult however if you use the information within the game that is available on both your club 
 and any opposition club you play against you can find success comes quite easily.
  With the exception of the launch day debacle Sports Interactive have produced a game of quality 
 and taken a step into the future moving from 2D to the 3D engine. A game well worth putting time 
 and effort into, lots of time and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gauravsinghmd
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  the game crashes pretty frequently (even after the patch installed) .... i can handle that (i found 
 exactly what i was doing that the game couldn't handle and now i work around it.... more specifically, 
 the problem occurred when i gave instructions for individual instructions for the opposition.... 
 now i wait for the match to start and change tactics after a few minutes) , but there is the injuries 
 problem i can't get past.... players get injured a lot, at one point in the first season i had 
 12 injuries in the first team squad..... the tactics r funny also, i beat arsenal 4-0 away and 
 lost to hull city 1-0 away with similar tactics after 1 week (man utd) ..... sometimes i have 65-70 
 percent possession and 15-20 shots on goal and no goal to show for it ...... sometimes 55% possession 
 and no shots on goal...... 2008 worked a lot better ( tactics wise) .... the training seems to work 
 better, i saw visible improvements all around after 3 months..... the transfer market is a little 
 weird too.... some players are snapped up at the beginning by the same teams (srna and arshavin 
 go to man city unless u r managing a bigger team and offer to buy them) .... the game is ok, could 
 be great without the bugs.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IanZG2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game is not perfect and I will name a whole bunch of bugs and other problems, 
 but the game is simply better than anything else released since the dawn of mankind. The new 3D 
 engine might look poor in comparison with FIFA 2009 or PES 09 or even FIFA 1998 but the quality 
 of the match engine makes those games look like Super Mario Soccer or something like that. The 
 transfer system has been improved so has the confidence part of the game. Press conferences are 
 fun even after having tens of dozens of those. But before this review turns into a I LOVE FM!!! 
 text I shall state the bugs that annoy me the most and which will drag a couple of people away 
 from the game.
  
  For one (this is not a bug, but my personal problem) IT IS TOO DAMN HARD FOR MY LIMITED MANAGERIAL 
 SKILLS! I just can't combine attractive football with an attractive result. But this is just me...
 
  
  Then we have a defenders who fire the ball into each other too many times, GKs who can't handle 
 the ball to save their lives, too many goals scored from long distances, strikers who can't score 
 a 1 on 1 and so on...
  
  If this doesn't put you off, go but the game! GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigyw14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game really has been given the worst start possible. SI have gone thick in the head with the 
 use of steam, and the activation codes... the good old days with no internet coonection required 
 to do it, now seem heaven.
  But for those who are playing the game, i believe most will agree it is a great game. All the aspects 
 we know and love about it are in there. The players are more realistic in their attributes, however 
 some are not as good as they should be, but nothing is perfect. The 3-d match engine is ok, it's 
 personal choice as to whether you like it, as it is whether you like the game, this is my view 
 on the game, take this review as you want.
  There are problems with the amount of injuries, but the patches will work that out, i hope :) . 
 One thing that SI have got right is the ability to change the tranfer and wage budgets as you want 
 to, not seeing if you can change one of them. The gossip feature is a nice touch, shows you Real 
 Madrid's pursuit of every Man Utd player, and Man City's ambition to buy everyone. The press conferences. 
 They add variety, and even though the questions soon get a little repetitive, it does little to 
 detract from the idea and novelty.
  
  This is only a short review as i haven't played enough to warrant even trying to give a full one, 
 but i hope it will do for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  What the hell is this? I mean WTH IS THIS??
  
  You pay for FM 09 and you need to to activate it? You have to enter a code that is like 20 letters 
 long and theres a difference between the "O", "o", "1" and "i"? A difference you CANT see?? Spare 
 me! Them you must activate it online or via phone? Spare me.
  Them the next "easy" step: installation. Its simple really. The game folders just go to a place 
 you didn't indicate or just dont appear at all. Oh and the errors while installing and crashes 
 are "simple" to. Also lets point out the fact that STEAM is now with SI. Lets point out the fact 
 that STEAM users played the game early before the rest to, and lets point out the mess that STEAM 
 created, with downloads not working, codes and activations not working... Ive heard people that 
 bought the game spend at least more them 3 hours trying to get the code right...
  
  With this i give a 1. I would give a 0 or a "o", but this isnt possible here. Well done SI! And 
 their support is incredible bad to. They only want to get our money...
  
  Now has FOR THE GAME ITSELF, i give it an 7 out of 10. It is better them FM 2008, but still isnt 
 perfect. 
  There was a patch released on the launch of the gamer, because it had terrible bugs! How could 
 this pass in the demo? SI are sleeping and they wont take their money from me next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeinhu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game. I love it ;D The 3D view it's just great xD 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D 
 =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D 
 =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D
  =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharinghann
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  The 3D Match Engine
  Cristian: I have mixed feelings about this. On one side, I hope that my only-decent laptop will 
 be able to run this game with 3d games. On the other hand, I don't know if it will be worth it. 
 I have seen lots of important people on the SI boards talking about how "this is the first step", 
 "it won; t be perfect", and so on; which leads me to believe that it will be maybe slow, maybe repetitive, 
 maybe just not as realistic as the 2D (whatever realistic means I guess, you guys catch my drift.)
 
  
  Also, I wonder if 3D will change the games as well. I am sure that hardcore players are aware of 
 the difference b/w playing a game in 2D and "only commentaries." For instance, when you are winning 
 by one and playing in 2D, the extra time will go gon forever with "key plays." You will most likely 
 get scored. In text only, I don't remember a single time where the game stopped more than once. 
 I wonder if, with 3D, those things will also happen.
  
  trademark: I've got to say on merit the idea sounds great. In theory, I can see it being an amazing 
 addition to the feature list and the option to chose whichever one is also great. But we all know 
 theory isnt practice. In practice, it'll probably be filled with bugs and have stupid load times 
 or something which dampens the overall quality of what could be a wonderful new feature. But we 
 dont get anywhere with pessimism, so lets hope for the best.
  
  The widget concept with the ability to pick what you see on the 3d screen is essential if you're 
 going to have 3d so its good that they've brought that in. Overall it looks like a well-thought 
 out feature. I just hope it is well-implemented. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
