-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Soccer Winning Eleven 7 International
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/worldsoccerwinningeleven7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 336 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: KCET
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Apr 9, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Winning Eleven 7 is a superb game that sounds great, looks impressive, and gets the most important 
 element -- playability -- just right. 

  It may have official FIFA PC licensing; it may have dominated the genre for the better part of 
 a decade; and it may have climbed to such a lofty position of strength that it's driven away virtually 
 every contender. However, Electronic Arts' celebrated FIFA Soccer series may not have the PC footie 
 market cornered after all. Fresh off its 2004 revision, in which the game's producers have once 
 again shown a disturbing recent penchant for sitting idly upon the throne, the FIFA series is also 
 now in the midst of taking a full-on broadside from an exciting newcomer. With World Soccer Winning 
 Eleven 7 International, Konami brings its console soccer hit to the PC for the first time and, 
 in the process, proves that EA's reign is suddenly as shaky as the San Andreas Fault. Whether it's 
 superior overall to the durable EA franchise is open to interpretation, but one thing is clear: 
 Winning Eleven 7 is a superb game that sounds great, looks impressive, and gets the most important 
 element -- playability -- just right. No true PC soccer fan should buy into the EA FIFA machine this 
 year without first investigating Konami's superb alternative.  

          Just like his mom advised him when he was a tiny tot, this player uses his head to its 
 fullest potential.     

  As the title suggests ("Winning Eleven" stands for the number of players on a soccer side and "7" 
 stands for the number of annual revisions in the game's history) , Winning Eleven 7 is far from 
 a brand-new series. In fact, it has existed in the console realm since 1996. Granted, North America 
 didn't get its first taste of the game until 2003's Winning Eleven 6, when Konami released it for 
 the PlayStation 2 crowd. But this is the first time we've seen it in PC form, and it's not a moment 
 too soon.  

  When EA's FIFA Soccer rose to prominence in the latter part of the last decade, it did so with 
 a solid combination of presentation and user immersion. Featuring full FIFA licensing -- which allowed 
 EA to use all the real-world players, teams, and stadiums -- and EA's masterful 3D graphics and animation 
 technology, FIFA's visuals simply blew its competitors away. Its lengthy roster of user options 
 certainly didn't hurt, nor did its gameplay experience, which represented a clever balance of detailed 
 team management and coaching decisions, as well as an ever-growing inventory of player actions 
 and moves. Still, recent editions have not exactly been filled with innovations, especially in 
 terms of the product on the pitch. What had once seemed like amazing gameplay back in the late 
 '90s began to feel arcadelike and fanciful. Could real-life players pull off the moves you'd see 
 on a FIFA Soccer pitch? No. Could one real-life team completely dominate another in every facet 
 of the game and outshoot and out-chance them by the widest of margins, only to ultimately lose 
 because some unseen force wanted it that way? No. Did an EA game really feel like the pass-happy, 
 calculated, and sometimes plodding experience of a real-world FIFA game? Not usually.  

  Conversely, Winning Eleven 7 plays very realistically indeed. In all truth, very casual PC soccer 
 players may not notice much of a difference between the two approaches. Moreover, those who prefer 
 a fast and more-whimsical game that often keeps things interesting by maintaining an undeserved 
 tight score may even prefer the EA game. Nonetheless, Konami's latest soccer extravaganza will 
 most likely satisfy those serious soccer students who've grown somewhat disenchanted with the EA 
 methodology.  

          The Winning Eleven 7 pitch can get very crowded at times, as evidenced by this scoring 
 opportunity.     

  In Winning Eleven 7, you'll really feel in control of the proceedings. Unlike FIFA Soccer, where 
 you can often let go of your controller completely and can then grab it again a couple of minutes 
 later -- with nary a goal scored against you -- Winning Eleven 7 compels you to play and play well. 
 Furthermore, it penalizes you heavily if it detects no skillful movements and actions. Here, you 
 can't let your artificially intelligent opposition swirl around in your own end for very long at 
 all without falling victim to yet another goal against. This is the way soccer should be. Moreover, 
 you can't expect your players to naturally be in prime position to receive thread-the-needle passes. 
 Yes, your team generally moves to the correct zone -- based on current management strategy, of course -- but 
 it is you who must ultimately take control of any and all players who receive passes, even before 
 they touch the ball. In this way, the game is extremely challenging. But it's all the more rewarding 
 when you finally come to grips with its myriad control possibilities.     

  Indeed, if you venture from Winning Eleven 7's Easy setting without having first investigated the 
 helpful Practice mode, the controls chapter of the printed manual, and the game's informative and 
 wholly interactive Lesson component, you may well feel very much  out  of control. Goals will be 
 almost impossible to come by, unless you make lengthy end-to-end dashes that will probably not 
 be successful but will exhaust your players by the end of the match (and will cumulatively exhaust 
 them into the next match during season or cup play) . Ultimately, it is mandatory to learn at least 
 some of the many complex advanced maneuvers if you want to seriously contend at any level above 
 Easy.  

          Using the game's wonderfully comprehensive player editor, you too can take to the pitch 
 with the best soccer players in the world.     

  The game's developers have also done a masterful job of harmonizing the number of goals, the final 
 score, and the eventual victor with the run of the play. This is clearly one of the most difficult 
 elements to correctly code into any sports game, but it's particularly difficult in soccer, where 
 goals are few and far between. In fact, EA's FIFA series has never really seemed capable of accurately 
 figuring it out. The program must take into account the aggregate times of possession, the aggregate 
 times of  threatening  possession, the total number of shots, the total number of true scoring 
 opportunities, the quality and frequency of passing, the level of gamepad mastery, and so much 
 more.  Then  it must intelligently deduce who should score, when they should score, and what the 
 final relative tally should be.  

  Despite a few quirks, Winning Eleven 7 also feels less preordained than FIFA Soccer. Its ratio 
 of goals scored versus opportunities seems more believable. And it doesn't go out of its way to 
 produce last-second goals or final flurries of goals just to keep a contest even. In other words -- depending, 
 again, upon which level of difficulty you've selected -- you can generally expect to win if you dominate 
 the most important aspects of a contest. On the other hand, if you've assumed a lead against the 
 run of play and are consistently under pressure, your players will eventually fatigue and will 
 crumble. As a result, you will lose. Not many miracles here...  

  Like any good soccer game, Winning Eleven 7 doesn't base final tallies solely on reflexes and gamepad 
 mastery. Indeed, Konami has gone even further than EA in this regard, both in the number of available 
 management options and in the effectiveness of selecting a truly sound formation and strategy for 
 the current situation. One word of warning: If you select an all-out attack strategy, you'd best 
 be confident in your abilities to both hem the other side in its own zone and score the goal you 
 so desperately desire, or you risk leaving yourself wide-open for the plucking. You should also 
 be aware that a given strategy will work very well in some situations (with certain teams) but 
 not nearly as well in others. In any case, whether you want to enact a quick one-click general 
 strategy and formation or go through an intricately detailed piece-by-piece setup, the options 
 are there.  

  Fortunately, Konami realized it would take more than great gameplay to effectively compete with 
 FIFA Soccer. To that end, the game features an impressive number of user options and management 
 duties. When playing an exhibition match, for example, you'll not only select from five difficulty 
 settings but also from one of five levels of physical condition for both your opponent and your 
 own squad. And, of course, more talent variations are found in the team selection screen, where 
 you'll choose from 64 club or 56 international sides.  

  The really good news is that Konami has not ignored the single most important element that contributed 
 most to FIFA Soccer's rise to the top -- presentation. From the impressive hoopla and pageantry surrounding 
 its opening ceremonies to its post-whistle animations, Winning Eleven 7 is generally a beautiful 
 game, and it's far cleaner than its PS2 sibling.  

          Players who prefer long-distance camera shots for a better read of the proceedings will 
 have to make do with the game's mid-distance perspectives.     

  You'll notice right off the bat that all 20-plus stadiums are impressively rendered, each with 
 a unique structure, ambience, and nifty periphery, such as rotating advertisements and Jumbotron 
 video panels. Like FIFA Soccer, the pitch-level view during a goal kick offers an awe-inspiring 
 look at each facility, from top to bottom (even in the rain, with its ball- and player-soaking 
 puddles) . Additionally, Winning Eleven 7's stadiums are certainly home to some of the rowdiest 
 and most-active spectators currently in any PC sports game. If these folks ever sit still, we've 
 been too busy playing to notice. They'll bounce up and down or hurl smoke bombs or streamers and 
 confetti; they'll even wave banners and flags and will rise to their feet in unison. It must be 
 said that a square-on front view of the assembled throng exposes each individual entity as an indistinct 
 sort of creature, but when you're busy playing the game, this matters not. The overall impression 
 is quite spectacular.  

  However, the actual players will undoubtedly be the center of your attention, and here the news 
 is also very good. Konami has added a lot of detail to the players, including moving mouths, unique 
 body and head shapes, individual faces that bear the likenesses of each player's real-life counterpart, 
 perfect little uniforms, and real-time shadows. Heck, these little dudes even realistically mimic 
 the motions of breathing, inhaling, and exhaling when they're running or standing still.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  I got World Soccer Winning Eleven 7 International on amazon for $5 plus a bit for shipping -- if 
 you're on a tight budget and you like soccer games, this is the game to buy. The game will provide 
 some challenge since the enemy AI can be very strong at higher difficulty settings. The game offers 
 a nice league mode where you can actually see your team improve from one season to another. One 
 downside is that you won't be able to play your favorite teams because the game isn't licensed. 
 Second problem is that the commentary is limitted and ends up being very repetetive. Another downside 
 to me personally was that the controls are very much geared toward gamepad users -- all advanced 
 controls would require so many buttons on a keyboard that you wouldn't be able to use them. I do 
 not have a gamepad and don't plan to buy one in the future so I can't play the game at more difficult 
 settings. It is a very good soccer game for its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pKillerMax
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2004 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I am a WE fan since 1998. And I have played all WE and Pro Evo series. First of all WE series are 
 by far better than FIFA series. No doubt!!!
  But lets talk about Winning Eleven 7, a game that blew me away in every aspect..
  
  Gameplay: 
 Very smooth and playable. I am playing this game 2-5 hours a day and after 4 months, I still cant 
 get enough of it. No repetitions here. I am still learning new ways of scoring..
  WE7 makes FIFA 2004 look ridicules.
  
  Graphics: the most realistic looking soccer game to 
 date. Many players look the same as they are in the real world. Stadiums are gorgeous. Players 
 are well rendered and the special effects are good. If there was one thing to not like about the 
 graphics, it would be the soccer ball. It just doesnt look as great.
  
  Sound: The only thing that FIFA has done better. The background music is just annoying. The commentary 
 sucks. Sometimes I just want to find this peter Brakley and beat the crap out of him for performing 
 such an ugly commentary. But I do like the sound effects and the crowds going oeoeoeoe...
  
  Value: even though there isnt a multiplayer mod in this game, it never gets old. Because its 
 a soccer game and more importantly its Konami Sports. :)
  
  Tilt: what can I say?? this game is amazing. 
  So what are you waiting for? If you are a soccer 
 fan, just go and get this game and make sure you have a good gamepad.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsia
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2004 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that game is missing is lan and internet multiplayer. Yes, maybe the menus are confusing 
 without a mouse at the begining, but I can't remember a game as addictive as this one. Simply the 
 best game I've ever had. I'm playing PES3 and WEI7 from october, each day, and never got tired 
 of it. And even now I find new ways to score and to have my goalkeeper beaten. It's impressive. 
 Hail to Konami!!! They have achieved what all the FIFAs together only dream to be. And I will buy 
 this game twice if it's necessary. Konami DEVELOPS games, not only tries to do marketing movements 
 like EA. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
