-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms 3D
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worms3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 743 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 12, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Worms 3D stands up as a cute, quirky little strategy game that has some excellent multiplayer capacity. 
 

  Team 17 understands the value of juxtaposition. It's the crux of the Yorkshire-based developer's 
 flagship series, Worms, where cute, squeaky-voiced cartoon earthworms have been gleefully knocking 
 the tar out of each other with bazookas, grenades, land mines, baseball bats, flying sheep, and 
 just about anything else they can get their hands on for the better part of a decade now. But underneath 
 all the absurdist violence, Team 17 has cleverly been sneaking in some high-quality strategy action 
 that can be enjoyed by novice and expert players alike. The differences between past Worms games 
 have been pretty incremental, and the transition to 3D marks the biggest change the series has 
 seen yet. It's a transition that has ruined better games, but Team 17 makes the transition seem 
 pretty easy.  

          Team 17's classic strategy series has finally reached the third dimension.     

  Save 
 for the anomalous and oddly compelling Worms Blast, all of the previous Worms games have been turn-based 
 strategy affairs, and Worms 3D doesn't mess with that formula. The fundamental task in Worms 3D 
 is to take a small team of worms and use a wide array of weaponry to dispose of an opposing team. 
 During your turn, you're given control of one of your worms. You can inch around the landscape, 
 use jump and backflip moves to get past smaller obstacles, or use special gear such as the ninja 
 rope or the jetpack to access harder-to-reach spots, but there's also a timer in place, making 
 sure you don't dawdle. Once you're where you want to be, you can choose a weapon with which to 
 inflict damage on your opponent. The selection of weapons in Worms 3D is both vast and completely 
 silly and definitely accounts for much of the game's appeal. There are plenty of conventional weapons -- bazookas, 
 grenades, shotguns, land mines, and Uzis -- but then there's the weird stuff, like the exploding 
 sheep, the Street Fighter II-style dragon punch, and the agreeably chaotic banana bomb. And these 
 are just some of the highlights.  

  Despite their absurd setting and cutesy presentation, the Worms games have always been pretty serious 
 tactical strategy affairs, with factors like the wind direction, fall damage, and the blast radius 
 of different explosions coming into play. The projectiles are definitely harder to use now than 
 when the worms had only two dimensions to consider, which will usually force you to get a lot closer 
 to your enemy before you launch an attack. Since all of the maps in the Worms games have been bound 
 on all sides by water, one of the most practical strategies is to just knock a worm into the drink 
 rather than try to whittle away at its health, since, as we all know, worms can't swim. By taking 
 the game into 3D, this tactic is made even more prominent, since there are now more sides to push 
 opponents off of. Worms 3D is still a pretty good strategy game, but curiously, taking the game 
 into full 3D seems to have actually detracted from some of the depth found in the 2D games.  

 
  If you're by yourself, Worms 3D offers several fun diversions. The campaign mode puts you through 
 a series of maps where you're regularly given objectives other than simply eliminating the enemy, 
 usually involving picking up special packages scattered across the map. Playing through the campaign 
 mode will, in turn, unlock stages in the challenge mode, where you'll have to flex specific skills, 
 such as your prowess with the shotgun, your finesse with the jetpack, or your ability to dispatch 
 the opposing team quickly. There's also a quick-start option, which will toss you into a random 
 game, which is good if you just want a no-strings game of Worms.  

  But the most attractive aspect of Worms 3D is its multiplayer game. The game itself doesn't differ 
 that radically from a regular game against the AI, but what makes it so great is the amount of 
 customization it allows for. Up to four teams of worms can play in a round-robin game, and the 
 variables you can tweak include, and are not limited to, the weapons available during the match, 
 the amount of health each worm has, the length of the game, the length of each turn, the number 
 of rounds in the match, whether worms take damage from falling, whether the landscape is destructible, 
 and the size, shape, and color of the landscape. All these options, combined with the fast-paced 
 hot-seat nature of Worms 3D, make it a fantastic multiplayer game with a great amount of replay 
 value.  

  The PC version of Worms 3D has a very pronounced edge over its PS2 and GameCube counterparts in 
 the multiplayer game, largely because of the inclusion of LAN and Internet support. There's a lobby 
 area where you can join games, create your own game, or just hang out and chat. Actually, the chatting 
 proved to be a little bit rocky for us, primarily because the majority of the people were speaking 
 languages other than English. It makes casual conversation difficult, but since there's no chatting 
 during the actual game, the international flavor of the current Worms 3D crowd doesn't really get 
 in the way of the fun. We also found that the game's network performance wasn't quite optimal -- we 
 experienced pronounced pauses in between turns. The game also crashed on us a few times, though 
 this occurred only when we were setting up a game or trying to join a game and never during the 
 actual action. The quirks we encountered with the online multiplayer in Worms 3D were just that -- it's 
 still really great to be able to play this game against live opponents.  

  The look of Worms 3D is usually very sunny and very cartoony. There's no consistent theme, really, 
 and the levels you'll do battle on include a spooky graveyard, a re-creation of King Kong climbing 
 the Empire State Building, and the moon. The graphics are pretty simple, looking kind of blocky 
 and sporting some rather simple textures, but it has a clean look to it, and the personality definitely 
 helps the game overcome the relatively basic technology that powers it. After seeing Worms Blast, 
 where the worms were cel-shaded, it's a little disappointing to see that the worms here are just 
 textured normally, though they still look and move pretty well, regardless. Worms 3D looks markedly 
 better on the PC than on the PS2 or GameCube, which can be chiefly attributed to the higher levels 
 of resolution the PC version can run at, though the textures also seem to be a bit crisper.  

 
          Worms 3D is faithful to the trappings of its predecessors, almost to a fault.     

  The voices of the worms have been a linchpin to the aesthetics of the series from the beginning, 
 and Worms 3D knows not to mess with a winning formula here. On the whole, the worms will make off-the-cuff 
 comments in a cute, squeaky voice, but the beauty here is that there are just shy of 40 different 
 voice themes that you can assign your worms, giving you plenty of options if you grow tired of 
 a particular set. The bulk of the in-game sound effects have been lifted directly from past Worms 
 games, and the familiarity of the squeaky noise the worms make as they inch along, the hollow clank 
 of a grenade bouncing off surfaces, and the solid kerplunk when worms end up in the water not only 
 let you know you're playing a Worms game, but also complement the game's outlandish tone on their 
 own. There's a bit of music in there too, which is light and upbeat, though not in an overly cartoony 
 way. Think of MIDI music from an Apogee shareware game using improved instrumentation, and you're 
 almost there.  

  The only nagging issue to really be had with Worms 3D is that it maybe seems a little too much 
 like the 2D Worms games of yore. If you're new to the Worms series, then this is a nonissue for 
 you. Worms 3D stands up as a cute, quirky little strategy game that has some excellent multiplayer 
 capacity. However, the old-timers out there may find that though the transition to 3D is novel, 
 it doesn't really have much impact on the overall experience. There are worse things you could 
 say about a game, and ultimately, it's good to see that Team 17's nihilistic annelids have survived 
 the transition to 3D without much incident.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is good and classic. its the first 3d worms that was released and i liked it even if 
 i dont like the chess thingy much but its worth a shot. It doesnt really have a story but it has 
 small missions that of course means destroy other worms. The game can be sometimes frustrating 
 with the jumps and slow moving and especially when you are having a great pressure cause of the 
 time but worms fans will probably adore this game
  
  Well there arent much more too say but if you are intrested in buying this game i would first like 
 to say that if you like games that requires alot of pacient and tactic you will do fine but if 
 not.. well then you might rent it first.
  
  The weapon arsenal are good the graphics are good souned is good and the missions are good and 
 its a good family game for chess lovers and action fans this is probably a must
  
  
  
  Thanks for reading :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  One of Team 17's fun and best. Worms 3D. Playing the worms in 3D rather then 2D. Ok, the game is 
 basically about Worms just fighting each other like the old Worms games but in 3D. The gameplay 
 is fun with all the new weapons, challenges and campaign. The campaign is somewhat interesting 
 with all those random missions everywhere. The D-Day mission is my favorite one. Challenges, on 
 the other hand, is fun with all those maps to keep up the challenging ideas to come. Weapons, can 
 be quite awesome. Our good ol' classics and the new ones but, however, some weapons we're not in 
 the game if you played the original ones. A. I., like all Worms games, are intelligent with all 
 these ranges and attacks. Also, The mathematical fighting, always with all the Worms games, with 
 range attacks can be very clever, so I recommend you to to try some logical thinking. The bad stuff 
 in the game are mostly glitches, involving character animations and the maps (basically about getting 
 stuck) . So, if your a fan of the Worms games, this is recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctrdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I myself only own Worms Armageddon (PS) and Worms 3D (PC) but each game is more valuable then all 
 the games I own. Worms 3D recreates the classic old-school Worms games, the only let down of the 
 game was the controls.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  The game has no story but it could be to defeat Boggy Pete since he appears in so many campaign 
 missions.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The shining part of the game was the graphics, the 60hzs just bring the landscape to life, the 
 weapons look real (thank lord the bullets are not real) and the oil drums must take so much polygons 
 to make it perfect.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sounds are so graphic, the sea, the bullets, the words it's all so good. The worms really sound 
 like they're drowning, the weapons sound so real.
  Perfect!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The best part is the gameplay, it has a variable difficulty level on the multiplayer so you can 
 play according to your ability from newbie to hardcore you choose. The internet function Ive never 
 tried but it should be great like the rest of the game. The single player mode is bliss like quick 
 play, tutorial and many more only on one disk.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  
  This is the downfall of Worms. The controls are confusing, W, A, S and D for controlling your worm, 
 E for birds eye view, what is this? The middle ages? I don't think so. But as soon as you get the 
 hang of it it's alright.
  
  Replay Value: 11/10
  
  Even though I'm only allowed to score up to ten it's deserves the extra point, every time you come 
 on if you've gotten 100% play multiplayer or go online to prove to be the best ever player on Worms 
 3D.
  
  Rent or Buy: Buy
  
  This is a timeless classic that should be cared for and treated properly. If you throw it in the 
 discard pile take it out and play it again and again and again (but not four times (kidding) ) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  nice game but the game need some fixes,
  like the controls because we need to use the keys: w, a, s, d instead the keys: up, down, right, left.
 
  
  here more thing to fix:
  the graphic the sounds and the gameplay,
  the graphic is very poor to our time and the game has a little while sounds.
  
  here more thing 
 to fix, the weapons:
  in worms: world party, worms, Armageddons and in worms: blast were allot of weapons, but in the 
 version of worms: worms 3D , it has a little while weapons. here some weapons to example: Armageddon, super 
 banana and more weapons.
  
  the good things:
  
  the game is 3D now.
  now the game has many more sounds.
  in the main menu the game has a lovely song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Worms classic style of turned based action is back in terrific 3D. The character models are actual 
 very well done with their original cartoony look and style. Framerates are excellent.
  A good set of weapons from the previous games, including bazookas, shotguns, and sheep.
  The 
 same old Worms humor is back with a new style.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The camera is absolute crap. It's one of the worst cameras in the history of game cameras. The 
 problem is how generic it feels.
  The landscapes are not destructible as in the previous 'Worms'. That was the biggest let-down 
 of the whole game for me, actually. I loved making my own little tunnels in the old games and hiding 
 my last worm in there.
  The controls feel really out of control.
  
  :Overall:
  Worms 3D is a decent game but they cut a good bit that used to make me more excited about the 
 worms series. Maybe in the future, we can get a much more Worms-styled Worms 3D game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  amm this is realy nice that they done a game of worms in 3D
  and its realy beautful because of the great graphic
  and all new weapons and all the cool stuff 
 you can do
  and they online mode is realy nice and all . . .
  but its a little bit hard with the 3D because its harder to look at stuff and aim
  because all 
 the stuff and every thing is so big
  but the new maps are very cool and the mission you have
  so amm if you want that game i say . 
 . . rent it first
  because its possible you will not like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm a Worms fan, and I'm always buying every release of the series to have the complete 
 the saga. Now I must be honest with my feelings: Worms 3D is a boring game and very disappointing. 
 It isn't really a bad game, but Worms 3D is a disaster if you compare it with any other 2D installment 
 of the series.
  
  The gameplay lacks most of the strategic elements of the previews games: where is that awesome 
 rope, which allows you to jump one or more times in the air? You can still use it to move your 
 worms to hard spots, but the movement is very restricted. And where are those cool tactics, like 
 shooting a worm and launching it near to a mine or to an oil barrel, to finally explode it? These 
 things don't make sense anymore. And, the worst: why using big weapons in this game, if you can 
 simply push your opponent to the water with the common stuff? This is much more effective than 
 using the powerful arsenal to weaken the enemy, when you can simply and easily launch the adversary 
 to the water from almost every angle.
  
  I really wanted more from Worms 3D. When I saw the screenshots, I was thinking about the old Worms 
 rendered with a nice 3D engine... but the game is totally different from the previews versions. 
 Unfortunately, it was changed to the worst: The camera is very difficult to handle; grenades and 
 similar weapons are nearly impossible to aim; the maps are very generic and lacks detail etc.
 
  
  But, like I said before, it isn't that bad. The campaign is fine and the multiplayer does its job 
 pretty well. There are some game styles that allow you to unlock some secrets in the game, which 
 is indeed a nice touch by Team 17.
  
  If you're a Worms fan, I recommend buying this game and just finishing it. However if you never 
 played any Worms title before, wait for future versions and maybe the developers improve the 3D 
 engine, so you can get the correct idea about this amazing tactical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRZA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  do u like cute animals and violence then this is the perfect game for you!!! this game is soooo 
 addictive you just want to play it again and again specially the multiplayer game Well done to 
 Team 17.
  
  Gameplay
  its very repetitive but fun with loads of weird weapon you can choose from bazooka to old lady. 
 its quite different from the 2d version cos now the wind can deviate the missile in 3 ways so its 
 kinda hard to hit the target but after yo master the art of wind you can even do a back shot!!!
 
  
  Graphic and Sound
  the Graphic is very good now that its 3d and the sound isvery funny each with its own joke the 
 blast and the worm is good
  
  overall I JUST LOVE IT!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  My opinion of Worms 3D is : BEST IN SERIES. Yep Worms 3D finaly changes the clasic worms action!!!!! 
 This is a great game wich shouldn't be missed. To see better the game I'm breaking the game in 
 3 parts.
  
  1st part graphics. In graphics Worms 3D is very good. The worms look terrific and while a player 
 is at his turn the other worms don't sit!!! They make funny faces they play with their ...... huh 
 ...... um ...... eyebrows ( weird isn't it ??? ) . The maps are very well designed like the explotions 
 but the best is the sea !!!!!!!!!! U gotta love the sea !!!!
  
  2nd part sounds. Very GOOD !!!!!!!!! Masterpiece sounds the SFX is excelent! Explotions better 
 than the previous games!!!! The music is fun and entertaining and it maches with the emviorement!!!!
 
  
  3rd part gameplay. Worms 3D has excelent designed missions. The objectives are not allways DESTROY 
 & KILL sometimes COOLECT or COLLECT & DESTROY ........ The multi player is the multi player like 
 in all the worms games. The only bad note for worms 3D is that it stripes a lot of funny weapons!!!! 
 Because in 3D mode they can't be!!! Well I asure you that there are enough weaps for chaos and 
 destroction. So have fun !!!! Ohhhh and by the way you got the wrong screen shots there from Worms 
 Mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This isn't simply Worms in 3D. Everybody knows that. Most things has been added and taken away, 
 such as the weapons, the terrain editor, the use of a story-like training mode, some all new gameplay 
 elements... blah blah blah. It really fits well and snug inside the PC, but there is the annoying 
 camera and plumby voice acting (but Cheeebon German voices rOcK!) in your way. But when that's 
 cleared out of the storm, you've got a crazy stratergy game that'll make you be coming for more.
 
  The graphics are lush and crispy, but they will hurt your eyes. That might not be fair to some 
 players, but the brightness can make you forget about the beautiful backgrounding Team 17 has used. 
 The worm character design is decent aswell.
  
  'Shake Your Coconuts' is the soundtrack used in Worms 3D. It made all players get annoyed and get 
 angry of the song, repeating. Some people found it cool, but for me, it was good at the beggening, 
 but it got so repetieve I turned the volume down. The voice acting stinks - the worms don't open 
 your mouths when saying something. But the voicing is excellent and German voices rock, because 
 the worms shout "CHEEBON!". I'm simply lovin' that style (unfortanualy, they say it when they are 
 get shot) !! The jumping is also dodgy at times, since the worms don't jump straight away when you 
 press the jump button.
  
  The best thing about Worms 3D is the massive value. There are some superb challanges, a massive 
 story, unlockables and of course, multiplayer. You can fight anyone in the world and unleash insanity 
 with the turn based stratergy -- You don't need your players to cram to the keyboard in multiplayer 
 offline. The multiplayer works verrrrry well and is great. The boxart is simple but brilliant, 
 and the clouds look lovely. the sound effects are good, but never quite great, and the explosions 
 are over average.
  It's better than: Worms Blast
  It's worse than: Worms (the original)
  Gameplay
  + Worms in 3D! It works well.
  - I forgot that there is lots of glitches.
  Graphics
 
  + Beautiful animation and backgrounds, plus good explosions.
  - It is just TOO bright.
  Sound
  + CHEEBON!!! Wow.
  - Stupid voice acting and reptetieve, annoying soundtracks.
  
 
  Worms 3D is superb with multiplayer but it works well with solo, and the graphics could have done 
 better if the graphics weren't that bright and the soundtrack plus voice acting needs work. Fun, 
 furious, funny, fantastic, flawful, flappy, flaming...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Worms 3d is a good and funny game with nice landscapes. The mutiplayer is very good as well even 
 versing the computers is quite good. I like the ideas of the missions like D- day as the first 
 mission. The weapons are good and some of the weapons takes a while to get use to. I think this 
 game is better than worms mayhem by a wee bit.
  
  This game is worth the money so you can buy it and play it with friends or family or just yourself. 
 
  
  Would you say 3d is better than the 2d worms games. 
  
  To be honest I preferred the 2d worms games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizraz132
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  u heard some people saying wtf is this game its **** blablablablabla......
  dont belive them its worth to buy the game the game isnt **** on pcits even tthe best u guys.
 
  just dont buy it for consoles cause it cant online just buy for pc its one of the best games from 
 the worms genre i just dont believe the guys who say the game is ****.
  its one of the best games!!!!!!!!!!!!
  JUST FOCK THE GUYS WHO SSAY THE GAME IS BAD EVEN THE GAME 
 IS PRETTY OLD JUST BUY IT DONT BUY MAYHEM OR OTHER THIS IS THE BEST WORMS 3D  
 if u buy the game: D :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  This is another game in the famous Worms Series, but is it as good as its predessesors? In my opinion 
 it falls quite short, however it still manages to bring a unique and finally 3D element to the 
 world of Worms.
  Firstly the gameplay; it is decent and reflects past games well, but when i loaded up i was hoping 
 for something new and fresh besides the 3D content. Its user friendly and has a short learning 
 curve (interface) and a longer learning curve for accurate use of the weapons.
  The physics and graphics are nothing to brag about, both fail to impress.
  The sound is what 
 you would expect in a game like this and will most likely please the player.
  Overall i would recommend this either to die hard fans, or new Worms patrons (though World Party 
 or Armegeddon would be much better) .
  
  Oh there is multiplay (of course) and it seemed decent and put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Worms 3D is a fun worms game with new weapons and it's 3D (DUH!!) The gameplay is like all the 
 other worm games except that there are campagins now and challenges. There are also new weapons 
 and tools like the gas grenade or the jetpack. Like the original, the whole enviroment is destroyable. 
 There arn't many multiplayer maps but that doesn't take away from the fun. Gameplay is great, graphics 
 are ok there might be some glitches, sound... the weapons sounds are great, they still hav the 
 different accents but there sould be different sounds when shooting different things like wen shooting 
 a building, the sound should be different than shhoting the ground, the game is worth full price 
 because it is cheep (i bought it in Poland for $9 Can.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordsman242
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this i got it right away even thoguh it was used, i was obseesed with this game 
 on the computer, especialy multiplayer, i like it for p-s2 though also. Its better for computer, 
 because the one for the computer, is just a classic. This one is just much harder, but i haven't 
 played multiplayer yet. I would give it 10 for everything except graphics and sound, but im comparing 
 it to the computer game, kind of, so it's score will decrease a bit. I just love this game a lot 
 even though it has some glitches, and not a big variety of maps i still ove it, and im sure veryone 
 else will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazwan149
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  The controller of the game is a little bit difficult than worms armageddon. 
  we need to use mouse and keyboard together. it tooks me about 50 minutes to learn the controls. 
 I just finished my first game when i write this review. As sooner as write this as sooner everybody 
 know. play worms armageddon ? stop playing it and play worms 3d ! it is the best in all worms series 
 ! Everyone can play it but not really good for kids. it contains gore. it is a very good strategy 
 games ecspecially when aiming the enemies
  The campaign is quited easy and slowly. I just keep playing and playing this game. Got it ? Game 
 on ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say about Worms 3D. Personally, I think this game is okay. I like the 2D version 
 better. I just enjoy playing it more. 3D is to difficult. 
  
  Well that is what I thought before I did the campaigns and Training. It really helps doing those. 
 Now I love the game. I would not say it is the best ver game, but it is a lot of fun to play. 
 
  
  The weapons are exactly the same as Worms Armageddon, so there is nothing new regarding weapons. 
 I love the battle fields. Very dynamic, very colorful and some are REALLY BIG!
  
  So all and all it was an average game to me really. I have it in my collection but don't play it 
 all that much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fedexbox
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 25, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  camera angles in game suck, the game controls suck, and the AI cheats. If you want it get it on a 
 console!!!!! plus the sound of the wording from the AI is terrible. MADE NO SENCE.. what in the 
 world is elephant dishwater!!?!?!?!?!? I am so sick of hearing those worms say that is so stupid!!!!! 
 This game should have never been put on the PC it was never ment for it at all!! They should have 
 left it on the consoles would have been much better!!!!
  plus is anyone tries to hound me about my ideas on this game , go right ahead i will hound you 
 right back with spam mail.. thank you and 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallycar
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 24, 2004 7:02 am PT
Review:  I am a great worms fan. I've played the worms games since the first game and I have even been the 
 best swedish player on WormNET for quite some time (not anymore though) . When I first saw the pictures 
 and movies of this game I thought "wow!". It looked like a solid game, nice graphics and gameplay. 
 But to my disapointment, the camera actually is very bad and annoying. Worms should not be in 3D, 
 specially not like this. Even the internet play lags like hell so I didn't spend much time playing 
 this one which is pretty sad. I hope Team17 will come up with the idea of a 2D/3D version of the 
 game, the classical gameplay stile but with 3D-worms and night/day possibility. What does the fate 
 say..? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
