-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worms2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 991 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The simple rules and basic control structure make it a game that anyone can learn to play in about 
 five minutes. 

 Every now and then a game comes along that is addictive, challenging, and entertaining all at the 
 same time and yet can't really be explained as such to someone who hasn't played the game. Worms 
 2 is such a game. I have started this review seven times now, and each time I've been thwarted 
 by the difficulty of explaining exactly why blowing the crap out of armless, legless cartoon characters 
 with ridiculously overpowered weaponry is as much fun as it is. But that's my job, so here goes. 

 First, the somewhat empirical description of the game: Worms 2 is a 2D turn-based strategy game 
 that puts you in command of a team of worms armed with predetermined amounts of arms and ammunition 
 and sets you out on a fully destructible battleground to kill one or more similarly armed enemy 
 teams. Every so often a care package will fall from the sky and can be collected by your soldiers. 
 These packages contain health, new weaponry, or a bomb (these you don't want) . On each turn, you 
 select one of your worms, move it around on the screen with your arrow keys, select a weapon or 
 tool, aim, and determine the amount of force you want to put into the shot. Some of the weapons 
 included - like the bazooka or shotgun - have an immediate effect, and others - like the grenade 
 - have a timer that will tick off before detonation. That's it, there's nothing more you need to 
 know to play this game. Pretty simple, eh?  

 So why is Worms 2 so much fun to play? That answer comes in several parts. First off, the simple 
 rules and basic control structure make it a game that anyone can learn to play in about five minutes 
 (now that you've read this review it won't even take you that long) . Even so, the well-designed 
 physics model ensures that the longer you practice, the better you'll get (if you think you're 
 going to be able to hit a target across screen by lobbing a three-second grenade on your first 
 try, you're dreaming) . This  kind of setup is the most basic 
 component of making a game that people will want to play again and again.  

 The second great thing about Worms 2 is that it appeals to the destructive side in all of us. Everything 
 in the game can be destroyed: ground, girders, houses... whatever. This not only opens up a whole 
 new world of strategic play options (why waste a lot of time shooting someone over and over when 
 you can just destroy the ground underneath him?) , it's also pleasing to your inner child who has 
 secretly missed shooting his Star Wars figures with a BB gun for years. The battlefield's changing 
 nature gives you a feeling of control over your surroundings, another great feature to be included 
 in the game design primer.  

 Thirdly, Worms 2 is funny. From the artwork and animation that feature these bloodthirsty little 
 critters shooting, punching, and blasting one another to kingdom come, to the brilliant sound effects 
 that let you customize the voices of your worms to everything from a 007 wanna-be to a Scottish 
 killer, the game does everything in its power to keep you laughing as you play. When done correctly, 
 this too is another feature of great games.  

 Finally, Worms 2 is a great multiplayer game. Whether you're playing at home with some of your friends 
 (and with up to 18 players by hot seat, you're a lot more likely to run out of friends than you 
 are to run out of game slots) or playing over the Internet (up to six players here) , the game is 
 designed to let as many players as possible get into some competition that's impossible not to 
 love. Since the game also allows you to change screens, weapon options, and about a billion other 
 things (a slight exaggeration, but let's just say more than I want to count) about the way the 
 game plays, you can always set up a game that's different enough from the last time you played 
 to be interesting.  

 Reading about Worms 2 is no comparison to playing it. This is one of those games that, even if it 
 doesn't sound that great on paper (or onscreen... whatever) , is still worth purchasing on faith 
 alone. If you're interested in action or strategy games, and you're looking for a title that you'll 
 still be gathering friends around to play well into the next year, Worms 2 is the game for you. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RPGfred
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I laugh. A shrill, cackling laugh.
  My friend groans as his worm flies into the water, propelled by a bazooka.
  
  Worms 2 is a 
 game for everyone, and can be enjoyed by all ages. The wonderful humour, great selection of weapons 
 and ways to destroy your enemies, and, most importantly, worms makes this stand out from the rest. 
 Create your own team, name your worms, even give your team a language/style to speak in after certain 
 things happen. For instance, if another worm misses one of your worms, and your language is, say, 
 'Angry Scots', your worm will say something like "Pants!", instead of the generic 'You missed!' 
 
  You are also able to view all the languages on the 'Sound Bank Editor', a superb extra with the 
 game, that allows you not only to listen to all the sounds the different styles can make, but it 
 is indeed possible to record yourself, and put it onto the sound bank, making for some hilarious 
 games.
  
  Pit your team against your friends, or, if you want to practice, the computer. However, this has 
 its drawbacks, as the single player is somewhat lacking, but, let's face it, this wasn't made for 
 single player, it was made for fun multiplayer fights, and that's exactly what we got.
  
  As for weapon variations, there's some great, some awesome, and some downright creative, ie exploding 
 sheep. Happy yet? If not, there are grannies, banana bombs and the truly awesome Holy Hand Grenades. 
 Huge bangs. Enough said.
  It's such a pity that the worms games that came after this, the 3D ones, have been so terrible. 
 This is retro, and this is just the way we like it.
  
  All in all, a superb game - good job, Team 17 - it's just a shame there hasn't been a lot else 
 since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing!!!
  Great graphics!
  Great multiplayer!
  Great value!
  Great tilt! Great everything!!!!
  So seriously you just have to buy this game and if you don't 
 want to well to bad!
  The humor in this game is as you use an old grandma as a weapon and she walks around and the goes 
 BOOM!!!!!!!!!!
  And of course the holy hand grenade that you throw and it goes "hallelujah" and the explodes in 
 an fiery explosion!!!!!!
  This game is even great fun for teens and adults!!!!
  So if you hate worms 2 fine with you because this game rules all!!!!!!
  There is nothing bad 
 at all with this game it's all good!!!!
  Everyone should love this game!!!!!
  Everything is good about it and nothing bad!!!!!
  This is the greatest, most best, most fantastic 
 game of all time!!!!!!! 
  I would give it a google!!!!!
  And that is the end of my review hope you liked it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkingfire
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I've played a number of Worms games (certainly not all) , but of all the ones I have, worms 2 is 
 the best. It's not 3d, it's not flashy, but it is awesome.
  
  Perhaps the greatest feature in this game is that most weapons are fully customizable. Everything 
 from the accuracy, power, fire spread, particle velocity, number of particles, napalm spread, everything. 
 Want a mini gun that fires 200 bullets in a straight line? Got it. Want unlimited ninja ropes? 
 Got it. Want a napalm bomb that spreads fast and lasts for rounds? Got it. The future games just 
 don't let you tinker with these numbers, and that can take a lot of fun situations out of the game. 
 These aren't missed in the new series, and there are other things that they add to make up for 
 it (such as low gravity, etc) , but the Potential for fully customized weapons makes this a completely 
 rocking game.
  
  Other features include a full map editor with a random generator that makes decent cavern and open 
 maps. You can also add borders to the game world, so that the worms never sink. This can be great 
 fun on a cavern map, as you ninja rope your way around. Or, go for an open map with a bottom border 
 to allow airstrikes and the killer mortar strike (stand on an opposing worm's head and fire a mortar 
 straight up. It'll hit the worm on the head, exploding all fragments at once. Usually, instant 
 kill) .
  
  As for the campaign, I suppose it's decent. I really can't recall it as I usually just skirmished.
 
  
  To date, I've never gotten this game working on Windows XP, though I'm not sure if that's my copy, 
 as the game is quite old now. Just a word of warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Worms is an old series, and though it is not considered to be groundbreaking , Worms 2 can be considered 
 as a classic.
  
  You control a team of 1-8 worms (depending on the amount of teams, and the setting) , and you have 
 a full scale war on a side scrolling map. The brilliant part about Worms 2, is that EVERYTHING 
 IS DESTRUCTIBLE. If you drop a stick of dynamite, chances are there will be a giant hole in the 
 map. This frequent alteration in the map makes for fast paced, fast changing gameplay. The weapons 
 are just crazy. You have your standard weapons, like Bazookas, Grenades, and other things of the 
 like, but on the other hand, you can mix the match up by using Air Strikes, Super Sheep, Regular 
 Sheep, Banana/Super Banana Bombs, Old Ladies, and a few secret weapons which are near impossible 
 to get (an example being the elusive Concrete Donkey ) . The sound is ok, all the weapons have strange 
 sound effects, and cool explosion sounds, and the worms voices are cool when you figure out how 
 to change them, but I cannot get music to go. There is no music, so it often feels a little bland, 
 but this doesn't matter. The gameplay is brilliant, but it can become a little repetitive just 
 beating up people across maps, so the game mixes it up with a mission mode, where you go up against 
 a computer team and there is always different weapon sets, making each level a challenge in its 
 own way. Also, it has special maps which are loads of fun. There is also a map maker mode, which 
 could've been a little better, but it is good to try new methods of play.
  
  Worms 2 has great multiplayer and single player, has a great look and feel, and is basically just... 
 Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iriver_H10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  If i was to be asked what my favourite all time old school game was i'd say the Worms series. Worms 
 2 is as good as pointless games get. The creators at Atari and Team17 shoul be given a medal for 
 thinking of a game where small worms fight against each other with the aim of anniahilating each 
 other completely.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much straight forward. Choose teams and shoot, hit, blast, airstrike, napalm, 
 poke, prod and kamikaze the opponents until you emerge the single victorious worm left on the map. 
 
  
  Multiplayer is smooth and the random maps are entertaining, making this a classic that will be 
 remembered fondly by all gamers.
  
  You can also pick it now for a great price so i recommend it to anyone who would like pointless 
 hours playing a quality game to pass the time. SW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Worms 2 is a game that doesn't take it's self seriously and thats good. 
  
  Graphics: The 2D world of worms isn't the most glamourios, but it is funny. Since there are many 
 weapons and some do similar things it's good they look different. 
  
  Sound: Just basic bloops and bleeps
  
  Voices: The Worm's voices are hilarious and they are 
 so cute. Cute, but oh so deadly.
  
  Music: Horrible really. Sorry, but when playing online I'd rather not listen to the same 5 tunes 
 over and over again.
  
  Gameplay: This can go 2 ways. 1 you could have a terrific time playing online with a good oppenent. 
 or 2) you get stuck playing an annoying kid who curses and always uses the damn ninja rope! Oh 
 yeah, it's also hard
  
  FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlord300
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Worms 2 is an awesome game that can be eaisly played due to awesome graphics for PC. I recommend 
 this game to everyone... I mean you have boozaka's, Missles, Sheep, Flying sheep, Holy hand  
 bomb, mad cow, and old woman. All very good weapons to use. and this game was made in the 1997s. Which 
 is preety good back there. I recommend anyone to play this game. its awesome. Also it lets you play 
 against other people around the world. How awesome is that??!!! you can make your own terrain and 
 make your own team. This game keeps getting better and better by the years. IN due time it will be 
 one of the best games ever. That's why you said chek this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  So you have a small army of grey little worms armed to the teeth with bazooka's, machine guns, 
 shot guns, homing missiles, ninja rope, baseball bats, old ladies, and sheep.
  You take careful careful aim with your weapons are you attempt to angle your shots so they land 
 dead aim on your target, causing the most amount of damage possible.
  Of course it's all done with bright colours, adorable character's and humorous voices. My wife 
 and I used to enjoy playing against each other all the time.
  Plus there's lots of variables in the level you have control over, from round times, weapons you 
 start with, ammo available, etc. There's also team, sound profile, and level editors included. 
 The easy to use level editor, with multiple environment styles to play in, makes for an infinite 
 number of terrains to fight on.
  The biggest downside I would say is if you try single player. Sure it's still fun, but it gets 
 kinda old fast. It's best and most exciting with multi-player. 
  A definite bargain bin pick-up for your PC if you happen to come across it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Worms 2 is a fantastic game on many fronts. From the clever, colourful graphics to the sharp gameplay. 
 The sound is fun and loveable and the lifespan is hours upon hours upon hours. Even once the single 
 player missions are over, you can still play this game. Creating a team is great fun and this game 
 has an all round satisfactory touch to it which raises the gameplay playability higher. 
  
  The missions can be quite tricky sometimes. The multiplayer of this game is brilliant. You can 
 create different terrains, with different scenarios and with different weapon features. Every game 
 is different and this game can be played by so many different people. This game is fantastic and 
 should not be missed. With the price also being low, you cannot go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Worms 2 is part of a long line of worms party based combat games that are generally just for pure 
 laughs especially when playing with friends. It is a pretty original concept that no other game 
 really follows on as a side scrolling turn based fighting game where you control a certain group 
 of worms to destroy the worms of the opposition. I would definately recommend this game for parties 
 or when you are playing in large groups as playing by yourself with the computer just doesn't seem 
 all that fun. The game boasts many crazy and wild weapons starting from mundane utilities that 
 may later turn into things that are just exaggerated. For example, one of the weapons that you 
 can possibly use is the "poke" a tap on your opponent that can send them reeling to their deaths 
 if thtey are standing by a cliff. On the other hand there are exploding sheeps which are just what 
 they sound like. Sheep that you can hurl at your opponents for some destructive damage to them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Atari had once again suppassed them selves with a great sequel to the original worms. With loadas 
 weapons and kool stunts this is the ultimate way to jst waste sum time if u have ne. At first u 
 think this luks terrible 2d and a bit cartoony then u start playing and u cant stop. There are 
 quite a few secret weapons may as well give one away the concrete donkey for instance can kill 
 a small part of terrain and ne thing on tht bit in a matter of seconds. There are also sum cheats 
 if u are into tht kinda stuff which for example lets u do a back flip very handy wen running from 
 a freshly placed dynamite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Worms 2 is SO SO SO SO SO *goes on for an hour...* SO FUN! The whole enviroment is destructible! 
 Also you can costomize the strengths of your weapons and the limit you can hold (i always do max. 
 strength and unliited of everything) in two player. In singleplayer you are just given a couple 
 of weapons to kill the other team, but you can expand your arsenal with crates that fall from the 
 sky, which contain a weapons, health or a bomb (which could kill your worm) . So gameplay is awsome, 
 graphics are not bad, ver cartoony, I love the sound, there are a couple of tracks of music and 
 you can give your worms so many accents (ex, if you pick polish or french, they speak that language, 
 if you use redneck, they have an accent like a redneck) , and this game is worth full price (cheap 
 :) ) . NOW GET OFF YOUR A**ES AND GET WORMS 2!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Worms strikes again! Yet another extremely funny and challenging game. Worms 2 this time has new 
 weapons, maps, voices, and much more. And it's a lot better than its predecessor. 
  
  The Good: 
  
  - To make it short... the whole freakin' game is just great!
  
  The bad:
 
  
  - The graphics.
  - Very short campaign.
  - In fact, there's nothing to do but play a singleplayer game against the computer, when you finish 
 the campaign!
  
  Worms 2 can be highly recommended, to all Worms lovers. 
  
  Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 you are gay! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 
 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
 Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! Worms 2 rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Speaking purely from an evolutionary perspective, the worm gets no respect. Earthworms (or should 
 I say, Annelids) occupy one of the lowest rungs of the taxonomic hierarchy (squished right in between 
 those wily Placozoans and the up-and-coming Rotifers...) . People often mock the worm, taunting 
 it with cries of "Stupid Oligochaeta, you'll never have any thumbs! Here, catch..." And even though 
 the worm is nature's greatest recycler, it often gets gypped out of a few bucks at the Recycling 
 Center, due most likely in part to its quite undersized brain and the fact that it never remembers 
 to wear pants with pockets.
  
  After taking this sort of abuse for years, those pesky worms decided to take matters into their 
 own hands (or should I say, segments) by redefining the image of the whole damn phyla. Swapping 
 septa for shotguns, the worms became a fighting force of extraordinary magnitude. In short, the 
 worms are ANGRY and ARMED...
  
  This of course was chronicled nicely in Worms and the follow-up Worms: Reinforcements. Both were 
 cult successes but never managed to breakthrough to the mainstream gaming public. Well I'm here 
 to change all that, with the help of this year's sleeper hit, Worms 2.
  
  For those of you unwise in the Way of the Worm , I'll try to explain the basic gameplay. Sort of 
 a cross between the two classic games Lemmings and Artillery; the object is to keep your group 
 of worms alive while destroying all enemy worms. This is done with a turn based system of strike/counterstrike 
 set on a 'malleable' terrain. You take turns strategically moving your worms around, trying to 
 get in position to kill and survive. Each worm has a certain number of hit points, and the winner 
 is the team with the worm last standing. Basically, you blow everything up.
  
  In order to blow things up, you have at your disposal a dizzying array of weaponry. The basics 
 include bazookas, grenades, and guns, though this only scratches the surface. With over 30 unique 
 methods of destruction, the fun never ends. Some of the more 'colorful' devices include exploding 
 sheep, airborne napalm strikes, baseball bats, old women (mumbling about the price of tea) , vicious 
 bananas, and the hallowed 'concrete donkey.' (oh yes... it exists...)
  
  This may sound a bit too simple for the hard core gamer, but rest assured this is no walk in the 
 park. Employing wind effects ala Artillery, aiming takes great patience and skill. The plethora 
 of weapons have different blast effects, making it imperative to fully understand how each weapon 
 will react. A poorly trained Worm will most likely blow himself to itty bitty bits.
  
  With super crisp SVGA graphics, Worms 2 is easy on the eyes. You can modify the graphical detail 
 to suit your needs, though I found almost no slowdown whatsoever on a P 120 with 32 MB RAM. Slower 
 systems hold up well; a pat on the back to Microprose for making a game that doesn't require a 
 $2000 upgrade.
  
  The sound kicks ass (or should I say, 'Dorsal') . With over a dozen sound banks, your Worms can 
 be hollering at each other in a number of accents, from Angry Scots (blow 'em to haggis!) to James 
 Brown impersonators (jump back, kiss myself) . Explosions sound great as well, including the 'baa 
 baa' of the pre-exploded sheep and the choir singing 'Hallelujah' before the Holy Hand Grenade 
 serves (okay, I'm giving too much away now...) .
  
  One of the new features is the ability to hurl destruction from mid-air. Using the Ninja Rope, 
 you can repel down the side of a hill, hover over an enemy, drop a sheep on his head, and climb 
 to safety before the inevitable 'lamb chop suey.' Like a worm McGuyver without duct tape.
  
  There are several ways to play the game. With 36 single player missions, you can get the hang 
 of things before venturing into the true test of Worm Warfare by engaging in online multiplayer 
 mayhem. Thankfully, developers Team 17 have their own servers for online gaming, cutting out the 
 annoying middleman gaming zone like MPG or HEAT. At no extra cost, you simply log on to a Worms 
 server, find a game and play against a drunk guy in Canada (or a drunk guy in America, if you live 
 in Canada) . This is really the highlight of the game. Since Worms 2 is turn-based, annoying lag 
 isn't a huge issue. With LAN support and IP support, they came to the table prepared.
  
  And what is any game these days without a level editor? Worms 2employs a simple and effective terrain 
 editor - sort of a tailor made version of 'Paint.' You can also edit the weaponry and use both 
 map and weapon data online. Am I gushing?
  
  The only real problem with Worms 2 is the lack of depth. Your worms, while being quite impressive 
 at learning how to bungee jump and lob grenades, don't get better with age. You can wipe out an 
 entire enemy force with one particularly feisty worm, but he won't start the next round with more 
 hit points, better weapons, etc. This would have added a layer of depth, much like the 'hero' system 
 of the Warcraft II Expansion. According to one of the developers, an upcoming patch will include, 
 among other things, a sort of 'degree' scenario, where you can actually train your worms to get 
 better. How very kung-fu.... and how very cool.
  
  Worms. The downtrodden, the disgusting, the delinquents of the food chain. For years they've been 
 pushed aside, swept under the carpet, and scraped off the boot. With Worms 2, those meaningless 
 Annelids make a brave crawl forward. Join them in their quest for respect, ammunition, and dung. 
 A highly recommended game, for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  First of all: IT IS WORMS!!! Not a 3d worm but a original 2d worm!!!
  The second reason is that you can customize you weapon to the ultimate! A little prod can be transformed 
 into a hard push! A minigun can destroy a whole world! 
  
  Another cool thing is that this game got funny, short, worms-movies! Like the one with the two 
 worms that compete about how got the best weapon! It ends with one of the worms use a giant hammer! 
 LOL!
  
  I think that worms 2 was the game that made Team 17 think forward! But unfortunately too long. 
 Now it's just 3d! And I don't like that! 
  I like the (almost) original worms! I think WORMS 2 IS A SUPERB GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dorwin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  Worms 2 is about worm domination, last wrom standing in other words. You command a team of worms 
 which you get to name then send them to war. controls are easy to learn. basicaly spacebar is fire 
 left, right, to move. 
  If you like beating your friends then you play mutliplayer on or offline. 
  If the game sounds 
 average wait till you here there cool voices there da bomb. this game is a 2D version of Hogs of 
 War! 
  so over all this game is a must or you could buy a new version but this is still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  When a game is released, it is sometimes addictive, challenging, and most importantly fun. Worms 
 2 is one of those rare games that fits into this category, I'm Andrew Hale and your reading my 
 review on Worms 2. When you first see this game you may think it is a kids game but its not, its 
 so fun (even for adults) to blow the crap out of an amrless, legless, cartoon worm characters with 
 a variety of very cool weapons. 
  
  To explain what this game is like, its a 2D turn based strategy game that lets you control a squad 
 of Worm soldiers that carry tons of weapons that varry from small firearms like pistols to heavy 
 air strikes. Your mission is to eliminate the other team of worms, you play on a very destructable 
 map that can be blown up pretty easily. Every now and then packages will drop from the sky, these 
 contain more health, new weapons, or a bomb that tricks you into picking up the package. Every 
 turn you play as a different worm (the worms are scattered all over the map) , you select a weapon, 
 aim it, and see how much power you want on the shot. Thats it as far as gameplay goes, not much 
 isnt it, but it packs a very solid and fun gameplay experience.
  
  So why is this game so much fun? Heres the answers, there are simple rules and controls that enable 
 anyone to learn to play this game in a mere 5 to 10 minutes. Second of all, the longer you play 
 ... the better you get. For example, if you think you can throw a greande across the map when you 
 start playing this game then keep dreaming .. but if you practice you may be able to do it or have 
 a better chance. Also, like I said before the maps are very destructive ... you can blow up anything, 
 walls, girders, houses you name it. So if there a guy behing a huge wall, why not try to blast 
 through the wall instead on tossing a grenade over and hoping he'll get hit? 
  
  Also this game is funny, the animations of worms shooting and getting hit is truly a laugh. With 
 the great sound affects that let you customize the voices of your worms make this a truly unique 
 sound experience. 
  
  And last but not least, this game is a superb multiplayer game, whether your playing at home online 
 against 6 opponents) . To be honest this game's best feature is its multiplayer, they make this 
 multiplayer very fun and it hard not to enjoy every moment of this multiplayer component. 
  
  So reading this review doesn't tell the whole story, although this game may look a little kiddy. 
 It play spectacularilly, this game appeals to all audiences. If you like strategy games then this 
 game will not let you down. If you searching for a great game to play with your buds, then I'd 
 have to suggest Worms 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmyVermicelli
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 19, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Worms 2 is one of the coolest games I've played for the PC. After a couple of rounds of Unreal 
 Championship or Doom 3, Worms 2 provides that light-hearted FUN! 
  
  The Graphics in Worms 2 were never meant to astound and amaze. They are perfect for type of game, 
 and in opinion, 3-D Worms pales in comparison to the bright, colourful Worms 2 backgrounds. I give 
 it 7 out of 10 for graphics.
  
  In Worms 2, you control a team of earthworms (or army) with your own set of arms and ammunition. 
 Set against another team, (or up to 3 in one game) , your job is to decimate the opponents in any 
 way possible. Why not throw a sheep with a bomb attached in a group of opponents and detonate the 
 bomb? Or, why not take your Uzi and blow the **** out of the closest defenceless critter? And for 
 the suicidal, use your Kamikaze to blow yourself to smithereens! The possiblities are endless. 
 I think the Gameplay deserved an 8 out of 10.
  
  The best part of the game coming up... the Sound. The Worms are hilarious! Throw a grenade into 
 a pack of them and they'll shriek and scream and try to scuttle away before being blasted into 
 next week! They'll seek revenge on their attackers as well! Blow them away and they'll come out 
 with a comment like "Rrrrrr, I'll get you you evil little...." and "Hah! You missed!". The Sound 
 for Worms 2 is just great, so it deserves the perfect 10 out of 10.
  
  Worms 2 is a great game. You can pick it up for a fiver in most stores nowadays! This is one of 
 the funniest games I've ever played. Buy it today, and you'll understand why. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
