-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms World Party
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/wormsworldparty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Titus Software
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 16, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those who've never played a Worms game or never got around to picking up Worms Armageddon will thoroughly 
 enjoy Worms World Party. 

  For fans of Team 17's venerable Worms -- a long-running series of lighthearted turn-based strategy 
 games -- Worms World Party will undoubtedly be somewhat of a mixed blessing. On the one hand, it's 
 clearly the best Worms game to date, as it offers all the great features found in the previous 
 three iterations as well as the addition of several new gameplay options and modes, including the 
 cooperative multiplayer missions. On the other hand, these new modes are only incremental changes 
 of a formula that's nearly six years old, so players expecting significant changes to the Worms 
 series will likely be disappointed by the latest installment.           The game features the same, 
 great tactical battles as in its predecessors.    

  At its core, Worms World Party is no different from the original Worms, which was released in 1995. 
 The basic premise of the game is simple: You control a team of weapon-toting worms and take turns 
 squaring off against other groups of human- or computer-controlled annelids on any number of side-view 
 outrageous maps. Each team's worm is given a small amount of time to complete a specific set of 
 actions, which typically include moving across the map to set up the optimum attacking location, 
 executing the actual attack, and then retreating into relative safety. Worms are eliminated when 
 you deplete their hit points or when you knock them into the water found in most levels. The weapons 
 that are available to you range from relatively simple arms like shotguns and rocket launchers 
 to truly over-the-top devices like exploding sheep and napalm air strikes. When all your opposing 
 teams' worms have been killed, you're declared the winner. The game is remarkably easy to get into, 
 thanks to its minimal interface and intuitive controls. In fact, these controls are so simple that 
 you can direct your team's actions by using little more than a handful of keystrokes.   

  Despite its apparent homeliness, Worms World Party is very involved and actually contains a fair 
 amount of depth. For instance, when attacking using a grenade, you'll need to take into account 
 the angle of your enemy relative to your location, the distance to the enemy, the wind direction 
 and wind speed, the fuse timer on the grenade, the "bounciness" factor of the grenade, and any 
 possible obstructions before attempting to strike. Often you'll also need to mind sporadically 
 placed land mines and fuel drums on each level, as a stray shot into one of these can have dire 
 consequences. Ultimately, you'll find the game's humorous and often-surprising gameplay to be quite 
 addictive, if unchanged from Worms, Worms 2, and Worms Armageddon.   

  As stated earlier, the new additions to Worms World Party are largely insignificant, as they don't 
 affect the core gameplay at all. The game includes a reference guide called the "Wormopaedia," 
 which sorts all of the 60-plus weapons in alphabetical order and gives a technical breakdown of 
 each, including some helpful tips on how best to use each one. The wormpot option is also new, 
 which is basically a random option generator designed to function like a casino-style slot machine. 
 Before starting a game, you're given the option to pull a lever that will spin three reels. Each 
 reel represents a certain gameplay option (such as the inclusion of exploding crates) , and all 
 three can combine for nearly 1000 different combinations, resulting in matches that are never quite 
 the same twice. A fairly easy-to-use mission editor also lets you create your own maps, which you 
 can then make available online for other players to download, and a new multiplayer mode will let 
 you play cooperatively with others online. Additionally, Worms World Party comes with several new 
 multiplayer maps, training stages, and puzzle-based single-player maps.           You can play 
 online, or in various single-player and multiplayer modes.     

  Publisher Titus claims that the graphics have also been updated, but you'll be hard pressed to 
 find any notable differences between Worms World Party and Worms Armageddon. Certainly, there's 
 nothing wrong with the graphics -- you'll undoubtedly find that Worms World Party's bright colors 
 and fluidly animated backgrounds fit the overall theme of the game quite well. Likewise, the sound 
 effects and music, though largely unchanged from the previous game, complement the admittedly wacky 
 visuals nicely. One serious problem that the retail version of Worms World Party seems to have 
 is its inability to join the Worms. net multiplayer service right out of the box. When first attempting 
 to log on to the service, we were prompted to download a 5.7MB patch before being allowed to move 
 on. Once installed, however, the game's multiplayer component ran smoothly, despite the fact that 
 the only server currently available is located in the UK.   

  It's a shame that Titus is forcing Worms fans to pay stand-alone prices for what easily could have 
 been an expansion pack. As it is -- those who've never played a Worms game or never got around to 
 picking up Worms Armageddon will thoroughly enjoy Worms World Party. But if you're looking forward 
 to a true sequel, you'll have to keep waiting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZeromusUltima
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Worms World Party is the ultimate 2d strategy game on computer. I mean, it's good by it's premise 
 alone. You play as worms. But not just any worms. Fully LOADED worms!
  
  Graphics 7/10: The graphics, while 2d, don't give Worms that 'old' feeling. It gives it more of a 'different' 
 feeling. I mean that in a good way of course.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The gameplay is extremely fun and frantic. You play on either a random, pre-made 
 or custom landscape, choose your teams weapons and away you go! All of this is awesome fun. Believe 
 me.
  
  Sound 7/10: While most of the tunes aren't memorable, the worms voices are as funny as ever, with 
 cyborg voices to English accents, this game has a wacky amount of voices in it.
  
  Replay Value10/10: Even after completing all of the missions I never got bored of destroying another 
 team of worms. You will never get sick of this game.
  
  Closing Comments: Worms World Party is the best installment in the series on the computer. Newcomers 
 and hardcore fans alike will find something in it for them. If you like strategy games, you'll love 
 it even more. In short: Worms World Party. Buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a good follow-up to Worms: Armageddon. Worms: Armageddon was an excellent edition 
 of the 2D strategy game. Worms World Party had to set a high standard to Worms: Armageddon, World 
 Party is as good as Worms A maybe better. Team 17 have done good to make the worms series stay 
 on the 2d platform. I think it looks better and plays better on the 2d platform then the 3d platform. 
 Even though this game is exactly like Armageddon it has got slight improvements to the game play 
 and navigation. This is a very good worms game and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, I thought it was one of the typical games that are only fun to watch 
 rather than to play.
  
  The controls are hard, I admit myself, it takes time before you really know what's what and how 
 it works. But that's alright, because it's worth it.
  The weapons are from an old retarded man who lives in the ashtray of a ghetto-family, that's why 
 they're 
  The sounds are cute too, and with that I especially mean the Worms' voices, ofcourse. And next 
 to that, I just LOVE the big choice of countries, all with their music and flag.
  
  There is absolutely too much in this game too love. Worms World Party is the only Worms-game I 
 have, but that's alright. Even though I only have this one, I have the feeling this game won't 
 differ too much with his precessors.
  
  Viva La Halellujah-Bomb! &gt;: [ *CHAIR EXPLODES* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  So did you play worms armaggedon? then you played this game, cuz they are exactly the same. the 
 only difference that i noticed is the world party multiplayer stuff that they offer. it's been 
 so long that i can't really comment to much, but i definately remember thinking that this game 
 was a waste of money. if you haven't ever p; ayed armaggedon though, get this one. it is a fun game 
 just not worth the price difference. GOOD: funny speech, good graphics, good weapons, fun times.
 
  BAD: not much differnce from previous versions. doesn't give a good reason to buy it if you have 
 Worms Armaggedon already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamagig
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, Worms World Party is a classic. Quite frankly, no one who owns a PC should be without 
 this game. It will run on even the oldest of computers with little problems, and is only a few 
 dollars when bought new!
  
  This game is a unique experience. The best way to describe it is as a turn based, side-scrolling 
 shooter with strategy elements. One feature that makes this game all the more unique is the way 
 that the landscape deforms as you play. This means that if you place a mine somewhere, it will 
 blow a big hole out of the map. As most weapons affect the landscape in some way or another, you 
 sometimes have to come up with a new idea or strategy on the fly, as your cover has been blown 
 up, or the enemy worm has burrowed deep underground for example. Also, the game has several modes: 
 Mission Mode (Where you have set objectives, and a time limit to complete them) , Training Mode 
 (like mission mode, only each mission revolves around the use of one or more specific item (s) ) , 
 Quickmatch Mode (where you play a quick match as a random team) , and Deathmatch Mode (where you 
 play as your own customised team and take on the CPU in increasingly harder deathmatch battles, 
 and it keeps track of your team's wins, losses, the number of enemy worms killed, and the number 
 of your worms killed) .
  
  The graphics in this game are great. The 2D characters have smooth edges, and all the various weapons 
 have thier own unique look to them (from the standard bazooka, to the Banana Bomb, and the Concrete 
 Donkey... I think that there is around 40 - 50 weapons in total!)
  The artstyle in this game is just right as well. In my opinion, recent 2D worms games have gone 
 over the top on wackyness and cuteness, but Worms World Party looks just right. Also, the sound 
 is spot on in this game as well. When customising your team, you can choose from around 100 different 
 accents for your team to have. Some of these are hilarious! The theme music is catchy as well...
 
  
  Overall, I have only one complaint about this game, the online play. The online isn't bad at all, 
 it's the community thats bad. When logging onto WormNet for the first time and typing the immortal 
 words Uhh... I'm new, anyone want a game? I was instantly told that I'd have to go to some website 
 and learn the rules of online play. That was fair enough, as many games have developed a set of 
 unspoken rules when playing online, but I went to the website and found out that not many people 
 ACTUALLY play the game the way that it was intended online! Everyone races from place to place 
 with ninja ropes, or plays games using no weapons other than bazookas, etc.
  
  Anyway, it's an amazing game nonetheless, and should be picked up by anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokefree
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is sure the best worms game ever made. It has most weapons and can freely make your own graves, 
 flags and etc... All worms games after this were poor. If you like worms, you like this for sure! 
 It has all classic weapons and much super weapons that do heavy damage! You must test it out! I 
 like petrol bomb the most, but there is more than 60 weapons to choose from! Thats a lot! New worm 
 game have only about 40... I must say 2D Worms are the best! Its only weakness is its graphics 
 and much useless weapons, but all good games have their weakness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  For me, it's one of the best multiplayer games, it's easy to learn, but it's not easy to win: even 
 though you think you understand the gravities, directions of wind and your best weapon - it's difficult 
 to take somebody out (except if you use a bat) .
  Campaign mode is set on the completion on various missions, depending on your skill to think, destroy 
 and tactics: you'll have to make decisions fast and make them right, cause one wrong move and you're 
 in deep shyt :)
  In the multiplayer mode you can choose the number of players and teams for them, number of weapons 
 and their destructive power, all sorts of handicaps and maps + there are a lot of fun in-game mods.
 
  Music is really nice here and graphics are pleasing to an eye, also you can make your own sounds 
 for your mates-worms so it would make much more fun to play.
  Well, have a nice time with this - you surely will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper244
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I started playing worms 4, I really didn't like the game and so i gound this one out of the collection, 
 started playing then found out that a mate had the same game and have been playing multiplayer 
 online.
  
  The game play is great, it's very simple to use and the difficulty of the game is just about right 
 for a learning curve.
  
  This is a real classic, it's just pure and simple, I love the 2D design of the game and the simple 
 controls and the fact that you can get so involved in a multiplayer game with a common garden pest.
 
  
  What a corker!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiddenattacker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Worms World Party is a strategy game with a moderately steep learning curve. Its control scheme 
 indicates it's clearly aimed at the game platform crowd, but it works very well on the PC. Once 
 you can master the basic controls, it's a tremendous amount of fun. This is unique type of strategy 
 game, as it combines strategic movement of the worms AND skill in guaging the angles and power 
 of basic weapons (grenades, mortar, etc) .
  
  Don't let the cartoon-like 2D animation trick you - this is a game that requires considerable strategic 
 planning several moves in advance. The number of powerful weapons (or lack thereof, depending on 
 your game settings) only adds to the strategic choices. Shoul I use a Ninja rope, swing over a cliff, 
 and then drop a banana bomb? Should I release an exploding sheep over the deep chasm to destroy 
 an opponents worm? Should I fire a Magic bullet instead, eliminating a worm half-the-map away? 
 Or should I conserve my high-power weapon (s) and go for a skill shot on a grenade? The strategic 
 possiblilites are endless. The Ninja rope is particularly useful, as it allows you to swing over 
 cliffs, or into crevices, thus being an efficient mode of moving your worm. The ninja rope obviously 
 factors into the gameplay strategy, as well as low gravity, jetpack, etc (if applicable) .
  
  Both the single and multiplayer aspects of this game can be tremendous fun. With multiplayer, 
 you're obviously facing another human and communication can be extended beyond the I'll KILL YOU 
 s and I'LL GET YOU FOR THAT s that are yelled from your worms.
  
  Deathmatches can almost reach impossible difficulty when you're in the later levels. It took me 
 quite a while to beat some of the later matches, due to the uncanny skill the computer has in them 
 to kill you if you are the least bit exposed (not to mention being outnumbered) . That said, the 
 deathmatches are a refreshing challenge, and give you a great sense of pride upon completing them.
 
  
  The missions and training are a nice addendums as well. Missions, like deathmatches, get difficult 
 and often require forethought and creative thinking.
  
  I prefer WWP over Worms Armageddon, soley for the superior single player. It is still one of my 
 favorite games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManX9101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  An AWESOME game in a nutshell. Turn based strategy with up to 4 teams with up to 8 worms each with 
 insane weapons ranging from a bazooka to the flying and exploding super sheep! If you ever get 
 a chance to try or buy this game, do it with out hesitation.
  
  Pros +Nice crisp graphics. It might not be the most detailed thing in the world, but it does really 
 well while keeping the terrain destructible. +The voices. A CRAZY sound bank for your worms. They 
 can speak in a plethora of languages and accents. +Really good AI. Every once in a while they will 
 shoot at a wall thats near by or bounce a grenade into their face, but then again... don't human 
 players do that to sometimes? +Map Editor! A really well done map editor. Easy and fast to use, 
 making you a masterful map maker in no time at all. +Lots of import possibilities! Make you worms 
 talk in movie quotes, add your own fanfares, and design your own graves! +An insane amount of weapons. 
 I haven't counted them but there sure does seem to be a huge amount.... I think it's about 40 some?
 
  Cons +The voices... again. They are pretty cool but after a while they get kind of annoying... 
 it's just a little thing though. +Minimizing horror. This might just be me, but anytime the game 
 gets minimized, it crashes. I recommend doing anything possible to keep things from popping up 
 and minimizing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hussu2001
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this game rox out loud. teams are 100% customizable. greats wepons and sounds. unlike worms armegedon 
 differernt modes can be switched on and off such as double damage and weapons dont end your turn... 
 etc. a ve r y g r e a t a n d e n j o y a b le g a m e. extremely recommended. my review has to 
 be atleast a hundred words so yeah. and im writing this to be 100 words i think i wrote a hundred 
 words so far let me check.... nope i still have to keep on writing nonsense until this stupid review 
 is a hundred words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lost-ruin001
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  BEST 2-D game EVER!
  Okay well this is it. you have a team of 6 worms.
  you're against another team of 6 worms.
  you have a couple of dozen weapons and then you have...... COMPLETE 
 MAYHAME!
  I love this game, but I really love the multi-player it's just plain fun =) !
  
  GAMEPLAY
  whoa!!!!!! Cool! I love the game it fealls really good and just you're killing worms, I 
 don't know why but that's just plain fun.
  like come on killing people that just dosn't sound as fun as killing worms..... dosn't it?
  
 
  GRAPHICS
  okay it's 2-D it's worms with weapons. And yes it is a great match!!!!
  
  SOUND
  whoa!!!!!! This sounds just like a war. I was just playin with my friend and I taught it 
 sounded JUST like a war!!!!!!
  
  OVERALL
  Best 2-D game EVER it fealls exactly like a war and it is a war (but with worms)
  
  SCORE
 
  10.0 PERFECT (in evrey way) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game when I was 5 years old, Liked it, but got my butt kicked by my older 
 cousins "Needles to say of course", but this game has it  
 name it.
  though this game doesn't actully have a story line.. which dissapointed me at first, but if you fell 
 bored and finished all your PC games, try playing this game.
  this game is recommended by me of course.. buy it... and you won't be sorry.. and if you wan't t buy 
 a stragety game.. filled with modern weapons... then WWP is there for you... and if you want an animation 
 stragety game.... then worms world party is your choice....
  
  see???!! told ya this game has every thing..
  AND LET GAMES BEGIN!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickerator
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is funny and addicting, i play it for hours! the concept of the game is to blow other 
 worms up with crazy weapons. if you are thinking of buying a worms game, don't waste $$$$ on the 
 stupid 3d ones, buy this one! the 3d ones are bad because the controls are like telling rooster 
 to sceam "mary had a little lamb" (hard) thier voices are a little disapointing, i like the classic 
 2d one better, and they entire game in 3d make no sense to me and it is hard to play. so to sum 
 all this crud up buy the one im reviewing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  First off: This game is the same as WA of worms so i would not recomend buying both. Now back to 
 the review. The game offers a wide variety of customization for the multiplayer, and the campeign 
 and extra chalanges offer a good challange and gameplay. The game can be bought for about $12 on 
 ebay, so I do recommend buying a copy for the heck of it. The wide variety of weapons is a geat 
 aspect of the gameplay. The wepons are well thought out, and who else could have thought of an 
 old woman or holy hand grenade? The speech is hillarious with the things that the worms say. I 
 would say that the graphics are mediocer, tho there are some glitches. Overall, worms is worth 
 picking up a copy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I Have Worms World Party On The Playstation 1. When I Bought This Game For $5.00 I knew the seller 
 had been ripped off for the simple reason that there is not one single chance that this game would 
 never not be fun.
  Worms World Party is the 5th game in the Worms series and to be honest the best 2D one there is.
 
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay in this is Fun Fun Fun. It is just any strategy fans dream come true. It 
 has simple controls. There is about 60 weapons in this game so you can never get board. Bazookas, 
 Shotguns, Old Women and Ninja Ropes are just a few of the weapons showcased in the game. And did 
 i mention you can destroy anything even the land around you. You can customise you worms in a variety 
 of ways Speech, Anthems and weapon choices. It has very good multiplayer.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are 2D but they suit the game. Good explosion effects. Alright.
  
  Sound. 
 The sounds on this game are very good. There are funny sounds and serious sounds and even weird 
 sounds. The worms themselves sound very good and funny. The weapons sound good. There is basic 
 explosion sounds to the big Holy Hand Granade sounds.
  
  Overall this is a very fun game that should be bought buy anyone looking for a quick weapon fix 
 and a whole lot of Napalm. A Very Great Game that you can just pick up and play.
  
  Glitch Level : 2 out of 10. Amount of glitches in game.
  
  Fun Level : 10 out of 10. How much 
 fun I have had playing this game.
  
  Hard Mission Level : 10 out of 10. How much hard missions are in the game.
  
  Humor Level : 
 6 out of 10. How much humor is in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Hello and can I just say I was wrong. I thought this game was boring and repetitive. I thought 
 that it was a waste of 10 and would only ever succeed as a pass time. But then I played it properly 
 and realised how good it actualy was.
  
  Lets cut to the chase. Worms started in 1983 with the game called worms. Here on the screen was 
 worm 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and they were blue and red and they both hated each other and as a result 
 decided to kill one another to death. with basic wepons and basicer movement, the game quickly 
 caught on and everyone loved it. 
  
  Then a few years later (1995) came a PC version which was pretty much the same and everyone loved 
 it. Then came worms 2 which had a couple more weapons and graphics which were a bit more modern 
 as well as a slight comic touch to it with the entry of the holy hand grenade (originaly from monty 
 python and the holy grail) . And everyone still loved it.
  
  Then came armagedon, which was more of the same but it was on everything and had the dreaded weapon 
 aramagedon, which killed pretty much everything. And everyone loved it.
  
  Then came pinball and it sucked. And everyone hated it. Great.
  
  So this game had to repair 
 a slightly damged reputation because of the playstations stupid pinball game. And so once again 
 it was released on everything and all the new weapons and even newer weapons and game modes were 
 chucked in. And you know what? Everyone Loved it.
  
  See team 17 were doing what they do best, 2D platformers with stupidly powerful weapons and mass 
 death creating. What could be more fun? Well apart from nothing, nothing. See this game is both 
 simple, fun and a pass time. But it is also an art. There is a certain art to worms which makes 
 you either brilliant or amazing. If you can master this art, nothing can stop you. If you can't 
 well then your buggered to be honest but the game is still fun anyway. 
  
  Ok from the top this game has team creating, level designing, weapon buying, mission doing, onlineing 
 and fun as standard. It's special needs are a keyboard and a person and if your lucky, a mouse. 
 It feattures 3 great graphic modes 640*480, 800*600 and 1024*768 which will kill itself every now 
 and then. 
  
  The best thing about this game however is the mass killing and stupidness of it. They have for 
 instance a concrete donkey decend from the skies and kill everything. They have sheep strkies which 
 will send masses of sheep down to kill the enemy below to the theme of military music and it has 
 a random dancer run around and blow up sending tamborines everywhere.
  
  This is a game that will either absorb you quickly or grow on you as it did with me and then the 
 only way out is to play play PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  What to say about Worms World Party ??? Well lets start by its origin. To me it's just an improved 
 copy of Worms Armageddon !!! It's a Worms armageddon 1.3 ! Yep. Missions aren't very different 
 but they changed a few things. Not impresive. Graphics the same !!! Weapons : added a few but not 
 much !!!! Sounds aaaaaaaaahh the same !!! Worms look to white !!! That's a different and bad thing 
 !!!! Maps : chicken, dump, castles.... . A new thing is the Wormpot where you can X-perience new 
 game modes !!! Not super cool but to do. The multi player like all multi player .... in Worms games 
 that is. All to enjoy at this game is to call a friend over and start fighting. Like I do because 
 the worms multiplayer is truly unique!! (my opinion) well that's all to say about Worms World Party. 
 I wanna say that I had more fun on Armageddon than on World Party . bye-buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  A little history:
  
  The Worms games has excisted for over a decade. Since the first release in 1995 (I think) , very 
 much has changed. The looks of the game, sound quality, weapons, maps, graphics, to say it short 
 almost everything has changed. But the awesome and funny gameplay has been since the start.
  
  Then came Worms 2, a game that shouldn't be forgot! Worms 2 was revolutionary in everything 
 it stood for. And by that I mean the genre. No one had ever seen anything like that. It was funny, 
 challenging, exciting and almost breathtaking. 
  
  Then came Armageddon an almost better game! With even more weapons and maps to blow up and blow 
 up with, the game really deserved The Editor's Choice. And it should also have a GAME OF THE YEAR! 
 It WAS that damn good!
  
  Then came World Party, a little disappointment from my perspective, but anyways a quite good game. 
 /We'll get to the review later\. The idea of mixing almost all countries in the world together 
 in a stragety game was actually a good idea.
  
  Three years later came Worms 3D. There has been a lot of transitions that makes a good game bad 
 because they made it 3D. But Team 17 really did it well. The 3D games aren't the best, but actually 
 quite good. Then there came more 3D games, but I haven't played them all to tell you about them... 
 :P
  
  Hope you liked a little history, but lets get down to business! 
  
  Worms World Party is actually a little disappointment, but it still has the gameplay, that actually 
 makes the game worth playing. I'm not saying that it's a bad game, it's just different from the 
 other games. But anyways, it's still fun to play like the other games. Just create a team and have 
 fun killing other small (not defenseless) worms. In World Party there's a better map editor tool. 
 Not the best, but better than Armageddons. 
  The new singleplayer campaign is also quite fun, and also the training sequence. It's quite good, 
 but also hard in the advanced trainings. For example the Rope Assault training. You have to pick 
 up a package at the end of the map. Seems easy but the map is filled with mines! You have one rope 
 and 2 shotguns... what do you do then?
  As mentioned before, the singleplayer campaign is so much fun. In the first mission you have to 
 pick up a package at a ship. But ship is sinking and the air is poisoned, so you will lose 5 health 
 points for every round and you only have one jet pack. This isn't so hard, but it will be in the 
 other missions.
  
  The GooD:
  - The absolutely perfect gameplay!
  - Crazy and funny sounds and voices from all around the world!
  - Pretty funny training sequences 
 and singleplayer campaign.
  - New weapons and some variarity in this game.
  
  The BaD:
  - Not the best graphics, but what do you expect from a 2D game?
  - Deathmatch gets boring after 
 a couple of times.
  - There could have been more extra ordinary weapons.
  
  Simply, Worms are some of the best strategy games on the store shelves, but you can buy a better 
 Worms game than World Party. World Party isn't a bad game, no no. It's just not like the others. 
 I recommend that you'll buy Armageddon or something like that. World Party just doesn't satisfy 
 an ultimate Worms fan. 
  Not the best, but defintely not the worst!
  
  Dope999
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  1. It is exatly the same as WA.
  
  Cons:
  
  1. Er, exatly the same as WA...
  
  Graphics:
  
  Exatly the same as WA.....
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  WA. The same....
  
  Sound:
  
  Better, soundtrack is here as well.
  
  Value:
  
  Worse, but not too much.
  
  Overall:
  
  Exatly the same as WA. Boring.
  
  Real 
 review:
  
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. 
 Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. 
 Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon.
  Sigh. Exatly the same as Worms Armageddon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for those who have a good sense of humor. I played this one with my friend from 
 across the hall and we would yell at each other when one of use killed another one of the other's 
 worms.
  
  You can customize your group with different names, languages, accents, death symbols, and team 
 symbol. You can also customize your arsenal with everything from exploding sheep to missle firebombs.
 
  
  The single player mode can get challenging, but that is the point of single player. The multiplayer 
 is where I had the most fun. You can connect to friends and battle till one of you explodes your 
 last worm or drops into the ocean.
  
  The shortcomings come in a bit in the graphics and range of battles department, but the multiplayer 
 makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Worms is one of those franchises that are still more fun in 2D than 3D, and although Team 17 attempted 
 such a transition recently, the series remains best in its simple, side-scrolling form. Thus, the 
 release of Worms World Party on N-Gage works out nicely for owners of the Nokia game/cell phone 
 device. They can cling to the past with classic Worms gameplay and, in the process, avoid the 3D 
 console versions that are still rough around the edges. Although "classic" is code that means World 
 Party doesn't play differently from its predecessors, it remains a true time-waster and is exactly 
 what N-Gage owners need to keep the system in their pockets. There's nothing like taking out the 
 handheld and killing time by, that's right, killing worms.
  
  The concept of Worms has always been a weird one: players use an army of worms to eliminate a rival 
 set of squiggly bastards in "worm warfare." The concept has worked in the past and continues to 
 be fun today. For the uninformed, the game randomly places about four worms from each team in an 
 environment and, through turn-based gameplay, allows them to blow each other apart. Although this 
 sounds rather simple to do, it requires a great deal of strategy because not only must you survive 
 enemy attacks but friendly fire can be a hazard as well. It's best not to leave yourself open to 
 enemy fire when you've finished your turn or get too close to your blast radius during your turn. 
 Take it from me, if this does occur, your worms won't appreciate it and will talk trash if they 
 get wounded by one of their own.
  
  One of the more appealing aspects of the Worms series has been its quirky sense of humor, from 
 funny comments voiced by the worms to amusing names displayed above their heads. In a situation 
 where a fellow worm hits them, they'll call out "you traitor" in response to being hit by friendly 
 fire. Hearing this type of comment is both comical and cute, but I can't say that I understand 
 all of their sayings because some seem to make no sense at all. Regardless, each one cracks me 
 up, especially in the accents of various teams, whether it's British or Jamaican; it's always funny.
 
  
  Something that's not so funny is when enemies take too long to attack on their turn. Spending time 
 moving into position to line up a shot is one thing, but the computer tends to let the clock run 
 down on its turn and take a shot from the same position it's been in the entire time. This caused 
 me to continually press the "5" key to get things moving, but that created more problems when it 
 unexpectedly shifted to my turn and my worm immediately laid down a mortar to not only waste a 
 turn, but blow himself up in the process. While this issue doesn't ruin the game in any way, this 
 is the kind of thing that'll irk the anxious and fidgety N-Gage gamer on the run.
  
  In addition to battling it out with other worms in the standard Quick Player mode, World Party 
 also allows players to set up their own matches in the custom mode. Here, it's possible to select 
 the environment, set game rules, and specify what goodies come from the crates and which weapons 
 will be used. It's also where four teams can participate, something that I found to be much more 
 entertaining than a head-to-head match between the computer and I. Rounding out the modes is Training 
 mode, where you become an expert in "worm warfare," and Mission mode, where you complete a number 
 of objectives.
  
  Of course, like every Worms game in the past, the most fun from World Party comes from the multiplayer 
 mode. Both Bluetooth and Arena play are supported for up to four people. Whether you go with short 
 range-wireless gaming with friends that own the game or over-the-Internet matches, both options 
 retain all the customizable features of the single player portion. So, by supporting these options 
 and not losing any features when going online, this game is a real winner if you can find a friend 
 with a copy or have access to N-Gage Arena.
  
  Worms World Party takes a time-tested video game formula and applies it to the appropriate system. 
 The current set of consoles is too grown up for such 2D rehashes and need to experiment with 3D 
 versions of the franchise. The N-Gage, however, fits the series' old-school specs and allows us 
 to take our worms wherever we want. Just make sure that when someone asks, "What's that in your 
 pocket," you reply with something other than, "Worms." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calkaimainer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:01 am PT
Review:  Forget those quite bad 3d versions of this game, but look back to old-school action at it's best.
 
  Check you bargin bin for a great game that can only be described by playing it. But here's a few 
 words for you, Every game will be different 100% Guaranty. Now if you like strategy, fun, and insanity/mayhem, 
 look as far as you can for this game, as it is a classic, for cheap. there are Weapons like the 
 classic Bazooka, to the hilariously funny Old Lady, or even, if you're lucky the Weapons of Ul-ti-mate 
 Destruction, the Concrete Donkey and the Armageddon. There are a lot of different types of terrains, 
 and themes for those, then there are the items on the field, where you can hid behind, use as a 
 bunker, ot just unluckily hinder you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forthelight
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  You can create a customized team set with your own special weapons and names for each worm as well 
 as a team name. There is countless ways to design a level and you can hook WWP on a LAN and play 
 your friends. Or you can dominate the world over the internet. This game is really like an animated 
 version of Chess except you get to execute the King (the last worm) . I seriously urge all gamers 
 to give this game a try it has the best replay value of any game in the world, even Grand Theft 
 Auto gets boring compared to this. Your skill determines this game and practice makes perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jet2892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty good i gotta say. i mean it's pretty old but it's good. it's really nice to 
 play with your friends and launch them hig up in the air with a haleluiah bomb. it's a nice game. 
 altough the graphics are 2d so what? it's still nice. sound is great. from the explosions and all 
 those voices of the worms the sound is awesome. this game is probably pretty cheap and if you can 
 still get it get it or get a worms game now. i personally think this game is pretty funny and everyone 
 should give it a try if they wanna have a lil fun. seriously it even has online which is great 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindphaser
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Yes folks, this is without a doubt the best version of Worms. The previous Armageddon is WAY too 
 unstable, especially on Windows XP, and the follow-up 3D titles just don't work as well for this 
 type of game, plus they have bad controls. This one is a blast though for people of all ages, and 
 Internet play is excellent. They really need to go back to 2D for this series. The idea behind 
 the game is to blow up the opposing team's worms using weapons that have trajectory systems and 
 accurate physics. The humor is also outstanding. This one gets everything right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvin_Snipes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The worms series doesn't change much, especially if you look at Worms armageddon along side worms 
 world party, since the difference is minimal at best. However, nobody can deny the game is incredibly 
 good fun, especially when played with a group of friends. Concrete donkeys aside, the game is surprisingly 
 strategic, and no one game is ever the same, thanks to the random map generator and wide array 
 of weapons, and more often than not animals.
  The ability to set your team up with unique names, accents and anthems adds a lot of character 
 to the game as well.
  
  You can pick this title up for next to nothing now, and so it offers good value for money, and 
 leaves no real excuse not to get it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
