-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms Armageddon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/wormsarmaggedon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 2,307 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While this game may look cute, it is in fact as sophisticated and enjoyable as the very best strategy 
 games out there. 

 The spineless and unassuming critters that star in Worms Armageddon epitomize the game itself. You'll 
 quickly notice that the worms in this game are not as meek as they appear and instead are funny, 
 ill-tempered, and wickedly clever. At about the same time, you'll find that while this game may 
 look cute, it is in fact as sophisticated and enjoyable as the very best strategy games out there. 
 It's also highly polished, easily customizable, accessible to all ages, and perfectly suited for 
 quick spells and marathon sessions alike.  

 That said, it's true that Worms Armageddon isn't all that different from Worms 2. Though it includes 
 an all-new single-player campaign and fully integrated online play, as well as over a dozen new 
 weapons and gadgets for the worms to use, Armageddon looks, sounds, and plays similarly to the 
 last episode, which means veterans of the series expecting something totally new will not find 
 what they're looking for. And everyone else will wish Worms Armageddon offered even more, if only 
 because it's as good as it is.  

 Worms Armageddon is easy to play and control, two factors that contribute immensely to the game's 
 success. The typical skirmish pits teams of worms against each other, all randomly interspersed 
 throughout some sort of exaggerated landscape ranging from garbage dumps to stacks of books. You 
 take turns with your opponents, inching your forces into position one by one and firing upon enemy 
 worms with an arsenal of weapons, from traditional (grenade, shotgun) to makeshift (baseball bat, 
 blowtorch) to unorthodox (exploding old woman, skunk) . The worms even know a few famous martial 
 arts moves for good measure. Most worm weapons are absurd and amusing, and effectively serve specific 
 functions. But since many do overlap in functionality, you can be selective and creative with your 
 arsenal rather than feel restricted by it. You'll witness the events that transpire as the worms 
 duel to the death via a traditional 2D platform-game side view, lending Worms Armageddon a readily 
 approachable if misleadingly simple appearance.  

 So although it may appear as if that one worm over there just fired a bazooka at his enemy across 
 the screen, aiming that shot was anything but trivial. A worm, not unlike a golfer, needs to take 
 into account such elements as trajectory, wind direction, and power, and although shooting simply 
 involves arrow keys and the space bar, hitting the target won't be quite so simple. Even seemingly 
 fail-safe weapons, like homing missiles and napalm strikes, require skill and foresight to be used 
 effectively. What's more, explosive attacks, such as the bazooka, vaporize the terrain around the 
 targeted area, likely causing the worms in the vicinity to be flung about. It's often to your advantage 
 to try to destroy the earth from under the feet of your enemies rather than target them directly, 
 in an effort to send them careening into the water below, since worms can't swim.  

 Thanks to the game's sophisticated physics and damage modeling, the results of your attacks will 
 often prove surprising no matter how accurate you think you are. Since maps tend to be strewn with 
 explosives, and the worms themselves explode when they die, oftentimes the results of a successful 
 strike are anything but predictable as an incredible chain reaction ensues. This tightly controlled 
 chaos, together with the precise targeting system and plausible physics, is also essential to this 
 game's success. And the automatic instant replay on especially unbelievable chains of events is 
 a nice touch.  

 Great graphics and sound don't hurt, either. Worms Armageddon includes a seemingly endless assortment 
 of beautiful and surreal backdrops, which lend most every skirmish a unique challenge, since these 
 landscapes are randomly generated each time. The worms themselves are animated beautifully, and 
 their articulate expressions and bizarre arsenals make these some of the most endearing computer 
 game characters in a long time. Meanwhile, special effects such as fire and explosions all look 
 equally good, lending the game a perfectly consistent and always bright and attractive appearance. 

 The sound effects that accentuate the firefights, while somewhat repetitive, are as over-the-top 
 and amusing as the graphics, while a rather remarkably grandiose militaristic soundtrack enhances 
 the game's tongue-in-cheek half-seriousness. More remarkable still is to what extent you can customize 
 your worms: As a holdover from its predecessor, Worms Armageddon includes dozens upon dozens of 
 sound schemes for the little guys, most of which are high-pitched, angry squeals. You can make 
 your worms speak Russian, Greek, Afrikaans, around a dozen dialects of English, French, Spanish, 
 German, you name it. Or you can import your own sound effects, just as you can also select a team 
 anthem, an insignia, a tombstone, and customize just about everything else about your team, giving 
 it a unique style that will distinguish you among your peers in a grueling multiplayer match.  
 

 Those custom features aptly suggest that Worms Armageddon lends itself perfectly to multiplayer 
 competition. The fully integrated Worms. net Internet play server (though not ideally fast or reliable 
 at all hours as of press time) lets you easily join a game with rival worm commanders from across 
 the world, and the server even maintains your ranking and status based on your wins and losses. 
 Because battles are highly customizable, such that starting conditions for health and ammunition 
 can be easily adjusted, you can join games that emphasize the style of play you prefer, either 
 in favor of mass-destructive or more strategic weaponry. In between multiplayer sessions, you can 
 play against the computer in quick matches or deathmatch battles that become progressively more 
 challenging, just as you can learn the ropes through a convenient if somewhat difficult training 
 mode, then apply them in the single-player campaign. The campaign missions, which must be played 
 through linearly, are mostly puzzle-oriented and recall Psygnosis' classic Lemmings in that they 
 tend to force you to make precise use of a limited supply of tools in order to accomplish your 
 objectives. The puzzle elements of these missions oftentimes prove frustrating, since many of these 
 missions are very difficult, and while the campaign provides an enjoyable diversion from the rest 
 of the game, it doesn't really hold up on its own, nor does it seem intended to do so.  

 Likewise, although the computer opponent is realistically fallible except at the highest skill levels, 
 it tends to neglect the more obscure or sophisticated weapons available, resorting to mundane explosives 
 nine times out of ten. For this reason alone, the computer cannot ever hope to provide the sort 
 of unique competition that is practically assured with even the most inexperienced human opponent, 
 whose foibles and follies in combat will likely be worth the price of admission if he isn't good 
 enough to fight back in earnest.   

 It's too bad that the computer opponent doesn't make full use of its full arsenal, and as you play 
 Armageddon more and more, invariably you'll also wish the game had even more weapons, even more 
 diversity in graphics and sound, and even more of pretty much everything. There's no mistaking 
 that Worms Armageddon is both highly polished and totally complete, with far more features and 
 variety and options than just about any other game out there. Nevertheless, the design and execution 
 are so great and so open-ended that you'll know, even as you log more and more hours with the game, 
 that in fact you can't have too much of a good thing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  If you've never played strategy before, you might think Worms Armageddon doesn't sound like a good 
 starter game. You'd be dead wrong.
  
  Once you're familiar with the controls, WA is a tough, solid game that has very little wrong with 
 it.
  
  The game is mission-based, but there are various extra modes you can play, such as versus the computer, 
 deathmatch, and on-line games. Training missions will help gear up novice players for serious play, 
 and the better you do here the more missions you'll be able to play in the single player campaign. 
 I say campaign, but the levels are independent of each other, with their own rules and settings.
 
  
  Attention perfectionists! You may have a hard time trying to unlock the full wormage, as getting 
 gold on all training missions is nightmarish.
  
  The point of each game is to destroy the other team, although there are exceptions with some levels, 
 as you might have to pick up a particular weapon crate, kill a particular enemy, or survive an 
 (un) natural disaster.
  
  What makes it so fun? What makes it so addictive drool runs down my chin as I am typing this?
 
  
  First, and most importantly ... WEAPONS. A more fantastical array of death-dealing animals - ahem, 
 weapons - you are never likely to see! Smash your enemy with a baseball bat! Pulverise them with 
 air strikes! Mad cows are also on the menu, as are salvation army ladies! If you're really sadistic, 
 why not infect everyone with an Indian nuclear test!?
  
  But great weapons are nothing without great sound effects, and this shines most bright with team 
 nationalities. Yes, you can even select how your worms speak when they announce their death to 
 the enemy! Particular favourites of mine include Irish, Angry Scots, Soul Man and Cad. These are 
 so priceless I've used them for voices in Baldur's Gate and other video games!
  
  So is it a comedy? Yes and no. There are difficulties aplenty. Don't let that stand in the way 
 of a fantastic game though. You can get a great deal of enjoyment out of WA without unlocking all 
 the secrets, or finishing every level.
  
  The bottom line: Great family fun for everyone, excellent replayability, virtually no learning 
 curve, comes equipped with bags and bags of humour but isn't so outdated it won't work on your 
 PC. One patch and you'll be ready for earthquakes, armageddons and napalm! Nuke a copy today! I 
 mean grab a nuke today! Well, you know what I mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajsingh12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great, great game. A classic. The gameplay is ingenious in its simplicity. It's a turn-based 
 strategy game in which you kill worms with various weapons in 2D. Sound fun? It is. On top of that 
 the graphics are great. Very cartoony and vibrant. Also, the net play is a Godsend. It has a matching 
 service included so you can just hop on and start the feeding frenzy. This is one of the best multiplayer 
 games ever! Probably the best net based, turn based strategy game ever made. While not a big step 
 beyond Worms 2, it is better, and for a game this good that's all that matters. This is a game 
 for people who like to have fun! What's not to like? Control your army of Worms and blast the heck 
 out of anything that moves! Fire up the hotseat, create your teams, and throw down! Great weapons, 
 sound effects, music, and the ability to customize almost every aspect of the game make this a 
 worthy successor to Wormsthe delay present in the TCP/IP network gaming ... if you're in the same 
 room with the other players on different PCs it gets annoying real quick. The biggest plus for this 
 sequel has to be the vast array of special weapons. From the incredibly destructive 'Armageddon' 
 to the hilarious 'French Sheep Strike', powerful explosives walk, fly and drop all over the playing 
 field, switching the balance of power swiftly and painfully. All in all, a truely wonderful game, 
 but one that should only be played with at least two other people. Do not expect the single-player 
 to offer anything other than a thirty-minute blastfest. Buy it, then, if necessary, buy some friends 
 too.
  The traditional weakness of Worms games, the single-player mode, has been greatly improved over 
 past versions. A complex and difficult mission mode has been added, as has a deathmatch mode where 
 your team of worms does battle with the dark forces of the computer. In deathmatch mode, you records 
 of wins and loses is recorded and ranks are available, so there's always something to aim for.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentosaLiem
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  The word that match this thing is Wow. I have a feeling the phrase Nothing last forever will have 
 no mean anymore. Worms Armageddon will last forever. What else?
  Team17 will participate in the world peacekeeping for supplying this thing to universe. Whatever 
 it is, 4 thumbs up for Team17. I have a suggestion, how will it be if Worms series go in GTA kind 
 of game. I hope Team17 can make it. Right anybody?
  It's a perfection to this not perfect life.
  XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX 
 XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX
  XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX 
 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX 
 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Here we have the worms series. Its the most fun side scrolling strategy game ever. its very complex 
 with a graet arsenal of wepoans and grenades with gigsntic issiles too. its a very funny game cause 
 the worms are very mild-tempered. It's also highly polished. i mean every edge of the gameplay is 
 filled with fun till the worms destroy you tto bits. That said, it's true that Worms Armageddon 
 isn't all that different from Worms 2 cause it not really like a new worms it more like a remake 
 of the 2nd version of Worms. Though it includes an all-new single-player campaign and fully online 
 play, as well as over a dozen new weapons and gadgets its still a bit lacking of more new things 
 in the gameplay. 
  
  Electric Playground 10 / 10 
  GamersMark 10 / 10 
  PC Gameworld 92 / 100 
  Game Blitz 90 / 100 
  PC Zone UK 90 / 100 
  Game Rankings 96 / 100 
 
  Game Revolution A- 
  Gamecenter 7 / 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCju
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  It's quite a simple concept really.
  A team of worms vs another team of worms. You take turns to move your selected worm around a seemingly 
 simple, yet complex map in a predetermined period of time, to try and kill the other worms with 
 an assortment of weapons in the best way possible.
  
  Now, many people argue that because the game is in 2D, there is not enough 'freedom' like in the 
 3D versions to do what you wish. This may be true in some cases, however (and it might be nostalgia 
 talking here) , I have a firm belief that the 2D versions kick so much more ass. The design is perfect 
 and the 3d worms just overcomplicates things.
  
  The weapons are very original and can all come in very handy in the different situations you are 
 fighting in. 
  You may want to choose to lay a mine in front of an enemy worm to stop him from crossing a bridge 
 ahead of you, or you may want to throw a grenade over a hill to try and blow him away from you 
 while keeping your cover. You may want to attack a bunch of worms together by airstriking the lot 
 of them or perhaps shoot a homing missile through a tunnel you have recently made to curve upwards 
 and knock somebody into the depths below. Maybe you want to use armageddon and kill everyone.
 
  
  The entire game is quite simple to get used to, and once you've played your fair share of battles 
 and have learned what weapon does what - you start to think extremely strategically and you will 
 find yourself seeing new uses for weapons. 
  The Ninja rope is a prime example of this - at first I thought it was a simple tool to climb a 
 cliff face and perhaps collect a weapons crate, but it became apparent that you can swing the length 
 of the entire map and drop a dynamite on your enemy while swinging back to cover. 
  
  Based upon the map you are playing on, your playstyle will change from aggressive to defensive. 
 If you have an airstrike in your arsenal and have access to a ledge you can hide behind, your best 
 bet would be to hide away and use it - or would it? You might want to blowtorch your way through 
 the map or girder yourself in. It's extremely situational and 
  everytime you play you will find yourself in a different scenario and I can almost guarantee you 
 won't play the same map twice (providing you're not using a preset map) . 
  
  The level of customization is great as well. You can name your own team and each individual worm 
 as well if you want to. You can also change how they speak; which special weapons they have available 
 to them; which gravestone and flag they carry; which map they will be playing on; the power of 
 your selected weapons; the time given per turn and aaahh!!!
  (The list goes on and on)
  
  The experience is different for everybody, but I highly recommend getting this game if you ever 
 have a chance to. You will not be dissapointed.
  
  9.0/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Worms Armageddon / PC / 9.1
  
  
  Worms Armageddon is a turn-based war game. Anyone familiar with the "Worms"-series know the gameplay. 
 You play as a team or set of worms and when it's your turn - choose a weapon from your (quite huge) 
 arsenal and blast your enemies to death by damaging or drowning. The game becomes more of a real 
 deal since it comes with missions, training courses, challenges and the ability to change a lot 
 of rules and make custom maps. You can play against 5 other teams or alliances played by either 
 humans or the CPU. 
  
  The graphics are really stable but they could of course be more high-def. The sound is good but 
 the weapon SFX could be more varying (it is customizable though) . There's also a built-in feature 
 that let's you make or download custom speech banks for the worms.
  
  And what pushes this game over the limit and makes it the best worms game is all that you can do 
 once you have internet. That's right, the game features online gaming which is filled with a lot 
 of different people-made modes, maps, skins and languages. All of which are down-loadable and makes 
 the game a lot more changing and long lasting. The server was up a year ago so it should be now. 
 Once you're playing online you'll learn a lot of hidden techniques and mastering weapons in odd 
 ways. And yeah, if you unlock everything in this game you're skilled enough for online playing.
 
  
  What would push this game closer to perfect is if it had the option from "Worms World Party" that 
 allows you to use how many weapons you'd like to before your turn is over. An option which would 
 make the game fully real-time would've been awesome.
  
  This game might have a bit lower amount of features than "Worms World Party" but it's made with 
 a bigger effort put into it and the online is better in this one. 
  
  I think this is an incredible game that could've been really fantastic if it just had some minor 
 features added to it. The multiplayer/online gaming and the
  ability to customize everything is what makes it so great. If you're getting a worms game it should 
 be this. Skip that new 3D trash!
  
  Real Score: 9.1
  
  Written by: Smithy92
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Ghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has the same graphics and gameplay as Worms World Party. There isn't much of a difference 
 so you might want to get Worms World Party instead. If you decide to get it you should still enjoy 
 it if you don't have Worms World Party. You can use many weapons to destroy your opponent, play 
 multi-player matches and beat missions. You can also create your own team. It's nothing special, 
 but you will have your own profile with worms that have names that you have chosen. You can always 
 use the default teams if you don't want to create a team. It's a game worth playing if you like 
 strategic war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountElmo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Sweet sexy nostalgia, Batman!
  
  This game's ageing, there have been 3D follow ups, but none of them could compete with this gem 
 in the long running Worms series.
  
  Countless hours I've spent obliterating pink invertebrae into smithereens with the new weapon additions 
 and old time favourites like sheep and Holy Hand Grenades.
  Although its a 2D screen scroller, it doesn't hack in to the fun, I like my worms 2 dimensional.
 
  
  This game delivers it just right, with a mission pack that'll satisfy your needs with an ever increasing 
 difficulty, fast skirmish games or the insane game mode were you try to earn medals playing against 
 teams while the odds are increasing against you in every next level and your worms are getting 
 scarcer against even better teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I first ever played this game at cousin's house in 2001 and i must say it is just amazing. The 
 gameplay is simple but its just so fun and often times hilarious. The game is played in 2d and 
 you control a squad of worms as you fight your enemy [ either Computer Player or Human Player] , 
 The weapons variety is the best in any game ive played in my life because youve got your normal 
 weapons [ shotgun, uzi, bazooka] and then youve got ur crazy weapons such as the banana bomb and 
 the holy hand grenade [ which even chants HALLJUAH when it detonates] . But some of the best moments 
 don't even come from the already insane gameplay it comes from the moments when your playing with 
 your friends . One example for me is the first time i played it my cousin had a worm named Cpt. 
 Molo [ who all the players of this game in our family continue to name worms after in all the other 
 worms games] and this worm kept constantly dying in odd ways and every time he did my cousin would 
 yell '' MOLO YOU FAIL ONCE MORE'' and for me thats all a game needs to be perfect good laughs and 
 good gameplay. That is all and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroidSmuggler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that Worms Armageddon has been out for almost ten years now I just started playing 
 it for the first time about five days ago. I remember when this game was first released back in 
 1999, and the warm reception it garnered from the gaming community (by then the series had already 
 become quite popular) . But for one reason or another I never got around to trying it, nor have 
 I played any of the previous Worms games. So for me, this was to be a completely new foray into 
 the turn-based strategy genre.
  
  Worms Armageddon has been in my queue for years and, since I've been somewhat on a retro binge 
 lately, figured this was the right time to finally give it a try. It didn't take long to locate 
 a copy on eBay as there are several vendors selling a version of the game from Sold-Out Software 
 (the one bundled with Worms 2) . This turned out to be a mixed blessing however. On the one hand 
 it was nice to be able find a copy of the game so quickly. But the problem is in the way Worms 
 installs from this particular publisher. You see, Sold-Out Software uses a special installation 
 front end that loads EACH and EVERY time you pop the disk into the drive... even after the game 
 is installed. The unfortunate effect of this is that you'll have to wait until this somewhat obtrusive 
 menu comes up, just so you can close it before launching the actual game. This process gets old 
 in a hurry and sort of made me wish I'd found an original copy of the game. Although, given the 
 popularity of this out-of-print title I doubt you'll have much luck finding one.
  
  As for the game itself, let me just say this is an extremely unique strategy game. But bear in 
 mind that's precisely what it is. Think of it as sort of a cross between Lemmings and (for those 
 familiar with it) that old computer game Artillery. It's got the look &amp; feel of the former, 
 yet much of the game mechanics of the latter. Really though you have to play this game to fully 
 appreciate it. Each battle takes place on one of countless 'maps' if you will, each one filled 
 with zany terrain and colorful backdrops. The game by the way is completely two-dimensional. But 
 the visuals here are really just eye candy as the real strategy is in the positioning of each team's 
 worms relative to one another. Then you have the limited selection of wacky weapons and special 
 moves (some of which just have to be seen to be appreciated) . An important factor is the ever present 
 water down below, which spells instant doom for all who enter it (or are blown, punched, kicked 
 or pushed into it) . Equally important from a strategy point of view is the fact that most of the 
 terrain is completely destructible. So not only is it a goal to rain death and destruction upon 
 your opponents, but also to destroy the terrain in a way that will either trap em or send them 
 to a watery grave. In any case be prepared for a lot of explosions, flying worms and animated hijinks 
 as the teams battle it out to the last man... or worm.
  
  Much effort was put into the sound packages with this game and you'll almost certainly want to 
 go in and find the right sound pack to suit your team. Personally I fluctuate between Wacky and 
 Thespian, but believe me there's plenty there to choose from to fit your preference. Why you can 
 even customize the tombstone that will mark the place of your poor little defeated comrades in 
 arms.
  
  Worms offers several game modes to choose from. Fight your way through the Campaign, unlocking 
 extras as you go, or click the Deathmatch button for a random game against the computer. Then of 
 course there's the online multiplayer aspect to this game, which most will probably say is what 
 Worms Armageddon is all about. But since I haven't played it online yet (I'd surely be anniliated) 
 I'll leave it to others to comment on that feature.
  
  One of the best strategic elements of this game lies in choosing the right weapon, for the right 
 worm, at the right time. Weapons are limited and do take skill to use. So you'll have to gain an 
 understanding of how each one works and how to use it effectively. But more than that is the skill 
 of learning how to use your weapons 'creatively.' For instance, you COULD use that last grenade 
 to finish off a nearby opponent. Or... you could use it to blow up that ledge off in the distance, 
 sending a whole handful of those wiggly little critters into the deadly water below. But you better 
 have good aim. It's these kinds of decisions, and the sheer fun of watching it all play out, that 
 makes Worms Armageddon the enduring and highly addicting game it is today. Don't be surprised when 
 you look up and realize you've been playing this game for hours, always telling yourself, Ok just 
 ONE more map! 
  
  There's certainly a lot of humor infused into the aesthetics of this title, whether it be the wacky 
 taunts &amp; insults or funny animations (even the backdrops are amazingly creative) . After all, 
 you never know when you'll suddenly be overwhelmed by the urge to toss an exploding sheep at a 
 group of smart mouthed, grenade wielding worms. But deep down, Worms is a serious strategy game 
 that demands planning and wit if you want to be successful. And, given the incredible replay value 
 of this game, it's certainly one worth having in a permanent game library. In the meantime I'm 
 just trying to earn a rank higher than Total Newbie. But I'm definitely having a blast doing it. 
 And if you're even a casual fan of turn-based strategies you probably will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  It's still the best worms game and i don't think it'll ever be beaten as worms doesn't suit 3d. 
 The game is really funny when playing with mates and specially using the super weapons like he 
 granny. I've played this game for countless hours and while it's more of a on and off casual play 
 game i've never gotten tired of it and the gameplay just works. It's very simple and very fun and 
 it seems like one of those multiplayer games that we'll see on Steam one day so we can play against 
 loadsa people over that.
  
  The graphics are still looking great due to the nature of them being crisp 2d great arty styled 
 graphics and the sounds are simple yet effective and fun. The game sells for peanuts today soo 
 value isn't a worry too.
  
  Not much to say about worms Armageddon but it's the best worms game ever and one of the best multiplayers 
 games ever made! It still works today and just a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I'm being dead serious! This is one of the best games ever made! Its pure fun and hard to give 
 up on playing. I still play this damn game 8 years on and the online play is still fabulous over 
 all these years. The community is nowhere near dead yet, and its probably because of how amazingly 
 addicting and simple this game is to play. They've literally made the worms gameplay as perfect 
 as you can get it to be with this game.
  
  Worms Armageddon, as the other worms games before, puts you in control of a group of worms, armed 
 with dangerous weapons and useful utilities. You get to use up to a total of 65 weapons/utilities! 
 Now what your objective is is to wipe out the enemy worms with your weapons and skills. You could 
 air strike them down or launch an explosive sheep at them. The possibilities seem endless, and 
 every game and round is never the same thanks to the large use of weapons and randomness of your 
 opponents. Not only that, but the game is mega customizable. You can make your own levels and set 
 the game options such as time, objects, weapons etc. Hell, you can even earn cheats and use them 
 both on and offline play. You can make your own teams and customise your flag and grave, plus your 
 own little tune or fanfare every match you play. Plus the worms voices and man these voices are 
 funny as hell! Not only that, but the single player modes are addicting as well. There are 33 missions 
 and these take ages to beat and each mission never gets repetitive thanks to the great placements 
 and use of strategy. There's also a training mode, where you can practice your skills and beat 
 high scores. Best of all, a Deathmatch Ranking mode where the CPU gets aggressivly harder the more 
 matches you win. Sometimes it gets to a point where it seems near impossible to win, but its always 
 a challenge to beat.
  
  I think the multiplayer and internet play is what makes this game one of the best games in the 
 whole wide world. Playing with your friends is just top notch fun, in fact I think this is the 
 game i've spent the longest on! (Even longer than Goldeneye!) . Every match is different, and you 
 can not help but laugh hard at your friends mistakes, even your own. One time I shot a Bazooka 
 up to try and get someone above me on a cliff by curving with the wind, but instead of hitting 
 them it goes back the same way it came and hits me and I go flying and end up skimming the water 
 into a mine. This game's sense of humour and excellent physics are off the charts! How do they 
 make a game so hilarious and addicting as hell?!?!?
  
  The internet play WormNet is extremely addicting as well. There's all types of people on there, 
 from all over the globe. The whole community have made loads of different game modes on Worms, 
 such as Shopper, BnG, Roperaces, Boomraces, and even more. Yes, they tend to use the Ninja Rope 
 but not everyone's perfect with it and sometimes they make funny mistakes with it. It's a good 
 laugh and I come back to WormNet regulary just for a good laugh and a good time online. The community 
 is still well alive and they also agree with me that Worms Armageddon is one of the best games 
 ever too! I'm not alone with this opinion too!
  
  It's a shame to see not enough people know about Worms Armageddon or didn't play it, because if 
 they did play it, they wouldn't be able to get off it! I'm just going to finish off that Worms 
 Armageddon is by far the best worms game ever and there's no way you could not say it's amazing. 
 All of the recent worms game don't seem to have the same charm and appeal to this one. So Forget 
 the other worms games, this is in fact one of the best games ever made in the whole wide world! 
 You can now get it for under a fiver and for one of the best games ever that's a hell of a good 
 bargin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HestlerX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  As a former worms armageddon addict, I can attest to the unresistable gameplay of worms armageddon. 
 Such a simple premise of team combat contains a flexible system that is capable of long and short 
 range combat even hand to hand combat.
  
  Worms works on a turn based system ranging from 15-90 seconds a turn depending on how you set up 
 the game. There can be anywhere from two to eight teams comprised of two to five or six worms each. 
 One thing that woms armageddon does that you don't see much of now a days is a great single player 
 campaign. The single player eases you into the gameplay that is incredibly easy to get the hang 
 of, yet will take a lot of practice to master. Here is the basic premise of gameplay in worms... 
 you control a tiny worm who is standing on the randomly generated or story terrain and the timer 
 starts ticking down. Your only objective is to destroy the worms on the opposing teams.
  
  In order to complete your worms objective you must select a weapon which can range from a pistol 
 to a stick of dynomite and shoot or bomb the opposing worms into submission. With weapon in hand 
 you adjust the angle and then hold down the space bar to begin firing. A meter will appear and 
 steadily increase along the angle that you are firing, at the desired strength you release the 
 space bar and the weapon is fired, or dropped in the case of an explosive.
  
  A great facet of the worms games is the great attention to sound detail, they include built in 
 voices that you can choose for your team of worms which will say different things in different 
 voices and accents after they finish a turn or blow up an opposing worm. Let me just say that there 
 is nothing more satisfying then a worm insulting your recently killed opponent in a jamaican accent.
 
  
  I feel like no worms review would be complete without talking about the online play. Calling it 
 online play would not do it justice, more like online community. The worms community is like no 
 other because of the diverse options of online play. You can always find a game of roping or bazooka 
 and grenades. The community is made so strong because of the difficulty of mastering the gameplay. 
 It's not hard to shoot an opposing worm standing next to you, however, if that opponent is on another 
 island behind a piece of terrain with the wind blowing hard against you, it takes a master to be 
 able to calculate the correct angle and power to get a bazooka to get past the blocking terrain 
 and blow back on the unsuspecting worm and send him into the water or a stray mine.
  
  One of the more unique elements of the worms franchise is the ability to use a ninja rope to navigate 
 the terrain. Basically it works the same as your other weapons, only you fire out a rope instead 
 of a bullet and the rope sticks to whatever surface it touches. Once you attach the rope to a surface 
 your worm will gain the ability to bounce off surfaces. This allows you to basically shoot the 
 rope onto the wall and proceed to launch your worm into the air and shoot out the rope again and 
 again to stay airborn. A great tactic which has become a staple of any worms game is using the 
 rope to get to your opponent and drop a mine or dynomite on their heads. There are even games where 
 roping is the only thing allowed.
  
  This game was responsible for eating up hours and hours of my time as I played endless roping games 
 against friends made on the free online server. Words cannot express how fluid the gameplay is 
 and it can be played on virtually any pc because the requirements are not heavy. Gameplay value 
 and tilt are definately a 10, you will get addicted and keep coming back for more. The only knock 
 against graphics is that they are basic but it in no way detracts from the experience. Also with 
 total customizability of your team of worms from the name to the voice to the grave that pops out 
 when they die, you will not be dissapointed without flashy graphics and animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Okay. 3D Worms sucks.
  
  Thats all there is to it.
  
  2D Worms = god.
  
  This is by far the best worms game ever, and I still play it, 8 years after it came out. The graphics 
 are good, and its the best game to just sit back with your friends and have fun. The learning curve 
 can really vary. Yeah you can learn how to play it in a half hour, but to get GOOD, and beat your 
 friends could take AGES.
  
  DON'T buy some crappy Worms 6 or whatever, but Worms Armageddon for $2.99 at some pawn shop, and 
 you'll have the time of your life.
  
  I can't even say how good this game is.
  
  It IS PC gaming.
  
  IT IS!
  
  NOW GO PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincenzothepimp
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all it's totally awesome, just awesome, totally fun, just just so f****** cool!!! 
 The graphics are tight, the sound is unbelivable, the gameplay is magnificent, its just so good!!! 
 Seriously, if my game asn't break, i'll play all day all night. It's , my favorite game and he 
 have is reason. The music makes feel like you are in the game, so it's really cool. Plus, the sound 
 of all the little worms is incredible and the sound of all the weapons they used is so crazy, like 
 it's so real that you think you are in the game!! Just incredible. The graphics are really bad (positive 
 way) . Even if it's 2d, the graphics are tight as the world. The weapons are all clearly made, you 
 see all the details in it. Even if the worms are all the same, the graphics are magnificent, really 
 good. There is no story as it, you just have to destroy the other worm teams. But for more fun, 
 i'll suggested you guys to play without computers, you control all the teams, like that you all 
 ways play and destroyed! A most have game, you have to buy it!!! Outstanding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannigancarter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  I played this game back in the day when it first came out and I got it on shareware demo. Holy 
 Crap. I can't tell you how hooked I got to it. The game is ludicrously funny. Who the heck came 
 up with the idea of earthworms nuking each other with super sheep and Air Strikes? Ten times better 
 than any of the 3D Worms games, I wish they'd stick this game on PSP and I'm already waiting for 
 it on Xbox Live Arcade (Thank you, Microsoft) . Seriously, once you get the hang of the concept, 
 this game is loads of fun, and it's a great challenge... not to mention awesomely funny... especially 
 the British sounding worms when they curse you out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairy_freak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  That endless conflict between well-armed, strategically minded earth dwellers is about to spill 
 over onto your Dreamcast, with WORMS: Armageddon. Choose a team of earthworms and use their arsenal 
 of 55 wacky weapons including exploding sheep, nuclear bombs, jet packs, and more to survive all-out 
 war in 30 single-player missions against the CPU. When your combat strategies are beyond reproach, 
 lead your worms onto the field of battle one of a billion randomly generated maps against a friend's 
 team for a little two-player action! Or you can also join forces with your rival and take on the 
 devious CPU team. The personality of your team will come out in 60 custom soundbanks, featuring 
 comical voice samples that punctuate each successful attack or failed defense. Cunning and skill 
 will take priority over speed and reflexes in the strategic battle that is WORMS: Armageddon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netopix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Its 2007 and I still highly recommend this 8 year old PC game. iI is loads of fun! this game is 
 best with 2-4 players. Each player has a team of worms, each team gets loads of weapons, and its 
 as funny as it is strategic. The game runs flawlessly on winXP with the graphics bumped all the 
 way up along with the resolution the game runs very smoothly. This game is All its cracked up to 
 be Its full of comical violence, keep in mind the game is not gory, or unsuitable for kids. Its 
 an easy game to play, yet if you're up against someone with experience it can get a little difficult 
 :)
  
  My children are younger and I allow them to play it I suggest takeing a look at some of screenshots, 
 but keep in mind that its much more fun than it looks :)
  
  and one more thing, the worms have hilarious personalities, and crazy accents, make sure you mess 
 around with the options, there is a lot to chose from in that menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: last_the_ride
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Overall this game is awesome, the levels are great, the weapons are awesome and you kill poor worms!! 
 This game is probably the best Worms game there is but Worms: 2 is not far behind. The controls 
 are simple and easy to learn and fun to use.
  
  Pros-
  
  Weapons!
  The levels are very well put together
  Controls are easy
  Missions are fun
  Tons of weapons!
 
  
  Cons-
  
  I can't find any exept the wind might get in your way when shooting a weapon in a level
  
  
 I personally think the best level is the junkyard with all the cars because it is fun to drill 
 a hole and hide in the windshield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of my (very few) blog readers, you'll now ive been searching for a copy of this 
 game for about 6 years now IM DESPERATE!!! So, you play as worms loaded with sweet guns. The goal 
 is to annihilate all the worms on the other team (s) . I don't think the controls could be any simpler 
 than they are in this game. The level crator is so easy and fun to toy around with! Once, I stuck 
 ALL the worms in a circle of land and got one to throw a super banana bomb and see what happens. 
 LOL! not tellin though! The missions in the campaign are so great (though hard) . I couldn't finish 
 the whole campaign before the disc mysteriously disappeared \ my older brother, worm hater, me 
 hater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The first 2d turn-based shooting games didn't really impact the game-world (except for scorched 
 earth then) .
  But then came a game that would change it all..
  Worms , Worms 2 and Armageddon ... a toyie environment and animations mixed with plain shooting 
 fun and great gameplay!
  One could easily play this game against friends or through internet and network. The producers 
 knew this was necessary to maintain the lust for playing the game and worked it out great.
  Imo the games that were produced after this one were good, but didn't have this tilt like the first 
 worms games used to have.
  
  They found the missing hole in the gaming industry ..... and filled it with diamonds ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I have seen many additions to the Worms collection including the one on the Genesis and SNES back 
 in the day. Out of all of them, this one is the best of the Worms series. 
  
  Graphics: Nice 2-D effect. I'm glad that there isn't much 3-D.
  
  Gameplay: Incredibly fun. 
 You can just make your own worm army, name them and the team, choose your symbol, accent, and you 
 can choose a variety of weapons which is always good. I also like making my own map which is also 
 fun. Gameplay is definately a major strong point.
  
  Value: There is so much to do so it almost never gets boring.
  
  Sound: The worms sound hilarious 
 at times and the weapons can make cool noises as well.
  
  So anyway, if your looking for a promising Worms game, don't get the Genesis/SNES, X-box/PS2/GC, 
 or PSP/DS versions and that goes for any other PC versions because "Worms Armageddon" is the one 
 you want! Although the PSP one isn't bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titledlive
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game back when I was taking a Networking class in high school. Well during 
 the class, the network was almost always down, so we would spend the class hooking up a LAN and 
 playing Worms... or Star craft.
  
  This is one of the best in the series and almost anyone has fun playing it, even if they are not 
 a gamer. It works for the more casual people.
  
  The quick, fun games make it appealing to just about everyone. I like the crazy wepons, the little 
 voices and the characters. I don't ffeel the game translated well when they did it in 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a Worms fan since the first one came out. I've always wanted more weapons and 
 internet play. Worms 2 did deliver this, but Worms Armageddon gives you a hell of a lot of new 
 weapons. Not only is the game so addicting, it's easy one of the best strategy games ever made!.
 
  
  Worms Armageddon is a turn-based strategy game which involves you having to blast the enemy worms 
 off with all different types of weapons. You might want to use the Banana Bomb to dispose your 
 enemies, or launch a Super Sheep into the sky and blast them off with it. There are so many funny 
 weapons on this game it's just soooo ridiculous!. If that isn't enough, then you could always try 
 the single player missions, which involve collecting crates and destroying the computer worms but 
 it does get ridiculously hard so make sure you're very calm completing the missions as I'm sure 
 that there will be a few missions which you're just get frustrated over.
  Now the heart of Worms Armageddon is the multiplayer. If you have a couple of friends then it's 
 great!. You make your own teams up and edit what flag and fanfare each team has. There's alot of 
 custom options on this game. Sudden Death is one of them, which option would you prefer? Water 
 Rise, Worms Have 1 Health, Worms Get Sick, or just no sudden death?. You choose. What weapons do 
 you want the worms to use in the match? You choose. What level do you want your worms to battle 
 on? You choose again, and if you want to you can always make up your own maps with the very easy 
 level editor!. Do you want mines and oil drums on the map? You choose again!. There's just too 
 much customization in this game!.
  Now for Internet play, it's probably one of the best!. Not only are there so many players online, 
 there are loads of different types of games to play. It's not all about shooting you know!. There's 
 Shopper, RopeRace, BoomRace, BnG, Forts, and many more!. You've always got something to do online. 
 Then again, you might want to practice, as most of the people online tend to be very good, especially 
 with rope skills. You don't want to feel like a noob. If you're not happy with that, then you can 
 just make a game with your online friends, add a password and no other strangers can get in.
  
  Worms Armageddon has a very cartoony look. The levels are very detailed and the worms look 
 quite good and are animated very well. As for the sound, well the worms are absolutely hilarious!. 
 You can choose what voice they have and most of the time they're funny. The music works well in 
 the game and the sound effects are good and humorous as well. One of my favourites is the French 
 Sheep Strike!. 
  
  Overall, Worms Armageddon is a must have game and it is one of the best strategy games ever made. 
 The missions can be very difficult, and there's a deathmatch mode so there's plenty of replay value. 
 Also, each game is different and it's never the same. So, if you have alot of friends and want 
 a deathmatch blast, then go with Worms Armageddon. Don't bother with any other Worms game, this 
 is the best you'll ever get, especially for the PC!. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allouh
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 20, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
  Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great
  Nothing ascend this 
 game.
  I missed this game for a long time and now i return to it after trying all the duplications released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Worms Armageddon is, without doubt, one of the most unique and enjoyable computer games ever 
 created. Its truly ingenious idea of arming worms with bazookas, grenades, guns and dynamites, 
 and allowing them to fight against each other in different types of environments has contributed 
 towards making this game an extremely amusing and entertaining one. However, what makes this game 
 so extraordinary and so enjoyable is its multiplayer. By allowing multiple users to confront each 
 other on one computer, Worms Armageddon has distinguished itself as a timeless classic, one that 
 is still very enthusiastically played, to this day, by gamers who are capable of appreciating it 
 for no less than what it is: a masterpiece.
  
  Personally, I have kept Worms Armageddon on my computer longer than any other PC game that I 
 have ever played, and I still keep it today. The reason for this is the fact that it can be played 
 in a million different ways and against a million different people. Unlike many of the computer 
 games released today (which have only one way in which they can be finished, or which are very 
 repetitive) , Worms Armageddon can be played anytime, anywhere, and against anyone who knows how 
 to play, and it will still guarantee lots of laughs and a very good time for everyone involved.
 
  
  Some of my most precious childhood memories are related to this game. I will never forget the countless 
 hours that I spent playing Worms Armageddon with my best friends, laughing, joking, and having 
 the time of out lives. This is what a computer game should do, amuse and entertain people, and 
 determine them to come together, socialize, and, in the true sense of the word, have fun. Worms 
 Armageddon manages to achieve just this, and more effectively than I ever thought possible before 
 playing it. It does as good a job today as it did 7 years ago to make people truly enjoy themselves.
 
  
  I could have picked many classifications for this game. Amazing, Highly addictive, Instant 
 classic, Masterpiece, these are only a few, but none are explicit or profound enough to truly 
 convey the way in which I feel about this game. There has never been, and will very likely never 
 be a game quite as entertaining, enjoyable, and as fun as Worms Armageddon. For those who have 
 never tried it, I encourage them not to look at the release date; they have no idea what they are 
 missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  oH my god, this is one of the best games ever released. All the other worms aren't so good really, 
 mayhem is bad, but armaggedon, WOOOOOOOW!, it really rocks. you can win tons of weapons, discover 
 secret weapons between the game, create your team with a special weapon, grab special utilities 
 as jetpack, play to be a spiderman with the hangrope :) , and more. there's such a variety of things 
 to do that you are going to get mad. the single player is REALLY HARD (specially missions) and 
 rocks. I got very angry once when i was like in lvl 19 and it got completely erased : ( (dunno why) . 
 Best in series, one of my favorite games on pc, great sound, excellent gameplay, fascinating comical 
 graphics, my tilt ? 10/10. Great awesome game. you will never get bored playing the multiplayer 
 and the single player, making your own maps, increasing your rank, winning new selective weapons, 
 get this weapons while playing multiplayer if you don't have them unlocked (what makes you feel 
 great because you can kill your companion much easily) , controlling flying sheeps (lol) to grab 
 items and then explode with them into a enemy worm... etc. it's just great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Aaaaarrghhh yes a clasic yet good game ! An excelent thinking & war game hard to play with excelnt 
 multyplayer abilities like all Worms games.
  Worms Armageddon is the best in series after my opinion ! Great and funny weapons, missions to 
 break your brain with, graphics very good for that period. In our time it is 8 but a few years 
 ago 9.50 so I say 9 ! Sound ooooohhh what masterpiece sounds .... their voices are so funny and 
 the explotions the boom & KBOOOOOM are excelent ITS a 10!!! 
  The gameplay is fantastic !!! But your hardwork is rewarded with more ..... WEAPONS ofcourse weapons 
 for mass destruction !!! HA HA HA !!!
  But don't think : "aaaaarrgh with so many weaps this game is too easy boooooooring!! no sir ! 
 every weapons has something to make the targeting harder and the turn time keeps on presureooohh 
 I don't have time to think or move hurry hurry. Yes Yes I forgot to mention there are 2 or more 
 teams. The gameplay is in turns ! Firing a weapon end of turn , hurting yourself end of turn ! 
 I gues those guys who made the game have a big .... very big IMAGINATION ! Imagine a banana a cluster 
 weapon , a sheep, a sheep canon, a super sheep, sheep strike and many other crazy real or animal 
 weaps !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Worms 2 Armagedon is a fantastic game on many fronts. From the clever, colourful graphics to the 
 sharp gameplay. The sound is fun and loveable and the lifespan is hours upon hours upon hours. 
 Even once the single player missions are over, you can still play this game. Creating a team is 
 great fun and this game has an all round satisfactory touch to it which raises the gameplay playability 
 higher. The training mode is really fun and to gain another medal is satisfying.
  
  The missions can be quite tricky sometimes. The multiplayer of this game is brilliant. You can 
 create different terrains, with different scenarios and with different weapon features. Every game 
 is different and this game can be played by so many different people. This game is fantastic and 
 should not be missed. With the price also being low, you cannot go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  It may be a simple 3D game, but there's no funny game like Worms Armageddon. A war envolving worm 
 soldiers that you will be able to control, using a diversity of weapons and ammo. It has a simple 
 map creator, that will make possible the edition of an existing map or doing a new one. Having 
 many playing modes, Worms is game that you can't say "I'm annoyed". You have the practicing menu, 
 were you will be able to train all the ways to improve your war technic. If you get good results 
 in training, you may unlock new weapons and new features. There is the Deathmatch game, were you'll 
 play against other default teams; you'll have to win, so that you can go up one level until you 
 reach the top. Then you have the Missions, were you are taken into special levels, were you have 
 to accomplish the objectives that are told. You can even personalize your team: change the voice, 
 the team name, the soldiers' name, the grave, the national flag, the victory music and the special 
 weapon. It's possible to create a game type, were you can change many things, like the level time, 
 the worms placement type, turn on or off the replay feature, and lots of more other options. As 
 you see, this game is very personalizable, you can even edit the starting weapons of your teams.
 
  Don't forget that you have the possibility of playing multiplayer mode, connecting into a LAN 
 or even playing through the Internet. Like this, you'll show how much good you are.
  Play, have fun, in this unforgetable game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  The sequel to Worms - Worms 2 - brought the very nice-looking graphics high-resolution engine that 
 has been used for all the latest Worms incarnations in 2D for the PC. With the rather insignificant 
 exception being the power meter when releasing a weapon like the bazooka or grenade, this graphics 
 engine allows for more precise game play and better maneuverability around the levels. Worms: Armageddon 
 fixed the balance issues that Worms 2 had with the homing cluster weapons that simply were too 
 effective. It also added much better playability on the Internet with the then new system called 
 WormNet, as well as new missions, training modes, a host of innovative new weapons and a much better 
 menu interface. All this came together to create one of the best Worms game to date even today 
 and counting the latest 3D versions, tied with the original Worms game.
  
  The premise of Worms is like any great game, very easy to learn, but something that takes a lot 
 of practice to master completely. It is a splendid combination of strategy, action and not to forget; 
 humour. If you like Monty Python-esque sort of comedy, then this is the game for you. The randomization 
 of the levels, all the different landscapes and options to choose from, makes this a game that 
 is ever-changing and never the same. The ability to customize your Worms is still here from the 
 first game. You can name them whatever you like and choose a sound set that you deem fitting. The 
 level of customization has been raised even further in W: A; you can now also choose a tombstone 
 and a flag for your team among other things - both of which you can make your own in paint or a 
 better program and import it to the game.
  
  I'm a long time fan of the Worms series, and I have to agree with the persons saying Worms is best 
 played in 2D. Today all games almost need to be in 3D, and I certainly hope the announced Worms 
 4 will become a very good game, but I think Worms: Armageddon and Worms 1 will always remain the 
 best versions of the supposed "madman" (?) Andy Davidson's short stroke of genius that he named 
 Full Wormage. Everyone has to try this game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doo_wah
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  we can say that this was one of the best games created by atari, is a grating game for fans of 
 strategy games.
  for me this game goes to be for history, since it has a great mood, therefore is not every day 
 that we see earthworms if to kill the one others. in this game we can see of everything including 
 moles almost suicidal, ponbos flying post office, sheep, total destruction.
  how much to the graphs for a game in 2D you the very good one.
  how much to the sound you a little 
 irritating since after one hours of game become repetitive.
  how much to the learning level we can say that it is easy to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Worms Armageddon is an excellent strategy game that packs a unique arsenal to blow your enemies 
 to pieces. There is nothing better than throwing a grenade across a whole map and detonating it 
 right next to your opponent.
  First of all graphics, this game doesnt demand much out of your PC because its 2D. So for 2D gfx 
 it looks good. Its got a cartoonish style to it. Next sound, there are many different and comedic 
 victory songs and sounds to choose from, each better than the last. And don't forget to check online 
 because there are some sound packs you can download that add hundreds more.
  The gameplay is turnbased, you get a menu full of items that you can use to try and destroy your 
 enemy, or just blow the completly destructable enviroment up with. Its truely an awesome experience. 
 Then there are many options to set so you can make every game different than the last one. I'm 
 not sure i have ever played the same map twice.
  So for those looking for a classic good time, turn to Worms. It is packed with hours of good laughs 
 and explosions. What more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tukepuikko
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  It's a good strategy game, I played it all time when i was a kid! - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
 ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - 
 - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - 
 - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- 
 - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- 
 - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- 
 - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 2.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is very simplistic in nature, you have a group of worms and your opponent has a 
 group of worms. The purpose of the game is to kill all the worms on the opposing team with a radical 
 arsenal of different weaponry that you can only imagine. Some of them are realistic, some of them 
 are things that we can only dream of, others are just plain funny such as the simple poke that 
 can be used of your opponent is right next to a large body of water. With a simple poke you can 
 send that opponent straight into the depths of water where the worm will drown. For me I found 
 the main part of the game to be decent, but it wasn't all that entertaining in my opinion. There 
 were so many necessary calculations that had to be made that it was more of a hassle in the gameplay 
 than it was fun. For example the grenades and other precision weapons need a certain amount of 
 strength applied and trajectory in order to make sure that the weapon hit its correct spot. Not 
 to mention there are places where you can just hide out and the battle would just come to a standstill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I love the worms series. i have played it on playstation and had fun. i decided to buy it on PC 
 because that is all i have. i got a three pack: worms 2, armageddon, and world party. worms 2 is 
 alright but dated. armageddon crashed. i was disappointed. world party was great. world party has 
 cooler weapons and better options. i would recommend world party. by the way if you are confused 
 by worms fighting worms with weapons such as concrete donkeys read the wormapedia on world party. 
 those who are not familiar with the series, let me explain. you lead a (n) squad (s) of worms. you 
 choose your weapons and map and start killing other worms. you get a lot of strange weapons like 
 sheep, cows, skunks, and other things that blow up. it is great fun although not recommended for 
 kids under 12. (language and violence) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  A game such as Worms has a very cute and adorable feel with a nice dose of adult humor and violence. 
 A game like this can't be judged to much on graphics, not so much as sound either but mainly on 
 how much fun and hilarity you can pack into the game, though surprisingly for this kind of game 
 the graphics, sound and effects are quite nice. Anyone who was/ is a fan of the old tank games 
 this takes it to a new level. The concept of the game is simple enough, you are worms at war, and 
 duke it out on terrains that otherwise would be small to a human, fully destructable terrain and 
 water is your enemy. With a full arsenal of weapontry from bazookas, to cluster bombs, all the 
 way up to a super exploading banana bomb! This game deffinatly hits instant classic, it stands 
 the tests of time and could easily be seen enjoyed 10 years down the road even at 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammml8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I stumbled upon Worms 2 a number of years ago and I was hooked. It captured some of the elements 
 of Scorched Earth that I really loved. So when Worms Armageddon was released, I was pretty excited. 
 It was a more dynamic game than Worms 2 had been, it had more levels, great voices and entertaining 
 weapons. For what more could you ask? I did find some of the training areas frustrating and time 
 consuming because getting the correct power and angle is completely by feel instead of using numbers. 
 Nonetheless, that added to the overall challenge. The missions were great and relied heavily on 
 strategy forcing one to impliment weapons in efficient ways instead of just destroying stuff! Overall, 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shad11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest game I have ever played in my entire life.
  
  Worms are cool... I never thought playing something like this.
  This game looks innofensive, 
 but until you play it you dont know what youre missing.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Worms Worms Worms, kill worms or be killed by them!
  EXCELLENT. Perfect for playing solo, or 
 with a friend.
  The weapons are cool and everything else is fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This game looks more like a cartoon than a videogame, this 2-D graphics make the gameplay even 
 better.
  Everything is full of great color and youll like to watch it flow.
  
  SOUND
  GREAAAT, you can select your own song, and voice, what else you could possibly want?
  
  REPLAY 
 VALUE
  Do I have to answer this?
  
  Great game, not so great series, worth buying.
  If you dont own this game, and you dont find it anywhere, download it.... do it you will enjoy 
 killing worms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Since its beginnings back in 1995, Team 17's Worms series has quietly amassed a cult following. 
 In fact, a Worms game has graced nearly every major system since that time, including the PC, Mac, 
 Amiga, SNES, Gameboy, Saturn, Jaguar, and Playstation. This is a game with serious roots, and it 
 has managed to grow with the times.
  
  The last installment, Worms 2, was the Game Revolution sleeper pick of the year. It captured our 
 hearts with a simple and effective layout, sharp graphics, and the most addictive and catchy gameplay 
 we had seen in ages. It was also one of the few games that I could play with my girlfriend. Ahhh 
 . . . worms uniting the sexes.
  
  Worms: Armageddon brings the same magic to the table with updated weapons, moves, modes, and full 
 customization. Thankfully, the general play mechanics have been left intact, so all the new stuff 
 is just bonus. Worms: Armageddon kicks ass (Do worms have asses? - Ed.) , and is a fitting finale 
 for such a hip, underground series.
  
  If you've never played a Worms game, then crawl out from the rock you've been hiding under and 
 go read the Worms 2 review. It will better acquaint you with the series. Plus, it demonstrates 
 my vast knowledge of worm taxonomy (which I promptly forgot upon finishing the review) .
  
  There's a myriad of new modes in Worms: Armageddon. Training Mode allows you to get more comfortable 
 with some of the more useful actions in the game, like throwing grenades, using the Ninja rope, 
 piloting the Super sheep, and aiming with the shotgun. There are plenty of Training scenarios, 
 and you are awarded Bronze, Silver, or Gold medals upon completion. Finishing certain Training 
 levels also opens up missions in Mission Mode.
  
  Mission Mode takes your team of worms through 33 levels aimed at testing the lessons learnt in 
 Training. Each mission has a certain objective to meet - the destruction of one particular enemy 
 worm, acquiring a certain crate, etc. On the whole, these are very difficult and will prove a tough 
 challenge to even the most die-hard worm fans.
  
  Yet another mode is Deathmatch, where you take your squad of Worms up against the computer in a 
 series of increasingly difficult scenarios. After a few matches, the computer's precision becomes 
 deadly, and you're forced to rethink your strategies. Very nice.
  
  To complement the new gameplay modes are a bunch of new weapons: 15 to be precise. These range 
 from the useful (the Longbow) to the brutal (the Flame Thrower) . Mastery of the new weaponry is 
 essential if you want to compete. To give the game some arcadey flair, there are a few new 'utilities' 
 as well. These include items like the jet pack, invisibility (useful in multi-play) , and double 
 speed.
  
  Worms: Armageddon takes the word "customize" to new levels. You set the sound bank, war cry, tombstone, 
 and flag for your squad of Worms, and brother, there are a LOT of choices. You'll find 18 new voice 
 sets, and more are frequently added for easy download. I'm impressed by the number of options here 
 - you can really build a unique Worms team.
  
  The terrain editor is back, and again, the options here have expanded greatly. With a slew of new 
 terrain types and design tools, this aspect of the game has been upgraded nicely.
  
  You can still play a 2-player hotseat game, which is as fun as ever. But the true test of Worms 
 mettle is found online via Wormnet, the dedicated multiplayer server. Connecting to Wormnet is 
 easy as pie, and the service has full IRC support to easily facilitate finding an opponent or just 
 chatting about Worms. You simply pick a room, start up a game, and away you go. Things aren't perfect, 
 though. You'll have occasional problems connecting, and since you're dealing with specific IP addresses, 
 there's no guarantee that things will run smoothly. Occasional frustration, however, gives way 
 to buckets of fun once you get going.
  
  Your success online leads to different rankings, which is a nice way to determine how good your 
 opponent might be. This allows you to avoid getting trounced by players who are way too good or 
 squashing newbies who didn't know to just stay away.
  
  Worms: Armageddon contains all of the elements that made its predecessor such an excellent game. 
 But the question arises: is it worth it? Sure, the new modes, weapons, and options are cool, but 
 does that warrant shelling out the dough for essentially an update? In my eyes, the answer is clearly 
 yes. Fans of the series will love the new additions, and newbies should just bypass Worms 2 and 
 pick up this one instead.
  
  The end of the annelid invasion is at hand. As the Worms coup de grace, Worms: Armageddon sends 
 the series off with a bang. Well done, Team 17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Thanks to the game's sophisticated physics and damage modeling, the results of your attacks will 
 often prove surprising no matter how accurate you think you are. Since maps tend to be strewn with 
 explosives, and the worms themselves explode when they die, oftentimes the results of a successful 
 strike are anything but predictable as an incredible chain reaction ensues. This tightly controlled 
 chaos, together with the precise targeting system and plausible physics, is also essential to this 
 game's success. And the automatic instant replay on especially unbelievable chains of events is 
 a nice touch.
  
  the games comes with many different playing modes, but the core of the game lies within its combat. 
 you lead a team of worms in a turn-based battle, armed to the tooth with bazookas, shotguns, mines, 
 dynamite, airstrikes, bats, etc. etc. the strategy is that you choose the best poison possible 
 to wipe out the other team [s] . the sheer amount of weaponry given to you is amazing, and you'll 
 probably find youself debating on which is the best for the job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: second_XD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cool, its the best PC game I've ever played in my life, and the best part is, 
 you can even recruit your own army. Okay I'll come clean, but dont you get some feeling of hating 
 a certian game category but a CERTIAN game IN that category catches your eye, like kinda gets your 
 need of attention to try playing it more than once. Hecky yea, i mean It happens with me all the 
 time. Like Final Fantisy, no wait I hate Final Fantisy... like Pokemon, I hate Role-Playing games 
 that let the enemy attack. But the only reason why I like Pokemon is because it caught my eye as 
 a child, and the same with this game. I recommend this game to all those who love and been into 
 the army before. lol. especially myself, naa just joking. lol.
  
  oh yea and they cuss... but its rated E. Micropose is messing up a bit. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagash_thegod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  Wow, what a game, me and a few friends are still playing it at the moment, when we get time. An 
 ultimate classic, ranking alongside legendary stuff, like Lemmings, Worms Armageddon was the apex 
 of the genre, we didnt need 3D to have fun blowing worms up, Armageddon is the final game before 
 the Worms franchise began to run out of ideas, and become stale. The missions range form pitifully 
 easy at the start, to impossible at thened, and anyone who has got through them all knows how much 
 skill is involved in flinging worms off ledges. Still its amazing what a bunch of guys, and gals, 
 based in Ossett can do. Marvelous game, pitty it ended, and I hate that mission with the Eiffel 
 Tower.
  
  8.9/10.0 definately
  
  Nagash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2005 5:07 am PT
Review:  The Premise is a strange one: arm dirt worms with an arsenal of weapons big enough to supply an 
 army, and set teams of them against each other. What in the world were they thinking? Well apparently 
 Team 17 knew exactly what to do with this wonderful strategy/action game, as it's one of the best 
 games on the market.
  
  Gameplay: How does one describe the gameplay of worms? You have a group of armed worms, with various 
 munitions from bazookas to machine guns and shotguns. They also have parachutes, bungie cords, 
 etc. Then you use this group of worms to utterly annhilate another group of worms. Some of the 
 missions have a lot of variation, but where all the fun is had is in multiplayer against some friends. 
 While you have to switch off on the keyboard, which is a slight nuisance, getting together with 
 a couple friends and slaughtering each other in Worms Armageddon is about as much fan as can be 
 had.
  
  Many different factors figure into Worms. The courses are all very different, and you may have 
 to maneuvor yourself into a position that you are able to attack from before you are even able 
 to attack. Sometimes you can use the courses to your advantage, as you drown other worms by using 
 a baseball bat and launching them across the map. One of the most interesting things is to see 
 the stats at the end of the game. It keeps track of the longest launched worm, which worm got the 
 most kills, etc. 
  
  It is really hard to describe the gameplay of a game which has you using worms to kill each other, 
 the best way to find out is to get the game and play it yourself.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, Worms is unimpressive, though adequate. It is 2D, and not superb 2D, just 
 adequate. 
  
  Sound: Worms Armageddon features hilarious sound effects, but the music is hardly memorable, what 
 music there is.... 
  
  Value: You will be playing a WHOLE lot of Worms Armageddon. It is worth every penny.
  
  Tilt: 
 Worms Armageddon is one of the most fun games ever created and a must have for anyone who owns 
 a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to Worms - Worms 2 - brought the very nice-looking graphics high-resolution engine that 
 has been used for all the latest Worms incarnations in 2D for the PC. With the rather insignificant 
 exception being the power meter when releasing a weapon like the bazooka or grenade, this graphics 
 engine allows for more precise game play and better maneuverability around the levels. Worms: Armageddon 
 fixed the balance issues that Worms 2 had with the homing cluster weapons that simply were too 
 effective. It also added much better playability on the Internet with the then new system called 
 WormNet, as well as new missions, training modes, a host of innovative new weapons and a much better 
 menu interface. All this came together to create one of the best Worms game to date even today 
 and counting the latest 3D versions, tied with the original Worms game.
  
  The premise of Worms is like any great game, very easy to learn, but something that takes a lot 
 of practice to master completely. It is a splendid combination of strategy, action and not to forget; 
 humour. If you like Monty Python-esque sort of comedy, then this is the game for you. The randomization 
 of the levels, all the different landscapes and options to choose from, makes this a game that 
 is ever-changing and never the same. The ability to customize your Worms is still here from the 
 first game. You can name them whatever you like and choose a sound set that you deem fitting. The 
 level of customization has been raised even further in W: A; you can now also choose a tombstone 
 and a flag for your team among other things - both of which you can make your own in paint or a 
 better program and import it to the game.
  
  I'm a long time fan of the Worms series, and I have to agree with the persons saying Worms is best 
 played in 2D. Today all games almost need to be in 3D, and I certainly hope the announced Worms 
 4 will become a very good game, but I think Worms: Armageddon and Worms 1 will always remain the 
 best versions of the supposed "madman" (?) Andy Davidson's short stroke of genius that he named 
 Full Wormage. Everyone has to try this game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyracer_usa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  forget gunbound. this is where it's all at. worms armageddon brings the vintage worms look with 
 the trippiest playing fields you'll ever see, with surprisingly tight gameplay to add to the mix. 
 
  
  the games comes with many different playing modes, but the core of the game lies within its combat. 
 you lead a team of worms in a turn-based battle, armed to the tooth with bazookas, shotguns, mines, 
 dynamite, airstrikes, bats, etc. etc. the strategy is that you choose the best poison possible 
 to wipe out the other team [s] . the sheer amount of weaponry given to you is amazing, and you'll 
 probably find youself debating on which is the best for the job. 
  
  the game pits you against another team, sometime teams, in a randomly made map which disperses 
 your team. you take turns trying to attack the enemy and depleting their health points to the point 
 of defeat. the more damage you cause, the more likely you're going to win. however, the games tries 
 to make this part a little harder for you, by adding elements such as environment placement and 
 wind. you may have to duke it out with a worm that rests on the other side of the field, out of 
 view, or perhaps they're on another level that can't be reached by a bazooka or a conventional 
 weapon. or, the wind is blowing strongly, making your grenade launches miss horribley, etc. these 
 factors can make the game much more challenging that just merely setting off to plant a dynamite 
 on top of a worm or smacking it into the water with a bat, causing instant or near instant death 
 [though that is the case, sometimes] .
  
  come on, you're a worm trying to obliterate other worms with weapons of mass destruction, how can 
 it not be fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostcurse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2004 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot to offer, it can be really addictive when playing with friends. It has a wide 
 selection of weapons as bazooka, granades and many more. Create your own team, destroy your opponents 
 and make your strategies. This game really makes you think and it is worth playing. It is also 
 a good game for the newbies to start with, because the controls are very easy to use and it is 
 very entertaining. I highly reccomend to play this game with friends, because you can see who is 
 the best creating strategies!
  If you are a strategy games fan, you should get this game. Also if you are new in strategy games, 
 this would be a great start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basharhassan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2004 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, which was a long time ago, i thought the game was a stupid game. 
 The only reason i bought it was becuase i was told it was really fun. I didnt believe it at first, 
 but as soon as i started playing the game, i couldnt stop! If u think this game is a kids game 
 just because it has colourful and funny looking worms the ur wrong. This game is just as fun as 
 any RTS game out there. I still play it now! 
  
  In the game, you control a team of funny looking worms. I dont know where Team 17 got the idea 
 of worms with weapons but its a really good and funny idea. The game has 3 main modes. A single 
 player mode with missions, a skirmish mode where u play against the computer and a multiplayer 
 mode where u can play against other people. The single player mode has 44 action packed missions. 
 The missions are really fun to play. Your objectives in the missions are usually to kill ur enemies 
 but sometimes you have other objectives. The skirmish mode is my favorite part. You create you 
 own team, where you can name all the worms and the team what ever you want. Then you start to play 
 some death matches against the computer. To win a match, you have to beat all the other teams but 
 using a bunch of weapons. As you start to win some matches, your rank starts to improve. You start 
 as a beginner then you progress to rookie. As your rank gets higher, the matches become harder 
 and harder, which makes the game challenging. Me and my friends used to challenge each other to 
 see who can reach the highest rank, it was really fun. The multiplayer mode is also fun. You can 
 play online or on LAN. 
  
  The weapons in the game are really fun to use. There are more than 40 weapons at your disposal. 
 Some of the weapons are really funny, for example u can use an old woman as a weapon, u can also 
 use a sheep as a weapon. Each team has his own special weapon which you can choose. For example 
 the banana bomb. The banana bomb is very powerful, when you throw it, explodes releasing about 
 7 other small bombs which explode on contact causing a great deal of damage. There are all kinds 
 of weapons including bazooka, homing missile, uzi, pistol, grenade, cluster grenade and many many 
 more. Using the weapons is very easy.
  
  The graphics in the game are 2D but look really nice. They are very colourful and nice to look 
 at. The sound is also good. And best of all is the price. the price of this game is under $10. 
 very cheap and full of fun!!! I highly recommend this game, just buy it!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
