-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms 4: Mayhem
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worms4mayhem/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the new and returning weapons are fun, like the Concrete Donkey.
 Mission design in story mode is unique and interesting at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nothing much has changed since the previous two 3D Worms games.
 Frustrating platforming stages in story mode.
 Explosions and effects seem weak by Worms' standards.
 You constantly have to fumble with the camera.
 Inconsistent AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,088 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 4, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though it's being offered at a budget price, there just isn't any reason to play Worms 4: Mayhem 
 if you've played either of the last two games in the series. 

  Worms 4: Mayhem is the third Worms game in two years, which is a lot of worms. But more importantly, 
 it's hard to believe there's such a rampant demand for these games, considering they really never 
 change or improve over time. Aside from the requisite transition to 3D, the Worms series hasn't 
 changed much since it first appeared on the PC in 1995. Each new installment may tweak the weapon 
 lineup ever so slightly, but these worms tend to stick to their guns. That's both a good and a 
 bad thing for Worms 4: Mayhem. On one hand, you can expect to be chucking holy hand grenades, detonating 
 old ladies, and calling in air strikes in the hopes of destroying the opposing team of little pink 
 worms. On the other hand, if you've done all that before, there's really no reason to play this 
 game, because it doesn't offer anything new and worthwhile.  

          The worms are back... yet again.     

  There isn't really much mayhem in Worms 4. There 
 are explosions and gunfire aplenty, but all that action is doled out in calculated, methodical 
 doses in turn-based team battles. There are several gameplay modes in Worms 4, but they all revolve 
 around the same basic gameplay. The single-player story mode is the best way to warm up to the 
 game if you've never played Worms before. There's a thin story involving a wacky professor worm 
 and his naive but well-intentioned pupil worms. The professor constructs a time machine, and it 
 breaks down. Consequently, you have to battle through 25 stages to collect pieces of the time machine 
 so you can get back home.  

  The stages take place in medieval times, the Old West, prehistoric times, and the modern day, and 
 each era has its own set of worms that behave pretty similarly, except for the worms have different 
 hats and voices. The missions in story mode are fairly creative and represent a nice change of 
 pace from the simple kill-everything mentality the series is known for. Some missions have you 
 blowing up certain parts of the environment, and others have you defending the professor for a 
 set amount of time. Unfortunately, the missions never become difficult, and many of them are rather 
 brief. The artificial intelligence here is inconsistent, making boneheaded decisions one turn and 
 blasting you with deadly precision the next. The computer-controlled enemies always favor the same 
 few weapons as well, which makes for some dull and uneven single-player missions.  

  The only difficulty in the single-player missions comes from navigating some of the platforming 
 sections. The worms in the game aren't really nimble creatures, but you'll often have to hop between 
 small platforms suspended above water, which any Worms veteran knows spells certain death. You 
 can use the jetpack or ninja rope, but the awkward control usually makes using those tools more 
 hassle than it's worth. These types of missions are challenging, sure, but they're frustrating 
 and aren't much fun. Really, we just want to blow stuff up.  

  There's still plenty of blowing stuff up to be had here, but it doesn't feel all that satisfying. 
 The classic weaponry is at your disposal, like grenades, shotguns, and sheep. There are also some 
 newer weapons, like poison arrows and a really weak sniper rifle. The problem is there are plenty 
 of good weapons available that you're already familiar with, so there's not much reason to try 
 any new ones. You can also create your own custom weapon. But don't get too excited, because the 
 weapon editor is fairly limited. You can create a gun, a thrown weapon, or an air-strike weapon. 
 Then you can design the weapon by mixing and matching various components. For example, if you want 
 to make a gun, you can choose various designs for the butt, scope, and barrel. And then you can 
 set various parameters, such as how powerful the weapon is, whether it's affected by wind or not, 
 how much it will deform land, and so on. You can't simply max out all the stats, though, as you 
 have to keep a pressure gauge out of the red. This means all the weapons you create will be fairly 
 tame... and not too different from the weapons already in the game. Part of the strategy in Worms 
 involves deforming the land with explosions. A bazooka round won't even take out a single worm, 
 but if you use that bazooka round to blow up a chunk of land, you can send multiple worms into 
 the drink with a single shot. The terrain in Worms 4 is still destructible, although only on certain 
 levels. The weapons seem underpowered here, though, and often the map will look pretty much unchanged -- even 
 after a lengthy battle. The holy hand grenade still makes quite a dent, but it's nowhere near as 
 spectacular as it could be, and it doesn't feel much better than the everyday grenade or stick 
 of dynamite.  

  The best part of Worms has always been the multiplayer game. It can be a lot of fun to blow your 
 friends' worms to smithereens by making creative use of the weapons in the game. Worms 4 doesn't 
 change the formula, so it can still be a lot of fun. On the Xbox, the game supports four-player 
 battles offline, as well as on Xbox Live. The PC version of the game supports the same number of 
 players via LAN or Internet play. There are four match types: basic deathmatch; homelands, which 
 is basically deathmatch, except each team starts out in its own fort; destruction, which has you 
 trying to destroy your enemies' land rather than their worms; statue defender, which requires you 
 to defend your own statue while trying to destroy your enemies' statues; and survivor, where each 
 team uses one worm at a time until it runs out of worms. The multiplayer matches can be a lot of 
 fun, but unless you set up a Worms league among your friends, you'll have a hard time finding anyone 
 to play against online.  

  The graphics in Worms 4: Mayhem are the same as they have been since Worms 3D. The worms themselves 
 are cute, and they have a decent array of silly animations and facial expressions. You can customize 
 your team of worms with a variety of hats, glasses, and gloves as well. The stages are bright and 
 colorful, and there are plenty of different themes to choose from. And in the single-player missions, 
 you'll see construction sites, castles, diners, volcanoes, palaces, and more. Unfortunately, you'll 
 often have a hard time getting a good look at the world around you due to some bad camera control. 
 On the PC you can control the camera with the mouse, which works fairly well given the sensitivity 
 of the device. However, on the Xbox, the camera control and aiming are far less precise because 
 you have to use the right analog stick, which just isn't as responsive as a mouse. In both cases, 
 the camera often bumps up against a wall, making it difficult to see exactly what you're doing. 
 This can be particularly frustrating when you're inching along and you suddenly fall through a 
 hole in the terrain that you couldn't see. There's also the same old collision issue here that's 
 plagued the Worms series forever. Sometimes your worms will get into tight spots that they can't 
 get out of because some tiny invisible piece of land is blocking their movement.  

          There are some new weapons, but who cares about them when you have a pocketful of holy 
 hand grenades and old ladies.     

  The sound in Worms 4 is rather subdued. There are plenty of silly and often funny voice sets you 
 can assign to your worms, but each set only has a few phrases. Consequently, you'll hear every 
 one of them multiple times during the course of a battle. The weapon sounds are pathetically weak 
 here as well. The explosions lack some much-needed kick, and the guns only emit a faint pop. The 
 sniper rifle is entirely silent sometimes, while other times you'll hear a small click at most. 
 Additionally, the music is light, and it simply fades in to the background, where you'll never 
 notice it.  

  It's not necessarily a bad thing to stick to a proven formula -- as Worms does -- but there at least 
 has to be some reason to keep playing each new installment of the franchise. Even though it's being 
 offered at a budget price, there just isn't any reason to play Worms 4: Mayhem if you've played 
 either of the last two games in the series. If you've never played a 3D Worms game, this is as 
 good a place as any to start. Still, you'd be better off playing one of the classic 2D Worms games 
 instead.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rabbids
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Worms 4 :Mayhem is a great game on all fonts; the graphics are solid "3-D" and look great, the 
 audio experience fits greatly, and the playability is pretty good. It is similar to the other two 
 3-D games, but with new features, such as being able to create your own team, Weapon, and game 
 style. The story mode is very deep (long) , and there is plenty of things to do in the game such 
 as network play, were you can play agianst people from around the world, challenges, and a cool 
 multiplayer mode. Overall, Worms 4: Mayhem is underapreciatted game with plenty of things to keep 
 you busy. I strongly disagree with the GS review. Like I said before, Worms 4 is possibly the best 
 strategy game around, I gave it a 10/10 because I cannot think of any flaws in the game at all. 
 Unlike the other 2 games were like. anybody who likes strategy games will highly enjoy Worms 4: Mayhem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Fadil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Really stunning game, with great 2.5D graphics, stunning multiplayer and online play modes. This 
 game is one of the most enjoyable games I ever played; when you start playing this game you really 
 forget anything about time, you will find your self spent more than 4, 6 or even more hours plying 
 the game. I thing the more enjoyable part of this game is the online playing mode, this is another 
 story, really really every one will enjoy this game.
  
  One of the great features of this game is that you can create your own teams (you came them individually, 
 I created my own team, and I named them with my friends names, I really like this feature :) ) , 
 weapons, game types and levels, and you can use them when playing in story mode, muliplayer mode, 
 Online mode.
  
  I strongly recommend every one to play this game, it is really worth it, and I am sure you won't 
 be sorry ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Worms 4 was a highly anticipated release of the all so famous worm's series, but at last what a 
 disappointment, don't misunderstand me the game play is great as a whole revamp was introduced 
 in number 4, you are able to create your own unique weaponry, added incentives and a lot of worm 
 tweaking is now available to become the ultimate worm lord.
  
  Worms 4 now have a total cartoonist 4D dimension to it, where as the old little worm, you are able 
 to obtain a full 360 degree panoramic view of the scenery, but that is where the glory stops, the 
 AI is on auto cheat as no one can ever shoot as good as the Computer can do, the graphics are up 
 hauling, as the rendering totally lacks any intelligence, in most cases glitches are noticeable 
 in the landscape, buildings are drawn 3D but with 2D features, let me explain why, if you stand 
 in front of a buildings corner, look straight at the edge and walk forward, changes are good that 
 you will be able to look through the corner, curvatures become straight lines, and so on.
  
  In all fairness, this is the 1st Worms release breaking away from the old 2D effect, there 
 are issues to resolve but the game play was great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapitaoNinja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  From worms 3d to worms 4, the producers just added some contents and customization options, its 
 like the various sequels to worms armageddon game before the 3d. That's not too bad, cause at least 
 they don't make a game worse than its predecessor, that was quite funny.
  They could had thinked more ambitious, mading great improvements in the gameplay, the worms movements 
 still the same as the original worms from the first game of the series, it was perfect for a 2d 
 game, but in the 3d it just not work so good. The worse part of gameplay is the aiming of the weapons, 
 part of the fun of the 2d was the challenge of the hard shots, but in 3d its become too much hard, 
 even the homing missile has poor hit rate, long bazooka and grenade throwing is impraticable for 
 the most of the people. A target marker could be of great assistence for this weapons, to give 
 the player a little more notion to where he is shooting, as well a better wind direction indicative. 
 In time the players learn how to handle with the clumsy gameplay, but even then its still frustrating.
 
  For the game graphics, the explosions, land damage and effects are weak, for my opinion they had 
 to be more wild, powerfull and astonishing. For the game rest, the cartoon like designs are well 
 done.
  The sound is iconsistent, the worms talk during the battle, but in the scenes they just do a me-me, memememe 
 thing, its very strange. The sound of the explosions, shots, punchs, and the worms screams is so 
 simple and emotionless, that you don't really feel the mayhen, when it happens. But at least the 
 worms speaches are funny, until you get bored of then repeating over and over.
  The multiplayer and the oneplayer modes are very nice, is still nice to drop a holy grenade right 
 in the feet of your friends worms. And oneplayer missions, normally easy, gets some replay value 
 and challenge as you try to win the best times and buy the things in the item shop.
  Talking about customization, it is a great addiction to the game, very fun making the details of 
 the worms and their weapons. For the next games they could add more options, like some expression 
 and faces for the worms, more hats, beards, glasses and stuff.
  I'm expecting more improvements in the next worms games, opening more the possibilities for the 
 annelidis functions, some stuff like tanks, freezing shots, controllable and more variated air 
 strikes, better camera control, target markers, better aiming, more fluided gameplay, astonishing 
 explosions, and violent attacks could be very interesting.
  Concluding, the little lacks don't spoils so hard the funny things in the game, and its worth of 
 playing. But makes me feel there lacks inspiration for more surprising improments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eestiwe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  So this is my first review, I hope you like my review and thats all that matters... Its so fun 
 to play with friends. Specially I love making teams. Graphics are gorgeous! I guess only bad thing 
 is short story mode (25 missions) and not much challenges (18) . Worms speech is so funny. It has 
 the spirit of first worms series but it looks and feels better. All those old and new weapons combined, 
 just awesome!
  This is definitely the best worms game ever made. Flying super sheep is awesome. Icarus potion 
 is cool, your worm gets wings like in Red Bull commercial!: D ''ICARUS GIVES YOU WINGS''
  I hope they keep up the good work with new series! I don't know why some people don't like this 
 game. 
  I'll write another one soon.
  OK, bye now see you all next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laurenceh
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  A grate arcade game with lots of cool and funny guns and characters. It is a big improvement from 
 the last worm game I plaid. It is a relatively simple game but grate fun! l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l llllllllll llllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll 
 llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll 
 llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll llllllllll 
 lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll 
 lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll llllllllll llllllllllll lllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  At first, Worms 3D was a great game. When I got the mention of this by a friend I decided to get 
 it on my birthday. When I got it and tried it, it was fun but a little not fun than the original 
 Worms 3D.
  
  The Good:
  
  Team and weapon customization! - Brand new and good ol' weapons - Great mission design - More silly 
 and funny voices - There's a brand new shopping system!
  
  The Bad:
  
  Not very good A. I. - Not very much changed since Worms 3D - A bit frustrating
  
  The Gameplay:
 
  
  It's pretty good. New weapons causes more action to fight your enemies and excitement. There's 
 also new cool challenges for you to face off such as fights, aiming and etc... Worms 4 Mayhem also 
 has trophies when you complete various tasks to get one of the trophies or all of them. 
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Great but somewhat glitchy sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uhero41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a really cool Worms game and the best in my opinion. The weapons and levels are really 
 sweet. I like all the game modes too, especially homelands on the construction level. I like being 
 able to create my base and slowly attack the others and claim my victory! Being able to create 
 your own teams and rules for a match is really cool too. The story mode is fairly fun but I enjoy 
 doing deathmatches and such online and against my lil' brother who is fairly good but does not 
 offer much of me a challenge that is why I have tried playing online. But it is usually frustrating 
 to try and play as there is not very many people who play it. This is a great turned based stradegy 
 and I will always like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oM1Nu5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is preety interesting in single player mode, having 25 story mode stages and 17 (i think) 
 challenges for you to complete, but that should prove easy, unless you want to get the time bonuses. 
 Where it really rocks is in multiplayer mode. Grab a friend or more (you can have up to 4 different 
 teams consisting of 1-6 worms in one map) and get fun with this game!
  
  Graphics are what they should be like, sound effects add to the fun, overall it's a good choice 
 if you have company to play it with!
  
  Even if you're alone though, you should definately try to play singleplayer stages in order to 
 unlock some of the hundreds of stuff hidden in the game to add to the joy of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-iiw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of Worms 2D I was sceptical of Worms 4 Mayhem after being let down by the previous 
 3D instalments. But after completing the story mode it felt very light as it was very short but 
 with a few good twists in the plot line. But then I sat down with friends and started playing multiplayer. 
 This is the big highlight of the game ignore the sometimes annoying camera and occasionally being 
 caught on the terrain, and you get a rewarding experience of blasting your friends worms to um 
 tombstones. Another great aspect in multiplayer as you can easily tell your worms apart due to 
 a great variation of various costumes to put on your worms this adds a more individuality rather 
 then having plain worms with a different coloured name above their head. Another new feature was 
 creating your own team weapon all though there were some limitations to even it out so you dont 
 have an overly strong weapon. Then just when you thought they couldnt add anything else they created 
 superb terrain themes and already built maps to add to the enjoyment of multiplayer with different 
 modes such as the normal Death Match, Forts (Where your worms are placed on a fortress and try 
 to destroy the other worms) and various other modes. Over all Worms 4: Mayhem is a great game living 
 up to some of the legacy of the 2d games but will never be better. The light story mode and various 
 cons were a slight let down but was made up in a hectic multiplayer.
  
  Pros - Customisation of worms (100s of different combinations)
  -Create your own weapon
  -Multiplayer
 
  -Terrains
  -Weapons Cons
  - Camera sometimes can be frustrating
  -Graphics at times can be slightly choppy but normally excellent -Impossible AI (At max intelligence 
 only in multiplayer)
  -AI sometimes gets stuck and moves left right very quickly (pretty sure this is fixed in the patch)
 
  
  Last word
  A great improvement into branching worms into 3D but it lost its undescribable charm which the 
 2D games possessed. And hope to see a new 2D worms game for the PC again. But nevertheless a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Worms really needs no introduction. You control a team of weapon-loving Worms on a mission to complete 
 a number of missions in single player mode, or completely wipe out the other team using a variety 
 of crazy weapons in multiplayer. Although many people prefer 2D versions of Worms, I believe Mayhem 
 is one of the best Worms games... and it's in 3D.
  
  Single player mode involves you taking your team of Worms through missions which follow a story, 
 which has a really great ending to it. As you go through the missions you earn coins which you 
 can buy things in the item shop with - more clothes, landscapes, sounds and so on. You can also 
 earn coins by completing time trials in a certain time limit.
  
  Multiplayer mode is the usual Worms mayhem (pun not intended) . You are against other teams who 
 you have to try and kill using your weapons - concrete donkeys, super sheep, dynamite... there 
 is a whole load of funny weapons to choose from to get rid of that pesky Worm. New to Mayhem is 
 the fact you can design your own weapon for your team for use in the game.
  
  On the side of the main game, there are also missions for you to complete (things like killing 
 a team of Worms in a time limit or doing a certain task) trophies to collect (around 25 in total) 
 and Easter eggs (five in all) to discover.
  
  As touched on earlier, your Worms now have clothes! You can either give your worm a funky afro 
 or turn it into a pirate. As usual you can customize your team's voices. If, for example, you want 
 a team of scouser wizards, you can do this! The voices are really great and some of the lines will 
 have you cracking up.
  
  There are only two things that let this otherwise perfect game down. The first is the camera which 
 you'll have to keep swinging round to see where you are going quite a lot. This is very frustrating 
 when the timer is ticking down for your turn to end and you have to swing the camera around to 
 quickly move in the right direct. The second problem is the really stupid computer teams. The team 
 'Easy' will spend literally ten seconds just sitting there with a question mark above their head 
 until they finally make their move.
  
  Worms 4: Mayhem is another great Worms game with some great graphics, hilarious voices and as usual 
 truly fun gameplay. This is a game not to be missed, long time Worms fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadfeet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Ever since 2nd grade, I've loved all the worms games, always going to the store to buy the latest 
 worms. Worms is one of the most unique and funnest games out there. Worms 4 wasn't really hyped 
 that much, but when I checked out the screenshots and previews at gamespot, I was extremly excited 
 to play it.
  
  The Graphics are, well, okay, even though the past 2 worms games have the exact same, except these 
 graphics were bumped up slightly, with more satisfying explosions. The guns are well modeled, and 
 cartoony in their own way. And the Worms models them self, although unchanged, are still great 
 and fun looking today.
  
  Sound isnt much to be dealt with. The best part about the sound is the voices of the worms, which 
 are great, considering you have MANY voices to choose from, and the gun sounds and explosions, 
 but all in all, the sounds are just, normal.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game though is its gameplay, it delivers plenty of explosive fun, 
 and uses the same, simple, and fun turn based 3d action that all worm gamers love.
  
  But, the better thing about worms is its reply value, and this has a bit more than the past few 
 games. The Weapon Maker, although some of its features are dissapointingly limited, is a great 
 feat to this game, I swear, my brother made about 15 weapons just for the fun of it, too bad each 
 weapon is restricted to one team. The biggest fault of this game, is that hardly anyone plays Multi-Player, 
 considering the other worms games had tons of players online and game after game playing (Worms 
 World Party, for example.) , so if your looking to duke it out against other players, you wont have 
 much to choose from.
  
  All in all, this game wraps up to be a good addition to the worms series, but in my opinion, not 
 what it was really meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huytttr
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so if u liked it could u please reccomend this review. Worms 4 mayhem is 
 a very addicting game for its price. I first got this game in a scolastic book order for only 15$ 
 which is a very good price. When i got home to play i was immediatly hooked. The single player 
 i very engaging and is very fun. There are story missions which when u finish each mission you 
 can acquire new worm clothing, levels for multi [player, new weapons, and etc. There is also a tutorial 
 that really explained the game in depth for me since this was the first time i ever played a worms 
 title. Also there is a challenger mode which is very fun to do to test your overall skills. i found 
 this mode to be very addicting and i spent a couple of hours. The real fun though is in the multiplayer. 
 There is so many things to do including customizing your own game like addding extra damage or 
 something and i found it fun to communicate with people from around the world. This i found very 
 fun and engaging. Overall this game is very fun and i recommend it to anyone who has extra money 
 to spend on a game. You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Worms! It wasn't a reference for the genre but it was a lot of fun. Armaggedon came and made us laugh. Then 
 we passed to 3D and now this.
  I installed the game and then i made my own team. Woozie's team. When i saw how may things you can 
 put on your worms made me anxious to play.
  I passed the campaign and then i started playing hot seat games with my friends. I swept through 
 their worms like a knife through bread and then I said: It rocks!
  The graphics are nice but more effects could have been introduced to please our eyes. The sound 
 is extremely good and the lines are funny (Me Me ME-ME-ME; wiseman senses danger!! LOL) Anyway the 
 best part is the gameplay, mainly the multiplayer. You have a lot of possibilities to crush your 
 oponents under your WORMS WHO DESTROY.... oups, sorry. You can climb up on a zeppelin to kill your 
 opponents and etc. Anyway creativity=victory. The story is weak and it doesn't please, but this fades 
 in front of the gameplay.
  So keep it up Team 17 and take fun to the 5th level. GMS rated! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Worms 4 Mayhem is a great &amp; funny game, with worms at war,&amp; a great multiplayer to enjoy 
 with your friends, but good campaign too. You can customize your team &amp; members with crazy things. You 
 can dress the worms as cowboys, nazis, whatever you like, you can make weapons in the Weapon Factory, unlock 
 objects, etc. The graphics are perfect for this game, couldn't have been better,&amp; the sound is 
 nice &amp; very very funny. There are a lot of funny weapons (cocrete donkey, mad grandma, holly hand 
 grenade, etc) , a lot of maps, game types &amp; awards, so you'll never get bord. The funny speech &amp; 
 cutscenes are very well designed,&amp; the destructibility of the maps is 100% superb. Ignore the 
 bad reviews, they don't know how to have fun in Worms 4 Mayhem. Best in series, superb game=FUN... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper244
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Worms is worms, when you play it you are not looking for awesome game play or a thrilling storyline 
 or even great graphics, the 2D worms games were just there for a laugh, I play with my mates or 
 play online and you can just have a good laugh blowing **** up. This game jus seams to take the 
 edge off it.
  
  The graphics are not great, the game is a little to easy and i didn't really enjoy playing it at 
 all. I know what I said, that graphics and storyline are not why you play worms but this one seams 
 to lack the blowing stuff up element. Now that the game has gone 3D I was expecting some good explosions 
 and some cool death scenes bu tthe game really lacks these
  
  After playing the game for about 45 mins i dug out my old copy of worms world party and started 
 playing that instead, this game was really not that good but I can't be harsh with my scores because 
 I'm a nice guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  i started liking worms when i was in 5 grade. i download this game (demo) and started playing it. 
 the characters are kind of cute. you could create your own wepon and looks. the graphics are ok 
 but the sound and the game play its good but i wouldn't give it a high rating. i also have this 
 game on xbox, the control for this game on xbox is dificut then the computer. when i first played 
 this game i thought this game was the best, well, that did't last very long.... people who like 
 angle shooting, or used to play Gunbound, i recommand you try this game on demo before you buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Worms.... The kind of thing that you'll find in your apple. Now, you play as them. Let's make this 
 a quick one; the graphics needed that extra time, the gameplay is okay and there is a wide variety 
 of weapons. You can create your own team, own worm, own flag and run it online. The online play 
 isn't as great as you'd think, but on PC, it rocks. The controls are acceptable. But not enough 
 effort was put into it because it sometimes feels like they've made a big mistake; for instance, 
 there was this one time where the CPU worm got stuck on the way in front of my worm and bounced 
 up and down on his face. That was a disturbing thing to look at. But Worms 4: Mayhem is not too 
 bad, but not too good either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadirkkkk
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  the worms 2d was a strategy game but that game is a child game. There are lots of bugs and lots 
 of missing things. like the help texts. it is very hard to play because the game controls are just 
 same as the worms 2d but this game is 3d. so that resulted the game a full of sh. t. in the game 
 u can't change any setting. the mouse controls are very diffrent and hard to get used to. the music 
 and the other things in the game are fine. i think this game is worse than the worms 2d. sorry 
 that i'he written the text two times. but i couln't find any more thins to say more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Yeah thats right, they can repair the problem with the camera, the big plus thing in the 2d worms 
 was this. You didnt feld any problems with that game. When I played Worms Armageddon I wanted to 
 find a little mistake, but I wasnt successful. The big deal is, that worms was great in 2d. Ok 
 enough, now Worms 4, the only mistake is the camera, in every 3d worms the camera, camera, camera, 
 somethimes the camera kills the fun. But the good site: this game is all about fun, theres fun 
 everywhere, you can change the looking of your worms, create your name, team, language, there are 
 some new weapons too, new and great levels and you can get trophies. I think this is the best 3d 
 worms in the series. Without that camera problem its a 100 % game and if you play online this game 
 with your friends its a 150% game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Worms 4 is a great game and IS worth playing, even if you have played Worms 3-D, why? Because it 
 is improved and does not have the flaws that Worms 3-D had, infact it has no flaws really at all. 
 So dont believe what Gamespot or others say about this game, dont believe those who say its not 
 worth it even if its at a budget price, I would by this even if it was expensive! Worms 4 is the 
 best game in the worms series, it takes all the bits that were great from Worms 3-D, takes away 
 all the wrong bits and adds some more cool stuff, like great online play, weapon creator etc. I 
 cant find any problems to make me dissapointed, so why is it rated so badly by some people? That 
 i will never understand, but at least i know i have defintly got great fun out this game for hours 
 and hours and im sure you can to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narwaffle
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Worms 4: Mayhem is Team 17's 3rd shot at translating the classic Worms 2D Turn Based strategy games 
 into the 3rd Dimension. The result is the best Worms 3D yet, but nothing new or amazing, but defiantly 
 fun.
  
  Worms 4: Mayhem pits you and your wriggly invertebrate team against either a human player or the 
 computer. Your arsenal ranges from the simple shotgun to bizarre weapons like explosive cows and 
 a concrete donkey, and is fired off in turns. Worms works like a fancy game of chess - you move 
 one of your Worms towards the other team (or alternatively stay back and aim your weapon) and fire, 
 and your turn is over. Of course, you have a time limit to do this in. Worms 4 comes with a bounty 
 of maps tucked under it's belt, with loads more unlockable. Improving on it's predecessors, your 
 invertebrates are fully customizable, and so are there weapons. With enough imagination, you can 
 really get some wacky characters. My team turned out to be a group of medieval pimp worms.
  
  Worms 4 is devishly difficult to grasp a hold of, and manoeuvring your wiggler (don't think 
 about that twice) is frustratingly hard at first, but after a good hour you'll have mastered the 
 controls like a pilot. A good pilot, that is. Worms 4 has a tendency to move the camera around 
 to awkward angles, which can really tick you off. Aiming your weapon is fairly simple, just hold 
 down Q and fire. 
  
  The graphics in Worms 4 are frankly very lackluster - you can see what the developer was aiming 
 for, but it just turned out undercooked. Destructible environments are somewhat pathetic as you'll 
 be left with various floating structures and bricks just looking ugly. Crappy lighting means that 
 shadows can take seconds to actually even show up. Saving the graphics from total failure is the 
 animation - Worms and explosions and all assorted other aspects animate fluidly in a very charming 
 way.
  
  The sound in Worms 4 is great, but you'll start to tire from the repetive lines that your team 
 repeats, as there seems to be about 10 for a certain event. There's hardly any variety between 
 the music, but it's all quite good.
  
  Overall, Worms 4 is a solid game with nothing spectacular to offer, but amusing none-the-less. 
 If you're a fan of turn-based strategy or the previous Worms games, then you'll thoroughly enjoy 
 Worms 4. If not, then you won't get much out of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  It's more like a kids' game. But it's increase its difficult to attract the gamers.
  Its graphics are quiet funny, but without a good gaming system to support it, it won't success.
 
  However without a good graphic, this game will be poorer than now.
  This game have add a completely new system. It is the "Item shop" and the gamer could earn conis 
 in Tutriol, Stroy and Challenge even the mutiplayers. After each worms' war you can earn a little 
 coins, that seems mean every things need your strived.
  Its voices of worms didn't make any changes at all.
  But its contrls of the weapon had made a 
 lot of changed. I didn't know the exact contrl after try, so if you wanna play this game, I strongly 
 suggest read theContrls" before you play.
  Even the weapon contrls changed just some of the weapon did have the benifits, some are trun into 
 harder to contrl actually. As the super sheep, you contrl it like contrling a high-speed aircraft, 
 you can't make it successful to attack. And Holy hand grenade, you can not see the forward clearly 
 while you using the first-person view.
  Remember the, the weapon attacks had changed a lot. Many heavy weapons as grenade etc. you must 
 not only consider the winds and must their weigh into considerations.
  It's just a little game, don't use so many super weapon or you'll feel dizzy, or you can bear it!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  The Worms are back!!! And disappointing. The only new features this game has over worms 3D are a 
 bunch of new weapons and to create worms and things. Personally love the Worms series but this one 
 is very very stupid. The 3D engine is funny and cool but buggy. The sounds suck i remember i could 
 not here a thing even when i turned my sound machines to the max. It's not worth even 20.00 $. Ultimately 
 this game is disappointing in almost every standpoint. I think that Gamespot 6.2 is fair very fair. But 
 hey if you really want to give your money on the game if you like i won't stop you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lee256
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  What on earth has happened to worms? Ever since it turned 3D I think it has gone down hill but 
 I really only have two complaints about this game. One is the camera angle as I felt I was continually 
 battling with the camera rather than a team of opponents and the graphics engine that is used in 
 Worms 4 is less than inspiring. Dont get me wrong, graphically it is nice but as a result it looks 
 more like a cartoon no matter what landscape you play on.
  
  The weapons you have at your disposal are nice and the weapons factory is a nice new addition to 
 the Worms franchise but despite all this the game to me fails to be enjoyable and it doesnt get 
 much better online either. 
  
  I would much rather recommend Worms Armageddon as its a much better game with simple control system 
 and there is still a large amount of online gamers to have games against. If you are new to Worms 
 than Worms 4 Mayhem may suit you but if youre a long time fan of the games than this may leave 
 you feeling rather disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Team 17 is known by their classic Worms Armageddon, as well the predecessors, Worms and Worms 2. 
 Years later the same company worked in a 3D version of their tactical cute game, and, from my point 
 of view, that one could've been much better. Successively came Worms: Forts Under Siege, with some 
 new improvements in camera view and gameplay, but it was still a little boring and flawed, like 
 its antecessor.
  
  Trying to fix things up, Team 17 developed Worms 4: Mayhem (2005) . This one brought almost everything 
 that was hanging in all the previews versions. The gameplay mechanics were improved and graphics 
 are much more detailed in this updated version, particularly the smokes and explosions effects, 
 which are now very similar as the ones in Worms Armageddon.
  
  The weapons are cool, and the game has a lot of different game styles and a very good single player 
 campaign, featuring 25 missions with some cutscenes in-between. Like in nearly all games in worms, 
 there are locked features that you can only have access if you play the different game styles.
 
  
  However, the best thing in this game is the custom maps. Unlike in the previews Worms 3D, the generated 
 scenarios in Worms 4: Mayhem are simply perfect. In the configuration screen, you just choose a 
 number, and the game will create a map with the setting of your choice. The map comes with a lot 
 of objects, like bridges, mountains, houses (which you can occupy them) , little rivers, caverns 
 and much more. And, mainly, it's not that "island-like" maps as the ones in Worms 3D, that are 
 easy to launch any of the opponents worms in the water. It's amazingly detailed map that you'll 
 find in Worms 4, with walls and a lot of terrain that prevents this issue.
  
  So far there aren't any patches for this game, but I really didn't notice a bug yet, except to 
 a rare glitch that sometimes blocks your worm while walking, especially in areas that have several 
 obstacles around.
  
  I recommend to you to buy this game if you're a Worms fan, especially because you'll now experience 
 everything with a proper 3D engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OonSuomesta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Well, I thought that this game would be better! With better, I mean that it should've been better 
 than the Worms 3D, and it was. A little.
  
  Some new weapons have been added (Good job!) and it makes game more fun. Especially the Tail Nail 
 is a strategic weapon and the Starburst is much much better than the kamikaze in worms 1 and 2...
 
  
  One great add to the game after Worms 3D is the Blimp View camera's new ability to zoom and pan!
 
  
  The utilities, right? Um... What should I say... Yes, same things are in there, like Double Damage 
 and Jet Packs, Girders, etc., but there's also something called "Armour". Too effective! Reduces 
 the damage done to a worms with 3/4! So that if you will hit the worm 100 damage, and worm has 
 Armour, it will done just 25 DAMAGE! Terrible, I say...
  Well then there's the weapon crate, nothing added to it...
  But then, there's a new crate, called 
 "Mystery Crate" and it contains a big risk, and also it could make you win the game. Something 
 that makes your teammates sick (Team Disease) and some barrels to explode (Barrel O' Laughs) . It 
 also contains good things, like Super Health (+100 HP) , Medical Insurance (+25 HP) and of course, 
 Extended time (Current time x2, 99 seconds max.) . There is still some others, Bring On The Mines 
 (5 new mines appear on the map somewhere) and Global Warming (Water rises a lot!) .
  
  In the game, new things are Mine Factory (Produces mines every 4 turn, 1 in the map) and barrels 
 are toxic. The most strategic add in the game is, that you can drag barrels crates and mines with 
 your Ninja Rope.
  
  Oh, and last, but not least is that mines can blow many different ways. Cluster, Toxic and big 
 BOOM! and of course the normal "fake".
  
  ---------------------
  Customise
  ---------------------
  Create Team. Make own worm names, new look to the worms and sound of your 
 team. Change the flag and Team Weapon.
  
  Weapon Factory, you can create your own weapons. Good add though you can't create any powerful 
 weapons in there, the best would be that worm loses 80 HP at maximum, if hit direct, and you must 
 be like 1 meter from the worm when you're shooting. Disaster.
  
  Game Styles:
  Create your own game style and make the weapons unlimited. Change the health points (HP) of worms 
 and how long it takes for mines to fuse.
  
  ---------------------
  Item Shop
  ---------------------
  
  You can buy new maps, worm spectacles, hands and glasses and New weapons 
 and game styles.
  
  ---------------------
  Trophy Cabinet
  ---------------------
  
  You can win trophies by performing super stunts like killing 4 worms with one shot. When you win 
 a trophy, you will be given 100-500 gold to spend at Item Shop.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I think 
 that there's all I wanted to say.
  Bye and have a nice day
  
  Sincerely
  Oon Suomesta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syrennobre
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Worms 4 Mayhem takes place in a imaginary world where the worms rule the world, and better, they 
 are in a constant war (we never know the reasons) .
  This game is a continuation of the big saga Worms witch as versions for all plataforms. At the 
 beggining this serie was in 2D, but since Worms 3D, you have a complete 3 dimensions world.
  Have you ever imagine worms in war, with weapons like banana boms, bazookas, air strikes, grenades, 
 holy hand grenades (the most famous weapon of the serie, when it explodes you can hear "Alleluia") , 
 etc... it's hillarious. The comic sounds and the Cartoon Graphics transform this game in a good 
 spend time.
  The great chance in this version is the fact you can customize your own team, weapons, and game 
 styles.
  You have various types of play: Tutorial, Story, Challenges and Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shak20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, first of all is a really good attempt to continue the tradition of a 2D game as a 3D game. 
 The graphic are quite good for a multi player game , and i must say it's one of the funniest games 
 ever. However i believe that it is a game that you will soon get bored with it. The sound is pretty 
 good but i 'm not thrilled with it. I believe that is the best in series .Of course , others believe 
 that the 2d game is better that the 3d one, but in my opinion the 3d game is more enjoyable.
  
  Conclusion ? Great to play it, ONLY with a friend . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watman0710
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Ive played the Dam Games I loved those Games Then They Game the Gameplay altogether Bye Switchting 
 3D i think They should have never Done that 3D worms Does look Cool and fun i Gues But i dont care 
 The game sucks now and No intesterest Learning How To play 3D But hey its not hard to learn just 
 Dont want to want Old games Back Like Armgedeon Now that was a Fun Worms game so if anyone looking 
 for a quik laugh go ahead and play Worms 4 but im not wasting my time on it im gona go play Worms 
 Armegedon Or that Type 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magedhamdy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I love the worm series when ever you need a good laugh you can always count on the pink worms who 
 have huge bazookas which need alot of practice. ok maybe the mi mi mi is anoying when in the actual 
 game there is actual funny squeky british voices. but do you really think TEAM 17 is a rich company 
 that can aford to voice act for a about 15 hour story when there is about 20 voice types then your 
 messed up. I love online of course a newb would be creamed in 2 seconds flat it is still fun. story 
 has you as a couple of worms that follow there profeser and destroy the enemies work sites. then 
 you are outnumbered and go to a time machine to escape you crash in medievel England and you have 
 to get back home by colecting your time machines peices and you go through collecting them all 
 over time from wild west to the stone age. oh yeah back to multiplayer there is quick play, online 
 play with up to 4 players plus before chat, there is also multiplayer mode with one cumputer. costimization 
 makes you make your own team with your own hats, gloves, mustaches, glases/gogles, flags, graves, 
 voices and anything else, you can also make your own 100% custimized weapons, and game modes. and 
 camera is awsome plus I love the new weapons which includes a sniper rifle.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: get this game you weirdo get it or else or get worms op for the ds and psp or wait 
 for the next version of the worms 3-D series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaStOfThE
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'll begin by saying  "Funny", ha? Since the first moments 
 I had the feeling that it's.... not like the others in the series. But hey, I'm a reasonable man! 
 So I played the tutorial, and got to the first two missions. Mi impressions were.. well, not so 
 mixed. I'll be straight to the point here, because. let's say... time is money. 
  First, what's up with all that mi-mi-mi? How much had the studio to pay for a voice act? I mean, 
 a little mi-mi-mi would probably be funny, but all the dialogue is like that. And even that mi-mi-mi 
 isn't that well acted. 
  The music simply sucks; it's arranged in the same manner like at those old mute movies. Sounds 
 are scarce, not even that squeaky movement sound survived. 
  Camera still stinks, and the graphics... well, mundane textures, lots and *lots* of polygon intersections 
 (I mean flagrant ones) . 
  Animation sucks. I'm not saying it should've been MOCAP (gee, how do you MOCAP a worm :D ) , but 
 still, there's a lot of room for improvement.
  The worms move less funny, like some snails or somethin'.
  In that 2nd level when you must steal 
 all the tools from the enemy, the helicopter blades aren't spinning! Imean jeez , how low can you 
 go? 
  Overall, it gave me the impression of a game created in the bus and in the lunch break; maybe they 
 rushed things and got out a game visibly unpolished, unlike it should be. 
  
  Bottom line: I'm sticking to my "Worms World Party" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  This is going to be the best game. Ever. That's what I thought inside my head before this was released. 
 But no. Under 7.0 - that is my first Worms game to give a score below that.
  
  Never mind. Multiplayer feels exciting and loads of Team 17 users join in to play this game. But 
 the controls are yuckier then the last - I thought it would have better camera. It's only the PS2 
 version that's got da lot.
  
  Honestly, this game is one of the funniest, you'll pee your pants. That's something I haven't said 
 in a while. value - the loading times are still very long, thanks to Worms 4 letdown.
  
  But what it is really about is online multiplayer. That's probaly the best thing about the game. 
 But the overall gameplay is poor, you probaly won't play even the shortest of 50 matches. Weapon 
 Factory doesn't make any sense to this PC version.
  
  Graphics are improved, thanks to the engine. The sound is superb if you have a DirectX 9.0 sound 
 card. Value is long loading-timed but just right for any gamer including babies to teens. A superb 
 looker and value-deather, but if you need something that impresses you at Gameplay, avoid this 
 and buy the PS2 version, that has less bugs and better turned-based action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Worms is a series I absolutely love. The depth of the combat combined with the simple hilarity 
 makes it easily worthwhile in my opinion. The fact that Team 17 can take something so ridiculous 
 and turn it into a compelling game is alone worth a look, but add to that the fact that it truly 
 is a great game and you have a winner. 
  
  Gameplay: There are tons of things to do in Worms. You can play through a story campaign which 
 features some pretty funny missions, although most of the objectives are pretty straightforward, 
 you can play the tutorial which is actually just as entertaining as the story missions.
  
  You can also engage in multiplayer, which is where the true fun begins. 
  
  Whether playing 
 as a bunch of friends grouped around the computer screen, playing against AI opponents, or playing 
 online, it is all in the multiplayer that Worms 4 really shines.
  
  You control your worms, taking turns moving in a fully 3D environment, using utilities to access 
 hard to reach areas, and then pulling out weapons to deal out some major destruction.
  
  The broad range of weapons is another great selling point for Worms 4. Not only do you have a massive 
 amount right at the start, but there are literally dozens of unlockable weapons. Not to mention 
 the fact that you can even create your own custom weapons. 
  
  The game brings several new weapons to the series, while still featuring almost all of the old 
 classics. 
  
  Once you have been playing a mission for a certain amount of time, sudden death occurs, which usually 
 involves rising water. While this doesn't seem like too much of a problem, if you're a worm, this 
 is a huge problem, as you cannot swim and instantly drown upon getting submerged in water. 
  
  This can lead to some interesting tactics as you try to shove other worms into the water for 
 fast, easy kills. The weapons all seem to lend themselves to this style of gameplay as well, certain 
 ones (like the baseball bat) certainly are made with just the thought of knocking other worms into 
 the water in mind.
  
  Graphics: Worms 4 is not the best looking game out there. The 3D graphics aren't really that bad, 
 but they aren't great. The stylistic feel to them gives some bonus points too, and the graphics 
 do lend themselves very well to the game.
  
  Sound: The sound is average at best. The music is easily forgettable, and the worms voices get 
 annoying after a while. On the plus side though, the weapons sound effects are suitably hilarious.
 
  
  Value: The sheer amount of things to do in the game really make it worthwhile, especially at the 
 bargain bin price of only 20$ brand new. I highly recommend it.
  
  Tilt: For any worms fan, this is like a dream come true. From the classic weapons to the great 
 controls, it is what a transition into 3D should be for Worms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser11
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  i LOVED this game. there are alot of funny weapons, cool costumes, the weapon factory, and other things, this 
 game rocks! i recomend buy or download this game, is veeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeery cool :)
  i also like playing my cousins, friends and brother.
  i also recommend you play worms forts: under 
 siege and worms armaggedon (worm forts of PC and worms armaggedon of Playstation One)
  i will show mine favorites weapons:
  Sniper Rifle
  Shotgun (i love this one)
  Fatkins Strike
 
  Sheep
  Super Sheep 
  and others.......
  new weapons include Sentry Gun, that is a AUTO Gun that you put in ground, then when is enemys turn, if 
 he pass too much close of Sentry Gun, it will fire ALOT of bullets in it.
  if you put a Sentry Gun and pass close of it, it dont will shot you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormsnut1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  Although the review here suggests this game is much the same as the other two 3d games, this is 
 far from the truth. Worms 4 got rid of or improved the areas that many who were uncertain of the 
 change from 2d to 3d hated, and have managed to create the best game in the series so far.
  The game stays true to all the others, keeping the same theme and originality. The key differences 
 are the customisation to weaponry and characters, which allows a lot of distinction over Internet 
 play.
  The graphics and sound are in these games, key. The graphics stay the same cartoony, wacky style 
 the series have always had and needed, but more importantly the sound and speech is as hilarious 
 as ever. The variety stays the same, and it all fits in with being able to add clothing to your 
 worms, as you can mix or match sound banks to themes.
  The gameplay is much the same as it always would, with all the different areas. The game still 
 has missions, challenges, excellent multiplayer and everything else from the previous games. Also 
 added onto this game is trophies, in which you have to perform certain tasks to win these. Another 
 factor of the games value and playability is buying new maps, sound banks, customisation and schemes. 
 This requires money, which you can earn by completing missions (and sometimes in a certain time) .
 
  However, the main reason for the games value is, as always, wormnet. Despite the fact the latest 
 3d games have had major problems due to gamespy I feel, covering wormnet with bugs, so much that 
 Worms Forts could barely move online, this game has managed to clear these difficulties and you 
 will rarely have trouble hosting, getting into games or breaking down in the middle of a game. 
 The games online playability returns in this game, and certainly brings the series back to full 
 strength. Thanks to Team17 deciding to work alongside Codemasters, this is their best game yet. 
 Now all the game needs is a different online host - or even Team17 doing it themselves as for W: A.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: illdanelf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  
  If you live on planet earth and have played video games before, then there's no chance you'll need 
 much of an introduction to the Worms franchise. The turn based game of skill, and destruction has 
 appeared in many guises over the years, and titles like World Party and Armageddon has introduced 
 us to increasingly fun and destructive weaponry. Team 17's passion for increasingly powerful and 
 hilarious ordnance has been a tradition since the banana bomb and ninja rope were unveiled in the 
 early, Amiga-only update, Worms: Directors Cut. 
  
  But the game has largely remained staunchly 2D. The last attempt to bring it into the Z axis, Worms 
 3D, lost some of the game's intuitive appeal, with the added controls necessary making the against-the-clock 
 play fiddly rather than frenetic. It failed to achieve what the far more impressive, Rik Mayall-voiced, 
 Hogs of War pulled off with flair on the lowly PlayStation One. 
  
  Now Team 17 are having another crack, as Worms 4 brings the loveable, if expendable invertebrates 
 to PC. The 3D turn-based tactical comedy skirmish sim has never looked richer, with customisable 
 worms, more weapons, and 25 single player, objective-based mission levels. 
  
  A load of new environments are on offer: Jurassic, Camelot, Arabian, Construction and Wild West, 
 each with a unique and flavoursome look. Less is left to chance than with the flawed randomly generated 
 maps of Worms 3D. Multiplayer games can be played on any of the 25 maps from single player mode, 
 as well as on 20 additional bespoke maps. The game has a boisterous, colourful look further improved 
 by all new animation. The legendary saga continues with gameplay that promises to be addictive, 
 compelling and humorous out and out fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrynXX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Funnier than eveer I might add. Why gamespot gave it such a low rating I don't know. Isn't quite 
 as buggy or hard to control as Worms 3-d. And certainly alot funnier. ALthough it'll never come 
 close to being as playable as Worms United. Miss playing that game. Just doesn't run right on Windows 
 XP. Wish Team17 would allow a patch or open sourcing to put it right. Sure some of the spirit was 
 lost when it became 3d, but this one puts the Worms series back on track after the buggy 3-d game. 
 I was surprised at paying $20 for a new game and to have it on dvd-rom. I wish more companies would 
 put their games on dvd-rom. Like say Serious Sam 2 comes on 4 cd-roms. And I haven't bought Myst 
 V yet because they are really pushing the cd rom version. I'm not pay $60 for the dvd-rom set. 
 So here sits Worms 4 at $20 on dvd-rom. Puts the rest of the companies in the hung in shame category. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork-X
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  i like this game because it's not like most games but not the best one either but it's really nice 
 game but it has the same Engine as worms under the siege and 3-D witch could have been updated 
 more that would have been great so i don't see any update on the engine at all but this game has 
 allot more options and like the one that you can create your own worm and stuff. Yeah unlike the 
 other ones this game has more options as a mention before but i give this game 8.6 the graphics 
 only 6 because it's not so good but the fun is what's the most important 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grobas
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  This game have few new features and weapons and are better then worms 3d or worms fort but still 
 camera movement is hard. and mission a bitter boring. still i fink its best funny game wich you 
 can play on one pc with your frends. but if you want somthing for long winter nights i fink you 
 can find better jouce. Only what was wery nice to me in this worms sery that you can destroy anything 
 you see like in worms 2d. only fink what disturbes me is camera its hard moving and you spent some 
 time to learn it to move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErnestasLT
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  I have played worms from the worms world party version and i must to say it not 3D but it great 
 game then the worms 3D was i impresed but the controll bad, then the worms forts under siege was 
 good but the game playing stinks, and the last but the best worms4: mayhem just perfect but the 
 controll still bad graphics impresive sound good value not cheap not expensive just normal and 
 the gameplay perfect not very short game normal and the enemies hardly to kill (if you playing 
 on hard) . And i'm waitimd the new version i think waht it will be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjp_canada
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  VERY ADDICTING, 3D game play is awesome , blows away the other games, new weapons new maps , overall 
 great game. Its really easy to pick up, espicallu if you have played the others. Worms 3D puts 
 a new edge on worms blasting mayhem. Gameplay is great, sounds graphics everything great. Fun, 
 easy, addicting what more could you ask for in a game. There is lot of detial in the explosions 
 and voice in the game. Download or buy Worms, you will love it. 
  
  VERY ADDICTING, 3D game play is awesome , blows away the other games, new weapons new maps , overall 
 great game. Its really easy to pick up, espicallu if you have played the others. Worms 3D puts 
 a new edge on worms blasting mayhem. Gameplay is great, sounds graphics everything great. Fun, 
 easy, addicting what more could you ask for in a game. There is lot of detial in the explosions 
 and voice in the game. Download or buy Worms, you will love it. 
  VERY ADDICTING, 3D game play is awesome , blows away the other games, new weapons new maps , overall 
 great game. Its really easy to pick up, espicallu if you have played the others. Worms 3D puts 
 a new edge on worms blasting mayhem. Gameplay is great, sounds graphics everything great. Fun, 
 easy, addicting what more could you ask for in a game. There is lot of detial in the explosions 
 and voice in the game. Download or buy Worms, you will love it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
