-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 8.3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 467 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ocean
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1995 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Worms is an inexpensive game that offers an exciting strategy competition, a lot of laughs, and 
 fantastic replay value. 

 Worms is one of those rare games that steps past all of the high profile multimedia fluff and concentrates 
 on delivering what gamers really thirst for - an entertaining play session. Everything about this 
 title, from its kill everything that moves concept to its arrow key control, is designed 
 with simplicity and entertainment in mind.  

 Like the board game Othello, Worms takes only a few minutes to learn, but may take a lifetime to 
 master. Players take turns (up to 16 can play) moving a small worm around a randomly generated 
 landscape and using a nasty weapon set that includes bazookas, shotguns, and fragmentation grenades 
 (my personal favorite) . More than just a simple shoot-'em-up, Worms requires players to develop 
 a delicate touch when choosing the best angle and force to fire weapons (this is the lifetime-to-master 
 bit) . You'll also have to design complex strategies using the game's non-lethal optionsdigging 
 tunnels, building girders, and teleporting. The more time players invest in the game, the more 
 subtleties they'll discover and the more adept they'll become.  

 Even though Worms isn't the most technologically advanced title, the graphics and sound create a 
 fantastic atmosphere. Rendered cutscenes are humorous enough to keep players interested, and short 
 enough that they're never boring. Sound effects are equally impressive, featuring loads of Lemmings-like 
 speech that makes killing your opponent very satisfying. The end product is a perfect example of 
 how much programmers can achieve with a small budget. This unselfish game will even run on a 386 
 with 4 megs of RAM.  

 Worms does have its drawbacks. Since the game is turn-based, a large multi-player game can take 
 what seems like ages to play, and the game's keyboard interface often makes it hard to achieve 
 subtle changes in weapon angle and shot velocity. All in all, though, Worms is an inexpensive game 
 that offers an exciting strategy competition, a lot of laughs, and fantastic replay value.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 09brandon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  For the uninitiated, Worms is a turn based combat game that set itself apart from the pack in the 
 mid '90s by injecting some lighthearted humor and giving players a range of imaginative weapons. 
 The game cycles through turns, allotting players a short period of time to reposition their worm, 
 select a weapon, and then fire it upon their enemies. Whichever worm team is left standing at the 
 end is the winner. It's simple, but the presentation around the best of the Worms games is what 
 has made all the difference. Weapon lists, level editors, online play, and exhaustive means to 
 customize your game turned the simple combat into a classic. 
  
  Most of what made the previous Worms games great has found its way into Team 17s latest entry into 
 the series. The funny little sound bytes are there, though their selection isn't as varied as one 
 might hope. The nice weapons are in, but the best ones are missing. There is four player online 
 or offline play, but the net code seems a bit buggy with dropped games a regular occurrence. We 
 hope you're seeing the pattern being laid out here. 
  
  Thankfully, the gameplay is still as solid as ever. Planning out attacks to link explosions together 
 that tear apart the land never stops being enjoyable, especially with the fun animations and sound 
 samples that accompany them. The gameplay is slow and deliberate, a style that some may find a 
 bore, but it's a formula that works in a way that is instantly endearing. 
  
  There's a single player game included that contains a tutorial, 20 challenges that get increasinglychallenging, 
 and an option for some regular skirmishes. Going through it can provide a decent amount of fun, 
 but playing against the CPU often feels unfair and well too slow to stay interesting for very long. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urworstnhtmare
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The first of the worms series doesn't have flashy backgrounds or beautifully drawn worms. What 
 the game does have is a fun factor that I don't know of in any other franchise. Its soooo satisfying 
 to aim a bazooka up in the air, make one final calculation of its trajectory, power it up, watch 
 it fly and send one of the enemies worms flying off the edge of the map. Also the game never gets 
 old, with up to four player's, fully customizable teams, a gazillion of randomly generated maps 
 (plus there are codes to play on extra ones) and a whole arsenal of highly Xplosive weapons, this 
 game is a certain classic. Just writing this makes me itch towards my older computer, so I can 
 fire her up, and blow up some worms! Just invite over three friends, allow for a day, order some 
 pizza, and let the good times role. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem_trick_01
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Worms is the first in a series of turn-based strategy games. GAMEPLAY:
  The player controls a team of worms with each team consisting of four members. The objective of 
 the game is to kill every member of the enemy team (s) within a time limit. The player also has 
 a specified time limit to take a turn (ranging from 45 seconds to 90 seconds) . The team which has 
 worms still alive at the end of the match is the winner. The player has access to a whole variety 
 of weapons from simple firearms like the shotgun to heavy weapons such as the airstrike. Additional 
 secret weapons such as the explosive sheep may be unlocked by typing 'baabaa' while on the main 
 menu of the game.
  
  SOUND:
  the sound is average not good as today Worms games, but you can hear the sound of the bombs when 
 strike the enemy or the ground.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  the graphics are old school nothing magnificent.
  
  CONTROL:
  nothing hard just click and 
 release this ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Worms is a good idea. The concept in this game is very good and this game is also very funny. The 
 graphics are extremely pixelized but the sound is nice and funny. The single player missions are 
 hard but they can all eventually be conquered. Creating teams is great fun and versing other people 
 is also great fun. This game requires some tactics but the overall gameplay is very straight foward. 
 I am not saying that this is one of the best games on the PC but I am saying that you should own 
 this. The price is fantastic and this is just such a fun game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  'Yak yak. Please don't hurt me. I go here, i need money, and the damage of da underground hurts...' 
 Yeah I knew you will say 'Awww'. But then - 'Well, here... WON'T YOU GO AND DIE!?! MUHAHAHAHA!"
 
  
  Funny, vielont worms. This game proves it. The creators of Alien breed and Superfrog have made 
 a game so happy and original. The power force is wicked. Whats that, T17? Over 4 billion landscapes 
 to choose from? Yes? Well, that is true. Infact, that is far more forward that true.
  
  You get a good selection of silly weapons. Want to 'fire' a white, cute sheep... THAT EXPLODES?
 
  
  Nothing more than Worms. It says everything. It's great, and that's great, so get a demo or go 
 to a classic PC shop now. Honestly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Worms will change the way you look at games forever and i mean that in a good way. You see worms 
 is all about fun, worms is all about killing worms with weapons that are real and not so real :) , 
 it is also about killing them in the most funny way.
  
  When you get bored of killing the computer (which you will) you can drag some mates in and start 
 killing them as well. VS in worms is a great way to play the only way for some people (like me) . 
 You might be thinking it sounds fun but its in 2D, i can say this 2D dose not stop the fun it helps 
 on some maps. Me and a mate of mine use to make bases at each end of the map with the girders you 
 can get, we would then bomb each other or try and drill are way in from the bottom and plant some 
 tnt :) .
  
  Yes worms is old now but if you see it in a shop and have not played it yet do get it you will 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Classic worms was truly great, you control a small squad of worms and kill the other teams worms 
 with various weapons some conventional such as the shotgun, machine gun to the more extravagent 
 and wild, such as the banana bomb and the dreaded sheep!
  
  When a worm died it exploded and left a tomb stone, the damage inflicted would vary depending on 
 strength, where the worm was hit , if the worm fell a great distance etc, it was a very fun game. 
 
  
  The players have a lot of customising they could do with the team, from the sound set up (various 
 accents your worm could speak) , tombstones and names. Also when you selected a level their were 
 literally billions of different combinations of levels and some where specialyl created, for example 
 you could type in 'hell' and a specially made level by the developers would be there, same with 
 heaven, each level had its own gravity effect aswell as its looks. - i particulary liked 'stars' 
 which had a single pixel star on which worms stood on, great fun trying to kill the other teams 
 on that level!
  
  The reason i said that the original worms could be the best in the series was that it was truly 
 unqiue and has left an impression on me, it was great fun to play, also the levels I still adamantly 
 declare where the best, they were bigger and seemed more imaginative and their was alot of debris 
 which flew up from explosions, great stuff. 
  But offcourse worms has gone down the inevitable 3D route, worms 2 and armageddon where very fun 
 on par easily with Worms (original) but the latest Worms games look ugly in comparison, 3D graphics 
 do not always look superior, they can look damn good - Project Gotham 2, Mercenaries, Halo 1 and 
 2 but alot of the time they look pretty poor - star wars knights of old republic and can get very 
 dated VERY quickly - carmageddon, Everquest being two examples. 
  
  All in all Worms was a great series, and its a damn shame to see it decline recently, Worms United, 
 Worms 2, Worms armageddon and your set! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I used to run a website about the Worms series of games, I say I 'used' to run it since I don't 
 update it anymore, but it's still out there somewhere. I don't write this to plug it blatantly, 
 it's just so you know that I will be rather biased when reviewing this game here. I think it's 
 hard to honestly give a game ten out of ten in gameplay, there's always something that brings it 
 down, and most games today concentrate more on flashy graphics and amazing sound effects. Worms 
 on the other hands is one of those games that was just brilliantly perfect from the very beginning 
 in every aspect. It has had a number of sequels of varying quality, of which Worms: Armageddon 
 refined the already perfected form of play in the original game and came out just as wonderful 
 (yes, essentially it's the same game as Worms 2, but W2 had some glaring balance issues that were 
 fixed in W: A) .
  
  This game was released a long time ago now, so indeed the graphics are dated, but they were just 
 fine when the game was released (gotta love the way they looked exactly like the graphics for Lemmings, 
 only with worms and deadly weaponry instead) . Most importantly, the graphics worked with the game 
 in a very good way, making it harder to navigate your worms around the map compared to W2: s graphics 
 engine. The sound is awesome even by today's standards, Bjrn Lynne's ambient-like downplayed music 
 brings a great sense of atmosphere to an otherwise as mentioned rather limited experience graphics-wise. 
 Everything from the evil laughter in the Hell-levels, to the sound of the wind in the ones that 
 take place in the desert, it's a joy to listen to. I have to mention the worms' voices as well, 
 the latest Worms 3D did not bring justice to the great legacy of humorous high-pitched voices synonymous 
 with the worms.
  
  Game play-wise, you really don't need more weapons than the bazooka and the grenade, after all 
 this IS not that much more than a souped-up version of the old Scorched Earth or Gorilla for Qbasic 
 game that maybe someone remembers. There are lots of other stuff to use though, if you feel the 
 need. Worms is a very rewarding game that you can play for an infinity. The maps are never the 
 same, and the computer AI of different difficulties is good. This game has a never before seen 
 replay value, even though there isn't even any mission mode or anything in this very first incarnation! 
 My qualified guess, if I know Microsoft and if I know Windows XP, Worms won't even play on that 
 operating system. Which is a shame since it's a work of genius, a severely underappreciated such. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
