-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wrestling Spirit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/wrestlingspirit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great combination of role-playing and standard sports-sim goodness.
 Hundreds of wrestlers and dozens of different wrestling federations spread all over the world.
 Innovative turn-based system used to fight matches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bouts drag on too long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 7.2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 47 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Grey Dog Software
Developer: Adam Ryland
Genre: Wrestling
Date:     Feb 14, 2005

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The absence of serious depth in Wrestling Spirit is offset by the entertainment value of role-playing 
 as a muscle-bound freak who bashes people over the head with chairs for a living. 

  Calling Wrestling Spirit the best professional-wrestling management simulation available for the 
 PC may seem like damning the game with faint praise, but this is one excellent sports sim regardless 
 of the diminutive size of the genre. Designer Adam Ryland, a wrestling expert best known for Total 
 Extreme Wrestling, and publisher Grey Dog Software have put together a captivating look at life 
 inside the squared circle. And although living the career of a Triple H wannabe makes the game 
 more frivolous than the usual stat-heavy sports sim, the absence of serious depth is offset by 
 the entertainment value of role-playing a muscle-bound freak who bashes people over the head with 
 chairs for a living.  

          Last-second kickouts are as common here as they are in real matches, and they're just as 
 frustrating.     

  Sports simulation and role-playing neatly cohabitate here. Instead of managing a wrestling organization 
 like the WWE or TNA, you guide the career of a single worker trying to make his or her way in the 
 world of sweaty behemoths and steroids. You have the option of taking the easy road and picking 
 an established ring legend from a selection of fictional wrestling promotions (such as the WWE-like, 
 and awesomely named, Burning Hammer of the Wrestling Gods) in superstar mode, or doing things the 
 hard way and building up a nobody in rookie-to-legend mode. Both play in a similar fashion, although 
 of course the latter is a lot more difficult in that you have to start at the bottom of the ladder. 

  Going the harder way is the most rewarding, though, as you get to create a rookie wrestler from 
 scratch. You give your creation a name, a date of birth, and a size, and then you further refine 
 your character with training. You select a wrestling style from options that include a high-flying 
 Mexican luchador, a technician, and a psychopath, and you tweak slider bars to set stats in such 
 areas as charisma and wrestling fundamentals. All of this training translates into 10 core stats 
 (power, technique, speed, stamina, psychology, toughness, safety, charisma, microphone, and superstar 
 look) that then determine how well you do in your upcoming career.  

  After this, you work on a move set. Here you browse a huge list of classic wrestling maneuvers 
 and concoct an arsenal of strike, standing, ground, top-rope, rebound, and corner moves from choices 
 such as the "bionic elbow," the "headhunter special," and the "brass-knuckle punch" (nobody says 
 you have to play fair) . All are rated in terms of effectiveness and entertainment value. Moves 
 are available only if you have the requisite skills and style to employ them, so you can create 
 wrestlers with diverse talents and personalities. The world is your oyster, whether you want a 
 spry high-flyer who loves coming off the top rope or an Andre the Giant clone who lumbers about 
 squeezing necks. Replay value is tremendous, if you like the idea of experimenting with different 
 wrestling styles, seeing if a brawling, psychopathic heel can reach the big show ahead of a baby-faced 
 technician, and so forth.  

  Skills and moves are fully utilized, so just about every aspect of a pro wrestler's life is depicted. 
 The most important feature is, not surprisingly, bouts in the ring. Matches in Wrestling Spirit 
 are real, too, unlike the scripted soap-opera affairs seen weekly on the likes of  WWE RAW . So 
 you have to actually fight here, by employing the aforementioned moves in a turn-based system where 
 you choose actions, moves, and counters (each is illustrated by a graphic of a wrestler pulling 
 off the move in question, which is a nice touch that adds color to a genre that's too often drowning 
 in text) . Spanish Superfly, for instance, might try a running dropkick on you, and you can attempt 
 to avoid it or throw some countermoves at him. Conversely, when you're on the attack you can Irish-whip 
 him and then grab him with a DeColt thrust and bodyslam him to the canvas -- if all goes well and 
 he doesn't break or counter those moves, of course. Many moves link up, so you have to plot out 
 combinations to get your opponents sprawling on the mat. Flailing about only drains energy and 
 puts you at risk of a pin.  

  This is wrestling, though, so the idea is both to win matches and entertain the crowd by whipping 
 out moves that satisfy the audience and demolish the opposition. Blowing past rivals in quick bouts 
 does little to please the audience or the big boys at top promotions, who want to see long, dramatic 
 scraps. In practice, this means you have to alternate between cool-looking attacks with a high 
 wow factor, like "greetings from the islands" and the "kikkawa forearm," and routine moves like 
 the "running clothesline." Of course, you can take things too far. It's easy to get so caught up 
 in pleasing the fans that you wind up losing the actual match. And nobody likes a loser, even an 
 acrobatic one.  

  Sometimes, however, you'll consider losing intentionally just to get the bout over with. As much 
 fun as it is to strategize your way through matches, they go on too long, with one last-second 
 kickout after another. The average match lasts a good five minutes, and the action can become repetitive 
 well before the referee pounds out a three count. While there are dozens of options and moves, 
 most involve the same principles, and you can whip someone into the ropes to set up a flurry of 
 punches only so many times before you get bored. And since the longer fights tend to be the ones 
 that garner the highest ratings and get you the best gigs with the highest-paying federations, 
 you can't avoid these marathons. The only option is to hit the emergency finish button, but that 
 ends matches immediately and declares a winner based on the events thus far. So you can't hit it 
 at the start of a bout and expect to emerge a winner.  

          What would a wrestling sim be without the option to smash chairs over the heads of opponents? 
     

  Wrestling's showbiz side is also well represented with loads of behind-the-scenes stuff. Just as 
 the matches are realistic here, so are the feuds. In the locker room before matches you get to 
 interact with other wrestlers through dialogue trees. You can offer up effusive compliments that 
 will get you branded a baby-face, or you can toss around insults and become a heel. All you need 
 to do to get something going is insult the likes of Joe Sexy, Burning Takashita, or any of the 
 other hundreds of wrestlers featured in the game, and start a brawl. Nature takes its course from 
 there, although you can help things along by asking the promotion bosses for a push or turn story 
 angle. Midcard interviews take the form of a dialogue duel with a fellow grappler for the attention 
 of the fans. The only drawback is that the dialogue choices are inadequate. You can exhaust all 
 of the backstage conversation options after a couple of bouts, and the microphone choices are limited 
 to themes like "toilet humor" and "mixed metaphor."  

  Add in a great, colorful interface with personal assistants to walk you through everything, customizable 
 workout regimens, and even the ability to accumulate a fortune and buy luxury items, from restaurants 
 to pet monkeys, and you've got one well-rounded wrestling sim. Even if you can't tell the difference 
 between Hulk Hogan and Paul Hogan, and wouldn't know a hammerlock if somebody put you in one, Wrestling 
 Spirit is a fascinating oddity of interest to both role-players and sports simmers.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  If you love Wrestling and are capable of playing a game without flashy graphics and other bells 
 and whistles, chances are you'll like this.
  You create a wrestler by determining his stats, country of origin and various attack and then try 
 to make it in the cut-throat world of professional wrestling.
  Whilst at the beginning you might find it difficult to make ends meet, as the game moves along 
 your skills improove and chances are your position in the various ingame federations will too - 
 and with a better position comes better pay.
  
  Fighting is turned based and it works quite well whether your playing Singles or Tag or whatever, 
 though say - a 6 Man Elimination match can seem to drag on forever.
  You also do interviews, which work much in the same way as fightning - you take turns insulting 
 your foe and making witty remarks and whoever has the most of the crowd on their side at the end 
 of it all wins.
  
  Theres very little sound, save for the opening music, a few clicks and beeps in the menus and the 
 ingame commentary which you may want to turn off as it can get annoying.
  
  You have access to the games database so you can modify the ingame federations, attacks, wrestlers 
 and more.
  And theres a few mods out there to download, which I would recommend as it's more exciting to be 
 in a match with say, The Undertaker then it is to be with random someone.
  
  All in all a very decent Wrestling RPG, and one I well recommend. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
