-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE Raw
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/wweraw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 537 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Wrestling
Date:     Oct 14, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WWE Raw unfortunately does little to fill the wrestling void in PC gaming. 

 With its outdated roster, overly complicated wrestling system, sluggish controls, decided lack of 
 different match types, and various visual oddities, WWE Raw unfortunately does little to fill the 
 wrestling void in PC gaming. WWE Raw includes a selection of wrestlers from long before the company 
 formerly known as the WWF had to change its name, and as such, you won't see some of the more exciting 
 wrestlers like Rob Van Dam, Booker T, The Hurricane, Brock Lesnar, or even Hulk Hogan here. Instead, 
 you'll be treated to a large portion of WWE talent that hasn't seen a single TV broadcast in months. 
 This also affects individual wrestler entrance themes since quite a few of these wrestlers no longer 
 walk into the arena with the same music or pyrotechnic displays. But beyond the presentation and 
 the character selection, the gameplay is where this game often falls flat.           WWE Raw has 
 quite a few inactive wrestlers on its roster.    

 There are a number of different match types to select from in WWE Raw, including one-on-one, tag 
 team, tornado, triple threat, fatal four-way, battle royal, handicap, and king-of-the-ring tournament 
 matches. Most of these are pretty standard, but some require a little explanation. The triple threat 
 match pits three wrestlers against each other, but you only need to pin one other wrestler to win 
 the match, which can be quite difficult to do since both computer-controlled and human-controlled 
 players will continually knock you out of the pin. A fatal four-way match is somewhat similar except 
 there are four wrestlers in the ring, and when one of the wrestlers is pinned, that wrestler has 
 to leave the ring, but the match will continue until two more wrestlers have been pinned. The handicap 
 match forces you to take on either two or three other wrestlers that will be teaming against you. 
 You won't find some of the more interesting or varied match types in the game, such as ladder, 
 hell in a cell, TLC (tables, ladders, and chairs) , or even the good old steel cage match, which 
 is unfortunate because all of the match types in WWE Raw essentially play the same exact way, which 
 can quickly get boring. You can change the rules of some of these matches so that they're hard-core 
 matches -- you can use all sorts of weapons and pin your opponent outside the ring -- but you can't 
 bring the fight to the backstage area or any other place outside the center of the arena.   

  There's also a title match option where you can go after various WWE titles, such as the championship 
 title or the intercontinental title, by defeating several wrestlers. Unfortunately, there aren't 
 any story elements in this mode, and the opponents you face near the end of each championship run 
 can be incredibly cheap.   

  The actual wrestling in the game is slow-paced, and it can be pretty difficult to execute even 
 the most basic moves. Essentially, you have to constantly attack your opponent with a variety of 
 moves until your portion of the momentum meter at the bottom of the screen starts flashing. When 
 it does flash, this indicates that you can use your wrestler's finishing maneuver and then go for 
 the pin. However, you can't use the same move repeatedly, because your momentum meter will start 
 to drain, and it's not really possible to simply use a flurry of kicks and punches, because your 
 wrestler's stamina will start to drain, leaving him open for attack. Using different moves is not 
 easy either since the computer tends to escape from grapples quite often. It's also worth noting 
 that the game has some quirks with regard to grappling. For example, when your opponents get tied 
 up in the ropes, you can't grapple them at all, which is pretty ridiculous, considering that grappling 
 is a major element of professional wrestling. However, you can perform a variety of moves when 
 your opponent is up against the turnbuckle.   

  For the most part, WWE Raw looks as good as the original Xbox version. The wrestlers are detailed 
 and retain all of their unique visual characteristics, such as tattoos and gestures like The Rock's 
 "people's eyebrow." Most of the entrances are pretty well done and mimic what the wrestlers do 
 on TV quite well. However the general walking animation looks very awkward, almost as though the 
 wrestlers are walking on stilts. There's also an overdone motion blur effect that makes the game 
 look a bit washed out when you're fighting in the ring. Even though some people hold up wrestler-specific 
 signs, the crowd in general looks bad, and at some camera angles, it becomes quite apparent that 
 the people are just a series of cardboard cutouts pasted together.           The gameplay is hampered 
 by some sluggish controls.    

 There really isn't all that much to the sound. Most of the entrance music is accurate for the time 
 period in WWE history that this game represents, which is what you'd expect, but there's no commentary 
 in the game. There are some generic tracks that play during the actual match, and they seem to 
 fit in well with the theme of the game, but none of the tracks are particularly noteworthy.   

 
  Ultimately, WWE Raw is a pretty disappointing game. It lacks many of the features that its console 
 counterparts have, the roster is missing many key WWE superstars, and the gameplay feels sluggish 
 and unresponsive at times. In addition, once you go through the individual title matches, the only 
 thing that will probably keep your interest is the create-a-wrestler feature that lets you create 
 respectable versions of a few WWE wrestlers not included in the game. Still, there really isn't 
 enough motivation to use these characters in the actual game. If you're incredibly desperate for 
 a PC wrestling game, and you don't own any consoles, then you might want to give Raw a try, but 
 otherwise, you should steer clear of it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  5 years ago when i heard about a wrestling game for the PC i was so excited!! (this game is WWF 
 not WWE)
  
  the good: the wrestlers are looking really good like stone cold steve austin or THE ROCK and they 
 have tattos and they look really good, the graphics is also nice. really nice the hall and the 
 ring are also looking good , "championship belts" looking good , the entrences of wrestlers are 
 great and thats all the game is about i think.. good graphics good wrestlers models and thats it..
 
  
  ---------------------------------------------------
  
  so im like excited to play this game but than.. what the hell? this is the game? so many bad things!! 
 i was in shock when i saw that
  
  1) no blood?
  2) no ledder matches
  3) no tables matches
  4) no cage matches
  5) no backstage entrence
  6) no announcers.. i 
 mean theres a tables.. theres chairs but no announcers that is so lame
  
  7) no royal rumble
  8) no double team moves
  9) no story mod?? thats really lame thing.. i 
 mean you just fight.. you choose who do you want to fight against and theres no story mod!! what 
 is that?
  
  10) to easy to unlock superstarts (you have just 5)
  
  11) when you win a championship belt the next time you will choose the superstar that won the belt 
 he will go to the ring without the belt.. T_T
  
  this game is lame and really aweful fun to play it for like half hour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  first of all... this game isn't any good.... it not only is a bad wrestling game.... but it doesn't 
 even feel like a wrestling game.... outdated rosters..... Extreme lack of match types.... very very 
 slow.... even simple grappling becomes too slow... the gameplay mechanics are truely bad.... u 
 can't grapple some one on the ropes.... sometimes opponents kick out of the finishing moves instantly, 
 only a hand full of match types... NO TLC NO CAGE... don't even think about season mode.... there 
 is just a lame lame title mode.... unlockable superstars are abysmal, fred durst for a start..... 
 and the mcmahons 
  the graphics is the best part of the game.... the wrestlers look good.... but the wrestlers walk 
 as if their knee caps are broken.... the crowd look as if they are watching paint dry or something..... 
 the audio is not any better... while the wrestlers have their theme songs..... there is no commentary 
 in this game, the sound effects feel silly, and the soundtrack during fights is mediocre....
  
  overall this game is a big big disappointment., i know how many people want to play wrestling 
 games on pc.... and they all will be disappointed, only way u can have fun is playing multiplayer 
 with someone else
  Abysmal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Bacon_master
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Theres Not many WWF/WWE games for the PC why you might ask? well its just better off being a console 
 game.
  
  The Graphics....
  Are not that all great some of the superstars don't even look like who they are meant to look like 
 others look like them but overall the graphics's arnt good. But does have a section of Info about 
 the superstars with pictures and their finishing move and just stuff like that.
  
  The Match's....
  They didn't really seem to do much different match's theres only a king of the 
 ring, title match, or handicap match with also the tag team match and really none of them are really 
 that fun. Also they didn't really bother to make sure the matches worked right. You can choose 
 a Male Superstar and win the womans Championship.. really they didn't even try make this game good.
 
  
  Gameplay....
  Gameplay is alright you have to beating your challenger to be able to do your special witch is 
 fair enough but after a while if you keep doing the same attacks it just pretty much sets the scale 
 to the challenger so he can do his specials in some ways thats alright but in other ways its just 
 crap.
  
  CAW.....
  I`m glad they added the CAW feature in and it isn't that bad with heaps of addon's with some i 
 haven't even seen on the console games. and also the entrances are pretty cool maybe they just really 
 cared about the entrances more then the sorts of match's you could have?
  
  Overall....
  This game is good and bad in some ways but mostly it just sucks its fun for a little while but 
 then it gets boring there's no season mode or anything but its good to see the of the WWF/WWE Superstars 
 that you may not have seen/heard of before and as i said theres not many matches so its hard to 
 play this for hours and for months.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I think the game is pretty cool. since we (pc-owners) dont have any other wrestling game, we should 
 be satisfied that there is a good game out there for us.
  the graphics are awesome for the release date (2002) -best part is the motion of the wrestlers 
 which is very realistic-, the sound includes powerful metal themes which fits very good, you never 
 get bored listenig to it, the players are designed very well and the variety of the moves is exraordinary, 
 and the best thing about the game is the ''create a superstar'' option
  it has so many parameters to adjust that you can do almost everything. i created 10 friends of 
 mine each one with his unique fighting style ( they look like the real persons in a funny way) plus 
 Hulk Hogan, Andre the Giant and Ultimate Warrior all of them interacting like the real ones. the 
 gameplay is good and a minor problem is its slow pace. i read a lot of viewers articles (even the 
 reviewer of gamespot) saying that the control system is bad. NO, the game has a complexed playing 
 system so you must spend a lot of hours to learn to do what you really want (i had a hard time 
 myself) but when you learn it, the game will reward you. me and my friend gather in my house 4 
 or 6 buddys and play it for hours every day having fun and drinking beers. You should do the same!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uas-2001
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: If you have a second controller, you can play multi-player with your freinds
  
  The Bad: There is so much bad I can't possibly put it all down.
  
  
  WWE Raw is a good game 
 when you first start to play it, but It doesn't offer you enough types of matches. There should 
 be steel cage matches, submission matches, etc.
  
  Also, there isn't much to do as there is no storyline. Although it is fun playing with your friends, 
 as they are a little bit harder to beat than the A. I.
  
  The graphics aren't the greatest, but they probably would of been ok back in the day. The 'Create 
 a Superstar' isn't very good, as there are only a few options to choose from, like just 3 different 
 tones of skin colour!
  
  So if your looking for a wrestling game, I think you should choose from one of the newer WWE games 
 made by THQ, like WWE Smack Down! VS Raw 2007 and WWE Smack Down! VS Raw 2008 will be coming out 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I see Gamespot didn't give it what it deserved. Raw is a very nice fighting game, with a superb multiplayer. 
 The graphics are really good for 2002, even though the public looks... horrible. The sound is not 
 good at all: tracks from Motorhead, but weak sound effects,&amp; very nonrealistic. The gameplay 
 is good, you'll choose from a large variety of wrestlers, including The Undertaker, my personal favorite (he'll 
 beat Batista at Wrestlemania 23) . A lot of combos, sumbissions &amp; unique moves for each character. You 
 can create your own superstar, too. Win mathes, tag matches,&amp; Title Matches. The advantage bar 
 is better than the boring health bar, even though it's not that realistic, it fits well. A good game, great 
 to challenge your friends in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yochoo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The game is good , but not perfect. The blood misses , it don't has all the wrestlers, AI is quite 
 weird, But still it's the ONLY pc wrestling game.
  Create a superstar is the best you can do in this game. At the start everything is cool but in time 
 you get bored, so rest assured. Want a good wrestling game?
  Buy a console or wait until a pc version of WWE Smack down vs. Raw 2007
  appears... My advice 
 : Buy another game. I don't know what to say.
  
  IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S 
 YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S 
 YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S 
 YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S 
 YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S 
 YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... IT'S YOUR CHOICE.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rashicon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  I always wanted a wrestling game for a long time, but could not get one anywhere. One of my friends 
 gave wwe raw. Man it is a veeeeeeeery cool game. I could not win at first. But now I am an expert 
 in this game. It does not have matches like hell in a cell, ladder matches etc. That is a disadvantage 
 of this game. Another problem is that there are no superstars like John cena, Brock Lesner, Rey Mysterio, Chavo 
 Gurrero etc. The entry of some superstars in this game are not the same now. But still the amazing 
 graphics and gameplay makes this a cool game. This game is very fun at first but gets boring after 
 a few months. HAVE FUN PLAYING WWE RAW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  My son's name is Jake and he is my 13 yo son and he's been after a wrestling game for ages (not 
 owning a console, and only allowed to play computer games when he gets to stay with me one weekend 
 a month) . EB Games said there were none available at all ( I used to be a EB Games Store Manager 
 so I would have at least LOOKED!!!) , but I found this on sale at a department store for $5.00 Australian. 
 Hey, the graphics are dated, fair enough, and after a stint on "F. E. A. R" going back to this shows 
 it. But so the hell what!!! My son pointed out that GAMESPOT contradicted themselves in their review 
 when they initially said that there were limited match types. Then in the next paragraph they state 
 that you can choose from many different types of matches. Huh??? He says the console response is 
 not sluggish but quite acceptable and the matches themselves are fast and get you hopping out of 
 your seat as your character and the camera angle fly all over the place. If you like wrestling 
 and only own a PC, then GRAB this game. There are plenty of match types, at least enough to keep 
 you bashing away for several hours at a time. Its' fun, addictive and well presented. What more 
 do you ask for in a game that that doesn't try to be anything groundbreaking or in fact anything 
 more than it is. Thumbs up for at least giving us a PC wrestling game, and a fairly decent effort 
 at that. 1-2-3 pinned!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskathecat
Rating: 4
Date: May 25, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  i think its fun game but ugly....
  why it was made for PC?
  If someone saw smackdown vs raw.... 
  This is "GAME" i thnik it is special and very nice game
 
  amazig grafics .. BEST WWE GAME EVER MADE
  but if we talking abot raw.... 
  SUX game.. thats all ... i play it , its fun game but... for 10 minutes not more
  JUST UGLY GAME 
 AND EVRYTHING ELSE
  ... there was somthing else same to RAW... it was emmm Wrestlemenia game but it is only for Xbox
 
  Realy nice game... you can do every thing.... climb everywhere
  all kinds of game,,, "CAVE","The money in the bak" and more and more,,, or course more thing,,, 
 i mean there are more then in raw... like "619" that doesnt exist in raw,,, 
  somthing about grafics.... note speciall,,, i can give 4 or 5 to grafics
  but to the game i give 
 10... realy nice game,,,,
  you can play much more then you play in "raw" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gengarjetty
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  WWE RAW for the PC reeks of uselessness...... The gameplay, graphics are mediocre, or even bad. 
 When you install the game, you see that its WWF raw and not WWE raw. 
  The roster is very bad too. It's so outdated with boors like Rhyno ,Tazz and Tajiri. There's no 
 guys like RVD, Hulk Hogan or Ric Flair. Moreover, there's no hell in the cell, cage match, royal 
 rumble, etc (WTHeck?) and only stupid boring matches like single/hardcore , survivor, KOTR, etc.
 
  CAW mode is dumb too! You can't create any legends, and the unlockables are pointless too, who 
 cares if Freddy Kruger or durst or whoever is there.
  The graphics are mediocre. Gameplay is slow with horrific and ridiculous controls. You can't pick 
 up ladders.
  Sound is also bad. Menu music is terrible, and the superstar music is kind of outdated. 
  I did 
 not expect such a sloppy mess of a "wwe" (WWF) game by THQ. My advice to a fan of wwe is not to 
 buy a mess like WW "E" RAW. 
  You'd be better of with a console wwe game like the ones in G-Cube or PS2. I fell that this game 
 is terrible and therefore will give it a rotten rating of 2.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anbenlee
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  It's really hard for people who dont have any consoles. THQ please have a consideration for PC 
 gamers. HEY who doesn't want a wrestling game for PC. "WWE RAW" game is getting lame with the monotonous 
 moves. I played this game for 3 years. PLEASE THQ make a WWE game for PC.
  
  THX THQ if you grant the people's wish! 
  
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
 
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
 
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
  GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS GOOD LUCK FOLKS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YelloMit
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  I play this quite alot since I haven't got a console, but it's really starting to get boring. Plus 
 I'm sick of using the same wrestlers all the time. I've gone through the trouble of making my own 
 wrestlers that look like current superstars.
  
  So far I've made John Cena (My best I reckon) , Brock Lesnar, Rey Mysterio, and Shelton Benjamin. 
 Hell, I even made a Goku wrestler.
  
  I do like using a few of the wrestlers though. The Rock, Undertaker, Kane, Trish Stratus (Yummy) , 
 and Jeff Hardy. But that's all really.
  
  Anyways, like I said, fun at first, but gets boring fairly easy. Only buy if you're desperate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinister-
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:24 am PT
Review:  The last game to hit the pc, thats why they stopped making wrestling games to the comp, its a lot 
 better on the ps2 or psp, I really hope a new wrestling game will hit the comp soon.. cause were 
 missing them really badly..: (
  The graphics are bad, the sound is normal, and the game technique sux. pay attentions guys.. this 
 game really shocked me up, I really liked the old WWF games, and I hope this one will continue 
 to follow that path. guess not..
  really takes the wind out of the wresting catagory in the pc games.
  in a word :
  Disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  ok so this game is lame but its not so bad....
  i mean you can play it (u will gett board after few hours, but you can play it)
  but its ot so 
 easy... its jsut right
  but the tricks are lame... i mean how much you can do the same trick over and over....
  and the 
 graphic is **** very low and the items you can collect....
  its nice but not so much....
  and the belt... i think it is to old
  and THQ needs to do another pc game of WWE...
  because 
 this one is realy lame!!!
  and if doing they will need to do a multplayer allso 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiv1975
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  A+S+uparrow? Come on! The craziest handling I have ever seen. Lousy fighter selection process. 
 Overall - dissapointment.
  I particularly enjoyed the animation of cardboard dolls, supposed to be spectators:) Jeeee... Then, 
 the gameplay. you never cease to be amazed by the fighter selection. If you are not attentive enough, 
 you may spend your time down there outside the ring, waving in despair, while your teammate is 
 being eviscerated by a ferocious .... ehhhh.... Molly Dolly:) 
  Then, it was quite fun to watch how for example The Rock hits Trisha Stratus in the groin, and 
 she falls with quite some pain in her movements. Parfait. 
  In order to beat the s... out of your oponent, you must strain your brain and recall all these 
 fancy key combinations, which, I believe, are beyond the comrehension of many hardcore players. 
 At the end of the day, you find yourself hitting the D key only, which guarantees you at least 
 some lousy punches. No, this way you don't win. Computer fight or real one. 
  Then, in the end, I decided there are better things to do in this life that playing WWE RAW. It's 
 really raw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthStephan
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  There are many good WWE Wrestling games, but WWE Raw is not one of them. I mean there are WWE games 
 made in the 90's that have way worse graffics but atleast have a story mode unlike WWE Raw which 
 has no story mode. Also whats up with you not being able to make tag teams? Atleast WWE Raw 2 is 
 better. The one thing that I found to be the stupidest thing I have ever seen in a WWE game is 
 that when you go to title match you can use a male superstar not a female!!!!! What the hell is 
 up with that?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIP-shikhar
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  After the millenium, there's been only one WWE wrestling game for the PC. The developers of this 
 game are clever enough to attract you, but they worked as if they only wanted money, and no appreciation.
 
  
  Presentation: This is the thing that makes you feel it a good game.
  Depth: There are only basic matches and no special kind of matches. Not even a Royal Rumble or a 
 Cage match.
  Gameplay: Only one word for 
  Roster: The roster is not even on par with at that time. No Brock Lesnar, no Hogan, no RVD, no Big Evil 
 'Taker', no half-masked Kane, it sucks.
  Sound: Not great but not too bad.
  Developer's efforts: None. They were too lazy to do any changes from XBox's game.
  Graphics: The 
 only thing that made me buy this game.
  
  Thumbs down for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 30, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  There havent been any really good wrestling titles for the PC. THQ, the leaders of this genre 
 as far as the console market is concerned, decided to experiment with their Xbox title WWE: RAW 
 on the PC. The game had huge expectations from the fans of this genre. Lets see how it turned 
 out.
  
  The teaser trailers and gameplay footage released by THQ prior to the release of this game were 
 enough to get the fans drooling over the drop-dead gorgeous graphics in the game. Even the casual 
 gamers were made to sit up and take notice of the immense detailing that has been put into the 
 game by the developers. The Xbox release further increased our expectations. Needless to say, THQ 
 had caught the PC gamers attention with its campaigning. It was the poor execution of a brilliant 
 foundation that led to this games downfall.
  
  The game starts off with a series of introduction and acknowledgement screens, which CANNOT be 
 skipped. Maybe THQ were aiming for a true TV style presentation, or maybe they were just being 
 careless. Anyway, the intro movie opens out to a realistically modeled arena with lighting, fireworks 
 and other great special effects, which again reminds you of the countless wrestling events youve 
 seen on TV. Being a console port, there was no mouse support, and the menu was a bit tacky in appearance 
 as well as in functionality. THQ couldve at least modified the presentation of the game a bit 
 to suit the PC gamers. Sadly, as with most console ports, they turned out to be too lazy for that 
 little bit of extra effort.
  
  The main game type offered is the Exhibition mode, which consists of 1 v 1, 1 v 2, 1 v 3, 2 v 2 
 matchups, a Triple Threat, a Fatal Four way and a Battle Royal. Now if you happen to be a true 
 follower of this sport, youll immediately notice the exclusion of gameplay modes like Royal Rumble, 
 Ladder Matches, TLC Matches, Table Matches, Iron Man matches, Cage Matches.. The list just goes 
 on.. Considering that most, if not all of these modes have already been included in previous 
 wrestling titles like Smackdown2 for PS2 (which, ironically, was developed by THQ itself!!) . The 
 lack of a Season Mode (or career mode, whatever you may call it) is another notable flaw in the 
 game. This means that players are reduced to playing repetitive lone matches.
  
  There are a couple of game modes, although they hardly offer anything innovative. In the Title 
 Match mode, you pick a superstar, choose a title, and battle your way through a series of matches 
 with opponents of increasing difficulty. It might sound a bit unique, but gets downright boring, 
 since all titles have the same procedure. And with no in-game save option, it isnt a mode youd 
 want to select for a quick game or two!! Then theres the King of The Ring mode, in which you select 
 a superstar and let him fight his way through a knockout system to the King of The Ring crown. 
 The matches in this mode can be any from the ones described before. But again, the process gets 
 too repetitive for anyones taste.
  
  The game consists of most of the well known superstars, with some notable exclusions like Rob Van 
 Dam, Brock Lesner, Rey Mysterio, Hulk Hogan and the like. Im yet to figure out why the hell THQ 
 included Fred Durst (from Limp Bizkit) as an unlockable superstar. Sheesh!!! How dumb can you get!!! 
 The actual game starts with a true TV style presentation, with the superstars shown walking towards 
 the ring as their intros play on, with a giant Titantron playing their intro movie. The Entrances 
 are complete with background music, superstar-specific gestures and special effects. The Graphical 
 excellence of the game again shows in these entrances, although the walk of the players couldve 
 been much better (I mean, are their pants too tight or what??!!) . Once you get down to the actual 
 fight, youll start noticing the crappy control system of the game, another console-port-specific 
 flaw. The controls are highly unresponsive in many cases, and the system has been designed in a 
 rather weird way, which makes it quite a task to pull off certain moves, especially aerial and 
 running moves. THQ might argue that their control system lends a bit of realism to the game. Well, 
 all I can say is  who needs realism when you cant play the game at all!!! 
  
  Another disappointment was the various objects you find around the ring. Make no mistake, there 
 are plenty of things you can find if you look carefully enough.. Its just that interactions with 
 them seem too limited. You have ladders, tables, chairs, potted plants, masks, hats (dont ask 
 me why!!!) , television sets everything but the kitchen sink (wait, was that there too???) . But 
 interaction with these objects is limited to just throwing them at your opponents in a very unconvincing 
 and ineffective manner. You cant jump of ladders and pull off any cool moves with chairs. You 
 can put people through tables, but its a hell of a task!!!! 
  
  The AI is decent, but couldve been much better. Even at the hardest difficulty, the game is fairly 
 easy to beat, and in most cases, it boils down to a session of button mashing! The camera is placed 
 at an isometric view of the ring, and manages to get the job done. A strange thing about the game 
 is the sheer imbalance of all the moves. Although all moves are rated according to their power 
 and impact, it does not seem to count at all in-game!! For instance, you may lay a chokeslam on 
 your opponent, only to see him get up half a second later. But at the same moment, you might give 
 him a mild slam, and watch him spend a couple of minutes on the mat. This sheer imbalance of moves 
 is quite laughable, actually. Although the state of players is determined through a popularity 
 meter (which shows the audience support for that wrestler) and his own stamina meter, this poor 
 execution of gameplay renders these two meters almost meaningless, except during pinfall or submission 
 moves..
  
  There are a few plus points in the game, though. Music is pretty good throughout the game, and 
 consists of licensed stuff for each superstar. The sound effects, however, are downright dismal. 
 They come nowhere near the standards they were set to achieve. The graphics are the major plus 
 point of the game, the only flaw being the audience, which look like cardboard cutouts! Theres 
 a create-a-superstar mode, which is fairly good too, given its level of detail, although personally, 
 the one put into Smackdown2 was better. Theres also a WWE Museum, where you can check out the 
 biographies and intro music and videos for each of the games superstar. The game is relatively 
 bug free and stable.
  
  
  For a title with came with plenty of expectations, WWE RAW has been a big letdown. Nothing apart 
 from the graphics and special effects really count as clear pluses for the game. THQ does manage 
 to achieve its goal of a TV style presentation, but loses out on the basic driving force behind 
 games, the core gameplay. The game still might appeal to hardcore WWE fans, but for the others, 
 its just another title that comes and goes. THQ has released a sequel for RAW on the Xbox, but 
 after the dismal performance of this title on the PC, its going to have second thoughts on releasing 
 a PC port of RAW2. 
  
  
  
  
  Highs
  
   Great Graphics and special effects
   TV style presentation
   Decent music, Create-a-superstar mode
  
  
  
  Lows
  
   
 Unresponsive controls
   Poor gameplay
   Horrible sound effects
   No season mode
   Very few gameplay options
   No in-game save
   Repetitive
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 10, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  A new wrestling game for the PC! Stop before you say ''Wow! Cool''. This game is far away from 
 being a wowable occasion. The last Wrestling game that was released in PC was WCW Nitro, and for 
 WWF, it was "WWF in Your House 99". Well WWFIYH was a pretty nice game, it had a good roster, and 
 although it lacked game modes, it was fun to play. WWE Raw is a major shift from both Nitro and 
 IYH, both in terms of graphics and gameplay. While IYH had Pixelated DOS graphics and Nitro had 
 basic 3D graphics (with Glide and D3d) , Raw supports Dx 8.1 and it also has support for most graphics 
 cards released within the last year or two. Sounds great, eh? But the reality is harsh. They forgot 
 two things, firstly, gameplay. And secondly, Roster. To make a successful wrestling game, it needs 
 to have an updated roster, cool graphics and satisfying gameplay. Now lets see what was wrong in 
 WWE Raw: 
  
  Roster
  
  Justin Credible, Haku, K-Kwik, X-Pac, Perry Saturn... who are these people? Can't recall? Well, 
 WWE Raw will help. These are all ex-wwe superstars. Actually the game should have been called WWF 
 Raw, cause the roster is really, really backdated. However, this game gives you the chance to play 
 with late Crash Holy. Although there is Undertaker, Kane, Rock, Stone Cold, Triple H, I desperately 
 missed HBK, Brock, Goldberg, Booker T, RVD and all the new cruiserweight wrestlers of Smackdown, 
 e. g. Rey Mysterio, Ultimo, Jamie Noble etc. Most wrestlers also have old looks, which makes it even 
 worse. if you're strictly a PC gamer, and also a WWE fan, this game will be very frustrating for 
 you; in terms of roster. But if you own a console, you may get some fun playing with old wrestlers 
 who aren't available in the latest games. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  This is where this game does it all wrong. Four finishers for each wrestler? Sounds groovy, but 
 executes poorly. It is very frustrating to see your opponent getting up in a second or two after 
 being hit by a finishing move. I once gave someone the Crippler Crossface. Instead of forcing the 
 opponent to tap out, Benoit stood up after a while, and my opponent followed suit. Similarly, out 
 of the 4 finishers, two are totally useless. The top of the rope finishers don't work always, and 
 most of the ground finishers are complete jokes. How the hell can a ''kick to groin'' move be a 
 finisher? And the finishers also require a number of conditions to be met, before it can actually 
 be executed. The end result is not worth the hassle, which makes it very frustrating. The double 
 feature mode does make the finishers look good, but that doesn't add much to the gameplay value. 
 
  
  The grappling system is the most flawed one I've ever seen, in any wrestling game till date. Maybe 
 I haven't played the bad games, but this one's pure insane. Button bashing is a part of life, when 
 it comes to fighting games. But this one's insane. I buttons are not responsive, and you first 
 need to actually ''grab'' someone before you can perform a slam. This isn't realistic, cause in 
 reality, most moves are done instantly. You don't hold and then grapple. You hold, or you grapple. 
 It's almost impossible to hold and slam instantly, in this game. The kicks and punches are better 
 options. The flying and weapon moves are okay, but nothing special. You don't have a shooting star 
 press, and although you can get weapons, you don't go backstage with'em. You can use them only 
 within the arena. 
  
  Game Modes
  
  This is one of the better aspects of the game. You can play regular exhibition matches (hardcore/single) 
 as 1 on 1, 2 on 2 tag, 2 on 2 Tornado, Battle Royal, Triple Threat, Fatal 4 Way, king of the ring 
 etc. Unfortunately, there's no ladder, cage, hell in a cell or tables match. This is quite weird, 
 cause even an old game like WWF Smackdown! 2 (for playstation 1) has these modes. And there's no 
 season, either. However, compared to IYH and Nitro, Raw has quite a lot of game modes, so it gets 
 a 5 here. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics is top notch, most wrestler models are highly detailed, and the arena also looks great 
 with the pyros and spotlights. The entrances are nicely done, especially those of Undertaker, Kane 
 and Triple H. However, some character faces are not properly done, e. g. Triple H looks a bit like 
 Val Venis with long hair, Kurt Angle and benoit is not accurate as well. But as a whole, the game 
 looks lovely. The double feature thing also gives you a TV feeling. As if your match is actually 
 being shown on TV. 
  
  Sound
  
  The game has all the cool themes, and regular wrestling sounds. The in game sounds aren't special, 
 but is adequate enough to serve its purpose. 
  
  Create A Wrestler Mode
  
  CAW mode is an essential feature for most wrestling games nowadays. There's a neat CAW mode in 
 Raw, I must say. You can create almost anybody, using your imagination and the default models and 
 moves provided by the game. This feature can compensate for the lack of new wrestlers. However, 
 some required moves are missing, e. g. peoples elbow, f-5, etc. 
  
  Extras
  
  There are many items that can be unlocked, but you can't do anything with them except wearing them 
 or beating people with some of'em. However, I'm not sure whether unlocked items can be used for 
 CAWs. There is a museum mode, where you can view wrestler profiles and their titantron movies. 
 This is a neat feature. This is indeed oe of best things about this game. You can unlock 4 hidden 
 characters. They aren't fun to play with and you need to go through a hell lot of hassle in order 
 to unlock'em. But what you get is not worth the hassle required to get it. You can watch a preview 
 of another THQ game and also a ''how to play'' movie. But none of these are essential features, 
 and doesn't add much to the game. 
  
  Replay value 
  
  Not much, cause you'll soon get bored of the single play experience. And once you win all the belts, 
 what do you have to play for? A season mode was dearly required. 
  
  To wrap up things, I must say, the game should have been released earlier, and it could include 
 some additional features for the PC crowd, e. g. multiplayer support over internet, updates, wrestler 
 downloads, etc. I give this game 6, cause the CAW mode, Sound or Graphics can't save a game which 
 plays so bad. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
