-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWII Normandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/wwiinormandy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 5.8, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Third Law Interactive
Developer: ValuSoft
Genre: Action
Date:     Jan 31, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WWII Normandy ultimately fails in spite of its good concept, because it's one of the shortest shooters 
 ever released. 

  As Allied troops stormed onto the beaches of Normandy in June of 1944, the entire world held its 
 breath. Would Hitler's Wehrmacht be able to push back the invaders into the sea, or would the Allies 
 break into the heart of France and free Europe after nearly three years of German occupation? WWII 
 Normandy is a budget-priced first-person shooter that attempts to re-create the bloody battles 
 fought by the 101st Airborne Division, which was dropped behind enemy lines near Utah Beach and 
 given the assignments of clearing a breakout path for the landing forces and preventing enemy reinforcements 
 from reaching the beachhead. Dense fog and the absence of markers for many of the drop zones led 
 to a large portion of the division being killed or captured, but the survivors -- though scattered 
 and confused -- eventually began to form small, improvised units and set about achieving their objectives. 
 This is actually a pretty good premise for a single-player shooter, since many troops actually 
 did find themselves alone behind enemy lines. But the game ultimately fails in spite of its concept, 
 because WWII Normandy is one of the shortest shooters ever released: You can breeze through the 
 entire game in about three hours at the standard difficulty setting.           The enemies look 
 more like zombies than like human soldiers.    

  It's true that the game would take longer to finish on the harder setting because the enemy's aim 
 becomes impossibly good and because hits cause much more damage. But that doesn't change the fact 
 that the levels in WWII Normandy are incredibly short -- and it doesn't help that there are only 
 10 of them in the shipping version of the game (though the patch at ValuSoft's Web site does feature 
 two bonus maps, which are considerably more challenging) . Of further note, WWII Normandy includes 
 no multiplayer component whatsoever.   

  Aside from not having the option of multiplayer, you'll never encounter any friendly troops in 
 the game. Not living ones, anyway. The box copy claims that the game lets you take "your place 
 alongside these men of valor," but the only friendly troops you'll find are already dead. The only 
 place you can take "alongside" these guys is in a graveyard. The box copy also boasts of "historically 
 accurate weapons" and "realistic damage," but in real life, it would probably take fewer than five 
 or six slugs from a Colt .45 at close range to bring down a German soldier, like it does in the 
 game.   

  It's not that realism is necessary in a shooter, but WWII Normandy falls short as a pure action 
 game as well. The arsenal at your disposal is extremely limited: a machete, a pistol, a rifle, 
 a machine gun, and a bazooka are all you get, and the only special items are grenades and land 
 mines. Actually, the land mines provide one of the few interesting twists in the game, since you 
 can take out four or five storm troopers at once if you manage to lure them near a land mine you've 
 placed.           Many of your foes won't put up much of a fight.    

  The enemy artificial intelligence in the game is flawed in several noticeable ways. Some Germans 
 stand dumbstruck when you dash up to them and hack away with a machete, while others simply stand 
 in the open and take bullet after bullet from your M1 rifle. On the other hand, some of the enemies 
 actually seem pretty smart. Some will try to sneak around buildings and attack you from behind, 
 and it's not uncommon to see a foe dive to the ground and start firing from the prone position. 
 Too bad the grayish skin tone of the Germans makes them look like extras from  Night of the Living 
 Dead . And too bad that aside from their various uniform types, they're all essentially identical. 
   

  Perhaps it's not fair to hold a budget-priced game like WWII Normandy to the same standards as 
 one that costs twice as much or more. But any shooter that even a relatively inexperienced player 
 could tear through in a single sitting should qualify as a downloadable demo, not as a retail game. 
 If you want to relive the Normandy invasion, take that $20 and use it toward the purchase of the 
  Saving Private Ryan  DVD. Besides, the film plays about as long as it'll take you to complete 
 WWII Normandy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paul939
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why I played this game. Probably because I had spent some money and wanted to see 
 if it was well spent. And let me tell you, NO&lt; THE MONEY WAS NOT WELL SPENT. Well, anyway, here's 
 my review...
  STORY:
  NONE. All you do run around shooting stuff and people. No idea or explanation of where you are 
 going or doing. SCORE: 1/10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  POOR. The enemy soldiers all look like some thing out of Night of the living dead . The weapons 
 and textures all look bland and outdated.
  SCORE: 2/10
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound effects are average or below average. I never heard an enemy soldiers say a word throught 
 the game. Nothing much to write about.
  SCORE: 4/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Pathetic. Coaster material. Valusoft must have put up this game as a downloadable version, not a 
 retail version. Enemy AI is ver poor, no real value in plodding through the missions, extremely 
 short duration of the missions (It took me all of 2 hrs to finish this game) . Neil Manke's USS 
 darkstar mod took longer than this game for me to finish. Very poor.
  SCORE: 2/10
  
  Overall, Extremely poor game, Crappy AI, bland graphics and textures all contrive to cheat you 
 of your money.
  OVERALL SCORE: 2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, ValuSoft doesn't make good games. And that's an understatement.
  
  Still, despite the company's track record , the idea of playing as a soldier on D-Day at Normandy 
 was interesting and ambitious. But I was wrong, as the game sucks. It pretty much involves shooting 
 anyone mean enough to shoot back. And then repeat it about 20,000 times. So it's like most shooters, 
 only with ValuSoft's quality .
  
  When I saw that this game used the Lithtech engine, my suspicions about the quality deepened. And 
 it didn't get any better while fighting through the horribly broken menu system and saw my first 
 mission assignment -- Generic shoot the German guys in the face mission #1. The cutscene beforehand 
 involves adrenaline-rushing, tense cutscenes and action such as watching your soldier parachute 
 down from the sky at slow speeds occasionally exceeding 5 mph. It fades to black before you hit 
 the ground (probably since showing the landing would require effort in the animation) .
  
  But hey, it's ValuSoft.
  
  You know what's sad? Playing a war simulator on the hardest setting 
 and coming out on top extremely easily by acting like you're playing Quake. After landing I was 
 assaulted by a squad of German soldiers who shot at me. I reacted by holding Spacebar and hopping 
 all over the place. Then I started circle-strafing around the whole group and fired away. As a 
 result, I killed everybody without taking a single hit. Want something worse? I did it again, this 
 time with the knife. The AI is worse than it sounds.
  
  But hey, it's ValuSoft.
  
  When enemies spot you, instead of trying to kill you, they have to run to a predetermined hotspot, 
 where they can fire when only there. If you're firing at somebody and the nearest hotspot is half 
 a football field away, then instead of returning fire, they'll run to the nearest hotspot and only 
 return fire if they aren't slaughtered by then. I can't believe someone could've come up with an 
 AI system that's even worse than what Wolfenstein 3D had, and so far I can't think of anything 
 worse than what's here (besides not shooting at all, but that's probably reserved for ValuSoft's 
 next hit ) .
  
  But hey, it's ValuSoft.
  
  The visuals are terrible, even for a budget game. It looks like someone vomited on the floor and 
 got the wonderful idea to use it for all the textures. Meanwhile all the character models look 
 the same, and resemble zombies more than German soldiers. Shooting something results in a laughable 
 spray of untextured triangles that I guess was supposed to be bullet holes or debris or something.
 
  
  But hey, it's ValuSoft.
  
  You never even have to reload the guns or anything, when you run out of ammo you just have to switch 
 weapons and then switch back to have a full clip again. Also the weapons look terrible, and definitely 
 don't look anywhere near their real-life counterparts.
  
  But hey, it's ValuSoft.
  
  Really, I've had enough of this game. Honestly, I didn't finish, but considering ValuSoft's track 
 record I'm extremely skeptical about the rest of this game. If there's a final boss or anything, 
 I bet he'd be identical to the rest of the soldiers, with the possible addition of a black pixel 
 for a mustache. Meanwhile I have a strong feeling the Quake trick would work perfectly.
  
  Because hey, it's ValuSoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  As I mentioned in a few other reviews of ValuSofts bargain-basement offerings, I dont really 
 expect all that much from budget games. Many low-end titles qualify as a practice run or labor 
 of love for a design team that operates with very few development and marketing resources. Those 
 games will occasionally try as hard as they can to rise above their humble roots with a novel gimmick 
  like the promise of squad support in WWII Iwo Jima, which didnt really work out very well but 
 earned a few points for the designers effort to spice up the gameplay -- that adds more to the 
 action than point-to-point incursions plotted through a series of key hunts.
  
  WWII Normandy, on the other hand, is exactly the sort of game that simply points the player toward 
 each levels exit and scatters a few moving targets in between to make the experience worthwhile. 
 Such a simplistic level design can work as a diversion; in my opinion, budget titles are useful 
 as a quick snack between the big, loud, well-funded shooters that might require a week or more 
 of involvement. However, with the exception of a single level toward the end of the game  a relatively 
 entertaining point defense sequence that kept me on my toes for its entire four-minute duration 
  the action found in WWII Normandy was overwhelmingly dull, leading to a disengaged, almost trancelike 
 approach to each encounter that left me with no memory whatsoever of the preceding firefights. 
 In other words, even approaching the game with the liberal expectation of a simple, quick diversion 
 left me wanting any sort of substance whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This calls for a barf bucket!!! Or the "Crap on it, and fling it out the window" There is nothing 
 good about this game other than..... nothing! I might add this is another "College Project" game. 
 Shouldn't have even hit the store shelves. Good thing it was a $5 game. I like to pickup some of 
 the bargain bin games to see how well they are. This one is about the worse game I have actually 
 ever played in my entire gaming life (PC) . I started with Kings Quest 4 I think.... back in the 
 day. That game was much much funner than this! Good lord!!! Even LSL: Lounge Lizards. Oui vey. 
 I can't seem to get rid of it though. I need to have credit for my collection. I should send this 
 to someone as a prank for a birthday gift or something. All hail Crap to this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pshmit
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  In an amazing feat, WWI Normandy manages to make killing Nazis boring and unpleasent.
  I bought this game years ago at the bargain price of $10. It really is not worth buying at all. 
 To be fair, WWII Normandy isn't broken; when you point your aiming reticule at somone, you'll hit 
 him. Similarly, graphical glitches are not present (although the graphics themselves are definitely 
 sub-par) . The true fault with the game is that it just isn't fun. The selection of weapons will 
 be familiar to anyone who has even heard of a WWII FPS, and the accuracy of the weapons seems quite 
 off. Once you get a submachine gun, for example, you'll never want to use another weapon, as its 
 accuracy is about perfect. Even so, the game doesn't quite aim to be "arcade-y," as your character 
 can't sustain so much damage as to make run-and-gun sequences amusing.
  The Nazis must have been a pretty ugly master race, as their models in this game are all various 
 shades of grey (and I mean skin color, not uniforms) . Their animations are wholly unconvincing, 
 and shooting them results in a bit of flinching on their part and nothing else. The missions are 
 predictable and generally devoid of personality, althogh one or two objectives prove to be somewhat 
 original.
  For an entertaining WWII FPS experience, look elsewhere. This shooter is marching in place. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
