-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWII Tank Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/wwiitankcommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy-to-play, colorful budget action arcade game.
 Decent graphics engine delivers some cool moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's just not a lot of content; just a single-player campaign with no multiplayer whatsoever.
 The gameplay doesn't have a lot of depth to it.
 Heavily scripted missions make it repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 4.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Merscom LLC
Developer: Sylum Ent.
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Feb 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This budget action game has its moments, but it's also a very shallow experience with very little 
 depth or replayability. 

  If you're a simulation fan thinking of picking up WWII Tank Commander and thinking you'll get an 
 M1 Tank Platoon out of it, don't. Despite its name, you don't really command a tank in WWII Tank 
 Commander. This isn't a simulation of tank combat so much as it is an action arcade game of tank 
 combat. In fact, WWII Tank Commander is almost like a first-person shooter, but instead of holding 
 a gun and running around, you're firing a tank cannon and rumbling around the French countryside 
 on treads. It's an incredibly simple game, which can be expected for a budget title that sells 
 for $20, but the crazy thing is that, for all its flaws and issues, it also packs a simple charm. 

          This is basically a first-person shooter on treads. There's very little skill required; 
 just put the death dot on the target and fire.     

  WWII Tank Commander puts you in control of one of Patton's tanks during his romp through Europe, 
 and the action is fairly straightforward. Using the familiar mouse/keyboard control scheme used 
 for most first-person shooters, you'll steer your tank through a series of highly scripted battlefields, 
 blasting away at German tanks, artillery, and infantry along the way. For all the attention to 
 detail that the game pays to getting the sway and rocking motion of a tank's suspension right, 
 this is very much a first-person shooter where all you have to do is put the cursor on the target 
 and fire away. There's very little semblance to realism, as German tanks pretty much take three 
 hits to kill every time, while your tank has a health bar that can absorb plenty of hits. And if 
 your health runs low, just run over one of the many health packs that enemy tanks leave behind 
 when they die.  

  There are all sorts of arcade-style contrivances in the game. For example, the perpetual fog in 
 the distance ensures that all engagements take place from close to medium range. Enemy tanks don't 
 really move much, and you have to get close enough to "trigger" them before they notice you. Enemy 
 infantry stand in the open and wait for you to mow them down, or run them over. You'll be part 
 of a platoon of American tanks, none of which will die no matter how many hits they take, so it's 
 easy to let them get in front of you and soak up all the hits. They won't die unless it's scripted 
 into the mission. You have the fastest loader in the history of tank warfare, because he can get 
 a new round into the cannon in about three seconds. Missions are a bit like old-fashioned rail 
 shooters in that each one unfolds the exact same way as the others.  

  It goes on. There are no instant action or multiplayer modes; there's just a single-player campaign. 
 There are no difficulty settings, but that's not a problem for most of the levels, since you'll 
 just roll around behind your invincible teammates and fire away from relative safety. (The only 
 "tough" missions involve creeping along the tight confines of a gutted town, spotting enemy tanks 
 and blasting them before they hit you.) Did we mention that there's pretty much no artificial intelligence 
 in the game and that most actions are scripted? There are no midgame saves, so if you screw up 
 and die, you have to start over again until you get it right.  

          Don't expect any great insight into World War II tactics. There's pretty much no artificial 
 intelligence in the game. Just aim and fire.     

  So it's a bit easy to dismiss WWII Tank Commander as shovelware, but the game deserves a bit better 
 than that. The graphics engine can't be considered cutting edge, but it still delivers some immersive 
 moments, like when your tank platoon is rolling through a French field in formation, which can't 
 help but make you feel a bit invincible. Or when you crest a hill and discover a Tiger tank with 
 its cannon pointed at you at point-blank range. Or the cool atmospheric effects, like the way distant 
 artillery detonations light up the sky, much like in that eerie nighttime sequence in  Saving Private 
 Ryan . And for those who miss lens flare, there's lens flare galore in this game. The sound effects 
 are passable, though.  

  WWII Tank Commander just doesn't have a lot of depth or replayability to it. Yes, it's a budget 
 game, but regardless, there are far better options available, even at a budget price. It has its 
 charms, but they're not enough to make WWII Tank Commander recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HoshMosh
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  The title of this game has barely any purpose because it is more of a first person shooter than 
 a tank game. The map layout is down right horrible, almost as if they got a non-professional do 
 draw it out. The storyline for this game has not really any point to it. Multi-player lags a little, 
 especialy in areas with alot going on, it lags quite noticeably. The graphics of some objects are 
 decent while the rest are horrible, the missions barely make sense or have a purpose and are very 
 boring. It also seems to start out hard and stay hard throught the whole game. This game has atrocious 
 dialog, when people die it looks phony as hell, and there are guns that seem more fantasy than 
 real life. You might as well go to an arcade and pay for every single game you play then pay anything 
 for this worth nothing, piece of crap game. It really doesnt use any of the ability that any of 
 the consoles its for has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acquitted
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  When the first level starts, you think im in a tank cool, this is going to be awesome, but as the 
 battle begins you realize how bad the game is. First off it very hard to kill the opposing foot 
 soldiers, no many times you hit them with machine fire they just wont go away. In addition to that 
 you never know when they are going to pop up, being that your in a tank its very hard to see around 
 you. The enemy tanks are the easiest thing to destroy in the game. The thank bumps from anything 
 you driver over so its hard to aim.
  
  the sound is good in the game, it really sounds like a world war 2 battlefield, but the gameplay 
 is horrible. Being that you never know when a solider will pop out, the game is very hard to beat, 
 i usually play every game until i beat it but with this game i quit after failing to get past the 
 2nd level about 12 times. ive played many ww2 based games, and this is defiantly the worst ive 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydee00003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  i played this game beffor it came out and i didn't like it that much.. i played this game befor 
 it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like 
 it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game 
 befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't 
 like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this 
 game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i 
 didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played 
 this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out 
 and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi 
 played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came 
 out and i didn't like it that muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that 
 muchi played this game befor it came out and i didn't like it that much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  Oh, it is good that I got this one cheap!!! Yahooooo!
  Otherwise I would get more dissapointed rather than now:) (
  
  The game is sucks, indeed. There 
 is no graphical intense in game att all, you are have no idea what is going on around you, so how 
 do hell I should play this **** game.... Absolutely waste of time and money.
  
  Do you want to play as a tank commander, just go to the COD 2: British campagin and play there, 
 that 100 times better than this, man!!
  
  Well I have got nothing to say about this game in depth, so I will just write some crap that could 
 exceed the limit of review requirements. here you go I guess this will be fair enough. Let see........
 
  oho 127 words.... good enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  The evolution of the tank has had a great impact on the way humanity has fought its wars. It was 
 the tank that was responsible for the abolishment of Napoleonic-era tactics which resulted in the 
 mass slaughter of men in WWI. Almost three decades later, tank combat would come to the forefront 
 in the European theatre of WWII. From the battle of El Alamein in the deserts of Egypt to the Soviet 
 plains at Kursk, tanks were involved in some of the most important engagements of the war. Its 
 with that premise that WW2 Tank Commander attempts to thrust the player into the commanding seat 
 of an Allied Sherman, but the results are repetitious and often underwhelming.
  
  This is achieved by many factors, the first being the campaign itself. Broken up into 10 missions, 
 the game takes place in the final years of the European campaign, starting shortly after the D-day 
 invasions and concluding in the middle of the final drive through Germany. Its almost a disappointment 
 how the game does end. Theres no epic clash of armor or massive battle that solidifies your dominance 
 of German tank divisions, just an unexpected ending that seems rather clich given the material.
 
  
  Not that the rest of the game will have you biting your nails on the edge of your seat either. 
 The battles are, by and large, the same thing from level to level: a slow forward advance, blasting 
 away a few enemies, and lumbering on. Those enemies manifest themselves in the same form throughout, 
 too. Theres no difference between what youll face in the beginning compared to the final missions. 
 Youll still be firing at a tank, a sub-machinegun-toting infantryman, stationary gun, or mortar 
 emplacement.
  
  Its all quite linear, too. The levels, and slow nature of the tank itself, make the game, at times, 
 seem tedious. There is certainly an effort to re-create some things accurately, like the hedgerows 
 encountered in France. These sequences work well and provide a few surprises, but not much more. 
 Other levels, particularly city ones, rely on random spawn points. Its possible to pass an empty 
 area at one point and while coming back seeing that same area filled to the brim with enemy armor 
 and troops.
  
  Combat is functional, but seems speckled with a few glaring bugs. Youll notice almost right away 
 that your shots dont always hit where your targeting reticle is pointed. It almost seems that 
 the shells are passing right through some tanks as the first round will make contact but a second 
 shot in the exact same spot mysteriously hits the immediate background of the enemy. Also, splash 
 damage seems to be magnified to unrealistic proportions against infantry. An explosion will almost 
 always kill an infantryman halfway across the screen. Its good that you dont have to waste an 
 extra shell, since the machine gun is practically useless, but it just looks downright weird when 
 you see it.
  
  Tank Commander does make attempts to split the action up. While repetitious combat sequences are 
 the meat-and-potatoes of the game, you will occasionally have to defend bridges, escort convoys, 
 and take out road blocks. None of these are particularly exciting, but they do help reduce the 
 monotony of it all. When you put it into perspective, the combat isnt terrible, but its not the 
 best. The latter comment owing heavily to the games terrible AI.
  
  Unless you get close enough, a lot of the enemies in the game wont shoot at you. You can be shelling 
 them, clearly in their line of sight, but nothing will come back. It happens at about a 30-70 percent 
 ratio of non-responsive to aggressive AI. The ones that do fire back dont even move, so worrying 
 about any flanking maneuvers is pointless. You can destroy a good amount of the enemies and never 
 take a hit, but there are times when the sheer number of bad guys will overwhelm you if you dont 
 have one of your invincible friendly tanks near you. 
  
  Any Allied vehicles, unless pre-scripted, will be able to absorb each and every shot volleyed at 
 them. With this simple premise, the game devolves into strategically trailing allied AI and destroying 
 everything from the rear. When you do take damage you can quickly pick up arcade-style health and 
 ammo powerups dropped by fallen enemies. It makes the game easy and you wont find many challenges 
 in the five-hour campaign. Theres just no reason to stick your own neck out when friendlies can 
 take the brunt of the assault.
  
  Youll often have to rely on the allied tanks to locate enemies as well. Due to the positioning 
 of certain enemies and atmospheric conditions like fog and darkness, you wont always be able to 
 locate certain enemies. After several shots your armor will be hurting and unless you retreat and 
 let your invincible ally knock em out you risk having to do a very frustrating restart.
  
  As far as presentation is concerned, Tank Commander wont be winning any awards, although your 
 Sherman is rendered adequately and the resulting explosion from a destroyed tank is quite satisfying. 
 The nighttime mission is impressive and the barrel-flashes give a hint of polish. But most of the 
 other environments are rather bland with very little texturing done and short draw distances.
 
  
  The featured soundtrack consists of the budget military march themes that players are probably 
 used to. There are some excellent environmental noises from the screeching of the treads to the 
 loud thuds of each shell impact. This is all countered by lackluster and seemingly uninspired voice 
 work. Sometimes actors go over-the-top, but in Tank Commander you can actually visualize them reading 
 off the script in front of you.
  
  With the absence of a multiplayer, WW2 Tank Commander has very little replay value. Theres just 
 not enough interesting gameplay to warrant the budget 20 price tag. Still, if you enjoy tank games 
 or WWII in general, you may find something here. The game does have its moments and can occasionally 
 be fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryweiss
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  WWII Tank Commander has too many gliches in it. There are no patches to be found. The game it's 
 self is child like. It looks like a child 4 years of age created it with his own toys. The game 
 needs a compleat overhall. It takes about 3 to 4 try's just to get one level to start running right 
 without having to reboot the program. Even after that, it still freezes or gets stuck in a loop. 
 If I knew that the game was going to be a BIG PAIN IN THE NECK, I would not have bought it. I find 
 no joy what so ever playing this game. I think it was a rush job and poor planing on the companys, 
 and programers side. Rush job always leads to a very poor games. To sume it up in tow words "IT 
 STINKS !!!!!". At least get some patches out there so the gamer can get past a leval without having 
 to reboot all the time just to play the game. I give this game a BIG THUMBS DOWN. No joy..... :- ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebk78
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I can summarize this game in one word: AVOID! Don't even consider buying this game, it's not even 
 worth the sale price! I got attracted to it at first by the nice looking images on the backside 
 cover. I payed $40 for this and got home hoping to experience nice tank battles simulations with 
 a strategical twist. I was disappointed! This game is a moron style shooter, just come close enough 
 to the enemy, aim and fire. Then drive on, aim and fire. Then drive on aim and fire, and so on... 
 There is no excitement whatsoever, and the initial expectations (that we all have when unpacking 
 a freshly bought game) quickly disappear. Sure, the graphical display is nice, and so is the sound, 
 but this is absolutely not enough for a good game. It's not even sufficient for a mediocre one. 
 In my opinion this game is really bad, so avoid it as plague. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
