-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWI: The Great War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/entente/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 4.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 84 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Lesta Studio
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Feb 6, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sadly, like the war it's based on, WWI: The Great War is an exercise in madness, frustration, helplessness, 
 and human folly. 

  Sadly, like the war it's based on, WWI: The Great War is an exercise in madness, frustration, helplessness, 
 and human folly. This is a mess of a real-time strategy game that, to its credit, tries to re-create 
 the epic size and scope that was the First World War -- but unfortunately it's crippled by its own 
 ambition, as well as a host of other problems.  

          Forget about tactics, because the butcher's bill will be high for virtually anything you 
 do. It's all about attrition.     

  As befits a World War I game, this is basically a game about attrition on a huge scale. This is 
 a big game, with more than 60 scenarios that let you play as the five principal European powers 
 in the war (America, which entered late in the war, isn't included) . And the real-time strategy 
 portion of the game is equally huge; the maps are gigantic, big enough for tens of thousands of 
 units to easily maneuver around with room to spare.  

  Each of the scenarios is based on an actual battle or campaign from the war, though for all the 
 detail you're given about audacious maneuvers and clever feints, most missions boil down to resource 
 gathering, base building, unit production, and tank rushes on an enormous scale. There's very little 
 subtlety at all; the only way to win is to churn out tens of thousands of units and constantly 
 throw them into battle.  

  Any attempt to actually play WWI as a conventional RTS game will most likely end with the computer 
 overwhelming you easily. This isn't a normal RTS game, because everything happens on such a large 
 scale. You can't just build one or two sets of barracks; you need to build at least six or seven 
 to be successful. You've got to build all the other structures too, usually multiple times to be 
 safe. Barracks can churn out infantry at an extremely high rate, so you've got to constantly refresh 
 their production queues. Then there's all the different research upgrades on all the buildings 
 to worry about. It's so overwhelming that there's an option to turn on an economic advisor, which 
 basically lets the computer handle all the base building and unit production for you, which lets 
 you concentrate on combat.  

  Unfortunately, the combat portion isn't any easier, even if you don't have to worry about production. 
 The problem mainly stems from the fact that you can't combine units into groups larger than 126. 
 When you literally have thousands of units to move about, that translates into a lot of 126-unit 
 groups to micromanage. And in a game where hundreds of infantry can get mowed down in seconds, 
 it's a very unforgiving situation. You can easily lose half your army in the blink of an eye, before 
 you can react. Combat is also very maddening; infantrymen will rush into melees, even when you 
 want them to stand off and use their rifles. All the units on the screen will then congeal into 
 a huge lump in the center, where it's virtually impossible to tell what's going on. There are no 
 formation controls, no aggressiveness controls, or anything to help you control your units' behavior. 
 But never fear, because there's an option to turn on a military advisor, which basically lets the 
 computer handle all the fighting much more efficiently than you can.  

          Tanks take forever to build, but they can wipe out hundreds of infantry, like in this case. 
     

  Yes, that's right. With the economic and military advisors turned on, WWI is literally a game that 
 will play itself. You can go take a long coffee break and come back and see the same battle raging 
 as fiercily as before. Both advisors are smart enough to do a basic job, but what happens is that 
 you essentially watch your base send a conveyer belt of men toward the front, where they die in 
 droves. The computer is smart enough to send units on flanking and probing attacks against itself, 
 but it's not smart enough to realize that after 50 failed infantry attacks against a machine gun 
 position, it might be time to think of a new tactic. Come to think of it, this basically describes 
 the First World War, with you relegated to helpless bystander.     

  Actually, that's not quite true. Your main role is to click on the upgrade buttons, since the economic 
 manager doesn't seem to know how to research technologies. This can take quite a while, though, 
 as most technologies require huge amounts of each resource, such as 100,000 food, 25,000 gold, 
 10,000 oil, and so on. And since the economic manager is busy churning out dozens of units to be 
 thrown at the front line at any given moment, it's busy consuming those resources as fast as they're 
 gathered. So a single battle can easily take upward of two to three hours to complete.  

          Airpower can play a critical role, though the computer doesn't seem to know how to use 
 planes effectively.     

  There are six resources that must be gathered: gold, food, wood, iron, oil, and electricity. All 
 resources but electricity are listed at the top of the screen, while electricity is tracked in 
 a narrow bar in the corner of the screen. It's easy to gloss over the electricity bar, but it's 
 perhaps the most important resource in the game because it dictates the rate at which you can gather 
 other resources and produce units. This vital concept is barely mentioned in the in-game tutorial 
 (you have to read through the helpful hints list to see it) .  

  WWI is also very badly translated. It was originally published in Europe by Russia's Buka Entertainment, 
 and it shows. There are broken sentences, convoluted phrases, and obvious misspellings scattered 
 throughout the entire game. And this isn't just a complaint about a few typos; there's an impact 
 on gameplay, as certain parts of the game are translated differently from others. For instance, 
 you'll be told to click a certain button in the upgrade panel, only to discover that the button 
 was translated differently. At that point, your guess is as good as ours.  

  There are also some questionable design decisions, most notably the decision to have the fog of 
 war black out the portions of the map where you don't have active units, which is insane. This 
 is Europe in the 20th century we're talking about, a continent that's been inhabited for thousands 
 of years. Surely the French would have a map of French soil? The fog of war should definitely hide 
 enemy units that you can't detect, but there's no reason at all to darken the map.  

  Certain portions of the game look good, like ships and planes, but the infantry and terrain graphics 
 look very dated, probably in order to allow the engine to render the thousands of units in a battle. 
 Even the interface screens, though, have a crude aesthetic going on. There's also a noninteractive 
 soundtrack that plays a bizarre mix of 1910s-era calliope music along with classical musical tracks 
 like Ravel's "Bolero." It's almost surreal music to watch thousands fight and die to.  

          Most battles can degenerate into a rugby scrum, as everyone rushes to the same point on 
 the screen.     

  The pity is that there's certainly a lot of interesting potential in this game, and the First World 
 War is sadly underrepresented in gaming. Contrary to popular belief, it wasn't just a huge trench 
 war. But the fact is, the game falls on extreme sides of the spectrum of strategic complexity: 
 It's either completely unmanageable, or it's completely automated. Either way, much like the First 
 World War, it doesn't make for a pleasant experience.     Editor's note 02/24/04 : When the review 
 was originally posted, it incorrectly stated that there is no apparent indication of the game's 
 electricity resource, and that unit groups are limited to 30 units in size. GameSpot regrets the 
 errors.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Soitrang
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The first impression of the game is that there is a large a mount of armies in each battle and 
 its graphic can make me experience the fierce of the First World War. But, after few hours playing, 
 it really let me down! 
  Firstly, this game is too easy to play and win. You don't have to think of any strategies, you 
 just need a lot of soldiers, as much artillery and tanks as you can and bombers. Then, you just 
 throw all of those to the battle. The larger your army is, the easier your victory is. 
  Secondly, your soldiers are too weak. You spend thirty minutes clicking your mouse to have one 
 thousand soldiers and after one minute being bombed, you lost all of them! The artillery, tank 
 and bombers are too strong for soldiers. So I usually use heavy tanks with artillery than those 
 weak units but I still win! However, buildings are too solid that it takes even heavy artillery 
 a lot of time to destroy them.
  The graphic and sound are quite good at that time but they can't make me feel better about the 
 game.
  In general, I advice everyone who's seeking a good RTS game not to try it. It's just a waste of 
 time and your money!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta222
Rating: 3
Date: May 23, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is based off of the Cossacks engine, and from this alone you'd think this game is decent.
 
  
  It is isn't, the minor issues that affected Cossacks are far worse in this game, making it impossible 
 without cheats.
  
  First off the cpu opponent does not need resources, so cutting off their supplies is pointless.
 
  
  Secondly, the cpu can build an indefinite number of troops and sends them at you constantly.
 
  
  This brings up a major issue: this isn't like WWI in anyway (other than hopelessness) and the inaccuracies 
 are awful. Furthermore, tanks are highly unbalanced and overpowered and planes out right suck. 
 The only way to beat some levels is to build a wall of defenses and inch by inch getting to the 
 other side and killing the enemy. This game lacks any form of depth.
  
  Play it only if you want a laugh at how this game was even released.
  
  It is a shame that 
 it is one of a few games sent in this conflict. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
