-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-COM: UFO Defense
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/xcomufodefense/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 1,546 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Culture Brain
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Dec 31, 1993

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Put simply, X-COM is a bona fide modern classic, standing proudly alongside Civilization and Populous 
 as a benchmark in the evolution of strategy gaming. 

 At first I didn't get it. The newsgroups were all abuzz about some game called X-something - everyone 
 who played it seemed to become a near-zombie, talking about it incessantly and flooding the groups 
 with endless threads and theories and strategies. Then, as a lowly intern at a gaming mag, I was 
 given the game to take some screenshots for a review. It seemed interesting enough - building bases 
 and killing aliens - but I still didn't get it. Frankly, it seemed tedious. I decided to take it 
 home to see what all the buzz was about. Big mistake.   

 For the next few months, I spent every possible moment playing the game. Sleeping only a couple 
 of hours a night, I would stay up 'till dawn playing, wake up minutes later and get right back 
 into it. I was even going home from work at lunch to get a hurried hour in. It got so bad my roommates 
 had a "talk" with me. Finally, I finished my first game, and proceeded to stumble about for weeks 
 after, having paranoid delusions that aliens really were invading earth, cautiously looking for 
 a flashing red "enemy in sight" warning in my peripheral vision.   

 And that was the brilliance of X-COM. The game managed to take two seemingly sterile genres - turn-based 
 battle and resource management - and create a truly engrossing experience. The game is broken up 
 into two main areas. As the commander of X-COM (a multi-national committee established to thwart 
 an alien invasion) , the player must construct facilities to house soldiers and research new technologies, 
 while tracking alien movements and attacking their ships and troops. As more corpses and artifacts 
 are recovered, scientists can be employed to learn more about the invasion and its origins. And 
 every time the game starts to slow down a bit, a new piece of information will be delivered that 
 creates a newfound sense of excitement and makes every battle seem that much more vital. Countless 
 games later, the fun still hasn't diminished, and X-COM has held a proud position on my measly 
 400MB hard drive for almost two years.   

 If you call yourself a gamer but don't own X-COM, your collection has a more glaring gap than Ernest 
 Borgnine's smile. Put simply, X-COM is a bona fide modern classic, standing proudly alongside Civilization 
 and Populous as a benchmark in the evolution of strategy gaming.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jamesisonline
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  X-COM, Enemy Unknown is a blast from the past. I first encountered this game on the old PS One 
 back in the mid to late nineties and quickly found the PC DOS version of it after I had sold traded 
 away my PS One Playstation. 
  
  I was digging around the garage this year of 2009 and found the X-COM CD-ROM buried with my other 
 oldies, but goodies. Needless, to say, I ended up installing this game on my Alienware, XP equipped 
 laptop via a DOS emulator freeware. 
  
  To make a long story short, I've been sucked back into the excitement of snap missions, base planning, 
 recruitment of support and field personnel, funding dilemmas (before a 1 billion dollar code cheat 
 was employed *grin*) , and the joys reaped from reverse engineering the alien technology ladder. 
 All of this happened in game, while traversing the globe day and night in style. 
  
  The fact that there are several different races of aliens that are encountered throughout the campaign 
 of an X-COM operative has proven great for the shear replay value alone. The player is pitted against 
 the strengths and weaknesses of each race in various missions. They never know exactly what to 
 expect next until landing at the LZ (landing zone) . 
  
  Music and graphics for its time are just right in setting an atmosphere of uncertainty. Civilians 
 go about their daily lives until a Terror attack brings everything to a halt. Meanwhile, the X-COM 
 HQ alarm klaxons go off emitting an amber glow to the screen as everyone runs to their Skyranger 
 and Avenger birds over in the hanger.
  
  Turn based style moves make this a souped up version of digital chess match as each character only 
 has a limited amount of time units that can be effected by characteristics such as equipment weight, 
 energy left, wounds, morale, and other factors of the mission environment.
  
  An hour can easily go by before you know it with this title, so remember to save your missions 
 to come back to play another day  This title has earned a top spot in my classic collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  I can't quite remember a time before this game showed up, but there was no way I was going to forget 
 it in a hurry. Very few games can truly remain just as deep and playable 15 years after they came 
 out, but UFO is a prime example of one that did!
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Macro-Strategy: The sheer scope and depth of what you could do in this game, in terms of building 
 and maintaining your bases, researching alien technology, and generally overseeing the defence 
 of the human race, was absolutely mind-blowing back in the day - especially given just how accessible 
 and easy to grasp it was. It appears slightly more simple now, since the likes of Total War showed 
 up, but it's still fantastic.
  
  + Tactical Combat: To my knowledge, there has never been another turn-based tactical game which 
 has anything near the depth, accessibility, tension and sheer fun that UFO's system does. The missions 
 conjure up a remarkable sense of dread, especially on the terror missions, and you'll learn to 
 fear night-time combat to your very bones...
  
  + Immersion: From beginning to end, you'll be living this game - you'll really feel like the future 
 of the human race is in your hands, and you'll be damned if you're surrendering it without a fight!
 
  
  + Addictive: Because of the whole system of base upgrades, research and soldier development, along 
 with the ever-escalating threat of the aliens, you'll find it very hard to stop playing.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Difficulty: This game will punish you severely unless you start working some decent 
 approaches out - until you're used to it (and even after) , you'd better save often!
  
  - Troop Management: I always found it difficult to remember what soldiers were good in what areas, 
 and never quite grasped what I had to do to consistently improve them.
  
  ~
  
  It is simply remarkable how good a game this is, even by today's standards: just ask anyone who 
 played it at or around the time, and they'll tell you the same thing. Even for someone completely 
 new to UFO, you owe it to yourself to give it a try - if you're after a solid, well-designed strategy 
 game with a novel, perfectly implemented premise, you can't do much better than this classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Way before the X-Files turned me into an adolescent UFO enthusiasts, this game that I picked up 
 more or less by accident in my local game shop had me shivering in front of a glowing screen. 
 
  
  The game is divided into two seperate strategic levels. The first one being a globesque world map 
 were you build your headquarters, deal with fincancial issues and of course look for and hunt down 
 UFOs. The second one pits you in a turn-based squad combat (think Jagged Alliance etc.) against 
 the crashlanded aliens, which await you with appropiate disamusement. Although this part of the 
 game is as easy to pick up as it sound, there is lots of depth in it. Crouching, Hiding, looking 
 for cover, throwing grenades, switching fire modes of weapons, using altitudes and so., all matters 
 that need to be considered. 
  
  Another very satisfying part of the game is the examination of found artefacts and alien bodies 
 you picked up on your way. Slowly you learn the true story behind the invasion and are even able 
 to reproduce the alien technology to aid you in your fight against the nuisance from outer space.
 
  
  An incredibly immersive game that will have you at the edge of your seat, should you decide to play 
 it in a long session in a darkened room. The music is broody, the screams of the soldiers you send 
 to death and those big eyes of the Greys..... uh, shiver shiver...
  
  Go and save us
  
  Superb!
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elby322
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  one of life's greatest mysteries to me is... why can't anyone make a decent sequel to this game? 
 this game was the immaculate predecessor of all turn-based strategy games, and every one to follow 
 has screwed up the formula somehow, trying to be too clever, put in too much junk, or just made 
 a hella boring game. X-COM was simple, challenging, and just fun. this is what a game should be. 
 it doesn't need to be fancy, totally original, or have crysis-like graphics. just be fun to play, 
 dammit!! X-COM was difficult enough to make me swear, but so very addicting. sending your soldiers 
 inthat you put hours in building up their attributes, but knowing that one silly alien with a high 
 reaction time and a plasma rifle could end his or her life forever... that's fun stuff. i'm still 
 waiting for a decent sequel. i would kill to even play a remake of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  What has not been said about Xcom before me?
  Probably nothing that you do not allready know. The point of me writing this is that as a HUGE 
 fan of this game (and only this game in it's series) I can sound very biased when I say it is awesome 
 mega super happy fireball robot dance! in a Manga way. However what I say is fact.
  
  Xcom stands up against every management game or sci-fi game or even turn based game that is out 
 there today, and beats them ALL hands down. It does this becuase the idea is simple and very cruel 
 and harsh... oh and cold.
  
  Save the Earth from a territorial hungry mob of aliens that come from "Out there" whilst manageing 
 your income, answering to a secret goverment, maintaining a controlled airspace and letting no 
 alien leave your planet if he sets foot on it. You do this by researching new tech. and dropping 
 your troops into combat missions so they improve in stature and in skills. Do this to become beter 
 at fighting the Alien scum and thus, making your hidden goverment bosses happy and in turn giving 
 you more cash to spend on research. And so the circle continues until either you fail or triumph.
 
  
  As you progress through the days/weeks/months/years of this game your score is tallied each month 
 in a "board of directors" kind of way and your income is adjusted accordingly. Do very badly 2-3months 
 in a row and expect to be closed down. DO very well and be rewarded with extra cash. Managing your 
 operations takes the forms of several menus that show your base layout, where your stores and living 
 quarters are managed. your manufacturing menu shows you what you can make after having researched 
 it which has it's own menu. you control everything, right down to how many grenades you want to 
 take out each mission.
  
  You can own more bases across the entire globe (up to 8) and you can own many forms of craft ranging 
 from various interceptors which shoot the UFO's down to troop transports to take your men to said 
 shot down UFO.
  
  As it was made in the early half of the 90's this game is not heavily graphic orientated so it 
 has nothing but sheer gameplay to push it forward. And yet everybody gives this game high scores? 
 surely this can not be, not in the days of shiny gun metal and super aware AI? Well I guess it 
 must be 1 heck of a game then huh?
  
  Highly emmersive, highly addictive, turn based with great options to save, highly detailed and 
 involved and many different ways to play so it has great repeat value. And I have played this game 
 for years and have never gotten bored of it. 
  If you can not buy this, buy Terror from the Deep, almost as good, just... watery based. Ignore 
 the other games in the series FOR YOUR OWN SAFETY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  You know the saying just one more turn. Well that applies to X-Com in spades. I went many a sleepless 
 night hunting down greys and other alien fiendsto the wee hours of the morning.
  
  Without a doubt this is one of the all time great gaming experiences. Revolutionary in it's time 
 for sublimely combining research and strategy with a turn based tactical strategy game. 
  
  First off you had to raise money for your team of ET hunters, then you had to shoot the UFO down 
 before you can go hunting the freaks. The tactical game was extremely well done. Complete with 
 LOS (line of sight) and over-watch rules. There were some real nail-biting moments. You're down 
 to your last man and you turn a corner and a Grey pops up. Well he hit you or will he miss and 
 then you get a chance to shoot him down and complete the mission. 
  
  Love this game. A classic, a masterpiece, a bonafide great gaming experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is awesome. But hard. Very hard. Yet somehow I always found myself coming back for 
 more. 
  
  The story is that earth is under attack by aliens. These aliens are hostile and nasty. They will 
 fry tons of people and level cities to the ground if measures aren't taken to stop them. 
  
  This is where you come in. You are the person in charge of defending earth from these threats. 
 To do so you first must establish a base somewhere on earth and build some satellites to detect 
 any threats. Then you train some scientists and start researching weapons. Then you must buy the 
 weapons. Then you must buy soldiers and tanks. Then you make sure that they can actually use the 
 weapons. All the time you do this you need to have bought some scout and attack planes. Later on 
 you'll need planes to investigate alien crash sites. These planes you load up with men and tanks 
 and you go off to find the aliens and take them out. After doing this (if you win the battle) you 
 leave the battle with all of the alien equipment you've found. With this equipment (which is usually 
 more advanced than human equipment) you can upgrade your own armament. 
  
  There's a lot going on in the game and a lot to manage yet it's all fun. When you win a battle 
 (which, believe me is really hard to do) you really feel awesome for it. Pawning these aliens is 
 tough but extremely rewarding. The strategy in the battles themselves is extremely tactical, and 
 planning each and every move must be done with a lot of care. 
  
  Most likely though you'll lose. A lot. You'll fail missions and watch until you can't watch anymore 
 the aliens take over and destroy earth. Then you will say, "This game sucks! It's frickin impossible!". 
 You'll wish you never bought or downloaded it. Then, someday, when you're looking through you're 
 PC games and you're looking for something really unique, really challenging, and really satisfying 
 most likely you'll settle for a game of X-Com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game rocked. I searched for aliens for hundreds of hours. I remember playing zones over and 
 over again, trying to keep my team from losing any members. The finally was sweet as well. I think 
 I used the remote controlled rockets to kill the last boss. I could not get into the sequel though.
 
  As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most of our video games 
 has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that mentioning it was 
 a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate the gratuitous 
 tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution of video games 
 will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot wait for the 
 corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper..
  
  Which game charachters would you like
  
  to see in a VGP?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has been remade and remade. The remakes of this game have never been able to capture 
 the true essence of X-COM and fall short of an intriguing storyline. X-COM is by far my favorite 
 game of all time. I played this game no less than a year. Even with outdated graphics, this game 
 is still on my top 10. If you have not played it yet, go get it! It will always be on the top ten 
 games of all time and for a reason. When I first started playing this game, it was on a 286 with 
 DOS as the operating system. That is something to be said! Aliens must not be able to take over 
 Earth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mttyd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Two words Best Ever. I would love to see this game re-released exactlly like it was. I think this 
 game may be one of the reasons I almost failed out of High School. The sequels were alright but 
 I really think the gameplay of this game was ground breaking as well as fun!
  
  I'm still waiting to play some of the games in the UFO series... I hear they follow the same kind 
 of gameplay but I really think that it would be impossible to have the balance and fun of the original.
 
  
  If anyone has played the UFO series and thinks it holds a candle to this game please shoot me a 
 msg and I'll run out and buy it (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I love this game I remember when it first came out, I was in high school; and you know what, I 
 still think about it. That's how awesome this game is. I've played the Jagged Alliance series (decent) 
 and a whole bunch of knock offs but nothing compares to the original X-Com and the level of suspense 
 that it provided. Everything from getting funding for your operations to the ground combat, I would 
 seriously loose sleep over this game. God, I really wish they would just make a remake of the same 
 game with updated graphics &amp; sound. It works -- don't fix it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 27, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the stand out games of the Golden age of PC gaming. I have to say, it was 
 a pleasure playing this game back in the day. And if you can find a copy today, You are in for 
 a treat! But be warned! This game will Kick your ass the first time you play it. Not since Fallout 
 and Jagged Alliance 2 have I ever been so thoroughly beaten to a pulp by a RTS game. but, That 
 o. k.! Just like a drunken prom date, You have to work through the pain. The aliens in this game 
 will give you no quarter and no mercy either. Often when you must stop a attack on a city, you 
 will be drastically out numbered. And if you aren't out numbered, you are overpowered. starting 
 out it becomes a uphill battle just to keep your troops alive, surviving a battle ups your troops 
 stats but, not by a whole lot. This isn't a pick up and play kinda game. you have to choose your 
 battles wisely or risk defeat and extermination early and often in this game. I made the review 
 sound too difficult and hard to play but, it isn't once you get your ass kicked a couple of times 
 you start to learn. Learn how to manage your money, troops, research and labor. Because only then 
 will you live long enough to save the human race from total extinction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I just finished uninstalling UFO Extraterrestrials. Yes, it's not a typo. I [uninstalled the new, 
 supposedly better remake. Which drove me to come back and blurb a bit on this, my favorite X-Com 
 version.
  
  The newer version (UFO Extraterrestrials) just doesn't give me the feel that X-Com used to give 
 me and still does!
  
  I enjoyed 'UFO Extraterrestrials' for a while, but I find that many of the things that made X-com 
 great are missing in the 'remake'. X-com is the type of game that you play in the dark, with headphones 
 at 3 AM! In spite of the dated graphics, this is still a favorite all time masterpiece that no 
 one that is into UFOs or strategy games should ever miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornyfool
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  X-Com was the first of its kind back in '93. Having a multilevel task of building your base, your 
 fleet of planes, your troops, your technology, interrogating enemy leaders, and most of all, protecting 
 Earth from the attack of aliens - This game was an instant classic.
  Turn-based strategy gaming was never the same after this masterpiece was produced. Nothing made 
 it worse when you had a sea vessel being attacked. I once saw tears rolling out of my cousin's 
 eyes when that happened. And emptying two cartridges of your pistol's ammo at lobstermen, and getting 
 destroyed by them. But...... when you pull your cannons and homing missiles... the fun could only 
 begin.
  Too bad this game is so old that computers these days can't support it. I am looking forward to 
 the day they remake this game as it is, but with better graphics. I will foresee more endless nights 
 and sick leave when that day comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTMS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  It really does say something about a game when people still pick it up to play every six months 
 or so, even when its over 10 years old! As the official review said, it has become the benchmark 
 for turn based strategy games. The reason for this is simple, quality. UFO Enemy unknown came from 
 a time when deep and thought through gameplay was the most important part of a release title. Featuring 
 one of the earliest non linear progressions and carefully crafted game play, this game is amazingly 
 good fun to play.
  
  The difficulty curve is brilliant too. From simple anti stectoid small UFO raids, to full blown 
 base defense missions against angry Etherials, this game has it all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saigo-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Without question a perfect 10. I remember playing this game back when PC's and color monitors had 
 just met! A game is, without question, a classic if 14 years after it's original release I'll still 
 dust it off, install it, play it through and enjoy it all over again. By today's standards the 
 graphics are abysmal, the music is hideous, and the immediate fun factor isn't quite there compared 
 to something like a Lord of the Rings game or a modernly popular Pokemon power package. (Shudder) 
 But for someone who enjoys the Old School where fun and playability won the day over glamorous 
 pixelation and eye candy, and strategy games had more strategy than amounting the largest force 
 in the shortest amount of time, then you'll highly enjoy this often forgotten masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xitarus-Kol
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  this is the game that made me be a PC gamer !! ( of course i mean after the commodore64 )
  
  this game was revolutionary for PC games
  
  just wonderfull complete amazing astonishing 
 dunno what else to say about this game
  
  to bad that it only runs on OLD windows like 95 and 98
  
  from there on .. i still havent made 
 it run on other windows .. once i found something to run it .. but i couldnt hear it .. ( no sound 
 )
  
  but anyway ... im giving this game the review i wanted to give 10 years ago
  
  and if you ask me .. this is one of the TOP 10 of all times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  In the near future Aliens will start to attack our beautiful planet, kidnapping it's inhabitants 
 on a frequent basis and over-running our cities... and who's going to stand in their way? X-Com 
 that's who... and as the leader of X-Com, the strategy of defending the planet falls to you.
  
  The concept of the game is simple, initially the game is a simple mixture between building 
 a base and resource management, then the first alien ship will be sighted. This will prompt you 
 to send out fighters to shoot it down and then a squad ship to land at the site. Once the squad 
 ship arrives your pre-designed squad move out and attempt to secure the area from alien invaders.
 
  
  Graphically it's no show stopper, the sprites are fairly simple and the environments all look fairly 
 similar, but the line of sight techniques employed and complete blackout for areas of the map you 
 have yet to see all add a tense, spooky feel to the game.
  
  The music isn't bad and the sound effects are fairly standard, but at least don't lessen the game's 
 appeal.
  
  The concept of a turn-based strategy game mixed with a resource management simulator may sound 
 like a very un-inspiring combination, but I guarantee that once you start playing... you'll be hooked.
 
  
  A game with so much playing time to offer, trust me, is great value at any price, it'll keep you 
 entertained for months... probably for hours at a time, and the tricky difficulty will prevent early 
 completion.
  
  X-Com: Enemy Unknown is still to this day probably my favourite strategy game ever created, and 
 I urge everyone who enjoys tactical warfare to get this immediately, it's a classic for any tactician. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  X-Com is one of those games that I was unsure of buying, the idea that turn based strategy could 
 be fun just wasn't a reality at the time. Sure the PC has had some strategy games like C&amp; C 
 but they were real time strategy and not turn based so how could this game be better.
  I was so wrong!
  X-Com was the best game in 1996 thanks to its excellent graphics (at the time) , 
 the atmospheric music that really freaked me out when playing it 10 years ago and the inotive style 
 that was offered not just for combat situations but also the resource management was extremely 
 inotive.
  The graphics by todays standard are extremely poor when compared to games like C&amp; C Generals 
 and Splinter Cell but that is an acceptable tradeoff for the game play which is second to none.
 
  The bulk of the game play, as mentioned before is turn based combat whereby the aim of the game 
 is to either to kill or knock out every alien on the level and recover whatever technology the 
 aliens are using. Each soldier will have a certain amount of time points at the beginning of each 
 turn; for each step taken an amount is deducted from the soldiers time points. The time points 
 are used as well for shooting and throwing grenades so a certain amount of control needs to be 
 learnt so that your Rookie soldier wont just run out of the plane using up all his time points 
 just to come face to face with a group of aliens who he cant shoot at because his time units are 
 all used up. The missions you face with Soldiers range from the occasional UFO landing to a full 
 blown invasion of a city by the pesky critters.
  The other side of the game play is the resource management. The game will create a base at the 
 beginning which will be fitted with barracks, research labs, radar and hangers to house your Intercept 
 ships.
  You can upgrade your base at any time by building various extra rooms, these could be extra barracks 
 for more soldiers you can order, additional hangers for more planes or even missile defenses in 
 case Aliens realize where your base is. You are not restricted to one base however; your base in 
 London wont detect Alien activity in Australia for instance so creating a new base down under 
 would increase your chances of catching those little .
  Once you have successfully completed a combat mission, your soldiers will return to the base with 
 their spoils of war, mainly alien bodys and alien artifacts. Using your bases team of Scientists 
 you are then able to research the technology and use it to your advantage, finally you get to take 
 the fight back to them. Eventually you will even be able to create your own flying saucers to prevent 
 the Aliens from walking all over the Earth.
  This game is hard however, in the first few combat missions I lost at least 7 Soldiers but then 
 that is very realistic, we as humans dont have the technologies to withstand the Aliens but as 
 time goes on and the player researches and manufactures alien armor and weapons the sides start 
 to level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is in my top 20 fav games of all time. it gets a 10 from me and i can give no less for such 
 a master piece. this is the manolesa of games "perfict". great grafics for period great sound and 
 great game play.
  easy to pick up, my first time tooke me 10 mins to learn. the most revolutionary turn baced game 
 ever! this game makes finnal fanticy tactics s**t itself. its that f****g good man and the price 
 now is like $9.99 so if you dont buy it you a retard.
  
  all i can say is...
  
  for **** my nizzle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe78man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  After starting the game the very image you will see is the earth and the clock counting the time. 
 The music will complete the misterious climax.
  You run an organization subcided by countries all over the world to control the UFO activities 
 on earth. At the begining you just count with one base, an interseptor and a transport ship, a 
 few low trained soldiers, some guns and a lot of hope. The radar you have is a short range one, 
 so several days may pass until you detect an UFO passing by. (the time can be from days passing 
 to almost realtime, and paused) .
  The first encounters will be easy to deal with, small UFOs with few crew on it. Once you dealed 
 with it on the air the interesting part comes to pass, where you can send your transport ship with 
 your inexperienced soldiers to explore the remainings on the crash site, confronting the aliens 
 that survived the crash and collecting new artifacts that you may study and later use and manufature 
 yourself.
  As time keeps moving your performance will determine the budgets you will receive, to improve this 
 you can expand yourself creating more bases, new base moludes to extend your range of control, 
 renew your weapons, armor, ships.
  There is a critical mission almost once every month, "alien terror". The aliens atack a city which 
 you must defend. Be prepared for a lot of aliens will be found there, so load your weapons and 
 take the best of your soldiers. You must save as many citicens as you can to succeed.
  The budget is another interesting point of this game. Besides the income from the countries, you 
 can sell any item you have in store, even if you manufacture it, so it is a good idea to keep your 
 engineers building something you may or may not use to sell them, there is always a proffit, choose 
 well.
  The game keeps you wanting more at all time since everything your scientists discover, is not only 
 interesting but opens new concepts and technology, also learning about the creatures gives you 
 atvantages.
  Over time your soldiers will improve their stats, which is very complete, you will expand, have 
 new ships, new technology to battle this menace, and eventually find out that the aliens are ploting 
 with some nations, they will retire from the proyect, which will afect your budget, and after an 
 interrogation of some live aliens you may capture, you will find Alien bases on earth.
  Atacking this bases will proove to be a chalenge and will provide you of a lot of alien stuff.
 
  Interrogating high rank aliens will provide you the location of the main base, on mars, you will 
 find out that the only way to stop this maddness will be going there and finishing them on their 
 own ground.
  A hell of a turned-based strategy game. No game of the tipe got even closer to it, not even today. 
 It will keep you glued to the computer, always wanting to find more, better your performance, train 
 your soldiers in missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GilgadDrumhell
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  When you first pick up this game, you probably wont understand it. Youll boot it up, select your 
 language, watch the decent intro trailer, pick the difficulty (easy, or course, you noob) , and 
 start to play. You fight your first battle, get used to the controls, start to research, fight 
 a few more battles, maybe even take a look at the UFOPeadia, and suddenly you look at the clock 
 and say, Wow, Ive been playing this game for two hours and I barely noticed it.
  There is just something about this game, ancient graphics or no, that smacks of greatness. Believe 
 the reviews, and the fact that it still has a fan base, even today. The turn based nature that 
 requires strategy rather than quick reactions and mind-boggling micromanagement is really refreshing, 
 rather than an out-dated game model. And with places like http://abandonia. com giving out this 
 game for free (ethics aside) , you really dont have an excuse for not trying out the amazing game.
 
  Oh, and just a warning. the little "enemy sighted" red hud item will change your life forever. 
 You'll be playing late at night, get up to go to the bathroom, and in the dark you will see it, 
 down in the corner of you eye. You'll instantly freeze in panic, but then realize that this is 
 real life, stupid. Watch our for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Poetry
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game rocks. The alien AI is great. The weapons are awesome and all of them 
 can be useful. Even end game you can use almost anything and make it work with the right tactics. 
 Leapfrogging nades inbetween all your squadmates. Being able to name your guys really long names. 
 I named like 200+ rookies. The plot isn't all the thick but its still really good for how its setup. 
 
  
  The best way to play the game is not to save and reload all the time. But to let the game playout. 
 If all your guys die then so be it. Recruit more. Rookies make the best scouts anyway lol. Pysonics 
 is a really cool feature in this game as well. Walking into an alien ship with like 5 primed gernades 
 and some heavy explosive on some rookie is tons of fun as well. Anyway just to reiterate: BEST 
 GAME EVER MADE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun. You run your own little base and you defend the Earth from the UFOs the 
 aliens send. You have to shoot them down and some of them shoot back, others are very easy to kill. 
 After you shoot them down you usually have to go send a team of specially trained people in to 
 eliminate any surviving aliens. You discover all sorts of weird alien tech which you can research 
 and use to your advantage. 
  
  It's and old game so what do you expect graphicly. Still, it doesn't look that bad for an early 
 3D game. If you've never played this, download the demo and see what you think. It gets more fun 
 the more you play it so give it a chance before you say its not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  X-com UFO Defense, is, quite frankly, the greatest computer game ever. I first played this game 
 when I was 10. 10! Up until that point I had only known Mario and Sonic. And then came the brutal, 
 creepy, downright scary tactical battles that made up UFO Defense.
  I played it for a year straight. I tried everything, pulled out all the stops to try to win the 
 game, to get to Cydonia and destroy the mother brain. And I could never win. I was never able to 
 win this game. 
  Last year I downloaded an emulation and started playing it again. Guess what? I'm still working 
 on winning it. This game last forever. And guess what else? It still looks amazing!
  If you never got a chance to play this game, I feel sorry for you. It's like a religious experience. 
 If you can find a copy of it online, do yourself a favor and check it out. Don't worry, it's abandonware 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  By todays standards, this game is ugly. It doesn't sound all that great. it's controls are clunky. But 
 you know what,.. who cares? it is still a great byt the standard that should matter most,.. and that's 
 gameplay.
  The game is a tactical turn based stategy,.. an awsome and undermade genre I might add. And basically 
 involves you buliding and maintaining the Earth's UFO defense force. You build bases and deploy 
 troops to fight Aliens that either are invading our planets space more and more.
  This game is pretty time consuming,. challenging and is just very cool. The game can get pretty togh 
 in the tactical parts and one wrong move can lead to a dead teammate. Highly reccommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teekazeek
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  In my humble opinion, there has yet to be a turn based strategy game of this caliber released since 
 this games release back in 1993. Sure there have been sequels - some of them complete rip-offs 
 that just fall short, others that miss the mark flat out. 
  
  I recently re-installed my old version of this game (I had the collectors CD) . With the help of 
 the newest version of DOSbox I was able to emulate it perfectly. It was like I was playing it on 
 my Dad's old laptop ten years ago. Often times when I go back and play a game from my past I find 
 that the time I am willing to re-invest in said game has reduced significantly. I don't know why 
 this is - perhaps I have grown up - perhaps I am content with it's place in my mind. Whatever the 
 case, Xcom is not that way AT ALL. 
  
  I loaded the game up with the idea that I would probably just go on a little nostalgic trip back 
 ten or so years. Little did I know that I would end up playing the game for 4-5 hours straight 
 that night (and then proceeded to wake up the next day and play some more. I am still playing the 
 damn thing 3 days later) . I need to stress THIS IS A DOS BASED GAME!
  
  The game starts on a World Map and tells you to choose the location for your home base. This is 
 important because the funding you receive in this game is based, in part, on the level of protection 
 you can provide the various countries. This home base comes equip with a radar station, some hangars 
 for your ships, and the required laboratories and workshops to get the game rolling right. 
  
  Like most strategy games there is a technology tree to be researched and goods to manufacture. 
 Initially the research list is fairly sparse. A very interesting element of this game is that the 
 tree grows as you begin to uncover more and more information about the mysterious alien race that 
 is attacking your planet. Wondering what weapons those aliens have and how some of them can withstand 
 direct hit after direct hit? Just complete a mission and you will have their equipment back at 
 your lab (and if you have an alien containment you can even catch and interrogate them) .
  
  The game unfolds rather nicely. The aliens start in small ships, stuff you can take down with your 
 standard fighter. Before long you will be required (or at feel an obligation) to complete terror 
 missions - which are essentially a bunch of aliens terrorizing a city. Other missions will include 
 attacking alien bases and sometimes defending your own bases from some pretty hefty alien attacks.
 
  
  As implied above, the bulk of the game is actually a turn-based-strategy game (ala FF-Tactics or 
 Fallout) . Where the player moves a squad of characters out of a landing craft to explore a blacked 
 out territory and eliminate and capture any aliens on the premises. Each character possesses a 
 certain number of time units. Their accuracy, capacity for carrying heavy items, bravery, and several 
 other characteristics are all character dependent (which will make several of the better characters 
 shine through the ranking system the game has) . 
  
  The game is fairly challenging and not very forgiving for mistakes. Even on the easiest difficulty 
 the game poses quite the challenge. Luckily there are several FAQ and Strategy guides on various 
 fan sites that should alleviate some of the steep learning curve issues. 
  
  The greatest shortcoming of this game may simply be it's presentation - some of the menu options 
 and buttons through the game are not as self-explanatory as they could be. Also, the character 
 design in battle is a little goofy. All of the character models are blond... I don't know why this 
 is - they seem to go to great lengths to get a nice variety of international names of various characters. 
 This is more a funny observation than a serious flaw though. 
  
  In all honesty, there aren't any serious flaws to this game. It's an amazing experience and I would 
 recommend it to anyone who has it. 
  
  Peace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJGY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  No matter what I put down in this nifty little text box, it will come nowhere near doing justice 
 to this game. With all the modern games we see today and all of the incredible presentation wrapped 
 around them, X-com remains a game on its own. It has never been fully remade, and has been forgotten 
 by most "gamers" today. This is a part of what makes this game so great. 
  I can't show this game to my friends and watch them get that same awe on their face that they get 
 when playing Ghost Recon or Age of Empires III. The reaction is a bit more satisfying. They watch 
 as my computer slips itself into dos and the game boots up with a "what in God's name is that?" 
 look on their face. I can only keep their attention focused on the game for several minutes before 
 they are utterly confused and turned away by the ugly graphics and sketchy sound. It's one of the 
 greatest feelings ever to know that they will never be able to grasp the sheer awesomeness of this 
 game.
  This game really goes to show, it's not graphics, sound or even a good interface or any of these 
 little things that really make a good game. What really makes a great game is something so simple 
 we've nearly lost sight of it today. It's the game. 
  X-com marks a day that has come and gone. Back before gaming became such a valuable market and 
 companies poured millions and millions of dollars into creating a single game. Companies were not 
 afraid to experiment in those days. Just think about the kind of gameplay X-com has to offer. Do 
 you see anything as "bizzare" as that anymore? We have our realtime strategy games, turn based 
 games, first person shooters, RPGs, squad based games... Each one of the genres seems to represent 
 a mold. Companies rarely tend to break this mold anymore. It's simply too risky. A game with the 
 latest graphics and presentation is just too expensive to fail. Games' sheer popularity has begun 
 to be their downfall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun! Oh yeah, it's hard, too. One reviewer stated all the one hour games 
 he played on this and I believe it. Sometimes, you just don't get lucky in finding UFOs to intercept 
 and its game over. Other times, you do and you get to advance the plot.
  
  The base, research, and production aspects of the game are great. What country to build a new base 
 in, hmm? What to build? Any elyrium left? That last one is killer. When you run low, you start 
 acting like a fiend, just hoping and praying that a battleship comes along and you can shoot it 
 down without blowing a single core and get all the elyrium. Or you can always cheat, but that is 
 no fun.
  
  The soldiers are nice, too. The more they do, the better they get. Get them promoted, and then 
 get lots of solders so you can get colonels and a commander. 
  
  Overall, this game is tons of fun! And, it is hard! Actually getting the right things to be able 
 to beat the game is a challenge. An enjoyable one, but HARD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Mandos-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  X-Com is an incredible game, somehow the creators put RPG, Strategy, and Micro-Management into 
 one game and make it not only work but make it fun too. Never will you see a game so thrilling 
 or addicting. The sounds and graphics have held up better than most games of its era. This game 
 just makes you want more. You'll most likely lose your first try even on easy... and your second 
 try.... The reason is that X-Com is a large complicated game and if you don't figure it out before 
 2 months in-game time, you'll get to see the gameover screens (thats fun too) . I've played about 
 8 games that lasted several hours and countless 1-2 hour attempts in X-Com. I beat the game 2 times 
 without editors and 2 times with. First time through could take anywhere from 10-30 hours depending 
 on your skill, how much you care about your troops (I don't let one die) , and if you try to intercept 
 everything.
  X-Com is a must play!!
  
  (X-Com requires Windows ME or lower. There are ways to play it on XP, but they are complicated. 
 These ways have conflicted with graphics in games, such as Battlefield 2.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  X-COM UFO is one of the games I played the most. This game has everything to be a good game. There 
 is some management aspect were you need to collect funds from the different countries to finance 
 your organization. There is also some strategy about your installation, your locations and the 
 arsenal you'll be using to defend Earth from the alien invasion. You also need to plan and manage 
 your research for new weapons and intelligence on the alien species, trying to identify their weakness. 
 Finally, this game has a lot of action when you send your team to the front, after an alien attack 
 on a city or a farm, or after your organization has crashed down one of the alien spaceships. The 
 action is based on a turn-by-turn basis where you move and select the actions of your characters 
 using some "action points" for each move or action they do. Finally, there is also some RPG aspect 
 with this game since your characters evolves with time and get more experience. They can move faster 
 (more action points per turn) or learn new abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  It is now the 23 March 2006. Once again i loaded X-Com : UFO Defence otherwise known as X-Com :Enemy 
 Unknown. I just got the new UFO : Aftershock and was once again reminded of the unbelievable game 
 play of the long ago X-COM series. All the new UFO games could not match the feeling and addictiveness 
 of this unique game. From the first base till the 100 th mission the game grips with unreleasable 
 fury. If you have never played X-COM , you haven't played one of the most classic turn based games 
 ever. Just wish someone can make a true remake or followup of this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect example that shows that you don't need $1,000,000,000,0000000000 to create a 
 great game. However they did it, they achieved the magic formula that makes you stay up late and 
 want to play this 20 year old game now in 2006. 
  
  The graphics are also amazing considering when it came out. And to be honest, the graphics are 
 better than what many modern games have to offer.
  
  In this game, you'll do simingly simple things that add up to the perfect pleasure cake. You'll 
 build bases and buy buildings around the earth, you'll research radards that will help you detect 
 UFOs, you'll hire scientists and build labs and assign them to projects, based on Earth science, 
 as well as finding UFO remains.
  
  You'll build factories and construct new weapons, armor, ships. You'll hire soldiers and equip 
 them. You'll buy/build aiirplanes and equip them at first with what you can buy from earth, and 
 later from what you captured from aliens. 
  
  You will defend the earth and try to do your best to incresse your funding from different countries. 
 You'll discover alien bases and invade them. You'll command squads when clearing out crash sites 
 or saving citizens from terrorizing aliens.
  
  This game is AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorganXbox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  This is a Great strategy turn base game with alot to keep you going.
  
  You start off with a small base, few troop's and aircraft. The aim of the game is to expand your 
 base facilities, build more base's, gain more troop's, better aircraft and also hire Scientist's 
 and Engineer's in the Aid to Protect Earth.
  
  Scientist's are required once Ufo's are encountered by mean's of being Shot Down or Captured when 
 already landed. They are needed to work on the Alien Technology's and Alien's them self's to help 
 you progress in the game.
  
  Engineer's are required to build New Equipment to help you troop's fight back at the Alien's once 
 the Scientist's come up with New Equipment and Advance's.
  
  Troop's are the main fighting force in the game and gain experiance with every encounter with the 
 Alien's, allowing them to improve there skill's to become better Soldier's.
  
  This is a must try for any Strategy game lover. Highly Recommended!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  For its time this game was awe inspiring. It's one of those games where you'd just sit and tinker 
 around with the fate of the world, and as you did the sun would set at a rapid pace and you'd realize 
 you just spend almost ten hours playing the game.
  
  X-COM is an interesting simulation/strategy title where you endeavor to save the earth from an 
 oncoming alien invasion. You get to build up your base in any location you choose on earth, build 
 up your base defenses, and keep it hidden, and send your men out to defend random alien invasions.
 
  
  As you conduct these locational battles in turn based style, you slowly begin to collect new alien 
 technology that helps you better your own in the fight against the aliens.
  
  The music in this game was rather muted, not really doing much for the ambience, which may have 
 helped when you got sucked into this game the way so many did,
  
  The graphics were from a simpler time, when it was really more of a non-issue, so it's hard for 
 me to fault them, albeit it would be difficult to over score it either.
  
  One issue that I personally encountered is that although the game is fun, it almost teaches you 
 (or well, me) a philosophical lesson that perhaps armageddon is inevitable. I recall having multiple 
 "doomsday scenarios" that had culminated from long play-throughs that ended in the same "checkmate" 
 disaster loss against the oncoming spaceship invasion to earth and my base, this was my way though, 
 of feeling I had beaten the game, uncovering this larger than life truth to it all. 
  
  Obviously, this game is beatable, and perhaps not even as hard as Im making it out to be, but 
 as this personal viewpoint of mine makes the game in some ways stronger in my eyes, Ill take it 
 for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  --Me either. --
  --Flight 452, do you wish to file a report at this time? --
  Negative, Sir. I also would not know what to report.
  
  The game takes off there. What is the 
 purpose of these spacealiens?
  You are given the Command. X-COM, Extraterrestrial Command.
  
  --Can you describe what they look like? --
  Small Sir. Only 3-4 feet in height. Grey-like 
 in color.
  Wait, some kind of energy weapon is being fired at us?
  --Repeat? --
  We are under attack!
  
  The Nations of the World have decided to fund you. Your new job is 
 to find out the purpose of these space-aliens and defend Earth.
  
  It is a Classic! Not only will you probably not have enough funding to your liking, you will be 
 working under impossible conditions, traveling all over the World. Of course, if you do wrong, 
 your funding will go down, after-all funding something that is mainly hearsay and rumors does not 
 gain much funding in the first place. Even if you gain any info from your labs and research, building 
 the technology will leave you at a loss. Only your engineers can build some kind of human-based 
 weapons. Understanding the spacealiens' technology is something akin to frankly being at a loss, 
 trying to gain some understanding.
  
  Thus the premise of the game, that has become a Classic about any of the rumors and the purpose 
 of intelligent life outside of yours and this World.
  
  You are not alone anymore!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  I warn you, I am biased talking about this game because its my all time favourite.
  
  This game has everything in it! Its a preety generic story of a secret organization secretely fighting 
 off an invasive alien force. Lameness ends here.
  
  On one layer you have the strategic map, a representation of earth where you build your bases (that 
 you completely manage, from buiding facilities, managing personnel, equipement stocks, research, 
 manufacture) send aircraft to intercept UFOs and send strike teams to clear downed UFOs, enemy 
 bases on earth and terror sites (places were aliens attack populations directly) .
  
  Research has hundreds of topics, most of them accessible by stuff you recover from the enemy (weapons, 
 equipement, technology, corpses and even live aliens for interrogation) .
  
  The other layer, is a tactical turn based squad attack on the missions you select. Handle you're 
 troops on the field, organize tactics, manage weapons and equipement. You'll find yourselves developing 
 hundreds of tactics for different situations, with main troops, support specialists and support 
 vehicles (those roles for soldiers aren't specified by the game, you are completely free to equip 
 soldiers for whatever functions you want!) When the mission ends, you will recover all alien technology 
 and you're soldiers will improve their skills using a simplified RPG skill system.
  
  Finally, you're performance will affect youre budget, since you are financed by the nations off 
 the world. Funding will lower or raise, can be completely eliminated by unhappy nations or even, 
 occasionaly, nations will pact with the invaders and cancel funding completely. If funding is shut 
 down by all nations: GAME OVER.
  
  This is a basic description of the game, but there are infinite details to it that make it an interesting, 
 addictive and worthwhile experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMZ41486
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  At first look the game looks lame. But I am telling you, once you get into it, you will not want 
 to stop playing. The game takes a little while to get you interested and you will most likely fail 
 the first few times you play. However, once you get your bases settled, it becomes more of a waiting 
 game. The game will get easier the more missions you do because your soldiers will get stronger 
 and have more time units to move per turn. This game is not being made any more and you have to 
 know a few things about the computer to be able to run it on Windows XP. Other than that the game 
 is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  X-com is a turned based game, a very good game, if not for its short down falls, i wish the company 
 would remake this for windows above 2000 so i can still enjoy it on my new computer, but that is 
 my only real problem with it, i still go to my old '98 windows computer and play this.
  
  The game is basically turned based, the dif. can be really easy to extremely hard, facing the hardest 
 creatures in the game on the first mission or just staying with the little grey alien sectoids. 
 The combat is good it is based on turned that use units of movement, you can fire a few different 
 options from single shot to rapid fire, guns that stun and guns that have guided rockets. 
  
  Anyways anyone who likes a great game would love this game, i recommend it to anyone who is 
 looking for an older strategy game that has a kick with challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  On the following lines, I will talk about one of the best computer games ever. Its so perfect 
 that its two subsequent sequels couldnt surpass and improve it. Its so well designed that even 
 today is a hell of a challenge to any gamer. Its so addictive that you may spend playing 16 hours 
 in a row without going to the toilet or even eating and you wouldnt notice (that happened to me 
 more than once) . Yes, I will talk about a landmark in the history of computer gaming and, perhaps 
 more important, of the lives of many people. Ill talk about X-COM: UFO Defense.
  I will explain shortly what this game is about, for the ones from you that havent played the game 
 or ever heard about it. The year is 1999 (the game was released in 1993) . The UFO phenomenon has 
 become a global threat: theres a constant and unstoppable wave of abductions, mutilated cattle, 
 and sightings all over the world. The most powerful countries of the world, concerned about what 
 seemed a covert invasion, united forces and created a special operations team called X-COM in order 
 to investigate and contain the aliens. Your task is to manage and command the X-COM team.
  The game, as it was typical of Microprose products, is twofold. The first half of it is the usual 
 administration sim in which, from the CEO point of view, you must hire scientists, engineers and 
 soldiers; build and dismantle facilities, sell and buy stock, manufacture goods, start investigations 
 and so on. 
  The other half is the main strategy game, where you face yourself with the alien threat in a lot 
 of different missions: gather materials from a UFO that was previously taken down by your interceptor 
 planes, destroy alien bases, and (the most difficult but the best mission of them all) contain 
 and repel a plundering alien raid on a city protecting and saving every civilian life on the map.
 
  The map where you perform the mission is always randomly generated, taking as its seed the land 
 type of the site and the time. If you are tracking a UFO that crashed on the Sahara desert in the 
 middle of the afternoon, for example, the map will coincide with these data: it will be bright, 
 with distinctive panoramic vision, and the sand will be yellow. Do the same thing at evening, and 
 you will get a dark map with reddish sand. The worst thing that could happen to you is to be forced 
 to play a mission in the middle of the night: you will get a map with lousy vision, but that doesnt 
 matter to the aliens since they do see very well in the dark (do you know what I mean?) .
  The alien threat comes in a wide assortment of flavors. Every creature has unique features and 
 ways of attack. For example, the Ethereals dont like to engage into hand-to-hand combat, so they 
 will hide and try to control the mind of your soldiers via telekinesis. Floaters like to attack 
 you from above, since they can float on air (as their name suggests) . Its a common feature to 
 all the alien species in the game to hide and to ambush human soldiers, and they excel on both 
 strategies. The most annoying creature is the Chrysalis, the most hated and cursed bug of the whole 
 history. I dont want to spoil it for those of you that havent played this game already, but the 
 veteran players know of what Im talking about. Believe me, you will end up wetting your pants 
 anytime you see one Chrysalis strolling on the mission map.
  The missions are played on a turn-based system that borrows a lot of concepts from the board wargames 
 like Warhammer: time units, shot trajectory and initiative will be the basics of combat in X-COM; 
 but dont be afraid of this since the developers managed to make it accessible to every player. 
 What you must be afraid of is the overall difficulty of the game. The AI of this game is unbelievably 
 challenging, even for present standards. Even if you play this game at the easiest difficulty level, 
 you may frequently find your entire soldier team wiped out by one single Sectoid (not to mention 
 the Chrysalis) . The computer actually plays as if it were you: it will deploy UFOs and build bases 
 on Earth and learn about its foe just like you, but you will only be aware of a tiny portion of 
 its movements. As you will realize soon, since you begin this game you are outnumbered and in complete 
 disadvantage. The computer already knows that.
  Making mistakes or losing are not affordable options. The countries that created and support X-COM 
 want permanent success. In game terms, you get score for every mission you engage. The score is 
 the final result of a sum of positive and negative points that you get for every thing you have 
 done or not: every alien artifact recovered, every kill, every casualty on your forces or in the 
 civilians, everything counts. Every month, the founding countries gather to make a balance of your 
 performance. Do it well, and they will raise funds. Do it bad, and they will lessen funds. Do it 
 really bad, and they will sign a non-aggression pact with the aliens and retire from the X-COM 
 board. And you really dont want this to happen, since the pact consists in that the aliens can 
 establish themselves there and do whatever they want as long as they dont harm the population 
 of their host. As you can imagine right now, Terror missions are crucial in order to determine 
 your performance (ignoring them is to commit suicide) . Its not strange that every month you get 
 one or two of them to accomplish.
  X-COM has a perfect and realistic atmosphere. It has an ambient soundtrack on General MIDI that 
 nonetheless achieves its objective of giving you the creeps with accurate efficiency. If that isnt 
 creepy enough, add the permanent feeling of being always hunted by an invisible enemy that is more 
 clever and powerful than you... Besides, while in combat, your soldiers behave and react like actual 
 human beings. If one of your soldiers is looking on front, he wont notice if an alien reaches 
 him at his back until it gets there and kills him in cold blood. If a soldier is suddenly killed 
 by an invisible foe (because the critter is outside the range of vision of your team and into the 
 fog of war) , the soldier next to him may get a panic attack, go postal, and start to shoot everywhere 
 without noticing if hes killing a friend, a civilian, a semaphore or a foe. Your soldiers could 
 even get scared or demoralized enough to drop their weapons and run away. 
  Likewise, the sound effects of footsteps and doors that you may hear during the computer movement 
 turn may give you clues about where the aliens are hiding, and sometimes this is the only possible 
 way of finding them.
  (One of the things that people havent unjustly noticed is a big difference on the Pedia feature 
 between X-COM and the other Microprose products. In Civilization, for example, you can enter the 
 Civilizopedia in your first turn and learn about every unit, building and technology of the whole 
 game. Not true in X-COM. The Ufopedia will let you know about the units, building and technologies 
 of the game, but only of those youve already unveiled through investigation. Youll ignore the 
 rest. This hugely helps to create and sustain the feeling of not knowing what will come after you 
 next.)
  You may think, after what Ive told you so far, that this is a very deep and complex game. Very 
 true. You will possibly think that these complexities, this excellent and challenging AI, this 
 hardness to master the game, are the usual features in present games. True, but were talking about 
 a game that was released in 1993. I can assure you, since I was fourteen by that time and experienced 
 the X-COM fever in my flesh, that this game was absolutely revolutionary then; nobody could believe 
 that a tiny 10 MB program could be so... perfect. It was the unbeatable gaming paradise for a very 
 long time, and I may bet a million dollars that X-COM is still as revolutionary as it was in 1993 
 without fear of losing.
  I lent X-COM to a ten-year-old nephew. At first, he complained about the pathetic graphics it has. 
 A few minutes later, he complained about the turn-based combat system. Ten minutes later, he didnt 
 want to have dinner because he wanted to beat that bastard Reaper that was giving him a bad time 
 on a Terror mission. Two days later, his father called me to ask me what have I done to his child, 
 because he couldnt unplug the kid from the Martians killer. I already knew that that was about 
 to happen.
  This demonstrates that X-COM is still alive, that it still has the power to hook people onto it 
 with the same intensity it had twelve years ago. Even with the huge hardware and programming advances 
 since then, X-COM didnt grow old; and it keeps standing the pass of time with a proud smile. Do 
 you know any other game that can say the same thing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanzarkanikus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Best strategy game. Extremely addictive. I started playing this game in my 486, today I still play 
 it in a SLI 6800 Ultra system, using dos emulator. Great games like this need no beautiful graphics, 
 no beautiful sound. It's perfect as it is.
  No more words.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  I personaly started playing this about 10 years ago, 2 years after it's release. I got more addicted 
 every step of the game, it has a charm over it and and will leave a beutifull memory in your mind.
 
  
  The alliens have infiltrated our plannet and want to take it over sounds realy "Clich" but the 
 story line is realy good. You start out with a base and some money and have to build it up, buy/sell 
 weapons, hire/fire personel, do research and manufacture items. All those things cost money so 
 you have to sell allien artifacts but most importantly help the nations of earth. Those nations 
 are your sponsers and when you do a good job they will sponsor you with more money. But if you 
 screw up and fail to help them they will submit to the alliens and will no longer give you money. 
 So how do you make them happier? Your radar will detect allien UFO's, ones you detected one you 
 have to shoot it down and investigate the crash site. There awaits a turn based combat scenario. 
 Each action you give one of your soldiers will cost time units, these timeunits are refreshed after 
 each round. This is a very tactical part of the game. And takes most of the time of the game. You'll 
 have to capture live alliens to get further with the story. And research the artifacts you find. 
 Later on the alliens will attack city's and boats then humans are involved save as many humans 
 as you can and people will be very pleased by you. Eventually you'll have to attack there bases 
 and win the game by defeating there main base.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmark
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  This Game is amazzing it has a total awsome feel to it.
  You start out as a group sent out to make sure no aliens ever get to and destroy the world. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game play is topnotch with many different styles. Turn based tactics style game when your on 
 land and when your n ot having fun with that theres a bunch of RTS and RPG elements in the game.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  they are not good at all but get the job done and for a game this old they are good enough. Extremly 
 addictive.
  
  SOUND: The sounds are alright and for a game this old dont expect to much.
  
  VALUE: This game has excelent value it is a long game and the length real varies alot. Hard 
 to find though. Ebay is always a good source.
  
  TILT: This game is so originall. so many games have tried to emulate the ground combat and the 
 stratigy elements and have faild miserably
  
  OVERALL: One of the best all time games. If you see it or get a chance to buy it do do do. Remeber 
 Graphics arnt everything. HIGHLY RECOMENDED
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, this one has been on my games radar since the old amiga days, it was great then and it's 
 still great now.
  
  Playablitly is still top notch even in this day of age. Its just a damn shame that you will have 
 to have DOSBOX or such like to play it now.
  
  Building up your base and your troops with new equipment and such like will keep you occupied for 
 sometime and the rewards are well worth all the time and effort put in. Something that the new 
 games lack.
  
  For developers of new games which have lost their way, take a look, download and play, I'm sure 
 you will find that magic that still keeps this game in the fondest of memories for many a game 
 player.
  
  If you haven't had the pleasure yet, where have you been my friends??
  
  Download it and play it.. the graphics still hold out even today.. it's retro gameplay but not that 
 retro that it makes you think no no what have I done...
  
  Value rated as high because its free these days.... gameplay goodness for free bargain.
  
  Enjoy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caotico69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Somebody have to realize this if by far the best turn-based game ever, please copy the consept 
 and do another X-COM by the same rules but with the new engines and killing video efects we have 
 now. Can you imagine how turn-based combat with new efects and realistic warfare lasdscapes. the 
 AI in the original game was too advanced for it's time, but I know the can make it better now. 
 And PLEASE add a multiplayer module, I just went crazy trying to imagine X-COM combats with my 
 friends playing as a new and improved hunting chess style missions. Ok so can just someone make 
 the way so I can play it again on my winxp-P4-1gb PC???
  
  Please don't leave this game fall in the forget. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mideypack
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Somehow the creators of X-Com got to put RPG, Strategy, and Micro-Management into one game and 
 make it incredibly fun. Never will you see a game so thrilling or addicting. The sounds and graphics 
 have held up better than most games of its era. This game just makes you want more.
  You'll most likely lose your first try even on easy. The reason is that X-Com is a large complicated 
 game and if you don't figure it out before 2 months in-game time, you'll get to see the gameover 
 screens. I've played about 7 games that lasted several hours and countless 1-2 hour attempts in 
 X-Com. I beat the game 2 times without editors and 2 times with. First time through could take 
 anywhere from 14-30 hours depending on your skill, how much you care about your troops, and if 
 you try to intercept everything.
  X-Com is a must play!!
  
  (X-Com requires Windows ME or lower. There are ways to play it on XP, but they are complicated.)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 5, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Fanboy dreams everywhere are finally realized as you pit your team of super soldiers against an 
 alien invasion of Earth. X-Com: UFO Defense perfectly blended real time elements, squad level combat, 
 a few scares, and a hell of a lot of fun to become one of the best titles of all time.
  
  The game begins, innocently enough, with reports of flying saucers buzzing the globe and crashing 
 in remote areas. Through a global interface, you begin funding a small, highly skilled team of 
 soldiers and scientists to combat this threat. This "Geoscape" allows you to construct new base 
 facilities, hire/fire personnel, research technologies, and actually launch fighters to inctercept 
 threats. 
  
  The Geoscape in of itself offered one of the more compelling game experiences in the 90's. Not 
 only could you develop bases, but your actions (in real time) affected how nations funded your 
 team. Stop an attack on US soil and watch your funding leap through the roof. Arrive hours late 
 to prevent a citizen slaughter in Bejing and gaze in horror as the aliens form a pact with China 
 and pull all funding! As your research evolves (see below) and your coverage expands, you'll actually 
 discover alien bases in remote areas, see UFO flight paths, and begin to understand their baffling 
 movements. The Geoscape also give you limited control of interceptor/UFO aerial combat, and lets 
 you coordinate multple ships against gigantic command-ship style UFO's.
  
  All of this action topside leads to the incredibly well done squad level combat missions. Your 
 group of X-Com agents lands in a remote area, complete with weather and lighting conditions. You'll 
 cringe as you watch your landing craft approach Moscow, only to realize in angst that you'll be 
 hunting your opponents in the waning hours of dusk... All your team members have a hefty amount 
 of stats to assist in their fight against the Martians, including speed, accuracy, morale, stamina, 
 physical strength, etc. Team members can include medics, heavy weapons experts, hand to hand fighters 
 (that's for the maniac in all of us) , and snipers. A hefty array of weapons, grenades, gizmos and 
 more allow for a dizzying array of load out options. If that wasn't enough, small tank-like automated 
 weapons platforms can also be deployed, giving you that extra edge. Your team members also accrue 
 experience from one mission to the next, so your veteran sergeant can shoot the wings off a gnat 
 at 500 yards...
  
  Feeling confident? Good, because this is where all hell breaks looses, and X-Com becomes one of 
 the greatest games ever. The turn based combat that folows is very, very well done. Line of sight, 
 covering corners, suppresive fire, and breaching all had better be in your vocabulary, because 
 the aliens are waiting for you. The screams of the dying and wounded will begin to fill your comlinks 
 as the aliens ambush you at every turn. Their numbers are many, weapons advanced, and methods lethal. 
 Squad members are mind controlled, turning their own weapons against you, crew members are turned 
 into flesh eating zombies, and lasers liquify your guys from the inside out as you hunker down 
 and pray for it to all be over. A clever system of interrupts allows you to prevent this to a certain 
 extent, and the game rewards non-reckless play in spades. Saving a few action points so you can 
 blow away the slavering Chrysalid that's about to waste Sarge will feel pretty good after you planned 
 for it.
  
  The mission objectives vary from clearing out UFO's, to halting an attack against the populace 
 in major areas. Once this is taken care of (and your team isn't laying dead on the ground) , you 
 have the option to recover and study live aliens, dead aliens, and their equipment. This research 
 portion of the game is critical, as it wll allow you to understand your opponents and, more importantly, 
 use their own weapons against them. Your personal weapons will get better, fighters gain speed, 
 and you can even have your soldiers venture into psychic warefare with "the grays." The research 
 team will even devlop a "UFOpedia", a quck reference of dissected alliens, tech, and weapons.
 
  
  The whole game is built on a very solid, clean interface which delivered an amazing amount of material. 
 Graphically it delivered on virtually all fronts, with differing envrionments, a great GUI, and 
 creative opponenets. The "3d" sprite engine allowed you to blow up terrain, shoot through walls, 
 and added many tactical elements that are STILL not in current tactical games. A marvel in design 
 for it's time.
  
  Sound was solid, particularly as an atmosphere setter. The aliens made so bizzare and chilling 
 noises, far off doors opened, and screams are chilling as innocents meet their fate before you 
 can save them. Music was a little bland, but strong enough to deliver.
  
  Value is immense, again in a game of it's time. The campaign could litteraly take months, and practically 
 anyone will be tempted for multiple play throughs based on the diverse amount of options. The extreme 
 free-form nature of the game and random elements (ie, crash sites different, place site of bases, 
 etc) ensures that no game is the same. The one "damn I wish they had this" feature would be co-op 
 multiplayer so you could take on the bad guys with a friend.
  
  All in all, X-Com: UFO defense stands as one of the greatest games ever made. The fact that the 
 sequal (Terror From the Deep) was practically an exact carbon-copy shows how successful the formula 
 was on the first go around. If they remade this game the exact same way today with new graphics 
 and sound, I'd buy it for $100... it's that good. Any gamer should try it and experience a truly 
 satisfying game. Here's hoping we get a chance at another one sometime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Quite Simply one of the finest games I ever played in my years as a young gamer this game is a 
 classic of it's age and its genre.
  
  ok let me set the scene for you in the classic game its a squad based, turn based strategy combat 
 simulator with added management sections. 
  
  Ok so near future situation Ufo's start popping up all over the world next day full blown alien 
 attacks all over, the world governments club together and form Xcom (team of best soldiers sceintists 
 and other useful folk) to combat the menace. 
  
  You take position of the commander of xcom... you choose base loacations you build it however you 
 want deciding on facilities ordering staff and equipmet it's all down to you.
  
  When scanners detect alien activity you despatch interceptors to chase down and attempt to shoot 
 down craft and dispatch squads of soldiers to investigate crash sites or landing sites even better 
 at times aliens launch terror assaults on populated cites, in which case you must dispatch your 
 squads to face off against the alien menaces, saving the public at all costs.
  
  When in ground missions the game comes into its true element... its a turn based affair your soldiers 
 all have a movement limit measured in what is known at time units (sort of a simulation of real 
 time it assumes the time your soldiers have to act without actually putting a time constraint on 
 the player) . 
  As you complete missions you find alien artifacts, back at base you can have your scienc team conduct 
 reaserch, you can perform autopsies on recovered corpses to learn about the various aliens you 
 face, you can also research alien technologies eventually gaining the ability to invent new craft, 
 weapons and armor for your soldiers. 
  
  The greatest aspect I feel about this game is the great sence of progress, at first you'll be in 
 absolute terror when your soldier turns a corner and is face to face with an alien killing machine 
 to later whn you find youselves on level pegging with the enemy outrunning their once imposing 
 ships across the sky and raiding alien strongholds in attempts to capture a high ranking leader 
 alive for interrogation.
  
  I loved this game and continue to love it to this day having finished it a number of times and 
 I still contemplate wiring up an old PC from time to time so I can run it as intended (Saying that 
 I do think they have recently released an XP compatible box set of Xcom games featuring this classic 
 and its also decent sequels.)
  
  Play it, Live it, Love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:14 am PT
Review:  To call this a good game would be the understatement of the century. It's a timeless classic, to 
 this day beating the best modern strategy offerings from the last 10 years. Today, in 2004, the 
 biggest obstacle to playing this game is NOT its dated graphics but, rather, finding a computer 
 slow/compatible enough to "handle" it. But that's no excuse: Windows 98/ME works well with it, 
 as does the XP emulation mode (just get VDMSound for the Sound Blaster effects and music) . The 
 fact that I went to such troubles to play X-COM in 2004 should tell you something: This game is 
 equal to the likes of Red Alert, StarCraft, and Civilization as one of the greatest strategy games 
 ever.
  
  Here's the setup. It's 1999, and UFO sightings (of the classic variety) have become common. Aliens 
 are starting to routinely land into major cities, infiltrate governments, and destroy the population. 
 There's no hope to make a peaceful coexistence: These guys don't care about anything but colonization, 
 and, besides, don't exactly speak "human," either. These aliens are of the Roswell 1947 variety 
 -- mysterious, deadly, psionically enhanced. No single world government has a chance to fight their 
 superior technology. This is where you come in: The U. N. creates a project named X-COM, whose only 
 purpose is to put an end to the alien onslaught. You are the commander.
  
  The gameplay is innovatively structured in a two-fold manner. Normally, you play with a 3D view 
 of Earth (you can spin it around, zoom in to see city and country notations, etc.) . You start the 
 game with a base in a location of your choosing, and a certain amount of funds. In this Geoscape 
 mode, you can look at a 2D plan of your base, add facilities to it, manufacture the technology 
 you already know (in the beginning, things like conventional rifles and grenades) , research new 
 technology, manage funds, etc. Surprisingly, none of this ever seems boring. In addition, you are 
 supplied with a couple of hangars (in your base) , and an Interceptor (an F-15-type air-to-air fighter) 
 and Skyranger (an aerial transport for your troops) .
  
  This is where the second, action, part of the game comes in. Sooner rather than later, you'll see 
 UFOs going about their business in the Geoscape view. You'll see one land, for instance, if you 
 don't use your Interceptor to shoot one down first. You can then use the Skyranger full of soldiers 
 to scour the landing or crash site. This is where the game becomes truly exciting and creepy -- 
 the tactical mode. The action is turn-based, presented from a 2.5D isometric perspective. Each 
 of your soldiers has his/her own set of strengths and weaknesses (which seem randomly determined) , 
 including his/her speed (the number of time units per turn before the soldier is unable to perform 
 any more actions) . You move through realistic terrain (determined by where on Earth the action 
 takes place) , possibly encountering aliens or alien technology. When you do meet an alien, you 
 have the opportunity to shoot "him" or take him alive (depending on your proximity and the kind 
 of weapon you have equipped) . Depending on the weapon and the kind of shot (aimed, snap, or automatic) 
 you're willing to take, your soldier may or may not miss. In the beginning of the game, both the 
 weapons available and the lack of experience in your men/women will amount to some lousy shooting. 
 The aliens, on the other hand, come out of nowhere and seem not to miss all that much by comparison 
 (not to mention that they have fancy plasma weapons, whereas you're stuck with silly assault rifles) . 
 This really adds to the terror of the first few missions, as you really get to hate your enemy 
 -- once a soldier is dead, he'll never be back. In addition, you don't see the 3D terrain until 
 you've actually looked at it, and even if you can see the terrain, you'll only see enemy units 
 there if you're looking. There's nothing like thinking you're safe, until you turn around and there's 
 a friendly old Sectoid standing with his plasma pistol pointing right at your face. And speaking 
 of Sectoids, they're the aliens you'll encounter first, but far from the only ones. I can count 
 6 major races, not counting the various alien blobs. Particularly freaky are the Chryssalids. Get 
 this: They attack civilians and your soldiers, who immediately become zombies. Kill a zombie and 
 what do you get? A Chryssalid! They're fast, too. Ethereals don't really have a punch, but they 
 look creepy and they can CONTROL YOUR MIND, making your own soldiers kill off everyone around them.
 
  
  Once the mission is completed successfully, you automatically collect all the corpses and technology 
 -- and possibly unconscious aliens -- that were not destroyed. Your scientists can then study this 
 stuff, improving your own technology and gaining information on the weird ways of the aliens. (All 
 this stuff is conveniently stored away in an encyclopedia of sorts, which you can access at any 
 time.) Eventually, you'll gain the aliens' capabilities, and even more. You can then train engineers 
 to manufacture the technology you've understood. You'll be soon making laser and plasma weapons, 
 advanced defense facilities for your base (s) , and even new advanced ships (including space-capable 
 ships!) . All of this stuff is intensely cool, and helps GREATLY in dealing with the aliens. The 
 alien research will also explain the various mysteries of the alien way of life, including how 
 they infiltrate governments, kick back and relax, and much more. In fact, you'll eventually understand 
 what each individual UFO is trying to do when it invades Earth space.
  
  The graphics are a little hard to evaluate today in 2004. This game was made 11 years ago. Certainly 
 low-res VGA graphics don't look impressive by today's standards. But, they are still artfully done 
 and very menacing. The way the mission terrain is randomly -- but realistically! -- generated based 
 on your location in the globe (desert, forest, steppe, arctic, etc.) is impressive. The time of 
 day also plays a large role. Night missions are considerably more tense than in daylight. The insides 
 of UFOs and alien bases also look great. The aliens are incredibly freaky-looking (and there are 
 all different kinds of aliens) . Your own soldiers are rather faceless, however. Technically speaking, 
 I don't remember any strategy games that looked better in 1993, but giving it a 10 would be a stretch, 
 as Doom came around at about that time.
  
  The sound is fairly average. The music is very soft and kicks in only in certain situations (mostly 
 it's composed of ambient sounds) . Only the air-to-air sequences really have any energetic music, 
 which is good, but insignificant. I wish more was done with music in this game. Sound FX are minimalistic 
 but could be chilling back in the day (particularly, when a female soldier is killed) .
  
  The game has unparallelled replay value. It's definitely quite difficult, until you figure the 
 correct battle tactics and the most efficient resource policies. You'll learn to crouch behind 
 cover and to sell expensive alien technology at a profit. You'll also learn to research aggressively, 
 and to build new bases to cover more area (after all, countries you're not serving appropriately 
 will lower, or even drop, funding -- eventually, the game ends) . Every mission is different from 
 the next, so you're not likely to run into repetitious gameplay. The aliens themselves mix it up, 
 throwing attacks ranging from recon to terrorizing major population centers to attacking your very 
 base, if they can find it. And while it will be difficult, you'll be able to beat the game -- even 
 without finding all the available technology. This means the replays will let you explore further 
 (for instance, you will be able to get your hands on psionic technology to control the enemy!!) . 
 In addition, there are five difficulty levels, and the most difficult level is definitely doable 
 once you've gotten good. In fact, once you've mastered the game, you realize that the aliens aren't 
 all that scary; their strengths, which are their superior weapons and psionic abilities, are balanced 
 by the fact that (a) humans can be a lot smarter, and (b) they can't aim very well. But, good luck 
 getting to that point.
  
  There's not much else to say. You owe it to yourself to play this game, even now, in 2004. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
