-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-COM: Terror From the Deep
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/xcomterrorfromthedeep/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 558 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Culture Brain
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 28, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Apart from new art and a handful of new combat options, this is exactly the same game as UFO Defense, 
 only much more difficult. 

 Following in the footsteps of X-COM UFO Defense is no easy task. A modern classic of strategy war 
 gaming, the original X-COM combined an amazing turn-based battle engine with a complex resource 
 management system to become one of the most addictive and innovative games of the last few years. 

 Relocating the battle from outer space to inner space, X-COM Terror from the Deep creates a scenario 
 where a long-dormant alien race is awakening from the ocean depths. Once again you must take command 
 of the X-COM troops, leading them through battle and managing ever decreasing funds to improve 
 your facilities. Everything that made the first X-COM such a success is still present in Terror 
 from the Deep, but very little has been added to the formula.   

 Apart from new art and a handful of new combat options, this is exactly the same game as UFO Defense, 
 only much more difficult. The story follows an identical pattern, ensuring that discoveries and 
 important events are easily predicted by X-COM vets. Even though the new alien races 
 and weapon technologies may appear different at first, it gradually becomes apparent that they're 
 the same races and technologies, with new names and new faces.  

 This rehash leads to some logical errors which are difficult to overcome, especially considering 
 the new aquatic locale. Even though most of the missions take place underwater, you can toss grenades 
 around with ease, and you must develop special suits to allow your soldiers to move vertically 
 (apparently the X-COM training camp doesn't including a swimming class) .   

 Anomalies aside, Terror from the Deep is still a great game, but it seems more like an add-on than 
 a bona-fide sequel. Fans of UFO Defense will find a pleasurable challenge in the cagier alien artificial 
 intelligence, but interested newcomers are likely to find much more pleasure in the original.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Atzel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I think most reviewers give TFTD a bad deal. Okay, it's not terribly innovative, but it sticks 
 to the concept, unlike the later X-Com sequels. For starters, it's just as atmospheric as it's 
 big brother, if not even more so, and the underwater battlescapes feel genuine. The huge tactical 
 difference between above and below the surface adds a whole new level of tactical problematics 
 to the equation as well... as you try to fend of aliens attacking ports, you end up losing most 
 of your heavy weapons, even some of the alien ones and many of your tactical aids, such as the 
 proximity mine and particle disturbance sensor. 
  It sticks wonderfully to the theme of pop-cult alien nasties: where we had martians from Cydonia 
 in the first game, we have ancient Lovecraftian horrors lurking beneath the waves. Also, finally 
 we don't have to reequip every soldier after every mission anymore, thank god for that.
  Alright, so it's not that well thought through that you can throw grenades around underwater, but 
 I'd like to say "duh" to reviewers who complain about the X-Com troops not being able to swim: 
 they are wearing armored-up heavy diving suits, that's why they can walk on the sea-bed at all.
 
  So it's basically more of the same with the difficulty scaled up, in a marine environment and 
 with some additional tactical doohickeys up it's sleeve, but if you've finished UFO Defense, and 
 you don't want more of the same but harder, there's something wrong with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_kn1ght10k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is the game that kept me very interested and excited FOR A WHOLE YEAR !!! The best game in 
 UFO and X-Com series, it was also the first one i played from this series of games. I have also 
 tried X-Com UFO Defense who later i found out it was it's predecessor. But this game is way better. 
 A rookie in this game would say it is rather hard but anyone can handle it if he has the patience 
 to gain experience. The story is simply awesome, one of the best i ever known, and the atmosphere 
 of the game will pull you inside, it simply is amazing. I was playing the game with great interest, 
 and i am still playing it from time to time, it's the perfect classic game that will never die. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Addictive game. Period. This is one of the few games that manage to grab you and squeeze every 
 available minute of your time so you can spend it on it. Everything is extremely well thought, 
 except that the difficulty is rather hard (even on lower settings) . You really get a sense of military 
 experience from the point of view that you need to recover items in order to research them and 
 that you need to capture the enemy officers (the technicians, navigators, commanders, etc...) to 
 gather info on the enemy procedures. The feeling of the weapons and tactics is just great. Move 
 your squad altogether, and you are an easy prey for a grenade. Get them all away of each other, 
 and the aliens will be killing them one by one without giving you the chance to react. In these 
 times of great graphics and powerful game engines, I still recommend to get this game and play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, even if on the first glance it looks kinda boring, and very confusing. 
 I havent played the first x-com game, so i can`t compare anything, but i can say a lot of my experience 
 about this game
  
  You control the worlds anti-evil alien squad, and you fight alien all over the planet. You can 
 establish bases everywhere, in the sea that is, not on land, so you can monitor all alien activity, 
 and receive emergency alerts, in time for you to do something about it. The game puts you in control 
 of the management of every detail of the game, so to speak. You have to decide where to build your 
 base. You must decide what kind of buildings you want in your different bases, what kind of research 
 do you want your scientists to concentrate on, and what you want to produce of new weaponry, it 
 literally puts you in control of everything
  
  The game is played on three different levels, there are the mangement which i have written about, 
 there are the shoot-outs with your underwater subs againts the ufo`s, but thats actually a kind 
 of mini-strategy game, and then there is the turn based strategy game, where you do your alien 
 hunting.
  
  Whats really cool about the TBS is that you have lots of choices here aswell, first of all, you 
 have to hire aquanauts, that have different skills, some panic very easy, and others are great 
 shooters. You have to equip them with guns, ammo, grenades, and even stunners of different kinds, 
 so you can capture live aliens, for further research. The environment's you encounter are very 
 alike, but i think they are generated as you start the mission, so there are no chance you can 
 stumble on the same place over and over.
  
  The game has, to my great anguish, some very, very annoying aspects i now will list up
  
  First 
 of all, you are constantly poor, the way you earn money is to fight off and kill as many aliens 
 as you possibly can, and the nations of the world gives you ``donations`` pending on your success. 
 The major flaw is that you can`t fight off the aliens that doesent show on your radar, and you 
 only start with one base, so you can`t cover the other side of the planet
  
  Second, the aliens are way over powered, they have better guns, ships, bigger bases, you name it. 
 You can get their technology by research, but that takes hours, and a lot of money you don`t have
 
  
  Third, the aliens have something called a ``molecular control`` which allows them to take over 
 the minds of your aquanauts, so that they either freak out, or start to blast down the rest of 
 your aquanauts, there are ways to protect your aquanauts from this, but again time and money are 
 not in abundance
  
  I would just like to point out that this was once a very popular game, perhaps still is, but i have 
 never heard of someone actually completing the game
  
  But when you boil it down, its still worth playing and its a superb game, and it will give you 
 tons of hours with gameplay, even if you fail to complete the game....., it actually has a a very 
 good replay value....., because there are so many different ways to go about it. Choose to research 
 something entirely different, choose another battlefield strategy. Even if you are one of the elusive 
 few who have conquered the game, i dare to say, you still havent explored the entire game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-com
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good it makes other games look bad. when i first played it I was like hey this 
 games not bad and then it draged in into it sooooo badly.
  i could not put it away it was that good. theres almost no game that has done that to me and so 
 many other people. If i found this game again i would buy it for what ever price it is at but sadly 
 the only way to get it is on
  e-bay :' (. now to the game
  
  you start out the game then you pick your difficuty.
  in the game you don't know what you are 
 doing intil you get into your first battle. then you have to equip your guys and now your fighting 
 aliens. Yes thats right aliens! take that halo. the battles go on in a turn based and you have 
 to go around and turn your charater around to see if any thing is there.
  
  the great thing about this game is that you can pick up the aliens and put them into your back 
 pack and then study them to get better stuff.
  
  and so if you find this game im sad :' (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game offers about the same amount of gameplay then it's predecessor. The game itself isn't 
 much different only this time the aliens try to take over the world beneath the surface of our 
 seas and oceans.
  
  You have to protect the citizens of earth by building bases around the world. The aliens will attack 
 big city's and ships and you have to arm your vehicles and equip your man again to destroy them.
 
  
  Research and development plays once again a big role in this game. And you have a pretty big research 
 tree to go. Off course the alien technology is more advanced then our own so you have to capture 
 there equipment.
  
  Tip: Once you see a "deep one" alien try to capture him alive as soon as possible. If you don't 
 you won't be able to research armors for your man.
  
  Altough X-com: UFO is a great game this game lies a fraction of a step behind it. It offers great 
 gameplay and months of tactical brain breaking fun. A must have for the tactical gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  If any game has one thing to call its own its X-com TFTD it has (for the time) the best under water 
 combat which is fun and at times can get anoying when a grenade lands at you mens feet.
  
  The graphics are very basic but it is still very playable for its age. the general gist of this 
 game (for those to young to know any better) is you are the leader of X-com a group that deals 
 with threats from aleins and the like. This game is a TBS game in combat and RTS im the world map. 
 you get to build up your bases on the world map and hire/fire people buy/sell equipment as needed 
 by your people during missions. You also get to resarch new weapons and new tech to help deal with 
 the alien threat.
  
  All i can say is if you are looking for a game to draw you in like the civ games do then this game 
 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtreusGS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2004 2:25 am PT
Review:  For me, the X-COM series were (and in many ways still are) the best strategy games ever made and 
 in my opinion, from the Deep was the best of them all (although UFO Defence is very close) .
  
  Before you read any further I will just say that if you have never played and X-COM game, don't 
 waste time reading this, just go find it. You won't be disappointed. I apologise for rambling but 
 I hope you will understand once you've played it for a while. I will warn you however; it is a 
 very, VERY hard game.
  
  The premise behind all the X-COM games is the same; you must manage a special international Special 
 Forces unit assembled to fight off extra-terrestrial threats to the earth. X-Com is founded in 
 the first game (X-COM UFO Defence, or UFO Enemy Unknown if you happen to live in the UK, which 
 I will simply refer to as UFO from now on) in response to an alien invasion. In from the deep a 
 new menace appears, not from the blackness of space but from the depths of our own oceans. I won't 
 ruin the plot of the game, as finding out whats going on is all part of the enjoyment, but needless 
 to say, these new intruders are not friendly.
  
  You control the hastily re-activated X-COM underwater division. If you've played the first game 
 you'll find yourself at home straight away as you swap your plasma cannons and laser rifles for 
 spearguns and GAUSS weaponry. The interface and graphics engine are identical to UFO, but the game 
 mechanics have been altered and now include more complex missions that take place over two or more 
 maps, and of course, underwater missions.
  
  The game itself remains largely unchanged (the old maxim if it aint broke, don't fix it springs 
 to mind) . You build bases all over the globe (or 'geoscape' as the game refers to it) , purchase 
 and manufacture equipment for your men and vehicles, hire engineers and scientists to build and 
 research new technology, send out flying-subs (hybrid submarine/aircraft) to intercept and shoot 
 down alien craft and send out squads of aquanauts on various missions (more on this in a moment) . 
 If this sounds a lot to contend with... well, you may have a point, but as I've already mentioned, 
 X-COM is a very challenging game. What's more, the excellent interface allows you do all of the 
 above and more with ease and speed allows you to keep track of everything you need to with ease.
 
  
  As I mentioned, one of the many tasks you are charged with is developing new technologies. There 
 are quite a few home grown gadgets that your lab boys can come up with, but to get most of the 
 really neat toys you will have to reverse engineer the aliens own weapons and technologies and 
 turn it against them. This brings up another of the factors that make X-COM so hard. The aliens 
 are no space invaders style cannon fodder nor are they even crazed machines as in the movie 'Aliens'. 
 They're every bit as tough and well trained as your men are (at least at the start, you men gradually 
 improve with experience assuming you keep them alive!) and theyre not stupid either, they'll hide 
 in ambush, run away when they're outgunned and use all sorts of tactics. To make matters worse 
 their technology is well in advance of yours at the start.
  
  So you need to reverse engineer it, make your own new improved weapons and thwart the aliens plans. 
 This is where the second part of X-COM comes into play. Whenever a USO (unidentified submerged 
 object) lands or is shot down you must send a team of aquanauts to capture it. You do this by defeating 
 the crew in an isometric, turn based battle where you explore the surroundings with your men and 
 must either kill or incapacitate all the aliens on board. This turn based combat forms the backbone 
 of the game and is used whenever your men engage the aliens. This is not just limited to recovering 
 USOs. You must also respond to attacks on ports and surface shipping and if the aliens locate and 
 attack one of your bases you must defend it. Conversely, you must endeavour to locate and destroy 
 the aliens bases to prevent them launching more attacks.
  
  The best way to explain X-COM is to give you a brief example of how it all fits together. You build 
 a base with various facilities (Sonar to detect USOs, launch bays to house your subs, stores and 
 living quarters for you men and gear, labs for research, containment rooms for captured aliens 
 and so on) , your sonar detects a USO so you launch an attack sub to intercept it, which it does 
 and then shoots it down. You then send a team of aquanauts in, seize the USO and bring it and its 
 equipment back to your base where your scientists develop new weapons to use in your next encounter 
 and interrogate any aliens you captured.
  
  To sum it up, this is one of the best games ever made and I strongly recommend it. Modern graphics 
 may have moved on (although X-COM is by no means bad looking) but the gameplay is timeless. A true 
 classic. If you can find them I recommend you get your hands on the original and apocalypse as 
 well but dont bother with Enforcer (a derivative action game) or Interceptor (which was not bad 
 but I found it lacked that special something which made the original series great.
  
  (Please note that my scores for sound and graphics are for the time it was realeased, by todays 
 standards it would only get a 5 in graphics but I'd still give it 7 or 8 for sound) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
