-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-COM: Apocalypse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/xcomapocalypse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 535 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Culture Brain
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is almost the X-COM sequel that folks have been hoping for. 

 X-COM: Apocalypse has some pretty big futuristic combat boots to fill. stands among the best turn-based 
 strategy games of the past decade. Apocalypse does indeed fill those boots - the problem is, it 
 may fill them with too much. The addition of a real-time combat option, the announcement of which 
 had X-COM purists protesting in horror, does not make X-COM the Command &amp; Conquer clone that 
 everyone feared. In fact, it works quite well, to a certain point. This is almost the X-COM sequel 
 that folks have been hoping for, so close that at times it's impossible to fault the game for a 
 few minor problems.   

 Unlike previous X-COM entries, Apocalypse does not take place on a global scale. Instead, it is 
 situated within a single city, Mega-Primus, which is being invaded by an alien race unrelated to 
 the Cydonians from the first two games. Instead of being judged by a global committee, your actions 
 are judged by the local businesses, mostly arms and transportation dealers. You must buy the majority 
 of your equipment from these businesses (eventually you will begin manufacturing some of it yourself) , 
 and only a limited amount of goods are available each week. If you look past the unrealistic economic 
 model of Mega-Primus (why these companies are charging you for equipment when the whole city is 
 on the verge of being destroyed is never explained) , it feels like a real city. Cars drive around, 
 transports bring you your equipment, buildings are damaged as you blast away at UFOs over the skyline, 
 huge aliens wreak havoc in the streets, and minor skirmishes are waged in the streets between corporations. 
 The only minor problem is that Mega-Primus looks bad. In the day, your hometown is a nightmare 
 of bright primary colors, and things only get bearable to look at during the evening, when it gets 
 good and eerie like an X-COM game should be. This is in sharp contrast to the creepy ambient music, 
 which would be terrifying if it didn't jar with the decidedly un-creepy environs.  

 The city model lends an air of innovation to the combat in Apocalypse. The majority of the battles 
 take place indoors: Large warehouses, factories, and apartment buildings (both ritzy and run down) 
 will need to be defended. These settings also include perhaps the best addition to X-COM's combat 
 system - they can be destroyed. Machinery explodes, huge chasms can be created in the floors, and 
 whole levels can come tumbling down on unfortunate combatants standing underneath. The dynamic 
 environments can be used to your benefit, but they will cost you - enough damage and the owner 
 will come looking for some payback, usually of a financial nature, but occasionally he'll just 
 take some potshots at your vehicles or stage a raid on one of your bases.  

 There are a few other notable additions to combat. Units can now crawl and lie prone, and you can 
 set an aggressiveness level that makes them seek cover in dangerous situations or just keep firing 
 until someone falls. The combat engine is really, really good. But it's not great. Turn-based seems 
 to have suffered in Apocalypse. Your agents have far more time-units per turn than in previous 
 games, allowing them to take a few shots, throw a grenade, and then run for cover all in a single 
 turn. And the AI seems geared for the real-time option: During turn-based missions, your agents 
 will take reserved time units to perform all sorts of unassigned actions, and aliens will run back 
 and forth in front of your soldiers without taking a single shot. In UFO Defense, if an agent saw 
 an alien and didn't kill it, chances are that agent would be dead, or well on his way, before the 
 next turn.   

 The real time, on the other hand, is much better than expected. Since it's not true "real time," 
 you can pause or slow down the action to assign orders, then watch them play out simultaneously 
 with the opposing side. Your agents, with experience, act more intelligently, taking cover and 
 firing from a safe position. As an added bonus, it makes the missions extremely short affairs, 
 sometimes on the order of two or three minutes, as opposed to the two or three hours needed to 
 complete longer missions in turn-based play. But the real-time lacks the suspense of previous X-COMs, 
 and it's hard to have that same sense of familiarity with your agents when you don't spend several 
 minutes mulling over their every move. Both the real-time and the turn-based have their drawbacks 
 and their merits, and you will undoubtedly spend your time alternating between the two.  

 The alien race you're up against is by far the most interesting thing about Apocalypse, and brings 
 back that spark of excitement each time there's some new species to research (and there are many 
 more alien types this time out) . Research is split into two areas, Bioengineering and Quantum Physics. 
 The latter researches new equipment and technology, while the former researches the prisoners and 
 corpses you bring back from combat, as well as a great deal of the alien technology, which, it 
 turns out, is almost entirely organic (leading to some terrifying weaponry you must face, including 
 an enzyme-based firearm that dissolves your agents' armor and sets off any explosives on his person) . 
 The end game is more elaborate than in previous chapters as well. Instead of a single attack on 
 a distant base, you must infiltrate the alien home world, turning the tables as you raid their 
 buildings one by one. For all of the aliens' interesting technology and biology, however, you can't 
 escape one disappointing fact: They look silly. You'll feel as if you're waging war on the set 
 of The Muppet Show.   

 Apart from the graphics, the only major failing of X-COM: Apocalypse is that it tries to do too 
 much. Instead of the amazing turn-based game that could have been, what we have is a really good 
 turn-based game and a slightly better real-time game. But when you get used to the quirks, everything 
 that made X-COM great is still there, from the surprise at meeting a new alien species to the joy 
 of researching a technology. It may be ugly, but it sure is a lot of fun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Halloll
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is actually the first strateagy game that i fell in love with. even though i started playing 
 it in 2007 after trying all the well known strateagy games c&amp; c warcraft age of empiresand other. 
 I found this game and said to myself : what the heck , lets do this . before playing this games 
 i played UFO Defence which was awsom and kept me stuck to my chair for weeks, but this sequel made 
 me stuck for a whole year. This game is what i call a real diamond, why ? lets start:
  the city of megaprimus is haunted by aliens from athoe dimension and you are the new head of the 
 x-com. you will start with one equiped base with all the initial supplies and establishment needed 
 to deal with the situation or atleast the alien scouts
  the gameplay this game featured realtime tactical compat in a wonderful way. first your informed 
 that a building in the city witnesd alien activity.
  then you assigined your agents and equip them with what you think they will need and send them 
 into their misson carried by your fleet of fighers and armored cars, your men arrives and start 
 searching the building for aliens , you see civilians run in fear. you send your troops to check 
 it out and TA TA TA TA TA the rest is up to your agents skill, equipment and of course your planning.
 
  that was just a simple glimpse of the early random missions in the game. the games is much more 
 complex than that and it includes city and bases manegment and ariel and groung compat around the 
 city with fighters tanks and armored cars not only agins aliens but also aginst other hostile organizations 
 in the city wich will try to raid your basses and harm your economy and much more.
  
  simply the best game ever for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ereshkigal666
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  X-COM: Apocalypse was the third and last chapter of the original X-COM series which has now achieved 
 an almost legendary status among strategy gamers. 10 full years have passed since the release of 
 the game and this 10th anniversary is a good opportunity for me to express my humble thoughts on 
 a game that I have played many times, on all difficulty settings and I have literally spent months 
 of playing time.
  
  Apocalypse was created with the heroic task of continuing the tradition and huge success of the 
 2 previous X-COM games. This ambition has not only been fulfilled, but Apocalypse manages to improve 
 the series in several sectors. This time, all the action takes place in one large city, instead 
 of the Earth as a whole, and thus the familiar geoscape part is gone. While it is possible that 
 quite a lot is happening in the city, the action will never reach the point of having a couple 
 of dozen missions outstanding all over the globe, which was normal in the later stages of the previous 
 X-COMs, a fact that resulted in the game being really hectic and rather hard to manage. Also, this 
 time the aliens are coming from another dimension rather than having their bases on Earth, and 
 representatives of this alien race are quite different from the ones we were familiar with before. 
 The new aliens, their technologies and their whole world are heavily based on organic origins and 
 biotechnology and very little of their equipment are mechanical. The task of the X-COM forces is 
 not only to understand this strange organic technology and survive its impact, but also to adapt 
 it in order to create new equipment with a mechanical basis so that humans can use them to battle 
 the aliens and conquer. The fi-nal assault on the alien race is not a single mission, rather a 
 series of attacks in their own home world in the alien dimension, through dimensional travel.
 
  
  After this introduction on the general aspects of the game, let me elaborate now in further detail 
 on its specifics. First, about the graphics. I have read a number of reviews, where people keep 
 complaining about lousy graphics. Honestly, I dont get it. The graphics of Apocalypse is a VAST 
 improvement over the previous 2 X-COMs, and in total very detailed and nice looking. Unless of 
 course we forget that the year was 1997. If you want to compare the graphics here with the graphics 
 of Oblivion, 10 years later, yes they look rather pathetic. But if you can, name ONE game from 
 that era with graphics that could remotely compare to what is the norm today, because I cant. 
 Graphics from the era of early Voodoos and pre-Win 98, against the latest double NVidia 8800s, 
 Win XP / Vista and 1000 times more powerful PCs, are we serious now? Back then, around 1997, I 
 could name lots and lots of well received games of any genre with laughable graphics full of HUGE 
 generic pixels! The sound is pretty good too, music is rather eerie, a good background that amplifies 
 tension in many terrifying situations.
  
  Research is carried out the traditional X-COM way, in general you need specific artifacts in your 
 possession and / or an alien corpse / live alien, to research a topic, doing more advanced research 
 needs certain prerequisite topics to have been already researched. The good point is that research 
 is better structured now, the research tree is easier to follow and almost impossible to find yourself 
 into a dead end, something that was very true before, especially in Terror From The Deep. There 
 are two varieties of research, Bioengineering and Quantum Physics, with two varieties of relevant 
 labs, small for basic and large for advance research. Now not only you can hire scientists for 
 your labs, but they all have a skill value in their proficiency with a maximum of 100, so the quest 
 is always on for the greatest scientists with the highest skill, obviously a higher total skill 
 value from scientists means faster rates of research (every hour that passes in the game research 
 is accomplished according to the total value of skill from scientists active in a lab) . Manufacturing 
 follows the same pattern, with small and large workshops, the latter needed to make more advanced 
 equipment and vehicles. Again, you hire engineers and their skill determines how fast you produce 
 things. Of course, all the personnel are paid salaries at the end of each week, no matter whether 
 active or not, so ideally everyone should be occupied with something and this is another reason 
 why you dont need people with mediocre skill.
  
  X-COM games always rely heavily on their fighting troops, it is crucial to have the best people 
 with the best training for your squads. It is now possible to recruit from 3 different pools, humans, 
 androids and hybrids with alien genes. Humans are the norm, more or less average in everything, 
 androids start with higher stats than anyone else but they can NOT improve them, and hybrids usually 
 start with better psi skills. In Apocalypse, troops have improved in a number of ways. First, their 
 skills can actually be improved with appropriate training while stationed in bases and not in service. 
 This is a HUGE improvement, given enough time even weaklings can become formidable without the 
 need of even firing a single shot! Of course, those taking part in missions also improve the skills 
 they use in combat, plus they gain experience. Enough experience can lead to promotions, and also 
 in the accumulation of medals, which actually has no effect whatsoever, but just looks nice. In 
 turn-based combat, troops have again the ability for opportunity fire, given they have enough points 
 left. However, this time this ability really matters and is frequently used, this is a major difference 
 from previous X-COM games, where opportunity fire was seen once in a blue moon, if at all. Overall, 
 troops have become more useful, they feature an even greater RPG character development, and the 
 player now has full control of them in every aspect. Finally, the best and most crucial improvement 
 in Apocalypse concerning troops (and aliens) has been applied in the psi abilities. In my humble 
 opinion, the only serious blemish in the 2 previous X-COMs, and especially Terror From The Deep, 
 was the implementation of psi abilities. First, the fact that psi skills of troops were not really 
 known until much later in the game. By that time you could end with your elite officers actually 
 being psi morons, a fact that could render them useless or worse (no one likes their top shooters 
 inflicting critical hits and wiping out their comrades, yes?) . In most cases these elite troops 
 had to be retired from service, a rather annoying situation. On the other hand you could also 
 have those few troops with exceptional psi skills. All you had to do was equip them with the appropriate 
 psi gear, incorporate them into your fighting squad, then just blast ANY alien with psi attacks. 
 Once the first couple of aliens were under your control, you could use a cascade effect, to spot 
 the next alien, neutralise it and so on until they were all harmless. Ultimately, you take pot 
 shots on all those defenseless aliens and any mission is over in minutes. Use this tactic carefully 
 and you can finish the game any time you like without trouble. Things are different in Apocalypse. 
 Now you know what the psi skills of the troops are from the beginning, so you ditch the crappy 
 ones, hire the strong ones, train them further and make them really solid. However, psi attacks 
 have not the total devastating effect they had before. Things are much more balanced, even elite 
 troops can be psi attacked by powerful aliens and on the other hand psi attacks on aliens have 
 a limited effect, depending on the species, but complete domination of EVERY alien is probably 
 impossible. So, no winning the game just by psi blasting the whole alien horde!
  
  In Apocalypse combat can be either turn based or real time, the first time this feature is incorporated 
 in an X-COM game. Turn based combat shows all the familiar elements from previous X-COMs, this 
 time however actions require less TUs, so troops (and aliens) can perform several actions per turn. 
 This could mean that a really good shooter can kill several aliens in one turn. In general, aliens 
 have far more TUs than agents, this means they come out of nowhere, walk up close and blast your 
 squad to bits. So, it is always a good idea to end your troops turn leaving enough TUs for them, 
 so they can react, taking cover, moving away or using opportunity fire to counteract the aliens 
 superiority. Real time combat is well imple-mented, although the action can be interrupted at will 
 allowing all the important strategic decisions to be taken at leisure. Using real time combat, 
 missions can be much shorter in duration, although the element of suspense is much less and the 
 whole affair is easier than using true turn based mode. So I guess, turn based combat will still 
 be the choice for the die-hard purists, who want things done the hard way.
  
  And a few words about the Mega-Primus city, where all the action takes place (well, apart from 
 the assault on the alien dimension itself) . There are several factions, corporations, gangs who 
 control specific regions of the city. There are Cultists too, who worship the aliens and will always 
 be hostile towards X-COM forces. The other people start more or less neutral, and depending on 
 your actions can be your allies or turn against you. So, in Apocalypse you can end up not just 
 fighting the aliens (and the Cultists) but also several other factions. This could be a tricky 
 situation, especially if some of the hostile factions are manufacturers of equipment, because they 
 will stop selling to X-COM, and in the early stages of the game this can be disastrous, since you 
 heavily rely on equipment available in the market rather than X-COM manufactured stuff. The good 
 thing is that every building and bit of the city can be attacked, raided, destroyed at will. Not 
 without consequences of course, obviously the owner of facilities raided or damaged by X-COM forces 
 will not be exactly happy with the result. Aliens primarily attack by sending their crafts through 
 the dimensional gates and into the skies above Mega-Primus. There is a variety of crafts, several 
 of them have the ability to deposit aliens to buildings in the city. X-COM forces not only need 
 to send the appropriate vehicles, flying or not, to counteract the alien crafts, but also notice 
 where they have deposited aliens and stage missions to eliminate them in those areas. It is crucial 
 to hunt the alien crafts, down them and finally raid them, in order to acquire equipment and corpses 
 to aid X-COM research, arm your agents and finally sell the surplus to generate income. Successful 
 missions also earn you points and the higher the score at the end of each week, the further the 
 funding X-COM receives from its sponsors. Facilities belonging to Cultists and hostile factions 
 can also be raided, resulting likewise in the acquirement of equipment, income, and also weakening 
 the faction in terms of personnel and funds. X-COM can build bases in specific locations of the 
 city, these buildings are on sale but they differ in price according to their size and specific 
 location. It is a good idea to gradually expand and have the maximum number of bases available, 
 so that a sufficient number of labs, workshops, equipment, vehicles and agents are utilised. The 
 overall detail of the city is pretty good, there is constant motion, people and vehicles moving 
 around, goods transported, factions fighting each other and police forces chasing gangsters and 
 attacking aliens too! There is day and night, when darkness falls streets and buildings are lighted. 
 Parts of the city that are destroyed one way or another, either streets, buildings or other facilities, 
 are slowly repaired to full, presumably by the owning faction.
  
  Summarising, Apocalypse is the ultimate X-COM experience, featuring all the great elements that 
 made the previous 2 games so famous, improving them to perfection and adding some very welcome 
 new options. Not only the best in the X-COM series, but THE best strategy game ever, and I do not 
 say this lightly. Absolutely legendary, absolutely cult! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kajqrd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Those old-school die hards who were actually playing games on their PC or Amiga back in 1993 will 
 probably remember a nice little tactical strategy game called UFO: Enemy Unknown or in the US X-COM: 
 UFO Defense. This game let you battle invading aliens in a struggle to dominate both through military 
 might and technological dominance. This struggle is started all over again in X-COM Apocalypse. 
 It is the REAL sequel to UFO Defense as the first sequel seemed more like an expansion pack both 
 because of a very similar look and feel and because it was so much more dificult that you would 
 have a hard time playing it unless you had been playing the first game before. Where the first 
 two games had you fighting aliens all over the world the third game of the series has you fighting 
 them in a city which the aliens are invading from a different dimension. The story of the game 
 world is somewhat goofy reminding of a 50's science fiction comic. And some of the graphics, especially 
 the look of the vehicles in the game, supports this notion. In general the graphics are very disappointing. 
 The aliens don't seem the least bit scary and this certainly hampers the athmosphere compared to 
 X-COM: UFO Defense. The color palette is simply too bright to be any frightening. However the sounds 
 are awesome. The effects do what they need to but what the graphics sort of hampers the music more 
 than makes up for. So if any geeks out there with a bit too much time were to make a graphics mod 
 which is a bit dark we would be back to the scary world of the first game. The gameplay is just 
 as solid as in the first games. For the purists turn-based gameplay is available in the missions 
 and for the new-comers the option of playing it in real time is certainly a welcome opportunity. 
 Whichever opt&iacute; on you choose you will find yourself sufficiently challenged by the game. 
 To conclude this review X-COM: Apocalypse is in many ways a natural step forward from X-COM: UFO 
 Defense. The addition of optional real time I think is a good idea. The only thing weighing down 
 on this game is its graphics. Normally I don't have anything against ugly graphics. But here the 
 graphics are counterproductive to the athmosphere of the game and this is a real shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  X-COM Apocalypse is my favorite because although just a city, that is all that is left. it is one 
 of the only games that still runs with faster computers better even though I only play the turn-based 
 battles. First you get the human soldiers, the Androids, and the Psionics. But also in the city, 
 are the gangs and some of their own gang-made weapons. Also you can fight them also, along with 
 the Cult of Sirius that will get more hostile the more you attack them. Add to that all the businesses, 
 and flying air-units, like cars and interceptors, transports and the airports, and pretty soon 
 your brain may feel like it was sucked out or some exploding dog looking spotted organic thing 
 may be coming your way without drinking a drop of booze. With the game, again you start out with 
 a base and can purchase others up to a limit for the difficulty you are playing. Without going 
 into much detail it is like the other games although more interactive, and soon, you may get a 
 bill from a company for damage done in the city. If you just hit the road missing ground cars or 
 anything else in the game you will have to keep some roads open or go nowhere to get there except 
 by flying. Besides the dimensional portals where the spaceships come through and you tend to fight 
 or with the spacealiens landing their own people, pretty soon you may also be in panic mode, especially 
 when one of your Squadies also go into panic mode. Then add the flying suits that your Squaddies 
 can wear and the total concept of this game, you may feel that life should be great on this Planet 
 because in this game you can destroy anything. One time I got a tank and leveled the Cult of Sirius's 
 building, then they think I was going to pay them for the damages. Another time, I felt that if 
 they wanted me as Commander against the spacealien's and the insanity of some civilians they can 
 throw me in jail for stealing some weapons from the police station. Of course, the spacealiens 
 may also be there, and you may get more Alerts then you knowo what to do with. I hate some of those 
 buildings in the game like the Sewer Works, and if you play the game at a higher difficulty, then 
 you may just have to run your own business to make ends meet. For awhile there in the game, perhaps 
 it may be better just to have the spacealien's have the city, but still you were hired to defend 
 against the spacealien invaders and save what is left of humanity, brainsuckers and all. Oh, and 
 if you get the Collector's Edition, then don't leave the first disk in the CD-ROM drive you tossed 
 out without checking to see if a disk for a game is first in the drive. I do have the second CD 
 left, the one with Apocalypse on it though, and the others still on my old computer. Think I will 
 try it on my new computer, since I been through other computers also with this game. One thing 
 I found out, is that with this game, it still relatively runs at the same speed, no matter what 
 computer a player plays it on. In fact on later computers, this game did run better than it did 
 on my old 486 computer before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esrra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  best game ever. it have everything you want at great detail. buy sell equipment and not only that 
 u can almost control the economy of what u sell and if you sell really powerfull stuff you get 
 to fight that back when the aliens seem nicer than you. they will buy ur ammo and ur weapons and 
 use it agains you. so if you want it easier just dont sell the powerfull gear. build your own vehicles. 
 build your bases how you want it. WATCH detailed destruction of the eviroment. if something explodes 
 near a body full of granes you get a chain reaction and you dont pick up anything from it becouse 
 everything is destroyed by the explosion. not only that you can blow up the floor and fly thru 
 it. amazing concept of everything is so much fun to play it i just got blind for standing all the 
 time in that game, my eyes were burning all the time. BEST GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  X-Com UFO Defense is one of the most highly regarded strategy games of all time. Terror From the 
 Deep, it's sequel, attainted similar scores, but being practically the same game with the slightest 
 hint of a twist, it seemed that it wasn't much of a new game, more like just an expansion pack. 
 With the release of X-Com Apocalpyse, the developers of the original X-Com has spent about four 
 years of development time on it, which at the time was an unprecidented length, and while it never 
 acheived the greatness it wanted due to budget and time constraints, it has certainly become, in 
 my opinion, one of the best strategy games of all time.
  
  The original X-Com was comprised of two parts, a world view called the geoscape, and a tactical 
 view called the battlescape. On the geoscape, you would manage your base installations around the 
 world, and as time passed in real time, you would send your aircraft to shoot down UFOs, and then 
 proceed to send squads of soldiers to the downed craft, initiating a tactical battle, wherein you 
 and the aliens took turns moving your units. This formula won awards the world over, and has been 
 reproduced numerous times by other studios since Microprose went out of business, but only Apocalypse 
 would brave a slightly different formula then the rest of the series. (And to this day, clones 
 of the original are still regularly being released - like the UFO series by Altar)
  
  Apocalpyse changes the gameplay from world focused to city focused. Rather then being funded by 
 worldwide governments to shoot down UFOs internationally, you are instead given the job of protecting 
 a single city from UFO incursions from another dimension, rather then another planet. This formula 
 sees the new cityscape replacing and acting very similar to the original geoscape, and a return 
 of the battlescape, with the option of playing them in both turn-based and real-time modes, thus 
 making Apocalpyse a fully Real-Time Strategy game, unlike almost every other game with a similar 
 premise.
  
  This time around, you get to take control of Mega-Primus, one of the only, if not the only, inhabitable 
 cities on the planet. Apparently, the backstory goes that much of the planet was destroyed in the 
 original fights with the aliens, but why your managing one city thats all by itself isnt so important, 
 once you realise how deep the cityscape is.
  
  Present and counted for on the cityscape are hundred of different buildings, owned by dozens of 
 different comapanies, including one base for X-COM at the start of the game, with the option of 
 X-COM buying more hideouts from the government if there is need, and often, there is. Alongside 
 all the buildings and companies, are hovercars as well as conventional cars, and usually three 
 hovering purple portals to the alien dimension, that move around from week to week, and will be 
 the source of all alien invasions.
  
  Now, with many games, what i just described to you could be seen as a throw away element that has 
 no real effect on the game, however, in Apocalypse, everything that happens on the cityscape matters, 
 and there will be repurcussions for all of your actions, as well as those of aliens, and other 
 companies. See, each company or organization has their own goals. Most of them just want to supply 
 other various companies with their wares, but some organizations, will openly fight with eachother. 
 When a company sustains damage to their buildings, or looses vehicles on the cityscape, they loose 
 some of their money, and thus their ability to protect themselves, and make and sell their wares. 
 This means that if during an alien invasion, a lot of crossfire causes a munitions plant to crumble 
 and collapse, you wont be able to pick up any extra machine guns or magazines from said company 
 for a while. 
  
  Each of the independant organizations also has a relation to X-COM, with one group of cultists 
 who worship the arrival of the aliens being nearly always hostile towards you, while the government 
 and police departments start allied, or at least friendly towards you. Damaging their buildings 
 will cause a company to become angry with you, and if it gets bad enough, the organization may 
 start openly fighting against X-COM by shooting vehicles on the cityscape, or trying to infiltrate 
 X-COM bases and initiating base defense tactical missions.
  
  Of course, the core gameplay stems from shooting down, capturing, researching, and fighting off 
 the alien threat. This is also a lot deeper then one would initially think, because its actually 
 possible to do so well at shooting down alien invaders, that they will change their strategy from 
 infiltrating the city, to simply destroying it. Normally, a few ships at a time will come throught 
 the dimension gates, some being transports, and some being guards. If you manage to shoot down 
 the transports before they can deposit any aliens into the city, job well-done, you'll get lots 
 of bonus funding from the government next paycheck. (Well, that is, unless a bunch of your missiles 
 miss their targets during the fight and accidentally take out a building or two.)
  
  However, if you dont get to shoot down the alien transports in time, they will stop over a building 
 and deposit troops inside it. Depending on the stage of the game, the aliens strategy, and what 
 ship they came from, a different number of invaders will be lurking in the building. A wise X-COM 
 commander can immediately send a transport full of troops to the building and initiate an alien 
 investigation. Doing so will reveal one of two possible scenarios - if the building actually has 
 no aliens inside it, you'll just get a message saying you searched and found nothing, and the company 
 that owns the building will become slightly upset with you. If, however, there are aliens present, 
 a real time or turn based battle can that proceed, where its your job to incapacitate as many aliens 
 as you can to bring back to your base to research.
  
  After a successful mission, you're craft will return to your base with captured items and aliens, 
 which will then let your scientists study autopsies of the aliens, or research their weaponary. 
 This research is the key to progression through the game, allowing you to manufacture newer better 
 weapons, interception aircraft, and giving you access to the UFOPaedia entries of various topics, 
 allowing you to familiarize yourself with many effective tactics to winning the game. 
  
  Oh, but im getting ahead of myself! I forgot about the character development and equipment feature! 
 All your agents also receive experience after acheiving certain things in missions. The more active 
 an agent is in a mission, the better he or she becomes at what he was actively doing. As well, 
 while your agents are at base not worrying about missions, they can also be trained, assuming you 
 have the necessary buildings built in your base. (But i'll touch on that later.)
  
  Every week you can buy new (or more) equipment from all the companies in your game to outfit your 
 troops and vehicles with. This allows you to customize all your units for specific tasks. You can 
 create several agents who are snipers, several who are general fighters using machine guns or pistols, 
 heavy attack units with chainguns or rocket launchers, etc. Similarly, you can equip your vessels 
 with many kinds of engines, guns, and accessories, to make various craft for different jobs. Eventually, 
 you'll even be manufacturing some of your own weapons and accessories that give you access to alien 
 technologies like shields and disrupter laser technology.
  
  But you wont be able to research, build things, store and train agents, or even repair your vehicles 
 unless you have specific buildings built within your base. There are several kinds of buildings 
 you can pick from and place within your underground base, so long as the can fit in the given space. 
 (Each base has a different floor plan of available space, some better then others for different 
 tasks.) You can build repair bays for your vehicles, stores for weapons, security stations for 
 protecting your agents during base invasions, various labs, and a few other buildings that will 
 be essential to winning the game.
  
  Sounds deep, doesnt it?
  
  Well it is. But somehow, it manages to be extremely deep without being overly confusing. A task 
 few games can live up to. It does take a few more minutes to get used to playing then your average 
 strategy game, but after about an hour, you should have a good handle on the game, and have plenty 
 of fun.
  
  Aside from gameplay, you'll notice X-Com Apocalypse features some spiffy graphics for its time. 
 Nowadays, its nothing special, but the animations are all fluid, and every item is renderred well 
 enough that you can clearly tell what it is. Sound is another great feature - while by todays standards, 
 it might be a little dated, the music that plays throughout the game is spooky and ambient, giving 
 the game a sense of forboding, especially while combating aliens, who all have unique sounds they 
 make in tactical combat, that lets you hear whats just around the corner from your agents, a very 
 spooky feeling at times.
  
  In its current state, X-COM Apocalypse is basically abbandonware. You can probably find it on the 
 internet for free, or maybe on ebay for a few bucks. Its definately worth checking out. Although, 
 it really doesnt like Windows XP, because X-COM was written for DOS. Luckily, there are several 
 sites that have fairly easy to follow tutorials on how to get the different versions of X-Com Apocalypse 
 to work on Windows XP. (Check the wikipedia for links, if you cant find them on google.)
  
  XCOMA, as its generally referred to on forums by fans, should offer you many many hours of gameplay, 
 having no less then five difficulty settings, and plenty of replayability - you can go through 
 the game trying different strategies and see which are most effective at combating the alien threat. 
 I've been coming back to XCOMA for years to get good RTS action, and while it now has dated graphics 
 and sound, its still a highly enjoyable game.
  
  Basically im saying, you owe it to yourself to play this game if you like strategy titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angrycobra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played the X-Com titles knows this is by far the finest title of the bunch. With 
 all the aspects everyone liked in the Original X-Com, X-Com Apoc is the great follow-up to the 
 classic original. However, this sequel outshines the original in numerous different ways. A more 
 comprehensive and user friendly interface as well as improved graphics and longer game play are 
 the largest advancements over its predecessor. X-Com Apoc combines the best of Sim/Strategy related 
 city building along with Turn Based/Real Time Shooter sequences. 
  
  You are the leader of a group of Professional Alien investigators who are charged with saving the 
 world (what did you expect) . It is up to you to figure out what the alien menace is all about. 
 You do this by building up your X-Com facilities to handle ever increasing technologies that are 
 revealed slowly and deliberately throughout the game. 
  
  At the same time you are building your fortress and forces, you are required to ward off any alien 
 incursions into the city. Aliens will pop up in spacecrafts and it is your job to shoot them down 
 or run them off before they do much damage. Once an alien ship is brought down the real fun begins. 
 Equip your X-Com troops with the latest and most modern equipment and weapons your researchers 
 can provide or you can afford. Do this to defeat the numerous different aliens that have crash 
 landed or infiltrated building complexes within the city. At higher levels you will need to ward 
 of the alien threat from invading your own X-Com facilities. All this battling with the aliens 
 can be done in either real time or in turn based combat. The cool thing about Apoc is you can pause 
 back and forth in real time if things get to hairy (and they will) . 
  
  In addition to the alien threat, you must deal with your allies and enemies within the human population 
 around the city. Keep your neighbors happy and don't cause too much damage to their buildings or 
 you may find yourself cut-off from some major suppliers. Treat them well and they will reward you 
 at the end of the month with huge cash rewards to further your experiments and investigations. 
 Save often and don't get too attached to your favorite X-Com soldier. They have a tendency of dying 
 on you due to the extreme battles you get into at higher levels. 
  
  X-Com Apoc is no push over game. It will take hours to figure out all the different nuances and 
 it will take weeks if not months to play Apoc from beginning to end. Once you finish the game, 
 save it and put it away. Then 8 to 12 months later get it out and play it all over again for a 
 completely new campaign and experience. I would have to rate this as one of the best games that 
 has ever been made. Gamespot and others rank it as one of the best ever made as well. If you don't 
 have a copy of X-Com Apoc, try to pick one up. It is going to cost a bit because it is becoming 
 harder to find but Apoc is well worth it. 
  
  The game is designed for older systems. You can get it working on XP with some clever workarounds. 
 Check the web for programs like Dos-Box and other programs that work fairly well. On one of my 
 computers with XP everything worked great. On my laptop with XP everything was fine expect I could 
 not get the sound or the movie scenes to work properly. No matter. I just listened to some of my 
 favorite music through my earphones while playing. 
  
  Get a copy and enjoy years of great game play as you take part in this classic game again and again. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo136
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my fave collection. I've played it over and over and over and still feel the 
 same excitement.
  
  X-Com Apocalypse just has the right composition for a perfect game. Like other strategy game, it 
 has both economic and military aspect that need to considered to win the game. It has enaugh complexity 
 (but not too complex, it just right) on economic and military aspect.
  
  Concentrating the game in jus one city (mega-primus city) is pretty clever. In the previous game, 
 when we have to manage more than 1 city, I easily get confused and forgot about what do I have 
 to do in where. Maybe X-Com wanna tell us that is easier become a mayor than a president ;-)
  
  The idea to make random stage (every time we enter a building over and over) makes it more 
 fun and replayable, also makes raiding enemy building become un-bore activity (I use to raid enemy 
 building a lot to get extra money or just wanna shoot some cult member) .
  
  The air combat is as good as its land combat. I like the way when we have to choose what we're 
 gonna use/bring as weapons and shields. Knowing whose the enemy's ability is a must here to win 
 the combat effectively. Using R&D to use enemy technology make this game full of surprise of new 
 wapons.
  
  Anyway, even a great game has a negative side. The combat stage at UFO crash site is lil bit monoton.
 
  
  Overall, this game is how the game I excpected to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howzer123
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Very indepth game, worth obtaining (if you still can) . An exceptionally challenging game. I have 
 been playing this for years, refining my strategy and I have never beaten it. The graphics and 
 sound are great for their era, but understandably, fail in comparison to today's standards. Anyone 
 that turns down this game because of it's visual aspect realy has no clue what they are talking 
 about. 
  The game comes equipped with a whole host of information about the X-Com uniververse, and includes 
 it's own encyclopedia that you update you you play the game.
  The only issue is that newer computers have difficulty running it, so you have to keep one of those 
 fossils around if you want to play it.
  
  10/10 IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebelesstoss
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  UFO Defense is probably one of the first games that I actually enjoyed playing (including Warcraft) . 
 Therefore it stayed one of my favourites even as graphically better games came.
  
  The second title was disappointingly too sequel-like. It wasn't really too innovative and everything 
 in the game just made me abandon it and start with the first one again.
  
  It was year 1997, when UFO defense got a serious rival. I have to admit, even as I have played 
 the first one a hardcore 100+hours, that Apocalypse knocked me off my feet the first time I played 
 it. It was everything that I imagined the third installment should be, and even more. 
  
  The most charming thing about X-COM: Apocalypse is probably the feeling of a totally self-managing 
 community that has everything it needs. The relations between various companies, syndicates and 
 communities change in your playing process and really makes you feel like you're living in a whole 
 different world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  If you played xcom 1 and 2 don't expect to mutch from this one. It still has a lot to offer but 
 not as mutch as its predecessors.
  
  First of all you only have 1 city to protect so actually building only 1 base is enough you can 
 however build sevral more.
  
  The real time options is nice, gives a whole different feel to the game but it makes it a lot easyer 
 and imho thats why ufo and tftd where so good. Hard games just give you more satisfaction then 
 easy games.
  
  You still have to research manage your finance and hire personel and purchase weapons and vehicles 
 like in ufo and tftd but on a smaller level.
  
  The game is just way better then aftermath and aftershock but lacks gameplay if you put it next 
 to it's predecessors.
  
  Conclusion: Realy good game with lots to offer and every Xcom fan should have played it. But still 
 don't expect to mutch from this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
