-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Men: The Official Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/xmenmovie3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three unique, playable X-Men.
 Some key celebrity voice talent.
 A few nice visual touches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Brain-dead beat-'em-up gameplay with no enjoyable combos or special moves.
 Lousy cutscene work.
 Disjointed, poorly presented storyline.
 A number of irritating bugs and glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.6, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     May 16, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
X-Men: The Official Game is officially a lame action-game cash-in on the upcoming movie. 

  The lousy movie-licensed game genre claims another victim in X-Men: The Official Game. Based 
 loosely in-between the stories of the second and third films in the  X-Men  franchise, X-Men is 
 a completely unremarkable beat-'em-up (with a few boilerplate shooter elements tossed into the 
 mix) that feels just haphazard enough to likely have been rushed through development to get it 
 onto store shelves ahead of the film. It's not that it's entirely broken, mind you, but X-Men's 
 missions are entirely generic and devoid of captivating content, and there are enough annoying 
 little glitches and other obnoxious things prevalent throughout to give the game that thrown-together 
 feel.  

          The X-Men are back! Well... a select few of them, anyway.     

  X-Men seems to follow the basic plot concepts of the  X-Men  movies, but it centers its focus around 
 three of the heroes: Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Iceman. Whether this was a deliberate choice, 
 or a direct response to which of the film's actors Activision could actually get to reprise their 
 roles for the game (Hugh Jackman, Alan Cumming, and Shawn Ashmore are indeed in the game) , we'll 
 likely never know, but Nightcrawler's inclusion is specifcally to explain why he's not in the new 
 movie. For what it's worth, Jackman, Cumming, and Ashmore all do serviceable jobs voicing the characters, 
 as does Patrick Stewart, who returns to voice act Professor X. Unfortunately, the remaining cast 
 is mostly made up of soundalikes, and none of them are particularly good.  

  By centering on these three characters and setting up the mission structure as the game does, you're 
 left with a fairly disjointed sense of where the story is going. For instance, early on in the 
 game, all three characters go through quick training sequences to get you familiar with how they 
 work. The next mission is a return to Alkali Lake (the site of Jean Grey's tragic demise at the 
 end of the second film) to recapture parts of the Cerebro machine taken by General Stryker. You 
 start off as Nightcrawler, and are given the option later on to play either as Wolverine or Nightcrawler 
 for another section. Once you've made your pick, you're stuck with that character for the duration 
 of his missions during this chapter (which can go up to around three or four in a row, at times) . 
 Only after you've completed it can you switch over to the other available character. Not to mention 
 that Iceman just disappears during this whole section and we don't join up with him until significantly 
 later, in a completely new scenario that's given next to no plot exposition. It's not that a game 
 of this type has to be some kind of brilliant work of fiction to succeed, but X-Men tells its story 
 in such a perplexing and disconcerting way that it's difficult to care much about what's going 
 on.  

  Each of the three playable characters fights a little differently from the other. Wolverine obviously 
 has his Adamantium claws, as well as a rage ability that gives him some particularly brutal moves; 
 Nightcrawler can teleport to any area within his visual range, as well as use his teleporting abilities 
 in combat to pull off more acrobatic moves and transport himself to a "shadow realm" to regenerate 
 his health (an ability we're not sure he ever had before this game) ; and finally, Iceman perpetually 
 rides on an icy surfboard, flying through the air while shooting his ice beam and ice projectiles, 
 and inexplicably regenerating his health (an ability we're  positive  he didn't have before this 
 game) . The Iceman missions are almost more like rail shooters, since you're near-constantly in 
 motion, floating about various areas and sometimes navigating perilous traps and pitfalls -- and 
 for that matter, the Iceman missions are probably the most interesting part of the game, if only 
 in comparison to the utterly dull Nightcrawler and Wolverine segments.  

  When you're playing as Wolverine or Nightcrawler, you're beating up a lot of enemies in relatively 
 closed-off environments. Sometimes you need to find a control panel to open a door, and there are 
 some platforming elements with the Nightcrawler sections (which can usually be circumvented altogether 
 using his teleport ability) , but for the most part you're just constantly fighting enemies with 
 guns, electric sticks, electric spears, bazookas, or the occasional mutant power. Plenty of beat-'em-up 
 games have managed to suffice with a similar formula, but X-Men's combat is just boring. There's 
 next to no combo variety to speak of, and it's awfully easy to just use Wolverine's power attacks 
 or Nightcrawler's teleport attacks over and over again to break past an enemy's block to simply 
 roll right over them over and over again. It's not that the fights are easy, exactly. Sometimes 
 they can actually be a bit frustrating, especially when you're playing as Wolverine and getting 
 pelted with bullets, and the only thing you can really do is run right at the guys with the guns. 
 But frustration aside, there's nothing interesting about the fight sequences to make you want to 
 keep playing. It's just button-mashing of the most banal variety.  

  Additionally, there are a number of moments in the game that make you wonder just how much time 
 this game really spent in development. There are no major show-stopping bugs, but rather a lot 
 of little glitches that just keep popping up over and over again. Enemies will sometimes teleport 
 from one side of a level to another instantaneously for no discernible reason; sometimes you can 
 knock enemies into walls or doorways from which they cannot escape; scripted appearances of characters 
 will sometimes get stuck and remain there even when they're clearly supposed to disappear moments 
 later -- there are a lot of little things like this. Boss fights also seem very poorly cobbled together. 
 Most boss fights in the game simply revolve around you and the boss character running around an 
 enclosed area, hitting each other for a bit, then running off, hitting each other again, and then 
 running off, and so on. The bosses just aren't very smart, since you can basically pelt them with 
 attacks, run to the far side of the environment to recharge a bit, and go back without them ever 
 really running after you, or at least not very quickly.  

  X-Men manages to deliver a pretty good visual experience, although there's nothing too special 
 about it. The basic character models and animations are nicely detailed, as are a few of the environments. 
 There are a couple of cool levels in particular, such as the power-plant-at-sundown scenario Iceman 
 takes on at one point, as well as the sequence inside the Dark Cerebro machine from the 2nd movie. 
 There's also a fair share of rather mundane looking areas in the game, but generally speaking, 
 it's a pleasant enough game to look at. The most obnoxious visual aspect of X-Men, however, is 
 its cutscenes, or practical lack thereof. All the game's story sequences are presented with still-frame 
 shots of comic-book versions of the movie characters. You'll see these static characters awkwardly 
 move across the screen to do various actions, and speak to one another with no mouth movement whatsoever. 
 It doesn't even look so much like a comic book as it does the kind of purposely bad animation you'd 
 find on something like  Sealab 2021 , but without the purpose. Every once in a while the game does 
 go whole hog into the comic book style of transition, but it skips by each panel so fast that you 
 can't read a single line of what's being said. As if the story weren't confusing enough already... 

          X-Men beat-'em-ups can be great -- just look at the old X-Men Arcade Game. If the developers 
 had played that a few more times, maybe they'd have come up with something better than this trite 
 junk.     

  There are five home system versions of X-Men currently available, with iterations on the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, PC, and Xbox 360. The first four versions all look comparable to one another, 
 with the Xbox version perhaps looking the best of the bunch. All four really do look practically 
 the same, but the PC, GC and PS2 versions suffer from an erratic frame rate. The Xbox 360 version 
 is actually also comparable to the other four versions -- perhaps a little too comparable. To say 
 that on a standard-definition TV, the 360 version looks pretty close to the Xbox version would 
 be an understatement. They're practically identical, with only a slightly more noticeable bit of 
 color depth apparent on the 360 version. Upping to HD resolution does improve matters, especially 
 in terms of environmental detail, but it's not such a huge difference as to warrant the $60 price 
 tag (as opposed to $40 for the other console versions, and $30 for the PC version) . Suffice it 
 to say, the 360 version is pretty much a rip-off.  

  X-Men: The Official Game is ultimately an easily dismissible movie game to toss on the smoldering 
 pile of other cash-in movie games released over the years. Its existence is solely based on the 
 need to have an X-Men game to coincide with the hype surrounding the film, and it brings no interesting 
 gameplay, story, visual, or feature components to the table to make it worth your time. It's all 
 the more disappointing, considering that as of late, Activision has done well with the X-Men license 
 with games like the X-Men Legends series. You'd have to go all the way back to 2002 for something 
 like X-Men: Next Dimension to find a comparably lame use of the X-Men license to X-Men: The Official 
 Game, and trust us when we say that this is not something you ever want to go back to.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  so after i saw the movie i wanted to play this game so much!! so i got the game started it and 
 finished it after two days of non-stop playing...
  
  the graphics is bad.. i hate it so much, the sounds are ok but also got some problems... and now 
 also the gameplay.. so boring!! like what the hell?? only 3 charters aviable and its wolverine, 
 ice man, and another monster (forgot the name XD) anyway i love wolverine but hate the two other... 
 why cant i choose who to be from alot of charters??? not only that.. lets talk about the dumb story.. 
 the story is so stupid and boring.. nothing like the movie.. and you dont have special combos or 
 somthing only rage attacks and somthing like it.. this game is a disappointment boring and... i 
 dont know what to say... "total letdown"
  belive me you dont want to buy this aweful game its not worth the money.. if you want rent it.. 
 but dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Almost great. Too hard, it should have some cheat codes. I have to admit, i just can't pass of 
 the master mold interior (nightcrawler) level. Too hard!
  
  This game have an excellent story, but gameplay it's not so good. Boring after some time, too noisy 
 and mixed. However, it's fun, and that counts a lot.
  
  I think there are only a few character's controls, and the x-men have so much more powers! Activision 
 should think better before constructing a game based in famous series, comic books and movies.
 
  
  But the good thing is... you have fun in playing, and everytime you die, you wan't to start again, 
 and again, and again, until you complete the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually good, and it's a fun game. I found a lot of enjoyment playing! It's not the 
 longest game, but it's organized, equally balanced and fun! If you like X-men, this is the game 
 for you. There are 3 different characters to play as, Wolverine, Ice-man and Nightcrawler. Each 
 have different missions that include a lot of variety. The sound was excellent, and the music was 
 really good. Graphics were good too. This game is not a disappointment. The game features bonus 
 material if you unlock them by collecting things on missions. You will unlock things such as cool 
 costumes and bonus danger-room levels.
  The voices and graphics are very realistic, very well done, and the fighting moves and controls 
 were excellent. Overall a great game, well done, and in my opinion, you should definitely play 
 it!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playa1987
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a complete and utter MISTAKE, they should take this game and give more time and effort 
 to take it better, It starts out in a fight scene with sabertooth which wasn't exiciting to begin 
 with, and was very easy to beat. The combos and fighting moves are just plain and repetitive, especially 
 the ones of wolverine. Wolverines moves will make you wonder why they even made this game, IT IS 
 HORRIBLE!!!. The only moves that were even slightly amusing were the ones of nightcrawler, other 
 than that it is a total disaster. It fails in comparison with games like THE MATRIX PATH OF NEO, 
 which was a pretty average game but was WAY better than this game. This game is a dissapointment 
 and isn't worth buying or your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggasaurus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  I thought the game was very good, it looked like a low budget game with the cut scenes, but I thought 
 it was a very good, but it's an easy-hard game, you can fly with Iceman, kill with Wolverine, and 
 teleport behind enemy's back and keep punching them until they die with Night-crawler, not to mention 
 that in some levels storm zaps all the enemies within your screen for you in some levels. You fight 
 plenty of enemies and bosses and select your difficulty for each level. So, all and all it was 
 superb game but you think it was not so much what I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  A new X-men movie released that pretty much got mixed reactions on me and turned pretty much dissapointing. 
 Still I wanted to play the games to see if maybe they were better then the movie or something. 
 The GBA version is very awful so please don't even bother renting it because is way too bland. 
 Yet the consoles and PC version ain't that good either but at least better in some ways I guess. In 
 X-men 3 official game you get to play has Wolverine, Iceman and Nightcrawler. Yes it's suppose 
 to be an X-men 3 adaptation and yet characters like Nightcrawler, sabretooth and lady deathstrike 
 appear on the game. Oh well they at least give a reason why Nightcrawler is not in the movie. 
 
  
  Starting off is Wolverine and sadly is the worst. Wolverine levels are pretty much beating up every 
 enemy that appears on your way. Just slash all enemies with those claws until the mission is over. 
 But that's not the worst thing and not the big problem. The real problem is that Wolverine has 
 a very short amount of moves to attack with. The fury attack is pretty ok but you have to wait 
 for the meter to charge up so while that charges up you will have to keep slashing. The bosses 
 sadly are also pretty boring. It just consists of each other fighting with basic attacks and no 
 really good action going on. So if this game would have been an only Wolverine game it would have 
 become probably the most repetitive game out there. Luckily that's not the case here.
  
  Iceman is quite a bit different he's gameplay consists of sliding around through his own icebeam 
 power. While is an interesting take is not quite perfect to control and also feels too simple at 
 times. Mostly Iceman consists of shooting down enemies or taking out fire. And pretty much just 
 like Wolverine it get's repetitive and old too quickly.
  
  Last but best is Nightcrawler. If this game was only about Nightcrawler it would be really good. 
 Nightcrawler levels consists of doing acrobatic moves that some will find it similar to tomb raider 
 legend and prince of persia. Yet Nightcrawler's tletransportation gives more interesting twists 
 to it. There is also quite a lot of combat here but unlike Wolverine is actually fun and stylish. 
 Nightcrawler has cool moves plus attacking and teletransportation combinations are pretty sweet 
 to do. Sadly some levels will look pretty short and in the end you obligatory need to play Wolverine 
 and Iceman to be able to reach the nightcrawler missions.
  
  In terms of quality the graphics during gameplay are pretty impressive. The characters are ported 
 nicely to the game and overall it looks real enough. Sadly what takes down this good thing is the 
 cut scenes. The funny thing here is that the cut scenes deliver voice acting however the characters 
 don't actually move you just see a realistic drawing of them. Yes that makes it look like a comic 
 but if we are talking about a movie adaptation then give me moving cut scenes. Even x-men legends 
 1 and 2 have cut scenes with the characters moving and are really good.
  
  On the audio department the soundtrack is pretty good and fits with that great X-men feel to it. 
 The voices are ok yet sometimes they don't fit way too much on the character for some reason. It 
 can sometimes be hard to guess who is actually talking because you don't think the voice fits with 
 the character.
  
  Overall X-men: The official game is sadly another annoying cash in movie adaptation game that does 
 not reach the high standards that X-men Legends II establish. Is hard to really recommend this 
 game but if you are a die hard fan of wolverine and don't mind the rest of the characters then 
 you can rent it. However is not a good recommendation to buy and spend your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  X-men is real let down, in fact, I don't get that ! how could they make such a crappy game with 
 such ugly graphics and boring game play, while they know for sure that it won't sell at all. I 
 mean come onnn... !! that's called fooling the public. Right from the beginning you notice a real 
 demonstration of a three or four years back-dated game that has nothing to it but the title. Graphics 
 are the most important aspect of a game ( at least for me) , but this game is messing up everything 
 for me since the graphics are just damn ugly. Moreover, the game play is very very boring that 
 I felt I turned boring myself ! The sounds are themselves barely heard although I have got a good 
 sound card and 6 3D speakers. To say it all in one sentence: Don't even think of getting this game, 
 not even as a free gift. It sucks to the bottom ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  this game is just what you can call boring. it is fun for the first few minutes but you found out 
 really quickly that you do the same thing over and over again untill the end of the game run kill 
 200 enemies and run and kill some more and each level go from 5 to 10 minuts depending on how much 
 time it takes you to kill the enemies as they come by group of 20 or something. the game is not 
 extremely hard but not easy on the highest difficulty you will find yourself dying a lot on the 
 last difficulty not because the opponent is harder but because when they hit you it takes off way 
 more life. Overall this could have been a good game if it had been made more carefully. if you 
 want to fight the same opponents over and over again this is the game for you for the others dont 
 even come close to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Game is too small. Game Ended before its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before 
 its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on 
 there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before 
 its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on 
 there next game
  
  Game is too small. Game Ended before its even started.
  I hope they will put something more on there next game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitnessrower
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  that game has nothing to do with the movie. the missions in the game are different from the movie. they 
 have something familiar but this not too much. the graphics are very good and i like them. the sound 
 is also very good ,the controls are very easy and anyone can learn them. If you have a joystick 
 its much better and easier. But the scenario sucks i think! the missions sometimes are funny and 
 sometimes are a little confusing. its not the best xmen game ever and probably not "THE OFFICIAL 
 MOVIE GAME". i think you should rent it and not buy it. its not the best game i ever played and not 
 the worst. I played much better games and this game is one of the last positions in the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  With X-Men 3: The Last Stand coming out in May, it is only natural that Activision create a tie-in 
 to the movie, and thus X-Men 3: The Official Game came to be. The game serves as a bridge between 
 X2: X-Men United and X3: The Last Stand but more importantly, it addresses why Nightcrawler is 
 missing in the third film. The story is supposedly written by Chris Claremont but Zak Penn must've 
 came and butchered it cause I know Claremont can come up with a way better story. Anyway, it deals 
 with the repercussions of Stryker's experiments on mutants, particularly with his son Jason who 
 has developed into 2 distinct personalities, one good and one evil. The evil one decides to carry 
 on his father's vision of wiping out all the mutants, unleashing the Sentinels. Yea, I know, it 
 just lost me with the whole split personality thing that I was half-expecting the Hulk to pop up 
 somewhere. Visually, everything looks nice and all the character models seem detailed. The environments 
 could've been more varied and some are plain boring. The sound acting is good, with the actors 
 reprising their respective roles but the gameplay leaves something to be desired. Mainly you're 
 just button-mashing your way through the sequences. And the cutscenes should've been full blown 
 3D cinematics. However, we're just treated to awkward still frames of the characters. Boss fights 
 are okay but mainly the same enemies are thrown at you over and over again. The upgrade system 
 with the mutations is an okay idea but overall this is a game for young kids and really hardcore 
 X-Men fans. Also, for some reason you can only play as Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Iceman. My 
 guess is that those are the only characters who was guaranteed to be voiced by the movie stars 
 so thats why you only play as those three. Anyway casual gamers should really ignore this game. 
 Unless you have a kid below age 10, you wouldn't want to play this game. If you do want to see 
 why its bad, I suggest you rent one of the console versions. While not a total disaster, Activision 
 could have done better, since their recent X-Men game, X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse was 
 a classic action RPG comic book game. I suppose I shouldn't blame them though, most movie tie-in 
 games haven't really been great due to rushed development schedules. 
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duvendor
Rating: 2
Date: May 23, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  3 steps back on 2003 and this game could be the game of the year. Not! Because its looks like some 
 old pc game of that year?. Even wolverines revenge lame game its better than this piece of crap. 
 For me just the 2 initials levels are enough to say that the game lacks on graphics, gameplay and 
 challenges. This game was made on a rush to hit 
  the streets along with the movie and make no justice to the X-men saga. Poor graphics trying to 
 capture the faces of the real actors. At least the voices are good. Maybe the sound deserves a 
 better note. Where are the CGI openings? Or some movie clip to introduce the story? Just some comic-book 
 like art and nothing else? Sorry X-mens Fans, but this game is not even at the feet of that great 
 heroes, that great movies. Dont spent money on this gabage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manual80
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 21, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, what can i say about X-men: The official Game it's a nice game if your really into the x-men 
 franchise. You start out with a introduction to the story that suppose to be catchy but i think 
 it's lame and it's not helping the game. Also the first "missions" are uninteresting: fighting 
 saber-tooth been there done that. One thing that i liked was ice-men and the way he moves on his 
 own private "frozen highway". The graphics are also a bit outdated ,seem the same as X-men Legends 
 2 from a year ago. The voice acting is a strong point they have i think all the actors from the 
 movie in it. All in all i have to say that it's a standard game, nothing special and not worth 
 your time unless you are a big fan of the X-men franchise. Why i'm so disappointed? I'm waiting 
 for a good game based on a comic but they never get it right those people (hulk, fantastic four, 
 x-men) . It's a shame because there is so much potential to make a great game. If it was me i would 
 make a deal with valve and use the half life 2 engine.... but that's me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all I must say I try to review games as objectively as possible. I'm not a fan of the 
 comics, but I really enjoyed the movies and I'm really looking forward the X3 movie. I was excited 
 about getting this game, that would hopefully provide info on the upcoming blockbuster and provide 
 some fun. My first hope was fulfilled but the latter was left disappointely dry and scarced.
  
  X-Men: The Official Game is set between the ending of the 2nd movie X2 and the upcoming X3: 
 The Last Stand. The game is purposed to fill the holes between both movies, as well as why Nightcrawler 
 does not appear in X3. X-Men: The Official Game concentrates on three of the X-Men only, who are 
 Wolverine, Iceman and Nightcrawler. Each character has its unique gameplay style, whereas Wolverine 
 is just bam'n'slash, Nightcrawler on stealth (but is actually the stronger fighter in the game) 
 and Iceman can only travel on a icepath, which is really cool and enjoyable. There is not much 
 freedom in X-Men: The Official Game... it's pretty much about pressing the H, J and K keys in a 
 timely fashion. There is about 2-3 combos per character, so it's not really about strategy... the 
 gameplay approaches an arcade style more than anything. 
  
  Camera angles are often a problem in those type of games but it isn't for X-Men: The Official Game. 
 You can have a full 3D view and rotate with the mouse or arrow keys in the direction you chose. 
 Wolverine's probably the most boring character to play as all he can do is jump around and slash. 
 The gameplay becomes a little more interesting (it's all very relative for those types of games...) 
 with Nightcrawler and Iceman. Those stunts seen in X2 by the teleporter can be replicated with 
 ease, and it's pretty darn cool ! Nightcralwer is arguably the strongest fighter in the game... 
 his health bar and regeneration isn't great but if mastered correctly nightcrawler will never take 
 a hit... ever. You just have to use the semicolon (;) target key, and then use the K key to teleport 
 behind enemy to enemy, using either the J or L key to punch or L. Nightcrawler's combos are the 
 most interesting, as he dispatches a group of ennemy amazingly fast. 
  
  Iceman's gameplay is also quite interesting. He moves on a constant icepath (automatically generated) , 
 which means you are free to move in any direction. Your main opponent in the campaing will be Pyro, 
 chasing his fire raptors around. He got a cool icebeam, an ice shield and some "ice kolts", whuch 
 is an ice projectice weapon. Using the targeting system (l-shift key) it's easy to shoot down targets... 
 sometimes much too easy.
  
  The evolution of the three characters is based on the level of difficulty of the level (you get 
 to chose before each) . Depending of the level (easy, average and hard) you get to unlock 1,2 or 
 3 genes per level in the particular area you want... for wolverine for example, you can unlock 
 gene sequences for his health, brawling capabilities, precision, etc. It doesn't make much of a 
 difference though, and you do not get additional powers, so although the system mechanism is original, 
 its effects are left to be desired. Sometimes the fights can be pretty hard (especially for Wolverine) 
 so at least, there's a challenge. 
  
  There is not much to say about the graphics other than that they're ok. The cliparts between each 
 missions are original and fun to watch. The graphic engine is nothing too impressive, at least 
 not compared to the latest hot games like Oblivion. The sounds on the other hand are a definite 
 notch better, especially the voice-overs which were recorded by the actual actors of the movies. 
 The music was taken from the original soundtrack, which is good as well. All-in-all the artistic 
 side of X-Men: The Official Game is ok, much better than any previous X-Men games I have played 
 in the past (Apocalypse as well.)
  
  Unfortunately, X-Men has its shares of frustrations. The replay value is quite poor, the levels 
 are about all the same for each characters and the gameplay, although made interesting for Nightcrawler 
 and Iceman, all comes to the same thing all the time... which is disabling switches, then killing 
 a swarm of ennemies, rinse and repeat. Wolverine's campaing is just boring and isn't creative at 
 all. It will definitely appeal to the X-Men fans, for it's insight of the movies or the short but 
 fun gameplay of some characters. The game is pretty short (25 missions) which will be done fast. 
 You get to unlock special content and missions by collecting Cerebro files and X-Men secret folders, 
 which, althought not that great, does add a value to X-Men: The Official Game.
  
  All-in-all X-Men: The Official Game is an average game. Not the disaster one might believe it could 
 have been, but not as good as it ought to be. It's short lifetime might push the casual gamer to 
 think again about the purchase, the X-Men fan surely, regardless of the reviews will buy it. X-Men: 
 The Official Game has its moments and can certainly be entertaining, not not for a very long time. 
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
