-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/xmenlegendsiiriseofapocalypse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great cast of playable characters from the Brotherhood and the X-Men.
 Makes excellent use of the extensive X-Men mythology.
 Almost fully destructible environments.
 Good music and voice acting.
 Tons of extras to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sound effects are a bit weak.
 Awkward interface.
 Frequent load times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,305 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 20, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if you're only a passing fan of the comic book series, and even if you've already played the 
 first game to death, you'll have a lot of fun with X-Men Legends II. 

  A good game plays by a set of clearly defined rules; a great game gives you plenty of clever opportunities 
 to break those rules. X-Men Legends 2: Rise of Apocalypse breaks the rules by letting you create 
 an unlikely mutant dream team of heroes and villains from a cast of characters that includes the 
 legendary X-Men as well as Magnetos sinister band, the Brotherhood. In most respects, the game 
 doesnt differ much from the first title in the series; but the novelty of teaming up the good 
 guys and bad guys to go after the  really  bad guys is enough to make this game enjoyable in its 
 own right.  

          Brotherhood and X-Men unite to fight Apocalypse, one of the baddest mutants around.    

  The story in X-Men Legends II kicks off with a great rendered cutscene that shows Magneto, Mystique, 
 and Sabertooth teaming up with Wolverine, Cyclops, and Storm to free the enslaved Professor Xavier. 
 Even if youre only a passing fan, you know that Magneto and Professor X arent exactly best friends 
 anymore. However, the Brotherhood and the X-Men are forced to set aside their differences in order 
 to focus their collective attention on the newest (oldest) bad guy in town, Apocalypse. Actually, 
 to call Apocalypse a threat is an understatement -- hes one of the most powerful mutants in the 
 Marvel universe. The game picks up shortly after Apocalypse has all but destroyed the mutant haven 
 known as Genosha. Eventually, Apocalypse kidnaps four mutants, and with the help of the crackpot 
 geneticist Mr. Sinister, he plans to extract the mutants' powers and use them to make himself even 
 more powerful. One of the kidnapped mutants happens to be Magneto's son, Quicksilver. As you can 
 imagine, that really pisses Magneto off, so he sets out to defeat Apocalypse. And thus begins a 
 tale filled with all the dramatic twists, turns, treachery, and triumph you'd expect from a comic 
 book story.  

  The game is divided into five acts, which conveniently translates to a fight with one of the Horsemen 
 of Apocalypse in each act, with the big guy waiting for you at the end. Of course, there are all 
 kinds of minibosses and goons for you to fight as well, and the game draws deeply from the extensive 
 X-Men mythos that Marvel has woven together over the past 40 years. Whereas the first X-Men Legends 
 game focused on a single character, this one focuses on the relationship between Brotherhood and 
 X-Men. In fact, Magma -- the character introduced in the first game -- doesn't even show up here at 
 all. You probably won't miss her too much though, since you have access to 15 playable characters 
 from the beginning of the game, with three secret characters to unlock later. If you're playing 
 the PC version of the game, you'll get Pyro and Sabertooth right from the start as well. In all 
 the versions you'll see familiar faces like Wolverine, Magneto, Gambit, and Juggernaut, and slightly 
 less-well-known characters like Toad, Bishop, and Sunfire.  

  In addition to the playable characters, there are a ton of recognizable heroes and villains who 
 make appearances as enemies or nonplayable characters. One of the best parts of X-Men Legends II 
 is the way you can mix and match Brotherhood and X-Men characters to achieve a powerful -- if unlikely -- team 
 of characters. With 15 characters, there are plenty of different combinations to try out. If that 
 isn't enough for you, you can also unlock dozens of different skins in the game. Some of the skins 
 look ridiculous, but that pretty much comes with the territory when you're a superhero.  

  In addition to the game's look and power combinations, the assorted characters will elicit different 
 reactions from nonplayable characters. You'll often have to speak with Forge to purchase items, 
 and if you're controlling a Brotherhood character when you speak to him, Forge will be much less 
 friendly than if you approach as one of the X-Men. These character interactions don't affect gameplay 
 at all, and there are only a couple of canned reactions from each character -- but this makes for 
 some great back-and-forth between the two teams.  

          There are 15 playable characters, with three more to unlock after you beat the game.   
   

  The gameplay in X-Men Legends II is the same as in the previous game. You control a party of four 
 characters, though you can only directly control one character at a time. But you can easily switch 
 characters on the fly with the press of a button, and you'll often need to do so, because some 
 of the puzzles in the game require the specific abilities of a certain mutant. You might need Iceman 
 to put out a fire, or Magneto to generate a metal bridge across a gap, for example. For the most 
 part, though, you just run around various levels, beating the crap out of bad guys and collecting 
 items and experience. This time around, all of the item drops are random, which makes the collection 
 aspect of the game much more interesting. As you gain experience, your characters will level up 
 and become stronger, and they will learn new skills. You can allocate all the experience and skill 
 points manually if you want, or you can set an option to have the points automatically distributed 
 as you earn them.  

  Each character has several different skills based on their mutant powers. There are melee, boost, 
 projectile, traps, and more. Each character can also learn a couple of super skills, which not 
 only look really cool, but are also extremely powerful. Cyclops has a super beam attack that can 
 hit multiple targets; Wolverine has a spinning radial attack that does heavy damage; and Magneto 
 has a metal attack in which he crushes everything in sight by manipulating the metal objects in 
 the environment. For the most part, you don't actually need to use these skills to beat the game -- but 
 they make it a lot quicker and easier to deal with hordes of enemies. And some of the boss fights 
 in this game are truly epic; they just wouldnt be as entertaining without an all-out clash of 
 mutant powers.     

  When playing the game single-player, all but one of the members of your party will be artificial 
 intelligence-controlled. It isn't as bad as it sounds, though, because here you can customize the 
 AI by setting parameters for aggressiveness, primary moves, and when to heal. Each character can 
 be programmed individually, so you can have Cyclops and Iceman hang back and use ranged attacks 
 while Wolverine and Juggernaut go in and tear things up. Even with these options, the AI isn't 
 brilliant or anything, but it usually stays out of the way.  

          The gameplay in X-Men Legends II is nothing new, but it's still fun.     

  Of course, 
 the best way to play X-Men Legends II is cooperatively, with a few friends. All the console versions 
 of the game offer four-player coop play, so up to three other players can pick up a controller 
 and jump in on the action at any time while you're playing. Multiplayer can be a lot of fun as 
 you and your friends combine powers to plow through room after room of enemies. The only problem 
 with co-op play is that the camera zooms out to keep all players in the frame at the same time. 
 So if you are on opposite sides of the screen, the view will be so far away that you can't really 
 see the action. But with a bit of communication between players, you can keep things moving along 
 just fine. Also, if one character gets stuck, you can just hit a button to teleport back to the 
 party. If you don't have a friend nearby, the PC, Xbox, and PlayStation 2 versions of the game 
 all have online support for up to four players to fight through the campaign cooperatively. We 
 did notice some major lag when playing the PlayStation 2 version online. The Xbox and PC versions 
 ran a bit more smoothly, but the lag was still noticeable. Also, the lengthy load times tend to 
 break up the flow of the game, which is especially frustrating when playing online because the 
 game pauses any time a player accesses the character menu.  

  X-Men Legends II doesn't look much better than the first one, but the environments are a bit more 
 varied. You'll fight in a jungle, a factory, an ancient Egyptian temple, and even on top of a flying 
 dirigible. The environments feel complex and huge, but most of the paths loop back on themselves, 
 so you won't get lost or hit a dead end very often. Plus, there's a minimap with an arrow to point 
 you to exactly where you need to go. Every stage is filled with all kinds of stuff for you to destroy, 
 from glowing mushrooms and giant boulders to barrels and furniture. You can also knock down walls 
 and destroy equipment, which really makes the battles feel chaotic and over the top. You can punch 
 enemies through walls, smash rocks over their heads, and basically destroy every single thing in 
 your path. Or, you can just pick up the enemies and chuck them over the nearest railing and watch 
 them fall to their doom. It seems simple, but in practice it's undeniably entertaining to watch 
 Juggernaut or Colossus run into a group of bad guys and start tossing them around like rag dolls. 
 Toward the end of the game the levels start to feel the same, and the puzzles are never quite complex 
 or challenging. It isn't a major problem here, though, since this game is all about combat anyway. 
 The character models look fairly detailed and colorful, but there are still only a few animations 
 for each character. As for the different versions of the game, the PC version looks a bit sharper 
 and more detailed than the rest, while the Game Cube version looks a bit more blurry than the others. 
 The graphical differences between PlayStation 2 and Xbox are negligible.  

  The one area where X-Men Legends II could use some cleaning up is the interface. The menus fill 
 the screen with text that isn't arranged intuitively at all. Checking your stats or equipping new 
 items is much more of a chore than it should be. You probably won't want to spend much time in 
 the menus anyway, though, because they take a long time to load. It isn't nearly as bad on the 
 Xbox and PC versions of the game, but on the PlayStation 2 you actually have to look at a load 
 screen if you want to check the status of your party, and then look at another load screen to get 
 back to the action. It's especially annoying, because in a game like this you want to be able to 
 tweak stats or equip items quickly and easily.  

  The sound in X-Men Legends II is capable but not particularly notable. The music is your average 
 orchestral score that doesn't get stuck in your head or anything, but it sits nicely in the background 
 and kicks into high gear when the tension is up. The sound effects are fairly muted and there are 
 only a few of them. You'll hear the same footsteps throughout the entire game and the same smashing-barrel 
 sound over and over again. The voice acting is campy but well done, although some of the characters 
 sound a bit silly. Professor Xavier is excellently voiced by Patrick Stewart, but Rogue sounds 
 a bit too much like Dolly Parton and Juggernaut sounds like a dirty imitation of Wolfman Jack. 

          The interface could definitely use some work to make it quicker and easier to navigate. 
     

  Overall, X-Men Legends II is a definite step up from its predecessor. It doesn't do anything new 
 or groundbreaking in terms of gameplay mechanics, but the cast of characters and the story are 
 more than enough to make it worth playing. The game takes about 25 hours to finish, but when you 
 do, you can play again on a different difficulty setting. Better yet, you can try playing through 
 with a new combination of characters to see which combos work best. Even if you're only a passing 
 fan of the comic book series, and even if you've already played the first game to death, you'll 
 have a lot of fun with X-Men Legends II.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PetterJones
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  X-Men Legends is a good game based on the kind it was build in, it's easy to play when you catch 
 the buttons and gives the player a fantastic variety of characters that is so huge you can't choose 
 which one you're going to pick. But even so, i have to say it's not all of this while you continue 
 to play. 
  
  The problem begins where the biggest quality starts, the characters. There are a huge variety of 
 x-men to choose, and while you are progressing in the game, more characters appears, but the problem 
 is that they're in the same level you start the game with. So that leaves you three choices, you 
 don't play with them and uses 4 characters during all the game (that is a waste) , you use cheats 
 to make the character in the level you want (and i think you agree that play a game with cheats 
 is like eating something with no flavor) or you go in some preview level and start fighting random 
 enemies till you are in the level you want (that is a pain in the ass) . For that particular reason 
 this game goes from good to boring in a sec.
  
  I think this would be solved easily if they did just like KOTOR did, the experience goes to all 
 characters, not only for the ones your with, that way the player can choose anyone anytime and 
 don't be with some character that is very inferior to the rest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: In X-men legends 2 it tells the storyline of an uneasy alliance between the X-Men and 
 the hated Brotherhood in a fight to reclaim Earth from the rising power from Apocalypse's grasp. 
 You are now no londer limited to just playing the X-men characters but also the BrotherHood characters 
 as well. The cast of characters isn't entirely complete; certain prominent characters on both teams 
 are unavailable for various reasons. No doubt in cases such as the Blob's, this was due to the 
 lack of powers Impressive gameplay enhancements include more than double the superpowers and customization 
 capabilities though the basic ideas from the first game has not changed much, the debut of several 
 new playable characters, over 100 diverse types of enemies. The PC version also has a couple extras 
 like Pyro and Sabretooth, and all platforms have unlockable characters like Deadpool and Iron Man. 
 Also the main differences lie in how powers are structured. No longer are abilities carbon copies 
 of each other with just different names tagged on. Raven Software has now varied things up with 
 different types of mutant power attacks varying in power, how they do damage, the area and direction. 
 So you pretty much go though diffrent levels fighting your way though Apocalype's people, leveling 
 up, powering up, getting stronger, until you reach and fight Apocalype's himself. All in all the 
 gameplay is very addictive and satisfiying.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game have vastly improved from the first game. They are more detailed 
 and some how colored better some how to not look so "happy" to me some how. Explotions and other 
 effects are well done in the game and over things runs quite smoothly.
  
  Sound: The sound is really quite good, sound effects sound good and so does the voice acting. Thats 
 all I have to say.
  
  Value: This is a really good game with good replay value you can play over again with diffrent 
 charaters. Also I do belive you can have a friend to help you go though this game aswell which 
 is a good feature. All in all this X-men game has been one of the better ones that have come out 
 this decade. I give this game 8.5 out 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDeadP00lx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Many of us have grown up with the X-Men, so this was a must-play for me. The fact that you can 
 run around and use various powers as (most) of your favorite X-Men is cool in and of itself.
  
  With a top-down view (and an ability to zoom in as well) like the first game, it offers a unique 
 dungeon-style RPG game.
  
  I love how you can level up and distribute the powers, but to be honest, I usually let the computer 
 automatically do it since I seemed to level up every 15 minutes, and it gets tedious to manually 
 level up 4 characters that you regularly use. Then when you use new characters and bring them up 
 to pace, it can be a lot of work (although some people really enjoy this aspect of customizing) .
 
  
  It's a good game with cool artwork, smashable environments, and good voice acting (has Patrick 
 Stewart EVER failed?) . The story is classically comic, and goes to a lot of your favorite comic 
 locales.
  
  My pet peeves: can your team be anymore up your ass? I mean I can't tell you HOW many times I've 
 been stuck in a corner or stuck on something because the other 3 are literally RIGHT ON TOP of 
 you. Couldn't the developers have made them stand back a bit? I mean WHY do they have to be on 
 my heels? It gets really annoying after a while. I would have liked to use all the X-Men but there's 
 just too many of them. This isn't inherently bad I suppose, but I had no incentive to use anyone 
 other than who I was leveling up with (with an exception of swapping a character here and there) . 
 Maybe some forced scenarios where you had to use other characters you normally wouldn't? Could 
 I please carry more than 20 items? I mean really! Last but not least, the camera zoom is useless, 
 when you're zoomed in close you can't see much around you, it tends to just center in on your character. 
 I suppose it's not bad for a big battle, but makes it impossible to effectively navigate a map.
 
  
  All in all, this was a great game, and I had a sense of satisfaction after completing it. For me 
 it was pure nostalgia, being lost again in the world of Marvel, and running around like the superhero 
 you always wanted to be. The RPG element of leveling the characters and choosing your items is 
 superb, and a unique twist to seemingly pure comic-type hack and slash. There are some minor glitches/bugs, 
 but nothing that takes away from solid game play.
  
  Whether you're a die hard follower of comics or just a fan of Marvel, or RPGs, you don't want to 
 miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  When you watch the x-men movies or read x-men comics you have nothing to do with the story. But 
 here you could actually be an x-man itself. Not only an x-man but also a member of the brotherhood. 
 cool isn't it???????
  The game has got some new features than it's predecessor. And boast of a huge collection of playable 
 characters. I basically started out with wolverine and immediately found out that he is now very 
 special. I don't know why people like him a lot. 
  
  but the best character you can select is the night crawler. he is awesome and has powers beyond 
 anyone. once his level reaches 30, his super power that is the master of chaos is lethal. you can 
 easily defeat any boss using it in one single shot. He is also very useful when getting to blocked 
 places. and the final battle with apocalypse and his horsemen will be easy to deal with is you 
 have him. 
  Best team 
  to take: - Night Crawler + Magneto + Wolverine + (Juggernaut / colossus) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zain_45
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  after playing x-men legend on the ps2 i just tried out this game and was pretty happy........... 
 the customization of each character was good and there is a vast number of characters to be played 
 with along with some extra characters like iron man and professor x.
  
  It was fun while playing it and after finishing the game once i played it again to unlock the extra 
 characters and then i think this is the 3rd time iam playing the game with the unlocked extra characters. 
 The only thing missing i feel is an "VERY HARD MODE" as i am playing in hard mode and once i finish 
 this i dont think i will play it again until unless a "very hard mode" appears in the difficulty 
 setting but i havent heard of this but except this the game is good with pretty good graphics which 
 blend well in the gameplay and the gameplay is also pretty good andthe danger room courses are 
 fun as well.
  
  Bottom Line is for the price (now it has become very cheap atleast in Idia) this game rocks............ 
 definitely check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I will admit that I am an X-men fan so I was able to notice things related to the X-men 
 that probably a normal gamer wouldn't have appreciated.
  
  Comparing to Marvel Ultimate Alliance, I found X-Men legends II had a better story line and a much 
 better soundtrack. It tells the tale of a dark and grim future thanks to the threat of Apocalypse 
 and the music tends to get sadder as the game progresses. 
  
  The CGI movies were great and the chats between characters before missions are very entertaining 
 to watch - it really gets you into the game. The graphics aren't spectacular but I'm giving the 
 graphics a 10/10 score they did a fantastic job to make the game run on very low spec machines. 
 Mine was a crappy machine but it ran so smoothly - I used a 32MB vga card.
  
  The sound effects were real arcade style effects - perfect for the game as it was a real beat em 
 up sorta game. 
  
  The voice acting was great, and if you have certain characters in the stage - they will say extra 
 things when you just leave them alone (e. g. Juggernaut, Jean and Cyclops together - Juggs tries 
 to flirt with Jean and Cyclops gets jealous) .
  
  Gameplay is generally easy but it takes skill to pull off some of the combos. Because of such combos, 
 the game does push the average gamer instead of monotonous boring attack moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I love the fact that the characters are each unique, it takes quite a while to learn them, quite 
 a bit or re-playability, great boss fights, it takes a while to get used to controlling the game 
 using mouse and keyboard, but I'm pretty sure I've mastered it, I can pull out plenty of combos 
 in little time! Storyline is pretty good, graphics are nice and don't require for a powerful system. 
 The sound is average although doing the combos sound satisfying, and the dialogues, especially 
 because of the voice of Patrick Stewart, are very well done. Some of the music is quite god, the 
 rest of it is average. Also I didn't give it 10/10 on everything just because I love the game, 
 I tried to be realistic in my grades. And excuse me if my review is unorganized!
  
  X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse = Excellent Game! (maybe the gold medal) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdamy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Such a great adventure game by marvel characters...... as i like those characters: CYCLOPS , WOLVERINE 
 , STORM , MAGNETO , SABERTOOTH ....... JEAN GREY , SCARLET WITCH , SUNFIRE that i have newly known 
 in this awesome game. And having X-MEN and BROTHERHOOD working together is great thing which make 
 it so great......... But i think it would be more greater if they could have done something special 
 like putting SPIDERMAN in it, it would be coool...... i thank MARVEL that had made a great game 
 in PC ......... all in all it is very great game and i like it so much. and i hope they would make 
 agret game like this awesome game...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After reading several reviews which described XMEN Legends 2 as the best of the series, I decided 
 to give it a go. I was sorely disappointed. From the get go, I found the graphics to be of poor 
 quality and the game play confusing (in the end, I never figured out how to assign special mutant 
 powers) . In the wake of recent Activision games that I've played, such as Spiderman 3 or Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance, I found XMEN 2 to really pale in comparison. In fact, I quit playing after an 
 hour or so. This game lacks substance and most players will lose interest very shortly after the 
 initial game start. Rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenjiSama
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  X-men Legends II is a fantastic game, who countains lots of the classics games with a beautiful 
 new way of playing, not only because i'm a fanatic by X-men, but because it really make you part 
 of the game and you only will stop play when some one hit you with a hammer! It have lots of diferent 
 characters, this is why we can play it lots of times without lose our will. The powers of each 
 mutant is good worked and lots of combinations make better and enjoyable, good movies and stories 
 still with this series, but i have to admit, when i saw the X-mens and the brotherhoods fighting 
 togheter in this second of the series i cry for a week. The graphics are really good and enjoyable, 
 the sound is nothing to be proud but not to by hated, the time of playing is acceptbled, the only 
 thing that desapoint me is that the game dont is a really good challenge, really not difficult 
 to win... Well, all of i saw in this game makes it go to my top 5, and he will still in there for 
 some time i think, so, everyone who have a chance to play it NEED to do it, really need! (sorry 
 for any problems with the english guys =/, see ya!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firerock1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When i first see this game i thought is extremely LAME game and wanted to buy ultimate spider man 
 since they are the same price and release the same date. But i saw the high rating which move me 
 to buy the game. overall this game is a extremly excellent game. what really made this game great 
 is the rpg style and the number of moves each character possesed. And u get to use brotherhood characters 
 whcih x emn games does not have!!!!!! i seriously recommed all x men fans to buy this game or rent 
 it!!!! what is onli lacking in the game is more bad guys!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyly_kuakua
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay :
  Lots of characters to choose and each has a quite long list of mutant powers. Pure hack-n-slash 
 like Diablo II, item looting, level ups, and gears for your character. You could carry just 20 
 gears (excluding potions) at a time (you may sell it or put it into your stash) but fortunately 
 the loot doesn't frequently dropped which means you doesn't have to teleport back oftenly. Gears 
 are divided into only 3 areas, which for me is not enough for an RPG. This game also don't change 
 the appearance of characters based on their gears, but it could be changed via skins that are unlocked 
 as you progress. Legends II has the combo system which could be easily executed if playing with 
 a friend or purely luck if you play it alone.
  
  Graphic
  The PC version is certainly looked the best. This game is not resource hungry like DOOM3 so I guess 
 a decent setup would enough. The graphic is good, solid animation and also CG video clips. IMHO 
 if they make this game just a 'little' more violence (e. g body splitting from Wolverine's claws 
 or melting from Cyclops's ray) would add a little umph for Legends II.
  
  Sound
  Ok for me, but some sound effects are quite louder (e. g the 'ching' while in/out from a menu) than 
 the rest, which could annoy you a little.
  
  Other than that i don't think this game has a good replayability unless you want to test the last 
 character and the highest difficulty that you'll unlock after a 1st run through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CajunExplosion316
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - There have been some improvements and changes since the first game. First of all and 
 most apparent you can now use members of the brotherhood, however this comes at the price of missing 
 members of the original game, such as Psylocke. Also there have been bonuses added such as secret 
 characters, upgrades, and etc. Also a much wider variety of moves to choose from. (8)
  
  Graphics - Hmm, still cell-shaded. While I'm not its biggest fan, It actually works well for this 
 game, because I imagine otherwise it would become very easy to get lost in all the action, so it's 
 a good thing they stand out. However It could have been better. Also the cut scenes are nice to 
 look at, while some of the real time cut scenes... well... they can be strange at times... (8)
 
  
  Sound - The voices are very well done, as are most of the sound affects. The only thing I guess 
 I didn't like is all the grunting, since it becomes repetitive after some time. However some of 
 the writing is good. I'm bored, I'm really bored. Like the kind of bored you get when your playing 
 golf . Also the exchange between Deadpool and Deadpool was very well done. (8)
  
  Value - More reason to play this game longer now, also the online is a nice touch (8)
  
  Tilt- 
 A must for the mutant in all of us... or human juggernaut... or Iron Man... (9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriley84
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  It had almost all not even close to all but close to all of the charaters. if you ask me it had 
 all of the coolest ones that count in a good game but it needed to have some better moves for the 
 charaters but i guess thats what you could say the next one is for that they are going to come 
 out with. I did mess up though and play the 2nd one before i played the 1st one. I need to get 
 the first one. It was a great game with a lot of action and i enjoyed playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game had potential as long as I was playing single player. Even the kiddies will like the 
 single play because you don't have to know a thing about RPGs and you can win this game. If you 
 like role playing games this wasn't bad until... Well once I got to the multi play co op. Then 
 it all went down hill from there. Can't run a dedicated server for LAN party. Must have an internet 
 connection. During multi play, party must stay close together so that really hurts the game play 
 even for the little while your online. No multiplay saves. I basically hate multi play and so I 
 kinda hate this game too. I mean how hard can it be to make a good co-op multi play role playing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tzimisce656
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  There is really something great about playing superhero RPGs. Maybe its just because the idea seems 
 novel. Or perhaps because everyone has dreamed about being their favorite superhero at some point 
 in time. Well X-men Legends 2 is one of the best games to offer this. NOthing feels as good as 
 using Magneto (a favorite) to lay waste to a legion of mercenaries or all of the walls inside a 
 base. In fact destroyable environments later in the game are a real treat. More games should allow 
 you to smashing your way about without all of that stupid pathfinding. Organizing your perfect 
 superhero (or supervillian) team is a fun activity too. Being able to select mutants from the X-men 
 and Brotherhood (Magneto's mutants) is almost a sadistic pleasure. The roster of possible mutants 
 is vaste and grows as you play the game more (Deadpool is in there somewhere) . Then off you go 
 fighting, blasting, jumping, flying and teleporting through the games wide range of levels. Facing 
 off against some of the X-Mens' most sinister foes. Trust me you will be addicted before you can 
 say Holy Sh*t Logan! . It just grabs you like a good comic book (yes there are good comics still) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  X-men Legends 2 rise of the apocalipse is a mervel in itself. All your favorite x-men are here 
 including some new x-men youve never heard of.
  
  This is a face pace game and id advise you to go buy a joystick for best experience. The controls 
 are not so difficult but takes time to master
  
  This game has great graphics allot of things are breakable the sounds are nice and the powers looks 
 awsome. Character customization can be a bit time consuming but if you dont want to bother with 
 that the system has a great A. I configuration to do it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The X-Men strike again in this second installment of the X-Men Legends series. This time the X-Men 
 and the Brotherhood must battle Apocalypse and stop him from gaining god-like power to control 
 the world. You'll also face hordes of X-Men baddies, both popular and obscure. The story is standard 
 comic book stuff, but its amazingly coherent given the large cast of characters it has to deal 
 with. The visuals of the game is similar to the one used in Ultimate Spider-Man, making everything 
 seem like they popped right out of the comic book. Sound is also great with the voice actors doing 
 good jobs with the X-Men characters. Some of it sounds a little cheesy and amateurish but it's 
 only a minor annoyance. The music is forgettable since its standard action music. What really makes 
 this game stand out is the wide variety of playable characters. You can choose four different X-Men 
 or Brotherhood characters and duke it out with all the bosses, of which there are many. You can 
 even mix and match such as putting Wolverine and Magneto on the same team! Every character features 
 an amazing array of powers that you can upgrade though all this makes part of the game unbalanced 
 as some characters feel too weak or too strong. I really must applaud Activision and Raven Software 
 for doing extensive research into all of the X-Men characters taking advantage of the comics' rich 
 history and characters, giving you a solid story combined with amazing fight scenes and combos. 
 A few problems with the game is that the camera can be a little frustrating and the the cutscenes 
 aren't really rendered at high resolution. Also, it does get repetitive since the game features 
 "Diablo-style" gameplay with you clicking on enemies a lot. Despite these issues, X-Men Legends 
 II is a great action/adventure Role-Playing Game for all X-Men fans and casual gamers alike, and 
 is a definite must buy. 
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, the graphics are fab, so is the fighting, the learning curve & the whole 
 basis. But I do have to admit a lot of the fighters do fight very similar & the special attacks 
 are kinda yous less+the bosses difficulty is either really easy or really hard, no midleground. 
 I like the story but apart from the joining of factions & dialogue parts you don't need to know 
 it. What is also good is the difference between characters skills, some are powerful & great at 
 close range Melee but a bit slow & others have a lower stamina but are faster & can hold back for 
 ranged fighting which makes you need to think carefully about which characters you choose rather 
 than your favourite ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse was the X-Men game I had been hoping would be made. It combined 
 a great storyline, fantastic character handling, wonderful graphics and music, and best of all, 
 loads of playable X-Men! Finally, a game understood the concept that the X-Men were a huge team 
 of mutants, and allowed the player to choose which X-Men to play as.
  
  Not only were there many X-Men to choose from, the player was able to control four X-Men at a time 
 (one directly and the other three through AI) , which took the concept from the comics that the 
 X-Men fight as a team, and transferred it to X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse very well. 
 The player can pick four X-Men whose abilities best suit each individual level, and play as any 
 of the four during the game. As each character was used more and more, the experience level rose, 
 which allowed the player to improve different attributes of the individual characters, from strength, 
 to mutant abilities.
  
  Since the X-Men comics have been around for quite some time, the X-Men have been drawn in various 
 costumes over the years. X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse made note of that, and each character 
 had multiple uniforms (skins) , enabling the player to choose how each character would appear on 
 the screen, from the original uniforms from the 60s, to the uniforms in the comics now.
  
  The replay value of this game is tremendous. With nearly 20 X-Men to play as, and three difficulty 
 settings, you wont tire of this game quickly. Whats more, if the player starts on the easy setting, 
 and builds up his characters attributes, those attributes will remain built up as the player advances 
 through the medium to difficult levels.
  
  While the game does consist of ever-increasing hordes of enemies besieging the X-Men, each character 
 has so many attack options that this game did not fall into the repetitive trap that so many other 
 games do. X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse is highly recommended for any fan of the X-Men, 
 whether the hard-core fan of the comics, or the more causal fan of the films, this game has something 
 that everyone will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveunderwood0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Rise of Apocalypse is a wonderful game. It is filled with all sorts of replay value, to include 
 three different levels of play, complete with the ability to use the character attributes from 
 other saved games. 
  
  Don't be fooled into thinking that the game is an RPG though. It is most definitely not as that 
 it is very action-oriented, button mashing, thrill fest. 
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed replaying the game through the first 2 levels of game play (easy and normal) , 
 but experienced many crashes in the final third of the game on hard mode. This, of course, thoroughly 
 detracted from the playing experience. It is hard to feel completely satisfied with a game when 
 you are incapable of obtaining the levels required to wear that "uber armor" that you found due 
 to the system crashes. From browsing the forums, it doesn't seem that this crashing is limited 
 to the pc version alone. I've seen the same crashing discussed for even the playstation 2 version.
 
  
  One side note, the "trivia" aspect of the game is a great way for non-comic fans to learn a bit 
 about the X-Men. The only drawback to it though, is that it is the same trivia on all 3 levels 
 of play. Activision missed the boat by not adding more obscure trivia questions for the "hard" 
 level of play.
  
  If you are a comic fan, BUY THE GAME. If you are an action game fan, BUY THE GAME. If you prefer 
 to sit at your computer and lick the computer screen as your preferred gaming experience, SEE A 
 SHRINK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonnercyn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I have not played the original X-Men Legends, but I did pick up both the PC and PSP versions of 
 the sequel. I have finished the game on the PSP though I did not get that far in the PC version.
 
  
  First, let me state what I like about the game. If you want to play as an X-Men character - good 
 or evil - then this is the game for you. The selection of characters is pretty diverse and you 
 get to fight a number of other significant characters from the X-Men mythos.
  
  Graphically, the game is well done, though perhaps a bit too busy at times. The characters have 
 distinct looks, but when you have your 4 characters fighting a room full of enemies it can get 
 cluttered.
  
  I do like the costume options most of the characters have. You are not stuck playing with only 
 one look; most of the have at least 3 or 4 ranging from classic to current costumes as well as 
 special ones like from the Age of Apocalypse.
  
  One thing I did not like about the game is that the characters do not play distinctly enough. Once 
 you play one ranged character you'll pretty much have a feel for all the rest. Sure, their attacks 
 will have different visuals but the end effect is the same. Also, there didn't seem to be a lot 
 of difference between melee and ranged characters. I played as Iceman and served mostly as a tank 
 while peppering some enemies with long range attacks.
  
  That is another small criticism. The difficulty of the game is quite easy. On normal settings, 
 I only had characters get knocked out of combat when they would fall into large drops characters 
 were not meant to go into. I defeated all of the bosses, even Apocalypse, with little problem.
 
  
  Perhaps the biggest gripe I have with the PC version, and the reason it scores lower than the PSP 
 one, is the controls. I was using the keyboard and found it to be unintuitive. Activating your 
 powers was somewhat awkward for me. Perhaps playing the game with a console-style controller would 
 alleviate this.
  
  Overall, the game succeeds at what it sets out to do. The story feels like an X-Men story and there 
 are so many familiar faces that most of your favorites should show up in one form or another. I 
 would recommend this game, though on the PC I would add that a controller will make it much more 
 enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Overview: X-Men Legends 2 (Rise of Apocalypse) is an action RPG based on the X-men comics. You 
 get to control up to 4 chars, based on the x-men and the brotherhood of evil mutants. The title 
 of the game pretty much sums up the whole story, where the X-Men & the Brotherhood face off against 
 Apoc & his 4 Horseman.
  
  Pros: We get to play the Brotherhood! Granted I have no interest in playing Toad, but the chance 
 to play as Magneto, Juggernaut, Scarlet Witch etc etc s pretty cool. On the X-Men side, u have 
 the usual suspects like Wolverine, Cyclops, Gambit etc to use. The mutants all possess skills that 
 are unlocked once u gain level & several favorites from the comics like the Wolverine/Colossus 
 'Fastball Special' & Wolverine 'Bersker Rage' are all included. Plus, these skills looks damn cool 
 when unleashed on the bad guys. The game also features unlockable chars Professor X, Iron Man (woot!) 
 & Deadpool. The story makes full use of the source material & fully immerses u into the X-men universe. 
 Finally, the CGI movies shown in the game is in a class of its own. I especially like the one when 
 Angel was transformed into Archangel (Oops! Plot spoiler here)
  
  Cons: Some of the chars are not as well developed as others. Deadpool for example, has around 1/2 
 the skills compard to the other chars. Same for Prof X. IMHO, Nightcrawler is way damn overpowered. 
 One "Master of Chaos" Xtreme Skill from Mr. Kurt Wagner can basically clear the screen of baddies. 
 The interface is atrocious. I'm playing the PC version & the keyboard interface sucks. I had to 
 switch to USB PS2 controller to play the game properly. 
  
  Verdict: XML2 is a game that makes very good use of its source material to give us an enjoyable 
 joyride into the Marvel Universe. There is good replay value here as you will want to complete 
 the game a few times just to test out the diifferent character combos available. I recommend getting 
 this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Story & Objective - A New evil has arrived in the form of Apocalypse, the worlds first & most 
 powerful mutant. He is so powerful that the x-men & the brotherhood let down their feud & join 
 forces, with only one goal in mind, to stop Apocalypse at all cost. Professor Xavier & Polaris 
 are kidnapped & thats where the game begins.
  
  Graphics  Characters & locations are just stunning. X-Men legends uses pixel shadders to bring 
 out the comic book feel in the game, & it does a pretty Good job.
  
  Sound - Music & sound effects are well executed where as the voice actings give a whole new dimension 
 to the characters.
  
  Gameplay  The game gives you the feel of being a part of the x-men, you can control a team of 
 4 members of which you can switch between Missions to new characters. A wide variety of characters 
 & a wide variety of mutant powers for each of them makes the game even better. Switching
  Between team members is easy & adds a lot of dynamics during battle. The mutant powers of each 
 character are just brilliantly Portrayed. Apart from their usuall combos & shots the ones that 
 make an impact are their extreme powers & team combos. Even more, the type of members you choose 
 & the costumes you choose affects your attributes in many ways, for eg if you select "The Age Of 
 Apocalypse" costume for all your members you get an attack bonus. Lots of unlockables in this game, 
 so look in every corner. Over the more the enviroments are highly destructible. The Custom battles 
 are a lot of fun & if you have your friends coming over since they can join in & be a part of the 
 team. Multiplayer is good but not good enough due to the glitches. But a patch should fix it. Challenging 
 boss fights makes & absolute control of your team makes this game a true LEGEND
  
  PROS  Well oriented gameplay, wide variety of characters & costumes, loads of unlockables, good 
 voice actings, destructible & beautifully portrayed enviroments, good replay value.
  
  CONS  Some characters have repeated powers.
  
  VERDICT - If even you arent a big game or 
 x-men fan this game well make you one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Initially when I first saw the game, I thought it was one of those arcade-styled royal rumble but 
 boy was I wrong! This game is a genius (ok, so I've never heard of the first installment =p) of 
 this genre of games! The gameplay is excellent as it combines real-time action, with elements of 
 rpg styled system and a engaging storyline (at least when you first played it!) all into one.
 
  
  Now, I'm not a hardcore X-Men fan but I do know most of the characters in the game and each character 
 will slowly grow on you as they become stronger after each battle. The rpg element here is brilliantly 
 added, with each character having attributes and their special abilities most of which are unique. 
 Also, each character can have certain items assigned to them, making them more powerful. Each character 
 can further do a danger room quest that will unlock their unique items (Iceman: Cryogenic Belt, 
 Cyclops: Optic Visor etc...) and make them even more powerful!
  
  With an assortment of 20 plus characters to choose from to form a team of four, to take with you 
 through the game, the number of team combinations here are almost limitless! This alone by itself 
 already gives this game a high replay value! With completing the game a first time round, you can 
 unlock a secret character, as well as doing a bonus quest will unlock another one! The hours spent 
 on this game would be worthwhile and it's definitely worth your money!
  
  The choice of items, ability points to invest, the different combination of characters and the 
 level of difficulty will give you countless of hours of fun. Then, with the PC version (& some 
 consoles too) , you would be able to go online and play a co-op team to take on the game again!
 
  
  I would definitely recommend this game for any RPG, action game as well as all X-Men fans! This 
 is one game that may be on your playlist all the time! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felled
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  First of all, I only saw X-men movies before, I like it but I am not a hard core X-Men fan. So 
 I can barely answer any question showed in trivia game.
  After 30 minutes of playing. I can`t put down my controller (I use a PS2 controller on my PC -- Best 
 choice for these kinds of game) . 
  You don`t have to care too much about story, Just a simple Super-hero-Stuff you may see long time 
 before. What interesting is the formula of the game-concept. Exactly grab the basic spirit of an 
 Action-RPG. Smash -- earn EXP -- Buy equipment ---Kill more & get more ----beat another Boss up. Exciting 
 and almost unstoppable once you get into it.
  Besides, The hardware requirement isn`t too high, I use my old PC to run this game and it runs 
 smoothly without any problem, Graphic and sound are also great! (Patrick Steward plays Professor 
 X---What a surprise!)
  If you don`t hate super-hero, and like Action-RPG, It will be a good choice on PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I found this game just ok. I never finished it and I really didnt quit as much as I just kinda 
 stopped playing it. First off, the ads all made it look like it was going to have awesome graphics, 
 but they were actually just in game movies, and they may not even be those, as they seemed nicer 
 than the in gamers I saw. The actual graphics were not very good at all. The sound, well, I dont 
 even recall so they were not special. Gameplay was kinda boring, not slow, but not exciting. I 
 just lost interest in the whole game and I doubt I would even start playing it again even if I 
 was bored out of my mind, which I am close to know, that is why I am here writing reviews for old 
 games....
  
  Anyway, nothing special about this game, so dont expect to be impressed. The Wolverine X men game 
 was more fun, and I lost interest in that one too, only I lasted a bit longer than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depakjan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  just an amazing game... really cool.. for a beat-em up game danger room provides you nice gameplay...... most 
 funny thing is that you just dont have see how you r playing just press three or more buttons... 
 you will move on in most levels only at certain points you have to concentrate like lifting objects 
 you need a strong one and one who has the ability to fly....... but what upsets me is that there 
 is no individuality there in this game cause while fighting all of a sudden you just dont know 
 where you are and lose track of your character.... others like characters having same kind of powers 
 sort of.... then cool environment character animation is good.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostpanther
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  It is a fun game that is flawed by its scant documetation. I love action-roleplaying games and 
 this one keeps it interesting. But my problem is that the manual that comes with the game does 
 not sahre nearly enough information and is vague on somethings. One paragraph said making use of 
 the Superpower Selector button was crucial to playing the game ell. Unfortunately, the manual fails 
 to state which of the buttons IS the Superpower Selector button. I figured out on my own through 
 trial and error what they REALLY meant.
  
  Then there is the whole issue of your superpowers themselves. Can I get a listing of what all these 
 powers mean, what they do, the best uses for the powers, the damage they do and what combinations 
 are possible? Forcing the player to run around and beat up bad guys while randomly using powers 
 is really, really assinine. The game deserves much better documentation. 
  
  Oh yeah... and some of the individual special moves are ridiculous to pull off. Making them required 
 to pass Danger Room tests was a failing in judgement. A game should not frustrate the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brijeshhsejirb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  "Mesmerises You"
  Prepare to spend hours after hours in the X-Men universe with this great game. This is another game 
 in the X-Men series which trys to step out the usual acrade type one-on-one fighting series and 
 into the real world of 3D gaming. Its got just the right amount of omph in it to make you come back 
 for more.
  If your a mutant fan then this a game you should not miss. But ,if your a 
  just another interested gamer BEWARE this game is not everyone (quite a lot of them found it boring) .
 
  My take on this game is simple , If your PC can handle it and you want t know how it feels to 
 spend a day in a freak mutants shoes, THIS IS THE GAME TO BUY AND YOU CAN BE SURE IT WILL NOT DISSAPOINT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  First, id like to say that this game orginally looked amazing in my eyes. I learned quickly that 
 the mutliplayer and singleplayer versions of the game are exactly the same except your playing 
 with people. The only problem with multiplayer is, you both have to stay on the same screen, you 
 cant split up, this idea seems kind of dumb for a PC multiplayer game, its pretty frustrating when 
 you have 4 people on screen each going a different direction because they thing they know where 
 to go.
  
  Gameplay
  The fighting is quiet boring, the only joy in the gameplay is leveling up, the system feels hard 
 to get used to but too easy to say its hard. 
  
  Graphics
  Nothing outstanding, dissapointing if anything, special effects look cool at times but thats about 
 it.
  
  Sound
  Typical marvel sound and music, yet again, nothing memorable or worthy of pointing out.
  
  Storyplot
 
  Meh, id rather skip all the crappy voice acting and text, but seeing as im a reviewer i had no 
 choice but to listen or rather read ahead of the slow line readings and slowly fall asleep in my 
 chair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a great RPG. The variety offered by the different mutants of the X-Men and the Brotherhood 
 one can play as is a major plus for any RPG and quite accurate in depiction in my opinion. The 
 Danger Room scenario offering completes the package by allowing one to practice their skills. I 
 recall the campaign being described as quite long somewhere (maybe not here) - it is long but could 
 have been a bit longer. Maybe its just me hoping for more because I was having way too much fun. 
 Either way, the campaign is a good one. One thing I found a bit confusing was the interface. Its 
 much better than that for many other games but it probably gave me a sense of too much freedom 
 in moving around the screen (I used the mouse all the way) that many times during the middle of 
 a battle I would end up in a menu by accidentally pressing either the main menu or the team details 
 button on top. A part that is annoying though is when the team characters follow the main character 
 you are controlling too closely. Many times to avoid problems I had to resort to jumping over them 
 rather than switching the problematic member to move him or her out of the way (watch out for Juggernaut 
 - he is true to the theme - huge enough to block in the rest of your three other team characters 
 just when you are busy exploring - he does do a great job of bashing in the heads of the enemies 
 though) . Enough complaining - its a great game overall and definitely worth it. Of course, like 
 I said, the campaign could have been a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Since ivent played the first part of the game my impressions will not be related to a comparision 
 between both of them. X-Men II Legends its a great "3D platform game" in which you can play almost 
 everyone of the most important and significant characters of the Mutant Myths (evil and good side) , 
 making incredible four members team.
  
  The graphics of the game arent incredible, they are just fine in-game, but in the sequences i thing 
 they are lack of work and look like a simple zoom of the in game graphic with no more details. 
 However, the cinematic scenes are something totally diferent, there are only about a couple of 
 them, but they are great!
  
  The sound its cool, specially when its about reproduce the sounds coming of the activation of the 
 powers, the draw of Wolverine claws or the "BAMF" of the Nightcrawler teleportaion...
  
  The game its not much extense, its very simple nad has some sound and in game bugs...
  
  Overall 
 if you are a fan of the Mutants its a worth game to play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustLoginMeIn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If you are a X-men fan stop reading and go get the game (clise, clise, clise)
  
  I was really suprised when I played this game. Really suprised. Finally they made an action/rpg 
 solid, with variety and plenty of fun.
  
  First lets see the combat. You have three attacks (not just a single as in mouse-based action/rpg) . 
 That leads to combos. Not that usefull but really fun and add to the variety. You don't get easily 
 bored hitting and killing enemys because you can kill them with different ways. Okay but what matters 
 is to kill them. Wrong. It is an action game. The action is what counts. 
  
  The three attacks are a strong attack, weak and quick attack and a throw attack. There are different 
 moves for each combo. You may also choose the direction which you throw your enemies. You may also 
 jumb, gaining another whole dimension. You may jump and attack. You can fly (some characters) . 
 You can dive-attack. Nice! Very nice...
  
  Well, but will you just move and melee-hit enemies. No. You have powers. Plenty of powers. Each 
 characters has over ten moves. From them you have at leaste 4-6 moves to choose from. This moves 
 will add more moves, more attacks. Like beam attacks, swinging swords or claws, setting traps, 
 firing missiles, teleporting, flying, manipulating and even some more unique powers (like summoning 
 a phoinix) . You even have a super-attack (used two or three times per mission) . What else do you 
 want?
  
  You will have more than 10 characters to choose from! You have a team of 4 characters (you may 
 play with only with fewer if you want, even with one) that can be changed when you find the saving 
 locations. And just to add some more variety you may even change the skins from your characters 
 (changing there clothes, accessories etc) . You may play the game 3 times and yet not have get bored 
 with all characters. And the characters are unique. Some are similar but generally they are unique. 
 I mean wolverine, jean, nightcrawler, cyclops are tottaly different. There are also ofcourse items. 
 Well, there aren't that varied and don't appear on the characters. The characters are super heores, 
 they have a fixed-image ;) But the items are usefull and there is a variety of items in each category, 
 but only three categories. There are also really rear and powerfull items that will surely make 
 you smile with satisfaction...
  
  How about the graphics? Very nice. Not nothing too extreme but there are nice and the characters 
 are well designed. And the movent, the moves and everything are just realistic and cool.
  
  And the story? Again I was suprised. The senario is like classic, but okay. It is long and you 
 have many things to do untill defeating the final enemy. But, the guys really did whatever they 
 could to make the scenario look as interesting as possible. Anything they could. I mean there is 
 a cutscene before each mission where the characters talk about the mission and show a little there 
 personallity, making comments or sarcastic jokes. There are even some video cut-scenes. Very good 
 video. No... perfect videos. There are really proffessional acting in these videos. Like seeing 
 a movie. So you feel the story.
  
  The "details" are also okay. You save in some locations, that are well placed. In these locations 
 you can teleport in a previous location or in your headquarters. You can even change your team 
 or your characers skin. The difficullty is rather easy. Though you can play the game with fewer 
 characters. I co-played it with my bro using only two characters in total. You can eaven play it 
 with a single character. When you defeat normal difficulty you unlock hard difficulty. The hard 
 difficulty is really hard but you use your high level characters which you finished the game.
 
  
  Hmmm, did I say there is a variety in the game? I think I have mentioned it. So here is more! You 
 find or buy special missions (danger room disks/missions) that let you play short missions. These 
 missions are really fun to play. You also unlock, finding disks (objects) , comix covers, pictures 
 and other stuff. You even find objects that unlock a small area in each act (there are 5 acts with 
 2-3 missions each) in which you find special objects. By finding all objects you unlock another 
 character. Make them two, cause by completing all the danger room missions you get another character. 
 As I said there is the hard mode to continue playing from the level you finished playing in normal 
 mode. And finally, to add more to the replayability there is mode in which you choose a character 
 and fight with another character/characters (cpu or player controlled) . I already mention the co-playabilty.
 
  
  The rpg part is covered from the previous. Just to add that you gain about 50 levels when you finish 
 the game. You get skill points, one each level, which can be spent to advance a move, or acquire 
 new ones. Some are level dependent, so you get your best moves in high leves. You also have four 
 stats. At each level the increase and you also get 4 stat points that can be spented to increase 
 your stats. Each stat is fully explained what effect it has. You can talk with other characters 
 or random persons, though you don't actually choose what to say nor that this affects the game. 
 You just talk for the pleasure of talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paxnominus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game just a few days ago and I've really gotten myself hooked to this game. It's 
 got cool cell-shaded graphics, a huge world, and a lot of things to unlock. I'm saying that this 
 game has a huge replay value due to some of the items you can collect such as the comic book covers 
 and the concept arts.
  
  The sound's alright. Nothing too fancy, just plain alright. A little of bashing crates here and 
 beating up a bad guy there and that's all there is to it. The real treat comes to the voice talents 
 such as our co-patriot Lou Diamond Philips for Forge and of course Patrick Stuart as Professor 
 Charles Xavier. Other character VOs are also excellent (although Gambit's is quite disappointing.)
 
  
  What I found really addicting in this game is the way you could set up teams, and suddenly without 
 you knowing it, you've formed a team with team bonuses. Say if you use all 4 female mutants at 
 the same time, you'll be using team Femme Fatale, with a bonus of 5% life points leech for each 
 damage you make. And another is the combo system, however it is pretty hard to time. And if you 
 feel like you're too weak, there is always a good visit in the danger room, which is a big help 
 actually if you don't only use one party. Another good point in this game is even you don't use 
 other mutants, they still level up although in a very slow pace. And one more is you could unlock 
 some of the mutants' famous costumes for more eye-candy. Real nice.
  
  Enough of this being said, I gotta go back and play. So far we found no bugs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack17xyz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  As most of the game features are discribed in gamspot review of this game, I am going only to list 
 a few things that I really like about this game and a few that are anoying.
  
  Good
  -visualy it's not the prettiest game but it look failry good, and runs smooth too (I have GeForce2MX 
 card: )
  -fast and fun action (Wolverine RULES!!!)
  -character development is pretty advanced
  -great number of characters to choose from
  -if 
 you don't like the games in wich you have to take care of a party of characters in x-men legends 
 there are two ways of minimizing micromangament.
  1) In charcter AI Options turn the auto skill and stats points distrubtion on in choosen or all 
 charcters
  2) At the extraction point you can remove 3 characters leaving only one. I personaly like this option 
 but unfortunetly in later levels it's verry hard to brake through with only on mutant, so I use 
 at least two. 
  -Boss fight are awsome!! Especialy the ones on the end of the chapter.
  
  Bad
  -When playing 1-2 hours straight it might get a little boring
  -I don't know the comic 
 book verry vell but some of the levels and enemies don't really match the X-Men Universe.. well 
 at least for me. It's maybe because I got used to what I've seen in X-Men Movies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Between "war" of "good" and "evil" mutants (somehow the whole meaning of word "good" and "evil" 
 seem to be quite inconsistent when the mutants switch sides like pants) , occasionally there's "worst 
 mutants vs. the rest". This is one of those fine battles.
  
  I'm not all that familiar with Marvel, X-Men and so on, but I have done some reading in the past, 
 now since internet has become more and more available, I've read some stuff from the fansites as 
 well, so I'm not completely new to the genre, either. I think the only one who's powers and name 
 I didn't know, was Sunfire. But even in his case, I had seen the guy somewhere before.
  
  The game is reasonably simple - you go to places, eventually get to the boss mobs, and you kill 
 a whole lot of people between starting the level and gaining access to the boss. The teams consist 
 of four members, who are yours to choose. You control one at the time in real time, but you can 
 switch to control any of the groups members by just pressing the designated button. While the player 
 generally kills most of the opponents, the game controls the other three members decently. Altough 
 I do admit it sometimes seems odd to see two group members beating on a guy and actually starting 
 to loose the fight, and when I come to help it's one hit and kill from near max health. Gladly, 
 you can set some settings for your teammates, for example the percentage of health when they heal 
 themselves with sort of a medkit and which attacks they'd be preferred to use, plus some other 
 helping things.
  The normal opponents you come accross are usually somekind of soldiers either using some energy 
 blast skill or just shooting at you. Occasionally said soldiers have "group leaders" with'em, who 
 tend to be bit tougher opponents. Normal guys aren't anything new to the genre, more like the same 
 ol' we've come accross before. But they're still not bad, though.
  Boss mobs, however, are quite interesting, and instead of mindless battering, they usually require 
 some sort of trick to do (which is nothing new, though) . Boss fights are quite fun usually. Meeting 
 Apocalypse's Horsemen and some other "old friends" from comics is always pleasing.
  
  However, the game isn't completely just bashing the next guard through the wall along the way to 
 the next guard. There is sort of a roleplaying -element available if you choose to set your men's 
 and women's abilities on your own, instead of letting the game do it for you (in which case I'd 
 assume it'll be somewhat true to their Marvel source etc.) .
  The skills are based on what characters usually do in comics. For example, Wolverine has skills 
 that usually do more damage than normal hits, hit more than one opponent, add damage to all attacks, 
 increase speed, his regeneration, etc. Cyclops has his different visor-attacks and his leadership 
 skills that benefit the whole group. There's quite a few skills, and even while some skills open 
 later on when you gain more levels, you actually have to start choosing which skills you wish to 
 concentrate on. This adds some interest to do the leveling, especially since you get some stat 
 points to spend on power, speed, etc, which make your mutant better in what they do. And thankfully, 
 the skills do matter - it's a whole different thing to start throwing punches with Nightcrawler 
 and his quick yet powerless hits, than with Colossus and his slower and powerfull hits. It was 
 indeed deeply satisfying to do a duel between Colossus and Juggernaut in Danger Room, and see the 
 guys throwing eachother through walls. I would hope similar action would be seen in future movies.
 
  Additionally to the skills, there are occasional spots where you need some certain skill, generally 
 speaking meaning flying. There are couple of spots where you need for example Magneto to do something 
 metal-related, but usually the need is for flying ability. Funnily enough, the group members follow 
 you after few seconds, whether they are able to fly or not.
  
  Besides skills, there is also less-Marvel kind of gear available. Yes, it was fine addition to 
 see Gambit get his better bo-stick, but generally the stuff are likes of "Magneto's Gloves", which 
 usually have no reference to the comics, at least as far as I know. The gear drop from killed opponents, 
 and generally bosses drop something rare items. Besides drops, some items and upgrades can be purchased 
 from Forge from your base. Gladly Forge will also sell health packs and power packs, which help 
 to keep the mutants alive for longer periods.
  
  Good thing in the game is, that you won't have to keep playing every mutant available, or choose 
 just four of'em. The one's you haven't played recently level up some levels behind you current 
 progress, so they won't be left so far behind. Personally I've preferred controlling some melee-oriented 
 mutant, Wolverine or Colossus/Juggernaut mainly, due the fact that pointing your beam-attacks or 
 whatever to the right direction is reasonably tricky to do with your keyboard. It can happen, but 
 not with the accuracy and speed I'd hope it would, so I figured I'd rather kill everyone quickly 
 with Wolverine etc, and let the support be done by the game. 
  
  Partly because the game is console-based game originally, it's not a surprise that there's quite 
 a lot of extra stuff to do and see. You get Danger Room -additional missions such as "Keep Dr. 
 Hank McCoy alive for 3 minutes" while he's being attacked, etc. When you complete such a training, 
 you might get experience, items, level up's, etc. for your group members involved to the task.
 
  Also, comic-related things are spread around and they are opened during the play in regular intervals. 
 Some of'em are interesting, some of'em not so. But still, nice addition to the one's who are interested 
 about more than just playing the game.
  
  Game also includes the possibility to play with friends, namely with all four of'em I think. I 
 read that basically the more human players are involved, the harder and more opponents you will 
 face, which is fine 'cause alone they are somewhat easy already. I personally have not tried co-oping 
 the game, but I would presume it would be great fun with the right people, preferably one's who 
 are already familiar with X-Men and such.
  
  As a conclusion, despite the game is console-based, I find it very entertaining and true to the 
 source. There's quite many skills per character, but I found'em still to be true to the character, 
 rather than making'em something else they have been previously seen. As a downside, on Marvel-realism 
 side, it's bit funny to see  to actually be stopped, tossed around 
 and sometimes even killed by plain soldiers. This is because the game would be unbelievable stupid 
 if Juggernaut and Co. would be as tough as they "really" are, but it still seems a bit funny occasionally.
 
  All in all, a good game, and not too short either. 
  
  Gameplay - Could be better, but works. I'd say a gamepad of somekind is quite needed to play this 
 game properly. Otherwise than odd controls for keyboard, it's good enough.
  
  Graphics - From what I saw from X-Men Legends 1, the graphics are nearly identical. Of course, 
 PC-game would probably look better, but the animation is still reasonably nice and does the job, 
 so nothing to complain here really.
  
  Sound - I can't really remember much about'em, so maybe that means they're nothing special in any 
 way. There is battle-music available when battle occurs, but otherwise than that the sounds are 
 pretty basic stuff.
  
  Value - Game doesn't have alternative routes, so playing it againt straight after finishing it 
 may seem bit repetetive. But, if you enjoy bashing, demolishing and throwing stuff and people around, 
 you might actually enjoy the round 2 as well. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I really liked it. Only problem I see are the levels, which as an enviroment 
 are pretty dull and boring. Jungle, ruins, some tech-base... that's about it. Otherwise than that, 
 this game is definetely worth a try, and a have-to-get for one's liking the comics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selim_222
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  they should be more carac. in the game, other then that, nice game...
  it is good to take 4 carac with you, u can change them in x-points. not very good graphics, but 
 this game is better that way.
  its not difficult to learn the game, very easy to play. special attacks are good. good effects...
 
  my favorite carac. are : wolverine (of course, he is the best) , storm, iceman, gambit. even if 
 u don't like him, u have to get magneto with you, he is very usefull by making metal bridges. 
 
  use danger room disks to get exc items (green ones) , for each carac. u can buy other good items 
 from forge.
  well, nothing more to say about...
  try the game, you will like it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and from the start I was addictide to it.
  
  Gameplay: You can play as any x-men player as you want. You can play even the bad guys and you 
 can level up each player. What else do you want from a x-men game.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The best graphics in a x-men game I have ever seen.
  The x-men look perfect 
 and the areas are beautiful.
  
  Sound: You hear this cool music of fighting game. The combos sound is excellent and the sound of 
 the game overall is awsome.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. But of course the best thing 
 about this game is the online feature which is the best in the x-men series.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome game and you should definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spvn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  first of all, plz note that i did not play the first title: x-men legends, so this whole game is 
 relatively new to me.
  
  x-men legends 2: rise of apocolypse allows you to take control of several mutants from the marvel 
 world to fight against the biggest bully in the playground: apocolypse, as the title implies. But 
 as anyone reading this would already know from reading other reviews, you get to team up mutants 
 from the x-men with mutants from magneto's side. this interesting combination of characters certainly 
 adds a unique taste to the game.
  
  graphics wise this game is quite good, the models look good enough, but they seem to have a black 
 border outlining them. and explosions of barrels or boxes when you smash them look pretty convincing. 
 the character models during cutscenes ie. mission briefings look OK, not spectacularm but not bad 
 either. on the whole, you wont hear much complaining from me about this game's graphics.
  
  sound wise this game pretty much does a good job. the explosions are quite realistic and the sound 
 of your fists driving into your opponent's flesh (or metal) is music to you ears. i dont have much 
 to comment on the sound in this game as it does a fair job of making the environment even more 
 fun to play in.
  
  gameplay wise is where this game really stands out. as i've already said before the game allows 
 you to team up the good guys with the bad guys to fight the really bad guy (ok that sounded weird...... 
 wadeva) but there's more than that. whenever you kill a monster, it drops "money" which you can 
 give beast at your hq to get more awesome equipment, which improve your stats. sometimes monsters 
 themselves will also drop some equipment for you to equip to your team.
  
  also, at various points in a level there are places got "xtraction" points where you can save your 
 game, teleport to any previous xtraction point or change team members. that's right, you can change 
 team members in the middle of a mission. which is pretty cool considering ur mutants can lvl up 
 as they fight and you want everyone to be about the same lvl (something like good old pokemon) ... 
 there are many more things this game offers gameplay wise and i dont want to let out too much (or 
 maybe i already have) , i'll leave the rest up to you to find out.
  
  oh and i almost forgot, there's this trivia game you can play at the hq which asks you trivia questions 
 about the marvel universe eg. who is sabertooth's arch enemy? answering the questions correctly 
 awards you exp points for you mutants. this is a real easy way for ppl who suck at the game but 
 have read the comic books a dozen times over. it's real kul.
  
  BUT (yes here comes the big BUT) , this game has a serious flaw with it's controls. the default 
 controls are quite alright, but they still take some time to get used to. also, the first stage 
 acts like more or less a tutorial with game tips throughout the stage. but i still had problems 
 using the skills i wanted my mutants to use because of the akward controls. and i did not know 
 how to assign correct buttons for the skills i wanted cause the options menu wasnt very clear. 
 thus the controls of the game are a slight let down but they're still usable.
  
  oh and have i mentioned that you could play multiplayer on the same computer??? just plug in a 
 seperate controller (or figure out some way to squeeze all the controls for two players on a keyboard, 
 which i think is impossible) and you're ready to fight apocolypse together. it's real kul. of course 
 you can also connect with each other online and play out the adventures as a different mutant for 
 each person, this is one of the best features i like bout the game.
  
  Final say: get this game now, especially for x-men fans this game is a must for you to see how 
 the toad and jean grey will work together, or how sabertooth and wolverine are forced to be in 
 the same team working together. not to mention the other features of this game which make it oh 
 so fun. if it's in your budget, get this game now, u'll have tons of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out, i wasnt so optimistic about playing this game. I was thinking "Oh 
 another game that's trying to squeeze more money out of the X-men franchise". I was wrong. It played 
 out fantastic. The graphics and sound may not be top-notch but somehow it got me hooked on. Because 
 this game let you play x-men together with magneto and his gang as in this they must work together 
 to defeat apocalypse. Although this game is basically hack and slash, it is well done.  
 Why must have 100 words???????? @#$%#$$#%$% Ok Ok. You really really really really really really 
 have to try this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  This game is a real treat for anyone who grew up watching X-Men or any other super hero cartoon 
 or reading the comics 
  
  X-Men is an old, yet immensely popular superhero franchise, that appeared in a number of good, 
 bad and ugly video games. As most of you already know, X-Men are a team consisting of mutants with 
 good hearts, led by the charismatic psychic Dr. Charles Xavier, popularly known as Dr. X. He has 
 a school for training mutant with talents, and he teaches them to learn to live side by side with 
 human beings. His once good friend and another powerful mutant Magneto (Erik) , however, has different 
 thoughts. According to him, only mutants should live, as they are superior in several aspects. 
 Thus the forces of good and the brotherhood of evil go on in to a lengthy spell of conflicts. This 
 conflict has been highlighted in most X-Men games till date.
  
  However, this time around, the plot has a major twist when the X-Men and the Brotherhood joins 
 forces to defeat another brutal mutant force, Apocalypse. Apocalypse is believed to be the oldest 
 Mutant, who was raised by the Pharaohs. His concept is Survival of the Fittest, and he doesnt 
 deem X-Men or the brotherhood to be good enough. 
  
  The game starts off with Magneto, Sabretooth and Mystique (brotherhood members) teaming up with 
 Wolverine, Storm and Cyclops to save Dr. Charles Xavier from a military facility. From that point 
 onwards, the game unfolds as you have to defeat the four generals of Apocalypse and a couple of 
 other villains who have decided to join forces with apocalypse. Of these villains, Omega Red and 
 Lady Deathstrike are recognizable.
  
  You can select a team of 4 from a total of 16 x-man and brotherhood characters. This gives the 
 game a very good replay value, as you can experiment with different team combinations. Some objectives 
 require a particular Mutant skill, which all the characters may not have. As an example, only the 
 strong characters or characters with telekinesis ability will be able to move huge boxes or crates, 
 which are blocking some hidden entrances or shortcuts to the objectives. 
  
  There are two basic attack buttons, a weak attack and a strong attack. Combining these buttons, 
 you can unleash devastating and really good looking combos. In easy mode, most foes will die easily 
 (except bosses) , but if you play in the normal mode, you will need some good and lengthy combo 
 sequences in order to defeat the bigger enemies. And as added icing to an already tasty cake, you 
 get to use super powers. Each character has 10 special powers, with one being the ability to block. 
 Also, some characters have passive abilities and the ability to fly. These mutant powers can work 
 as projectiles, explosions that act in radii, shields, power-ups, etc. Each character has a desperation 
 move that causes massive damage to all units present on screen. 
  
  You have to gain stats and experience points in order to unlock these special powers and increase 
 your characters strength, agility and attack damage. You can manage the distribution of gained 
 points manually, or opt for automatic upgrading. Automatic upgrading is more convenient, as otherwise 
 youd have to pause the game every 3 or 4 minutes for distributing the points. This gets really 
 annoying after a while. Also, through the course of the game, you will be picking up power and 
 health packs which can be used in replenishing lost health and power. Yes, there are two separate 
 meters for power and health. Also, you will be able to pick up gears and armors for further bolstering 
 your characters usefulness.
  
  Like a standard RPG game, your characters gain experience and level up. A level 40 character can 
 be really deadly. Leveled up characters come really handy, especially at the later portions of 
 the game. Thus it is also smarter to use a few characters and level them up, instead of using all 
 characters. The non playing characters level up, too. So this means when youre magneto is level 
 40, your totally unused Colossus will not be 0 or 1, he will at least be Level 30. So the game 
 gives you an option of completing the game using all of the characters. Three characters needs 
 to be unlocked, which includes Iron Man. 
  
  You can get team bonuses by mixing up specific characters, e. g. the Brotherhood of Evil team 
 gets 5% XP bonus. 
  
  The game is divided in to 5 acts, and lots of areas to discover and sub-missions to accomplish. 
 You will need to beat the sublevels, too, if you want to unlock everything. You can unlock training 
 modes (danger room disks, in the games lingo) , concept arts, comic book covers, etc. by collecting 
 specific icons. You also get money in the form of golden and silver crystals, which can be used 
 for purchasing items and level ups.
  
  In every act, the allied forces establish their base in a particular mission. You will come back 
 and forth to this base for changing team, receiving mission briefings, or just interacting with 
 non playable characters. There are many NPCs from the X-Man universe in this game, which disappointingly 
 includes Mystique as well. Not being able to play as Mystique was a big letdown, as her morphing 
 skills would be really interesting to see. 
  
  The best part of the game is the signature moves. All characters act and behave in the same manner 
 as they do in the movies, cartoons and comics. And the in-game conversations with the villains 
 and the small cinematics are also highly enjoyable. The main villain Apocalypse has a clear-cut 
 bad guy attitude. 
  
  The gameplay gets a bit boring after a while, but it is still enjoying as you can change characters 
 on the fly. Tired of slow moving big guys? No problem, select characters that can fly.
  
  The music is okay, but the sound effects are really cool. You will get a lot of destructible objects 
 spread throughout each level. Breaking them is fun and useful as coins and other powerups are often 
 hidden within. But the pleasure of breaking these things are further enhanced by the excellent 
 smashing sounds. 
  
  There are no noticeable bugs or glitches in the game, and the installation is very neat as well. 
 The game is not very resource hungry. If you keep anti aliasing off and lower down some details, 
 you can even manage to play this game on a PIII or an old Celeron.
  
  I really enjoyed playing this game, and as I have said in the beginning, I recommend it to any 
 superhero fan. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode, where you can play the entire game with friends. You can also 
 go one on one in a brawler type game. But those modes are not that great. The better part of the 
 game resides in the story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Not many hero games on the PC, but this one sets the bar pretty high. You can pick and mix teams 
 and the ones not in use still gain XP a RPG feature that I'm glad was used in this game. The ability 
 to change costumes so you can have that original look was sweet as well. Has all the popular mutants 
 in there to play with. The games story seems to be alright I have not gotten far so can not say 
 if things change but it seems that the designers just made a lot of hack and slash levels and wrapped 
 a story around them to appease RPGers. I am a huge hater of Shadecell games as a normal.. I tend 
 to think the creaters of shade cell in games should be stranded on an island somewhere as I like 
 a semi or realistic look to my games, however the shadecell in this game is actually done so well 
 it does not detract from the experence so kudos to the art department. Well this is a game that 
 is worth checking out even for non X-men fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacuus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  Good game. Very detailed when it comes to Marvel Storylines. What's that droning? Oh its the same 
 dialog and bashing sounds over and over.
  
  I do admit that while everything about this game is very technically right, it lacked a certain 
 immersion factor. The little quips each character fires off get old very quickly... how many times 
 can I hear Wolverine say, "I'm the best at what I do." All of the history of the X-Men is there, 
 but I find the interaction of the characters rather humdrum. The only real interaction is during 
 the cinematic mission briefings and the occasional 'special' dialogs between key characters. I 
 suppose I was looking more for an RPG and got more of an Action/RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretic1987
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Very good game, lots of action and continuous leveling up makes your X man very powerful at the 
 end of the game. Great X man. Alot of playable characters that are some of the best original X 
 man. And Wolverine is one of the best. Different outfits that the characters can wear changes the 
 way the game is played. Different X man and different skins can give you added bonuses and other 
 things that will help you. The only let down is that you cannot play as Beast. If you don't know 
 how to play the game you don't have to play the campaign you can play the one on one fighting. 
 Multiplayer is cool because you can come into another players campaign whenever they want, but 
 does get hard because there aren't alot of people playing this online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game far, far surpassed my expectations. I am not a big comic or superhero fan, usually prefering 
 the dark background of Batman etc, but this title really hits the nail on the head. I know as much 
 as the next person about the X-Men, and Raven did a great job in capturing the feel and essence 
 of the legends. I would say that this game is more a hand to hand fighting game. Each hero has 
 their own distinct fighting style that closely resembles their background and mutant abilities. 
 It is truly a joy in using each hero's strength to annihalite the waves of enemies and the environment 
 in general. I am almost done with the single player game, and I haven't even experimented with 
 95% of each of the X-Men's 12-15 different abilities. Usually the standard array of fighting using 
 the two attack buttons is enough to take out the waves of baddies enjoyably. If this game didn't 
 offer any special abilities and was just a fighting game, I would still give it at a very high 
 score. Raven went way over and above what they had to in creating this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediLord
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  1. Terrible, terrible, terrible control. I been playing games for almost 20 years and never have 
 I been so frustrated with game control. the fact is that, the control is so akward and it will 
 be impossible to get used to.
  
  2. Camera angle is bad, and its very hard to control it, most of the time since your characters 
 are big they occupy the whole screen and its really hard to see whats ahead of you. 
  the camera tends to rotate around when u try to target things, makes the already frustrating battle 
 even worse.
  
  3. UI is worse. Basically, you can have 4 characters at a time, but you can only control one of 
 them and the other 3 are controled by AI. there is a HUGE circle thing located at the lower left 
 corner of the screen and with 4 heads on it, when you click on one of the heads it will switch 
 control to that character. but since that circle thing is so Big, and everything else is so big, 
 you often will click on those heads and switchs character by accident.
  The thing is the user interface is so non-intuitive, you may have to spend some time digging through 
 menuals to find out how to do certain basic things/
  
  4. The game itself is basically a run through and kill them all kind of game, and monsters drop 
 random magical items like diablo, but the thing is unlike diablo, all items are PURELY text base, 
 and since there are only 4 or so types of items, you will often get a list of items with exactly 
 the same icon, there is NO way to tell their differences unless u read one by one and see what 
 they do. and none of the items are very interesting and u often dont find looting meaningful. 
 
  
  5. The game feels very arcade game like, the characters, the environment dont really feel like 
 they are from comic books. And it feels nothing like a PC RPG. so unless you are an arcade fan, 
 you would probably be discouraged by the graphics overall.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyo37
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is a truly fun game. That is if you no what X-Men are. If you don't then should find out and 
 start playing. The game is fun with amazing and brilliant cutscenes. The story is that two groups 
 (X-Men and the Brotherhood) are enemies toward each other but now there is a greater evil that 
 is threatening them both. To defeat this evil they join forces to save the earth from domination 
 by Apocalypse a super mutant who is 6000 years old and possibly one of the first ever mutants. 
 The gameplay is a mix of action and RPG see as how you can customize your characters. A good time 
 and will keep you busy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleaner1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the first one so I didn't know what I was getting in to but if it's anything like 
 X-Man legends II, you got to admit, it is abit childish.
  It's got that look of a cartoon and juvenile text when the charchters speak .
  The button configuration 
 is also not on the reasonable and there are some bugs but other then after you start playing the 
 game for an hour ao two it grows on you.
  Bottom line is the game is worth playing, I mean who wouldn't want to crash enemies with wolverine 
 he is just the coolest charachter anyone ever invented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerEcho
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first installment in the series, but consensus seems to agree that this sequel 
 plays a lot like its forbear. This means lots of straightforward, beat-em up action, and lots of 
 stuff to destroy. Make no mistake -- if you're looking for a complex and cerebral gaming experience, 
 you won't find it here. This is an RPG, but more in the mold of Diablo than say... Baldur's Gate. 
 
  
  From the getgo, Rise throws you into the thick of battle. Pick a character and 3 allies from a 
 pool of a dozen or so mutants, and pound your way towards the finish. Between the services of the 
 X-Men and the Brotherhood, plus more characters that can be unlocked by completing various goals 
 in the game, you'll have plenty of combinations to choose from. Depending on the character and 
 allies you select, the game can play in significantly different ways, thus replayability is definitely 
 a plus. Player control can be transferred to any character on the team, and there are plenty of 
 opportunities to change teams. You can't ask for more versatility here.
  
  The game was pretty easy on the default setting. With a few exceptions, my team of Wolverine, Cyclops, 
 Magneto and Colossus basically bulldozed our way through each course. The levels are well designed 
 and can be quite expansive, but nothing mazelike and the "few puzzles" you'll encounter won't be 
 incredibly difficult. In fact, the only brain cells you'll be likely to waste is in finding the 
 items scattered throughout the levels (usually in more obscure places) such as homing devices, 
 data discs, sketchbooks and comics that can be collected, which, in addition to the novelty value, 
 also turns in miscellaneous benefits for the party when a complete set has been assembled. 
  
  The boards are divided into five zones, four of which end in a battle with one of the Horsemen 
 of Apocalypse. Each zone has a home base, where you can get information, trade items, answer trivia 
 questions and try out danger room courses for various rewards in the form of xp and items. You'll 
 also have remote access to Blink, a mutant who can create portals through which you can return 
 to base immediately, not to mention X-Traction portals that can take you anywhere you've been to 
 previously, even those in other zones. 
  
  The storyline fits in well with the style and tradition of the comics and provides good context 
 for what you're doing. Character interaction in the game, while extant, is limited to mission briefings 
 and information finding. The only character building you'll be doing is selecting skills and attributes 
 for your party during levelups, a process which can be automated if it isn't your cup of tea. The 
 selection of skills, not to mention the items you'll find, are fairly extensive and should come 
 across as quite intuitive to anyone who has ever played an RPG. 
  
  The combat system is pretty much the same for every character, in terms of basic moves and executable 
 combos. Special moves (part of the skills palette) consume energy and distinguish the role of the 
 character on the team. Again, this quite intuitive. Storm is obviously more of a "spell-caster" 
 than a tank unit as opposed to say, Juggernaut. Of course, if you choose to go against the grain, 
 that is your prerogative, hence the beauty of the game.
  
  The cell-shaded graphics look a little dated as do the environments, which are virtually unchanged 
 from the first game. The sound is good enough to get the job done. I was able to run everything 
 smoothly at 1024 x 768 on an 1.8ghz Athlon with a GeForce4 Ti4200, so it shouldn't be a stretch 
 on anyone's resources.
  
  All in all, this is an easy one to recommend for the casual gamer who likes to less thinking and 
 more smashing. It comes with a lot of options and combinations, and has definite replay value. 
 The story is good enough for a game of its kind and the level design stays consistently interesting. 
 The gripes include a few glitches, although none of them were too significant, poorly designed 
 menus, ambiguous skill trees and being too short (my character finished the game on level 53) . 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raduneo88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I love the fact that the characters are each unique, it takes quite a while to learn them, quite 
 a bit or replayability, great boss fights, it takes a while to get used to controling the game 
 using mouse and keyboard, but I'm pretty sure I've mastered it, I can pull out plenty of combos 
 in little time! Storyline is pretty good, graphics are nice and don't require for a powerful system. 
 The sound is average altough doing the combos sound satysfying, and the dialogues, especially because 
 of the voice of Patrick Stewart, are very well done. Some of the music is quite god, the rest of 
 it is average. Also I didn't give it 10/10 on everything just because I love the game, I tried 
 to be reallistic in my grades. And excuse me if my review is unorganized! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertkill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  A very good game, formidable effect of high quality and fights. With many personages being able 
 to choose the ones that you more spend and adimira. With good graphs and good game he is excellent 
 to pass the time and if to amuse. 
  The game has a degree of good difficulty, to put its controls is one in such a way complicated 
 of if learning, but to if making familiar to the control it will have a great diversion. For me 
 being indicated to be played by all the ages.
  In the game it will find much mystery and diversion, high to be able of the personages with sequncias 
 of very legal blows.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPopo66613
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is wow, just wow its a fast paced game sort of like Kingdom Hearts just a little LESS 
 complex.. I do have to say though that the controls for pc are awful, the graphics are pretty good 
 for what they should be and the game sounds and looks amazing, it really gets you the whole xmen 
 feel.
  
  although the game is quite confusing if you havent bee paying attention to your xmen lately because 
 i have no idea whats going on and who apocalypse is.
  
  The wide variation of characters makes this game worth while being able to play as many comic book 
 super heroes is definately a great aspect of the game and also the combos between characters mutant 
 moves are awesome. you really get the xmen feel when your teleporting through walls as night crawler. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starstreak7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  I Started playing XL2 about two weeks ago on the PC, which it does look better on than console. 
 At first I played it for about 5 minutes and thought it was unintutive and confusing. I left it 
 alone for about a week. At random I played it again and couldn't stop playing after I got the hang 
 of it. The subtle banter of the characters, the diversity of the moves as well as the litte rewards 
 scatteref through the game. The good parts, the smooth loading, on PC, the amount of costumes and 
 the unrepeptitive dialogue. The bad: For the most part, although fun to play sometimes, most of 
 the brotherhood members should have just been NPC's they are lackluster and many of their attacks 
 don't seem as powerful as the X-men. If you are looking for a game to tide you over if you are 
 tired of playing your favorite game, or just want something new, X-men Legends 2 is the game for 
 you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaxspider
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the Xmen game, MARVEL gamers have been looking forward to. True I havent played the first 
 game but that was due to doubt, but this time I took the plunge since this was a sequel, and usually 
 sequels are supposed to be better. And boy was I relieved that it was good.
  
  Alot of the Xmen are here. Sorta like an all stars roster. Each character has a hefty list of super 
 powers they can use. And they use them a lot! Which is really pleasing to the player.
  
  The game plays out like a comic book and puts you right in the middle of it. Each mission feels 
 like an issue out of the comic.
  
  The main issue I had with the PC version was that the controls were horrible and impossible to 
 figure out without gamefaq. com (Thanks guys.) And even worse was trying to play the game with a 
 mouse. Which I rather not describe due to the fact that young children might learn a few words 
 their parents might not want them to know.
  
  The replay value, well, is a little low since the most you'll be doing is playing thru the game 
 again with all the characters you didnt play alot with the first or second time around.
  
  The sound effects are awesome. And exactly the way they should be in a comic book game. Plus all 
 the voice acting was superb.
  
  The video effects for this game plays like a dream. Even on a older computer.
  
  But I seriously 
 would still buy this game again. And I havent even tried out the online gameplay so yeah. There 
 you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosushi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  this game is the first title of the x men series ive played and i think its great.
  the gameplay is easy to understand and the quests are also good for beginners. the story and the 
 movies after every act are great. but one thing is no so good they could make the graphics a lot 
 more better. but if you can see over this little mistake its a very good game that everybody should 
 play if he is interested in such superhero stuff. the characters are modeled with a lot details 
 and ervery x men fan would love it. i can only say play it and see by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The X-men never really had a great game. The only character in the Marvel universe who has great 
 games is Spider-man. But that changed with the first X-men Legends. The sequel features more characters, about 
 more or less 10 characters are unlocked from the start which makes choosing your character a bit 
 difficult as you wanna try em all.
  
  But the game is immense fun to play, will keep anyone thrilled for hours, a defenite must buy for 
 X-men fans or people who like action RPGs. I haven't played the first game as it wasn't released 
 for the PC. So i cant say if it's a better sequel but nevertheless it's still an over the top fun 
 ride, unmatched !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 26, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  
  The only downside to this great action game is that the combat engine is excellent but the game 
 is still a bit too easy. There are more combat challenges this time around but those challenges 
 are pretty rare too. And it doesn't help that there are times when you feel like the game is "playing 
 itself." In other words, you are controlling any 1 of the 4 members on your team and enemies will 
 go down and you might as well have been sitting on the sidelines while the other 3 computer-driven 
 players take down the enemy for you. You cannot play the whole game sitting out on the fighting, 
 but there will be too many moments when you can. You can reduce your team to less than 4, but it 
 is clear that the game wasn't particularly designed for that type of gameplay. The whole issue 
 goes away if you are playing with humans on-line. It sounds like I'm trashing the game but I'm 
 not; its just not as challenging as some of us might like it to be.
  
  I should mention that the game starts off slowly, and your non-melee characters will have extremely 
 little to do until they reach level 15. THEN those characters long-range abilities and "team-buffing 
 skills" will be great to try out. Cyclops has several "leadership" buffs that improve the abilities 
 of everyone on the team. All of the characters have distinct abilities. And you can still pick 
 up and throw objects at enemies like in the first game. Very cool. 
  
  The game really shines in the combat interface. It makes it easy to pull off team-based combos 
 and to switch your control between the different members of the team. The combos are always fun 
 to pull off. 
  
  If you liked the first game on the consoles, getting this is a no-brainer. You should buy it immediately 
 since this game offers a very solid single and co-op player game. With 5 acts and well over a dozen 
 missions, plus skirmish missions in a "danger room" area, you get at least 20 hours of gameplay. 
 If you aren't sure, it might be a good idea to wait for a demo.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
