-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Plane 8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/xplane8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fly nearly anything.
 Mars, anyone?.
 Create your own planes (with a lot of practice).
 Great physics-based flight model.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still relatively ugly after all these years.
 Tons of bugs.
 Too much for the uninitiated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 288 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Graphsim Entertainment
Developer: Laminar Research
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Dec 10, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
X-Plane is a fantastic sandbox that makes a terrific counterpart to the much more rigid Flight Simulator 
 series. 

  X-Plane 8 may be Flight Simulator 2004's biggest competition, but the two products are about as 
 far apart as you can get. Whereas Flight Simulator is designed by a huge team working with an enormous 
 budget for one of the biggest companies in the world, X-Plane is largely designed by one person, 
 on a relatively miniscule budget, who's working for himself. This labor of love is now in its eighth 
 commercial iteration, and while other sims have come and gone, X-Plane is the only one still flying 
 high as a potential alternative to Flight Simulator.  

          What other simulator lets you land the space shuttle?     

  Flight Simulator 2004 came 
 with a lot of planes, but it can't touch the variety offered by X-Plane. This is the most comprehensive 
 flight simulator available to consumers, and it models everything from radio-controlled airplanes 
 to jumbo jets to the space shuttle. Exotic aircraft, like the Hindenburg zeppelin, X-15, and SR-71 
 Blackbird, are available out of the box, along with more-standard fare, like a Cessna 172, Piper 
 Malibu, and Bombardier 415 seaplane. Helicopters and VTOL planes also are supported, making it 
 easy to try your hand at the controls of a Huey, V-22 Osprey, Harrier, or Joint Strike Fighter. 
 If you're feeling really ambitious, it's even possible to switch from Earth to Mars, where low 
 gravity and a nearly nonexistent atmosphere mean that flying planes designed for that environment 
 (two are included) requires planning several minutes ahead of where you actually want to end up. 

  Tools are included for making your own aircraft, but they aren't easy to use. Fortunately, it  
 is  easy to modify existing planes by changing engine specifications, modifying wing shapes, and 
 making nearly any other tweak imaginable so you can live out your dreams of being a test pilot. 
 Many talented fans have cranked out plenty of other aircraft you can download from the Web, so 
 there's never a dearth of things to fly.  

  The entire world is included in the game, along with thousands of airports, but graphics are definitely 
 the Achilles' heel of this series. Planes don't look nearly as detailed as the nearly photo-realistic 
 aircraft included in Flight Simulator 2004, and textures don't seem to have been updated from previous 
 versions. Although the terrain graphics have improved considerably from version seven (as they 
 now incorporate seamless tiles) , nearly everything still looks like a vast lawn, with buildings 
 randomly strewn throughout. Sounds are actually decent for a game of this type, with engine noises 
 and radio chatter sounding particularly good.  

  The 2D instruments in X-Plane 8 are very comprehensive and detailed compared to competing products, 
 and the analog gauges deserve special mention, as they look and act very convincing when compared 
 to their real-world counterparts. If you're interested in buying a simulator to train with that 
 includes real-world instruments (so you can obtain an actual pilot's license) , this is the product 
 to get.  

  The flight model is incredibly fluid, and at its best it conveys an unparalleled feeling of bouncing 
 around in actual air currents. This is especially true in the lighter aircraft, where landing in 
 a crosswind is a real challenge. Occasionally, the sim reacts violently to abrupt control inputs, 
 snapping a plane back and forth quickly in a completely unrealistic way, but overall it does an 
 incredible job, especially considering the wide variety of aircraft types it's able to model.  
 

  Unfortunately, when it comes to overall polish and a lack of bugs, X-Plane isn't even in the same 
 league as Flight Simulator 2004. A few times during testing, we loaded a scenario that let us perform 
 an aircraft carrier landing only to find the carrier rapidly circling a group of buildings in the 
 middle of a city. Several times we were plopped down on runways magically floating in the middle 
 of the ocean, and collision detection with buildings, hot air balloons, and other objects is nonexistent. 
 You have to put up with a lot of compromises to use this sim, and although it's worth it in the 
 end, most people would be much happier with the more consistent Flight Simulator 2004.  

          2D cockpits look terrific.     

  If you're new to the flight sim scene, Microsoft's 
 Flight Simulator 2004 is the superior option, as it's much easier to both use and configure than 
 X-Plane. Moreover, X-Plane offers a staggering number of options -- from dozens of graphics rendering 
 settings to complete joystick calibration -- that are likely to fly over the heads of the uninitiated. 
 If you're familiar with your hardware and with flight sims in general, X-Plane is a fantastic sandbox 
 that makes a terrific counterpart to the much more rigid Flight Simulator series. As a result, 
 it's definitely worth purchasing. And even if you have a previous version, the new features in 
 version 8 more than justify the upgrade price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arronizmiguel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  I was heading to buy Micro's FS X, but it was sold out at the time... so, I had this other option... 
 a little box called "X-Plane 9"
  
  I saw "60 GB of scenery!" on the cover...
  
  I thought... Wow!, this may be what I'm looking for...
  
  So I paid the money and took it home 
 with me...
  
  The first 11 GB takes a while to install and it provides the U. S. A. landscapes,
  
  Since I 
 had time, I went for all of the continent and installed other 2 DVD's
  
  Ok... Ready... GO!
  
  I must say The only other attempt to a simulator was the EA's Rail Simulator, 
 and it shock me, great!
  
  Now, Knowing that a simulator is all about the real thing... and the fact I LOVE planes, I was 
 very excited about my new game!
  
  Knowing how to play it, as the manual says: "Easy to learn, a lifetime to master" ... that's soooo 
 true...
  
  But you can have great fun knowing how to manipulate your REPLAY and playing with the many camera 
 options...
  
  It is not that" great if you play with your mouse, so be certain to get at least an analogue game-pad...
 
  
  There's no introduction, no cut-scenes... You begin inside your plane and all the world is your 
 playing ground... Literally, every airport in the world is there, and still you can customize the 
 landscape and also you can create your own planes based on real-life patterns. All of the (mind-boggling) 
 menu options are hidden in the upper side of the screen, so there's only you and your plane...
 
  
  Tha lack of a real mission based game-play (there's some 20 attempts or "Situations" as the game 
 offers) but that's not enough to rise the score...
  
  I'll change te install to an external drive to have it all and complete, (up to 70 GB in the end) , 
 I guess I can come back to play this one every now and then in the future...
  
  So, If you decide to make a new entry with the latest version (GameSpot crew, X-Plane 9) , I'll 
 change this review accordingly :)
  
  Cheers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreatInca
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The value is incredible -- $50 for X-Plane and your local world region or $70 for the whole-world 
 of scenery ( http://store. x-plane. com/cart. php? m=product_list&amp; c=3 ) . The core Sim is only 1/2 
 Gigabyte. The 8.0x-8.2x scenery and probably also the x-plane + local-world-rgion only needs about 
 10gb of space. The 8.3x+ full-world scenery needs 60GB of space for the scenery, but for anything 
 that is not landmark buildings, it is really awesome with topological accuracy that Microsoft can't 
 beat.
  
  The updates just keep flying out. Got cars on the road now, tire traction modeling (code back-engineered 
 from up and coming high-realism civilian/racing driving sim) , simulation of multiple engine contra-rotating 
 propfan aircraft (any transmission ration/setup you can think of actually) , even multiplayer or 
 AI air combat, though their is no gore or explosions -- a hit means smoke puff and engine shutdown.
 
  
  The air traffic now uses the same flight modeling as the player's plane (as of 8.5x+) and if they 
 are military, they are automatically hostile if they are in a different force/color than you, even 
 if your plane is not military or armed! Get a comprehensive version history since 6.06 here -- 
 http://home. earthlink. net/~x-plane/FAQ-History. html
  
  The UI is still geek-optimized, no missions (I personally don't care for them but I'm sure others 
 do) , you'll never get high-realism cityscapes with high-detail landmark buildings, and plane-maker 
 is clunky for the fuselage design, so if you are looking for acceptable-realism casual-user eye-candy, 
 you are better off with Microsoft's Flight Simulator X.
  
  X-Plane is the most realistic flightsim available, and the consumer version ($50 w/ new world scenery) 
 is exactly identical to the FAA approved version ($500 from PFC -- http://www. flypfc. com/ or Fidelity 
 -- http://www. flightmotion. com/newfixed-r. htm ) except for the aircraft and extension code bundled 
 into their panels (mostly for FAA regulations surrounding mandates for physical hardware control) . 
 So when your are flying Berry Leger's F-22 ( http://xplanefreeware. net/barry/index%20F22. html ) 
 or an Ultra-Realistic 737-800 by Morten Melhuus ( http://www. xplanefreeware. net/forums/index. php? showtopic=19 
 -- Login required to view; terrorists like uber realism like this you know) , you know you are getting 
 the most realism you can get out of a consumer-priced flight simulator ever. Some of the low-cost 
 payware 3rd-party aircraft have exceptional eye-candy at the aircraft level that rivals even Microsoft's 
 aircraft. Two great sites are c74. net ( http://www. c74. net/xplane/_xpo_coop. html - May be developer 
 of FAA approved aircraft for the FAA approved version of X-Plane, regardless, these are very realistic 
 and pretty looking) and Shade Tree Micro Aviation ( http://shadetreemicro. com/ ; Confirmed as source 
 of FAA approved aircraft for the FAA approved x-plane at the X-Plane Features Yahoo Group -- http://games. groups. yahoo. com/group/x-plane-features/) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morelenbaum
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I bought X-Plane 8, and was taking off in a 747 from O'Hare Intl. I thought if it would 
 really be everything that is said in the box. I closed the game and opened the web browser to see 
 if i could find any review, and found a site with downloads for the game. I downloaded Orly Airport 
 (Paris, France) , installed it and started the game again. I fell from my chair: I could see the 
 airport! I could see the ramp my plane was parked at!! I could see other airplanes parked at other 
 ramps and a great amount of vehicles moving among the ramps!! I looked again, from inside the Boeing 
 747 and could see it all, and a m-a-r-v-e-l-o-u-s instrument panel. Since then I think X-Plane 
 brings to my desktop the most exiting flight simulation experience I ever had, so it must be the 
 best flight simulator. The only downside: pilot and atc voices are crap, and until now I haven't 
 found a way to fix this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: costin_branzas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Well, this is how a flying sim should be like-AMAZING. I want to say to the people that complain 
 about how the menus in the game look that the game is a SIMULATOR and it simulates flight NOT pretty 
 and colorful menus. O yeah, there was this guy that wrote a review in which he said that the ground 
 looked really bad at low altitude as well as as at high alt. - TRY SETTING THE VIDEO DETAILS ON 
 "HIGH"-maybe that will work for you. I'm lucky enough to fly some light aircraft in real life. 
 Believe me: X-plane is the most realistic flight sim available for PC. Visit the homepage and get 
 convinced yourself (it is officially used for training pilots - what other pc simulation can say 
 this???) -  www. x-plane. com . I recommend this game for those to really like flying and wanna get 
 a close as possible feeling of flight without leaving "terra ferma". As a flight lover i also played 
 MsFlight sim 2004 - it's a nice game but it isn't comparable with X-plane. The advantage over X-plane 
 is in the graphics (nice cockpits) but i seriously think it is not as real as x-plane. I have both 
 installed on my pc, they compensate each other (one has what the other doesn't) SO: if you want 
 to see how pretty are the aircrafts or how the ground looks from above go for ms-flight sim, if 
 you really love flying an the adrenaline it gives you DEFINITELY go for X-plane - it is unbelievably 
 real plus, with the plane-maker and world editor that comes in the pack - The sky is the limit! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricojfdd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  Its great, clean, addictive and it isn't Microsoft... A brillitant all-rounder.
  Let me elaborate on the above:
  
  Its great: it truly is. If you are even slightly interested 
 in Flight Sims, then you will surely love this one and forget about any other ones you tried before.
 
  
  Its addictive: OK, so as with most flight sims, you can add/customise many/various aspects of the 
 program to suit your preferences. However, with X-Plane 8, there are so many different areas and 
 features you can customise, that the game keeps you hooked onto the controls for hours and hours 
 of non-stop flying, landing and flight-planning.
  
  It isn't Microsoft: for me this is a veryimportant feature. As with most MS-related programs/applications, 
 they tend to either be too big on install, too complicated or more often than not too buggy/crashing... 
 X-Plane 8 isn't.
  
  To sum it up in a nut-shell: get X-Plane 8, then surf round the net (VERY easy and centralised 
 pages: x-plane. com / x-plane. org / xpgoodway. com / etc...) and download add-ons, aircraft (helicopters, 
 airships, rockets, military planes, historiacal planes, etc...) , flight-planning modules, co-pilot 
 modules, flight attendant speech and AI modules, various flight-plans, flight situations, sceneries, 
 etc.... (most are free) ... The list could go on and on and on....
  
  Quite literally: the sky is the limit (and beyond since X-Plane 8 is one of the few quality flight 
 sims that cantake you to Mars or the Moon and back) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghazi_19
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game to every1 . The game has a wide variety off all of all the essentials a good 
 flight sim needs. I highly recomend this game to all of u filght sim fans like me.= (?'321) 1 of 
 the best flight sims ever goode good good good good good good good good good at  
 moo moo me me me me me me me me me m e me em e me em emem me i i i i i i i i i i ii 
  home | pc | ps2 | ps3 | psp | xbox | xbox 360 | gc | ds | gba | nge | mobile | news | tech | downloads 
 | videos | features | forums
  GameSpot: Your source for
  Video Games | PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, PSP, DS, GBA, PS2, PS3, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360
 
  Worldwide | About Us | Advertise on GameSpot | Terms & Conditions | Shop for Games | Help
  GameFAQs. com | GameRankings. com | Metacritic. com | WGamer. com | EBgames. com | GameFly. com | Alienware 
 PCs
  Top Games: Quake 4 | Dragon Ball Z: Tenkaichi | F. E. A. R. | The Warriors | Age of Empires 3 | Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 | GTA: San Andreas
  Top Cheats: GTA: San Andreas Cheats | Dragon Ball Z: Tenkaichi Cheats | Age of Empires 3 Cheats 
 | Pokemon Emerald Cheats | F. E. A. R. Cheats | Black & White 2 Cheats | Shadow of the Colossus Cheats 
 | Quake 4 Cheats | SOCOM 3 Cheats | Halo 2 Cheats
  Today on CNET: MP3 Players | Cell Phones | Digital Cameras | Laptops | PDAs | Speakers | Web Hosting 
 | Overstock Clearance | Tech Bargains
  BNET | CNET. com | CNET Channel | CNET Download. com | CNET News. com | CNET Reviews | CNET Shopper. com 
 | Computer Shopper
  International Media | MP3. com | mySimon | Partnerships | Release 1.0 | Search. com | TechRepublic 
 | TV. com | Webshots | ZDNet 
  About CNET Networks | Jobs
  Copyright 2005 CNET Networks, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 21, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  X-plane is low cost flight simulator for PC that faithfully recreates the "feel" of flying. As 
 a real GA pilot myself, I can tell you that X-plane is much closer to reality than anything else 
 you can buy on the market in this price range. It has a highy advanced flight dynamics model that 
 works by using the actual visual 3D-model of the aircraft and subjecting it to a virtual airflow. 
 Of all the popular flight sims out there, X-plane is the only one that has FAA approval for training 
 real pilots.
  
  X-plane is great if you like making your own aircraft add-ons, because all you need to do is build 
 an accurate 3D model of your chosen aircraft, using the X-plane "Plane Maker" that is included 
 in the package, and then add a few basic parameters such as weight and engine power etc. When you're 
 done it should fly just like the real thing. This is also great news if you like designing your 
 own aircraft, because you can build them in Plane Maker then then use X-plane to test-fly them, 
 and they'll behave just as they would if they were real. That's not to say they will always fly 
 - that depends on your design.. but it is to say that X-plane can be (and indeed has been) used 
 for aircraft development research, and for exploring new concept designs. You can have some real 
 fun with this!! 
  
  As well as the sophisticated Plane Maker that allows you to create your own aircraft and panels, 
 X-plane also includes an advanced Aerofoil Maker for designing precise aerofoils, and a World Maker 
 that allows you to create your own scenary. 
  
  It's inevitable that people are going to compare X-plane to it's popular competitor, MS Flight 
 Simulator, and in doing so, will see that the graphics and scenery of X-plane are not in the same 
 league. That's why I have both sims installed on my PC, They complement each other. If I want to 
 enjoy looking at aircraft and beautiful scenery, then I use MS2004. If I want to practice landing 
 a Cessna in a 15 Kt cross wind, then I use X-plane definitely!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Witchking111111
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 26, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  X-Plane 8 was very disappointing and is a waste of time and money. The game is full of bugs but 
 patches can be downloaded to fix them. A patch comes out maybe once in 1-2 months. It gets annoying 
 to have to download patches to fix the bugs every so often. 
  The game takes about a half hour to install. Once it starts, it takes you right to an airplane 
 at some airport. X-Plane 8 has no main menu and has all of the options to choose from at the top. 
 It's very confusing to work X-Plane 8 without a main menu. Once you quit the game and log back 
 on some time later, it starts you out where you last left off. Lets say you quit when flying a 
 747 in Arizona. When you load X-Plane back up, you'll be in the same area.
  After I loaded up the game, I went to O'hare airport in Chicago. When it loaded up, all I saw was 
 tarmac and runway. There are no terminals at ANY airport. There is only tarmac and runway even 
 at the busiest airports. After I took off, I flew towards downtown Chicago to look at the skylines 
 and the Sears Tower. Once I got there, I was angry and upset. Every single building looks exactly 
 alike. No matter if your in New York, Chicago, London or Paris, every building is practically the 
 same. There is no uniqueness to the cities. But fortunately, X-Plane 8 comes with World-Maker, 
 a program used to make your own scenery. But it may take hours or even days to make scenery for 
 a city. It's very hard to make a building look real and may take a few tries to get it right. You 
 can also download scenery for airports and cities off the internet. But without buildings, terminals, 
 and gates, the game gets dull fast.
  Another problem I noticed was that there were hardly any other aircraft flying around in the game. 
 You can place about 10 other aircraft around you, but they never land. They fly around forever. 
 There is no Air-Traffic Control like FS2002. I haven't figured out how to put aircraft on the ground 
 even though I've been reading the manual for a month. I just wish that there was other AI aircraft 
 like in Flight Simulator.
  X-Plane 8 comes with about 29 aircraft and more are downloadable online. Personally, I like the 
 supersonic aircraft. You can also make your own aircraft with Plane-Maker, a program that allows 
 you to make your own aircraft or edit the aircraft in the game. But you'd have to be a real plane 
 builder in order to make an aircraft. You have to fill in hundreds of numbers to fix and place 
 engines, wings, tires, gear door, etc etc. It takes hours just to make a plane and it might not 
 even fly that well. Everything has to be perfect or almost to make an aircraft fly. The other programs 
 involved with X-Plane 8 is Airl Foil-Maker, and Brief Maker.
  X-Plane 8 comes with some features like Air-Drop, where you can be dropped off from another aircraft 
 in the air. You can fly in formation with other aircraft like yours, but it's best with military 
 aircraft. You can put out a forest fire by using your Seaplane, dropping water, then going to a 
 water source to get more. You can be towed off the runway by another aircraft and can be winched 
 off the runway also. You can be refuelled by a KC-10 in the air. You can take off from asphalt, 
 dirt, concrete, grass, and rock runways. You can land and take off from aircraft carriers, frigates, 
 small and large oil rigs and building tops. You can have a IFR or VRL approach to an airport or 
 helipad. You can also fly in space with the Space Shuttle. You can either re-enter the atmosphere 
 and land or start out on Earth and then land at Edwards AFB. But if you choose to start out in 
 space, it takes a long difficult process to fly into the atmosphere and Earth. You start out about 
 2 or 3 miles above the atmosphere going about 500,000 miles an hour. The slightest movement of 
 the wings or anything else will cause your space shuttle to fly out of control into the atmosphere 
 or into space. You also to be careful how quickly you go into the atmosphere becuase you might 
 burn up. So it's pretty hard to fly the Space Shuttle.
  If you get bored of Earth, you can change and fly on Mars. Although it sounds fun, it's quite difficult 
 becuase you ahve to get used to haveing no gravity. You have to fly the Mars Jet or Mars Rocket 
 in order to get off the ground on Mars. There are not many airports on Mars and flying to one may 
 take hours even though you may be going fast. The Mars Planes can also go out of control with the 
 slightest movements. So I just stay on earth. These features make the game fun, but they get old 
 quickly. You can fail about 35 systems manually or automatically. But the games needs to improve 
 alot more on graphics and scenery because the ground looks the same no matter if your five feet 
 in the air or 50,000 feet in the air. So overall I'd give this a bad score.
  Save your money for a better flight sim game and try to stay away from all X-Plane products. If 
 you have any questions on X-Plane 8 or any problems with this review, PM me. X-Plane 8 is very 
 disappointing and the graphics overall are not good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
