-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter: Balance of Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/xwingvstiefighterbop/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 222 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1997
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Balance of Power does an admirable job of addressing almost all the complaints gamers had with the 
 original game. 

 Very few gamers were entirely satisfied with X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter when it was originally released 
 last summer. In fact, to many gamers, it was both one of the most eagerly anticipated and ultimately 
 one of the most disappointing games of 1997. Critics noted the lack of support for 3D accelerator 
 cards; the omission of several of the more powerful fighters from past games in the series, such 
 as the B-Wing and TIE Defender; the cartoonish cockpit graphics; and the visually disproportionate 
 size of the apparently puny Imperial Star Destroyers. But the most frequently expressed complaint 
 of disgruntled purchasers was that Totally Games and LucasArts, by concentrating almost exclusively 
 on providing a multiplayer dogfighting arena, had abandoned the storyline-driven gameplay of previous 
 games in the series. X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter provided no storyline, no campaigns, no dramatic cutscenes, 
 and overall, a poor single-player experience. Fortunately, Balance of Power does an admirable job 
 of addressing almost all the complaints gamers had with the original game.  

 Balance of Power includes two separate 15-mission campaigns - one for the Imperial forces and one 
 for the Rebel forces. In the Rebel missions you'll be on the defensive from the outset, scrambling 
 to regroup your forces in order to fend off, and ultimately destroy, a large Imperial fleet equipped 
 with a gigantic Super Star Destroyer. Ye of little faith who thought LucasArts could never properly 
 depict the size of a massive ship like the Super Star Destroyer will be suitably humbled the first 
 time you lay your eyes on this beast. Although an epic "attack the Death Star" mission is still 
 missing, challenging the city-sized Super Star Destroyer provides an apt substitute. The Imperial 
 campaign involves chasing down the Rebels and preventing them from establishing a new Starship 
 Shipyard. Every time you manage to complete five missions in a campaign, you are rewarded with 
 a well-produced cutscene (six in total) that advances the campaign storyline in a compelling manner 
 (and in the largely nameless/faceless X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter universe, which usually means a computer-generated 
 sequence with a lot of ships blowing up) . Best of all, the campaigns can be played through by a 
 group of players as cooperative multiplayer missions. After you complete a campaign mission, you 
 can replay it as a training mission.  

 The missions in the campaigns are refreshingly varied in their objectives and design and are, paradoxically, 
 both the best addition to X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter and the cause of the most frustration. A number 
 of the campaign missions are extremely difficult for a single player to successfully complete on 
 the default difficulty level. Since tasks (which are occasionally unintuitive) often have to be 
 carried out in a particular sequence, too many of the missions end up feeling puzzle-like, requiring 
 you to figure out exactly where you have to go at different stages of the mission in order to be 
 successful. Anyone familiar with Lawrence Holland's other games, Like X-Wing, Tie Fighter, and 
 Secret Weapons of the Luftwaffe won't be surprised by the occasionally devilishly challenging mission. 
 But it's ironic that the campaigns in Balance of Power were arguably included to provide a better 
 single-player experience, and yet they are extremely difficult for a single player to complete 
 on the default difficulty level. Fortunately there are easier skill levels for frustrated gamers 
 to meekly resort to and even a harder one for gamers who are "one with the force." You can also 
 play each mission from the perspective of different flight groups, which enhances replayability 
 by giving you different (often more challenging) mission objectives, and gives you additional opportunities 
 to experiment with the Rebel B-Wing fighter (which is usually not your default choice) .  

 For an affordably priced expansion pack, Balance of Power provides outstanding value. In addition 
 to the campaigns and cutscenes, Balance of Power also adds eight new separate "combat engagements" 
 (single missions to accomplish specified objectives) , one new "battle" in which you can link the 
 combat engagements together, and two melees (free-for-all shoot-em-ups) . While the only new ship 
 available to you is the Rebel B-Wing fighter, Balance of Power also adds five new capital ships 
 (including the formidable Super Star Destroyer) , two new starship bases, and a new gun emplacement 
 platform. Although a 3D patch for X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter was made available some time ago, Balance 
 of Power does automatically add the latest version of the patch and cleans up a few textures. You 
 can now program your own "taunts" to gleefully mock your hapless foes. Finally, Balance of Power 
 adds the familiar "white streaks of light" hyperspace effect, which was notably absent from the 
 original game. Gamers who have been disappointed by uninspired expansion packs that haphazardly 
 slap together a bunch of single-player missions, throw in a couple of new multiplayer arenas and 
 a handful of units, and call it a day, will be pleasantly surprised with Balance of Power. Balance 
 of Power provides more gameplay than most full games. The only things missing are new sound effects 
 and (Star Wars-fan sacrilege alert!) new music. Don't get me wrong - I love John William's Star 
 Wars music as much as the next guy, but hasn't LucasArts milked the Star Wars theme songs enough? 
 Keep the classic music (what Star Wars game would be complete without the Imperial March) , but 
 let's have a few new chords next time.  

 Minor complaints aside, Totally Games and LucasArts have finally delivered the game that was so 
 anxiously anticipated prior to X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter's release. Balance of Power perhaps arrives 
 a little late, but it is certainly successful in making X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter one of the best 
 games to be released in 1997 - and is still the only multiplayer space sim worth its weight in 
 Jawas.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  X-Wing versus TIE Fighter was a pure multiplayer game, even though it had AI. The lack of a single 
 player campaign brought it down significantly, and Balance of Power attempts to fix this, but I 
 can't really say that playing the campaigns offline are a good idea since some of the missions 
 are clearly intended for multiple players and are often seemingly impossible without more than 
 one.
  
  Balance of Power's campaign focuses on an Imperial Task Force hunting down a Rebel fleet. You can 
 choose to fight for either the Rebels or Imperials, but both campaigns are equally difficult alone. 
 There are often missions that can be impossible by yourself for on reason or another, usually because 
 your team mates do not inspect before destroying. This is irritating because the campaigns are 
 next to impossible without other players meaning that despite the addition of a campaign, XvT is 
 still not single player friendly. Some interesting new additions are the B-Wing, a new Rebel starfighter 
 for the campaign and other game modes, and the Super Star Destroyer in the campaign.
  
  Balance of Power is a decent expansion, it adds a campaign but it is still multiplayer-centric. 
 The addition of the B-Wing and Super Star Destroyer are okay, but that doesn't fix my initial gripes 
 with XvT. Balance of Power is not really worth trying out if you're looking for a single player 
 campaign, you're better off sticking with X-Wing, TIE Fighter, or even X-Wing Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  X-Wing vs. T. I. E. Fighter got a lot of flak over the absence of a proper campaign, and rightfully 
 so, since the single player content was abysmal. Although Totally Games shipped XvT with a load 
 of practice missions, many of them were ripped from T. I. E. Fighter. At its core, XvT was a rehash 
 of the previous game but with updated graphics and focusing on multiplayer. Except two new campaigns 
 Balance of Power also adds some new ships, most notably the B-Wing fighter which was another victim 
 of the mysterious downsizing from T. I. E. Fighter. Balance of Power can not be considered an expansion, 
 it simply corrects what was missing from the original game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
