-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X2: The Threat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/x2thethreat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 843 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Egosoft
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 3, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It starts very slowly and has a steep learning curve, but if you're patient enough to stick with 
 it, you'll probably find that X2 is a diamond in the rough. 

  Space simulations have done so poorly commercially over the past five years that the genre has 
 almost completely vanished. The trend began when large publishers EA and LucasArts abandoned their 
 respective Wing Commander and Star Wars space sim franchises, and it accelerated when even acclaimed 
 titles, like FreeSpace 2, were unable to attract a significant commercial market. During the past 
 year, Microsoft released Freelancer, which a hybrid action space sim with a storied and protracted 
 development. Aside from this offering, the genre has essentially been handed over to small, mostly 
 European, developers. X2: The Threat is the latest space sim to be developed by a small European 
 developer, and like its recent peers, it's an extremely ambitious but not very accessible game. 
 It starts very slowly and has a steep learning curve, but if you're patient enough to stick with 
 it, you'll probably find that X2 is a diamond in the rough.  

          Space looks great in X2, as it's full of colorful nebulae and other interesting scenery. 
     

  The scope of X2 is quite immense. Like Privateer or Elite, it's an open-ended space simulation 
 that gives you the freedom to trade goods, hunt pirates, loot transports, mine asteroids, escort 
 dignitaries, or just freely explore an expansive gaming universe. X2 is even more ambitious than 
 any of those games, since it's also a respectable strategy offering that allows you to build factories, 
 control capital ships, and ultimately assemble a fleet to dominate territory and influence economic 
 markets. It's also set in a relatively dynamic universe that is controlled by six different races 
 who are all threatened by an ominous newcomer. As you develop your own economic empire and military 
 force, you have to learn how to effectively manage and defend your dispersed assets. Even more 
 impressively, just about everything works as intended, so, as a result, X2 is one of the most involved 
 space simulations ever.  

  However, the cost of this depth is apparently polish, since many aspects of X2 feel amateurish 
 or just don't work as well as they do in other space sims. X2 may have the worst cinematics and 
 egregiously paced dialogue that the genre has ever seen. X2 is the sequel to X: Beyond the Frontier, 
 which received such poor distribution in North America that its more impressive Xtension upgrade 
 was never released on this side of the Atlantic. Most of the notable additions introduced by Xtension, 
 such as being able to control carriers, have been incorporated into X2. Unlike other games of the 
 genre, however, the X games haven't featured an involving overall plot, and developer Egosoft has 
 tried to remedy that omission in X2 by including a handful of scripted missions and cinematics. 
 Unfortunately, the cinematics have a terribly mistimed cadence, primitive animation, juvenile dialogue, 
 and a viewing perspective that annoyingly tends to bob around. Sometimes even a badly executed 
 storyline can add purpose or interest to gameplay, but the inclusion of X2's storyline sequences 
 is a major misstep, and the development resources it received would have been better spent elsewhere. 
 Fortunately, when judged as a "sandbox" game, X2 is much more rewarding.  

          With a large spread of monitors like this, you can quickly assume direct control of turret 
 defenses or supporting ships.     

  The spaceflight engine is also a bit clunky. Unlike the Independence War games, the physics system 
 doesn't meaningfully incorporate inertia, so you don't get much sense of motion. Even worse, the 
 controls are finicky, thus making it difficult to aim precisely. That's less of an encumbrance 
 than you'd expect, since success in combat is far less dependent upon twitch skills than it is 
 upon having the right shields and weaponry. Combat AI is rudimentary, as computer-controlled ships 
 seem to almost turn randomly in search of opponents, and collisions are extremely frequent. The 
 engine feels unrefined, and the battles are simplistic, especially when compared to mission-based 
 space sims like Freespace 2. So, to enjoy X2 you have to truly appreciate its economic and strategic 
 aspects.     

  There are also rewarding role-playing elements in X2. You can personalize your empire by importing 
 your own picture or logo to use for your pilot's photo or to paste on your vessels. As you successfully 
 deliver goods and fight off enemies, you'll frequently be awarded gratifying titles and standing 
 with various factions. Increasing your reputation will earn you access to additional missions, 
 and it will also increase the likelihood that you'll become a target of fortune hunters or vengeance 
 seekers. There are also dozens of ship upgrades to acquire, ranging from more powerful weapons 
 and engine upgrades to equipment that will give you the ability to mine or collect organic samples. 
 Since you can also buy or steal new ships, you're constantly improving or upgrading your fleet -- or 
 trying to accumulate the resources to do so. Additionally, since you're consistently getting accolades 
 or tangible benefits for achievements, gameplay is addictive.  

          As in most space sims, you use jump gates to move between discrete sectors.     

  The 
 graphics are colorful and detailed and represent a huge improvement over those in the original 
 X: Beyond the Frontier. In keeping with the "throw in the kitchen sink" design of the rest of X2, 
 there's support for shadows, bump mapping, and antialiasing, though you'll need a high-powered 
 system with a top-of-the-line graphics card to run the game with all the graphical bells and whistles 
 at full blast. As such, balancing graphical quality and performance may be a bit of a challenge, 
 and frame rates tend to fluctuate radically even with few options enabled. Nevertheless, X2 is 
 a great-looking game overall, filled with imaginative and spectacular outer-space scenery. Unfortunately, 
 its sound is mediocre, at best. There are few memorable effects, and the music consists of unexceptional 
 electronic compositions.  

  As you'd expect with a game as complex as X2, there's a steep learning curve to overcome in order 
 to appreciate all of the game's features. There really are an incredible number of things to do 
 aside from just exploring and taking in the sights. There are simple missions that you can pick 
 up at bases, but the game really comes into its own as a free-form simulation. You can hire ships, 
 set up supply routes between factories for a fleet of transports, maintain spy satellites, blockade 
 enemy installations to manipulate the dynamic economy, space walk to assume control of a different 
 vessel, or just carve a swath of destruction. The interface is, unfortunately, correspondingly 
 complex, with lots of hotkeys and menus to navigate. Each ship has a system of monitors that you 
 can activate to maintain situational awareness from different perspectives. You're not limited 
 to controlling your own ship, since you can give orders to ships and installations in other locations 
 remotely, and you can use the monitors to assume direct control of supporting ships. There's usually 
 more than one way to take an action, and often, the easiest way isn't the most apparent. Unfortunately, 
 the truly awful system of tutorials isn't much assistance since it doesn't actually identify the 
 requisite key commands. Collectively, the poor tutorials and complexity of the game require you 
 to invest a couple of hours before you'll feel comfortable with the interface. Once you've mastered 
 it, however, it works quite well.  

          There are numerous installation types, and each one has different resource requirements 
 and produces its own products.     

  While there are a few shortcuts you can take, it will generally take many hours before you can 
 start building an economic empire or take the helm of the more formidable vessels. Unfortunately, 
 it's easy to be turned off by X2 because of the initial time commitment required to become adept 
 with its controls and because of the unrefined engine and unsophisticated combat. However, X2  
 does  offer some highly satisfying gameplay -- if you're willing to stick with it. It's not a game 
 that has any reasonable prospect of revitalizing the space sim genre, since it's from a small developer 
 and isn't particularly accessible, but it's a game that highlights why the genre was once much 
 more popular.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Oliven-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  I got this game in about 2006, let's say. I was very impatient to learn playing the game. I must 
 confirm it is quite difficult at first, but yesterday, I had enough will to play a few hours. Result? 
 I got a bit amazed at this game.
  
  When I tried it out in 2006, when I was 10, I played ONE hour. 10 minutes afterwards, I was uninstalling 
 the game. The game was TOO hard to understand. Besides, my english wasn't so good yet that time. 
 The tutorial... I had a *hint* at what I should do. There are two categories of tutorials... Movement, 
 Trading and Interacting with NPCs/the environment - and Space Combat. I haven't even finished one 
 of them yet, but so far what I've learnt is surely put to use. 
  
  Now, I'm 13, and I can totally understand the game. I'm a bit sad of a glitch that disables the 
 voice of the NPCs in cutscenes/communication. It would come in handy if I could hear the instructions, 
 due to the objective box being pretty small. 
  
  The game itself is amazing. The graphics are very good, sound aswell. However, there is one thing 
 that was a crime not to do:
  
  Adding multiplayer/online play. Imagine that. You can create your own "character", which has a 
 different storyline than in single-play. You can just fly around in the mass traffic of the players, 
 and trade, get richer, etc. It would probably be hard, but it would make the game - in my opinion- 
 perfect. Making it feel like an MMO would be devastating. 
  
  This shall be end of my review. If you consider it, buy the game in case you have the chance to. 
 It's an old game, but you might be able to find it somewhere. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  X2: The Threat is an open ended space flight game. The game starts as an ex criminal named Julian 
 speaks to an Argon Prime leader named Ban talking about why they're bailing Julian out. After that 
 part it is now up to the player to do what he wants, like he can be a smuggler, a man who works 
 for money, or a fighter pilot for an army, etc.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics are great. Stupendous open ended functions in 
 the game. A lot to do. The player can have a lot of ships. Good Space Combat.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the game started pretty slow. Transports are not the 
 ideal ships to fly in this game.
  
  Overall, X2: The Threat is a great open ended game to play. It even has great Space Combat for 
 Star Wars: X-Wing veterans, although you don't need a joystick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is a game that I really, really tried to get into. My housemate recommended it to me, so I 
 thought I'd give it a go. Now, I'm not a big sci-fi fan by any means (Battlestar Galactica is about 
 as far as I can go) , so maybe I'm just missing something.
  However, the lack of any sort of in depth tutorial, or proper aids just make this painstakingly 
 difficult to get into. You really have to work at this game just to be able to play it at a basic 
 level. Some may call this skill, but personally I feel that a game should be relatively easily 
 accessible, rather than just dump you in and let you figure things out for yourself.
  Thats another problem with this game. It lacks any sort of direction. The game lets you loose in 
 the galaxy and tells you nothing about it. The trading system is even really poor, as you're not 
 told how to trade effectively or anything of the sort.
  Also, there's far too much just flying about in endless space waiting for something to happen. 
 You can accelerate time, but you still end up sitting there for a couple of minutes waiting to 
 reach your pre-programmed destination, which upon reaching you will interact with for 10 seconds, 
 then program another destination and wait for a few minutes until you reach it. Basically this 
 game is just one big loading screen.
  I just felt like I really missed the point of it, and maybe thats why I don't like it. Obviously 
 there are people out there who like it (gamespot readers have given it an average score of 8.1 
 after all) but I didn't get it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  X-2 The Threat is not a game for anyone who wants a game where you shoot down enemy fighters to 
 win the war. No this game is a game in which you win the universe through means more then war.
 
  
  X-2 is a strategy game consisting of one goal to control the games so called X-Universe, through 
 means of trade, marketing and war. But the best feature of this game is that you don't have to 
 follow the plot storyline.
  
  The games character is Kyle Brennan's (X: Beyond the Frontier) son Julian Gardna as a space pirate 
 that is given a second chance by the Argon Commander Ban Dana, and the game for the player starts 
 here.
  
  From this point you can follow the plot and proceed to the end in which the game is still left 
 open for extended play. Or take off into the X-Universe to explore, build stations, trade and control 
 good, or start wars.
  
  This feature of playing you own game is the best feature that I like in the game as one can build 
 there own empire in the game with stations making goods and income and fleets of ships to transport 
 and defend ones empire.
  
  The game supports a good graphics for a game of its day and has by far the best gameplay of a sim 
 game on the market even today. The ability to do ones own thing is the feature that makes this 
 game one of the best most enjoyable to play. Give a unlimited level of custom game play to the 
 player to choose what path they want to follow. This game should be considered for one who is willing 
 to wait through the very slow start to the game that usually takes a week to get started, but a 
 wait that is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weehaggis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of 7.4 may seem like a sub-par game, but don't be fooled, this game can bring 
 hours of enjoyment and challenging moments as you explore and monopolise space. The story of this 
 game isn't always stressed and built very well, as the story bases itself on finding your father, 
 you may find yourself drifting in and out of it's missions as you attempt to establish yourself 
 in X2's economy. Therefore don't be surprised if your carrying out one of the simpler missions 
 in a high priced corvette, the story isn't that compelling to keep yourself occupied with. When 
 you start the game after completing the easy and yet glitchy tutorials [Note: an update fixes the 
 glitches but increases the difficulty of the tests] you'll find yourself at the bottom of the chain 
 of command as all you have to your name is a simple scout ship. Patience therefore plays a big 
 role in successful completion of this game, as you begin to carry out trivial chores to earn some 
 credits. Once you've built up enough, you can invest in a new ship or perhaps and new station. 
 Explaining all the features would be a waste of mine and your's time, gamespot can easily inform 
 you these. Once the game picks up as you earn more credits, then the good times com'a flyin! The 
 self satisfaction the game rewards you after all those hours ploughed into this game finally pays 
 off, as you see all your stations operating with your many freight carriers carrying out all the 
 micro-transactions leaving you with less work to do. the feeling you get when you purchase your 
 first destroyer and watch warp in to aid you in battle is certainly rewarding. This game is full 
 of these moments, if your strategist, patient and love big scale battles involving the mysterious 
 aliens the khaak and man kinds mistake the robotic xenon, then this game is for you!
  
  Summary:
  
  Graphics - Graphically this game when i bought it and to this day still looks great 
 and will work fine on low end pc's like mine. The cut scene; s involving the characters are questionable, 
 but other than that i was not displeased.
  
  Gameplay - If your willing to dedicate several hours into this game of repetitive task doing, you 
 will be able to reap the rewards of your hard work as you find yourself boosting up the economy 
 and wield an armada worthy of your status.
  
  Sound - Music can be atmospheric when entering either hostile or unknown sectors, can be disturbing 
 'you have been warned!'. However sounds in stations including the announcements can get very irritating 
 but the option to switch it off is there.
  
  Value - If your looking for game to last you a loooong time, this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 26, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Is this a successor to Elite? Yes. A worthy one as Gamespy called it? Heck no!
  The programmers should have been more professional in their delivery but they made an attempt that 
 was half-baked at best.
  Don't get me wrong - the game is good (note good, not great) . It is basically Elite for whatever 
 old fogies like me out there are looking around for a replacement for Elite. But thats it in a 
 nutshell. Egosoft added on some graphics and options - of course given that technology has advanced 
 in the last couple of decades. Thats it though. There's no originality - there's innovation but 
 no invention in essence.
  Further, the game displays many glitches and is very user-unfriendly which bolsters the learning 
 curve (takes at least a day to learn this game, and I have been playing simulations for a while) . 
 Much of this is due to the lack of documentation. Egosoft may as well be telling us how to add 
 1 and 1 for a job that requires mild rocket science (if you'll pardon the pun) . You pretty much 
 will be learning everything on your own. The online community is great and very helpful - goes 
 to show that for pretty much any deficiency, mankind fills in the gaps. 
  I bought this for $20 and noticed that Freelancer is also the same price. That is misleading to 
 the core. Freelancer is a true successor to Elite. It is refined with no major issues. A true game 
 for the new age. X2 is a confused science project at best. I still play it but thats because I 
 can't bear considering sunk costs.
  And last but not least. If you hope to get any customer support for this game then you will pretty 
 much have to rely on the gaming community, not the company. Fellow gamers have filled in the void 
 of an apathetic view toward customers and help you out with issues quite well. Other than that, 
 use google. So much for getting what you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for months even for a year and have still not end the game. This will be 
 boring some times because the game play and the building up of your universe will take some serious 
 time that you're wishing "Oh God why is it so slow can we give it a boost". The graphics are fantastic 
 and amazing and you will see a lot of different spacecraft and even own a lot of different ones 
 but will this be satisfied enough to play it over after a time. I don't think so. X3 Reunion is 
 on my wish list but I'm really thinking to delete it. Maybe the future will tell us that the makers 
 of the X universe will take more time on real action game play and maybe a real visit on the surface 
 of the planets or the stations. That will be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the start. What is X2. X2 is a space simulator in which you control ships of different 
 size, shape and power, from rusty slow transporters to ultra-fast scout vessels and even to humongous 
 capital ships with 30 plasma turrets.
  
  The game is quite difficult to understand at the beginning and you are provided with a few details 
 regarding your missions. This is a game in which you need to use your mind and memory.
  
  The options offered in this game are amazing and realistic, and that's the main motive this game 
 coildn't be recreated for consoles.
  
  The main objectives of the game and it's motto is "Trade Fight Build Think". The game hits you 
 with a lot of different matters you need to attend and think about. You must be on top of the situation 
 regardless of how difficult it is. 
  
  Fighting in this universe is extremely well-put. You can either take full control of your ship 
 and send pirate ships to oblivion with your Alpha Cannons etc. or you can order the ship's board 
 computer to switch to auto-pilto and attack enemies itself, using advanced tactics.
  The weapons are quite a lot to choose from: Gamma Rays, Alpha Pulse Cannons, Rail Guns, Plasma 
 Turrets, Laser Weaponry, Missiles (mosquito, wasp, silkworm etc.) .
  
  Well... there are a lot of things to say about this wonderful game, but I'm not gonna spoil your 
 surprise. Buy it! And if you have patience you can even grow to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marqo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  When I first start to play Freelancer 2004 I become paralyzed and where completely hocked into 
 the game. I played day and night until the game were finished. It was not after a while I started 
 to realize why I loved freelancer so much it was not all the fighting, trading and buying all 
 the time it was the freedom The freedom to explore and to do whatever you want to do whenever. 
 Just cruise around and enjoy the view from cockpit. Okay! Now I want to go there and Okay! Now 
 I want to land there and see what they have to offer. 
  Then I found this game X2: the threat and I have to say that this game have exactly the same things 
 as freelancer but are better in all the ways. The fighting are more difficult witch make it more 
 interesting and you have to think more. Trading I see now limit. Exploring takes more time in this 
 game and i'm still not finished with it. For me X2 opens a lot of doors and opportunitys in a future 
 prospects. And I see no limit to what you can do and what you cant do in this kind of game. My 
 mind explodes with all kind ides. All I can hope is that egosoft will surprise me with X3. 
 
  
  So what brings the game down for me its the control in the game. The control are to complex and 
 you have to click to many time to do one simple thing. The graphics, music, sounds and the feeling 
 in the game are very good, but the control have to be better.
  
  /Marq
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is not going to blow you away with hyperfast action, this is what can only be described 
 as, a modern day Elite.
  
  Now, for those of you who were not around when Elite rocked everybody's world, Elite was a pivotal 
 point in the history of gaming. It changed the way a lot of us looked at games and raised the bar 
 for everything released after it.
  
  This is in that same vein, it is not a 'fly by the seat of your pants' space adventure where you 
 fight your way through wave after wave of naughty aliens. This is more of a slow burning, deep 
 and involved journey of discovery.
  
  In this massive universe, you can do almost whatever you like. Be that trade, fight, smuggle, pirate 
 or bounty hunt to your hearts desire. You can build an entire manufacturing and industrial empire 
 with fleets of ships at your command or just fly around with nothing but a little jet pack on your 
 back!
  
  This game is a thing of beauty and it deserves your attention, but only if this is the type of 
 game that you like playing. Action heads need not apply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leezeebub
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I played this game for more than 20 hours befor i found the cheat. i could have carried on aswell 
 but my social life was suffering and i dont think work accepted being addicted to a game as a valid 
 excuse for taking time off. in my 20 hours+ i managed to build the most useless posse of ships 
 and stations in the galaxy. it was hard and fun getting there, but the feeling that after soooo 
 much work i should have more was overwhelming. so i downloaded a save game with 999million credits 
 in the account. ooooh boy was that the smartest thing ive ever done. the flood gates are open, 
 i own ships i could only dream of, i have a fleet of fighters, a chain of stations all supplying 
 one another. the pirates are so scared they started using escorts to protect themselves, but best 
 of all, i destroyed argon one HAHA!!!
  I suppose this is more a review of the cheat i used but who cares i couldnt say anything that hasnt 
 allready been said, but i suppose id better try.
  The game is great even without cheating. the best thing about the game is that when it says open 
 ended thats exactly what it means. the only way you could run out of things to do would be to destroy 
 every ship and station in the galaxy (thats on my "to do" list) even then theres still your own 
 stations to worry about. The worst thing about the game is the time it takes to build up some cash, 
 oh god the time i spent sat in a station with the time accelerator turned on just waiting till 
 my stations build enough money for a new laser, if my tv hadnt been so close i would have gone 
 insane (well its more likely i would have just turned it off (but im glad i didnt) ) . this game 
 is very good but unless you have about 200+hours to spare i strongly reccomend downloading the 
 save game i mentioned earlier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Patience is the key while playing X2 The Threat . Yes, you can buy M2 or M 1 class ships ( carrier 
 , destroyer ) , having a great experience asking of the hillin comparation with Freelancer, 
 for example. The ugly part come in now - it take forever to mount enough cash to do this. After 
 3-4 weeks of hard work involving trading andacquiring" pirate ships, I get only a Corvette with 
 some upgrades. Everything is expensive and fighting waves of Khaak aliens require money for refitting 
 and repairs. Not even a space stations empire is a good idea, because the game interface make the 
 macro and micro management impossible . The best thing is the possibility to explore several alien 
 systems and the fun coming from fighting aliens/pirates and selling their ships. But is not fun 
 to play over a year to get the bigtrucks- is boring . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexis597
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game puts together trading and fighting in the best possible ways in the aspect you can do 
 anything! To building a business empire to building a limit less fleet of ships that only you wealth 
 can limit! you can pilot any thing from cargo (TS) ships to gigantic (M1) carriers. Choose your path 
 in the universe. The storyline consists of the X-universe experiencing the rise of a new threat 
 and they take no prisoners, they want to erase everything even YOU! with other threats from the 
 previous X-games that stand in your way to stop this new threat arising this game isn't easy even 
 in the best of ships, the AI of the enemies will always request reinforcements to make your life 
 harder. The story maybe short BUT it is good storyline. Easily the best most realistic simulation 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommygun82
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a complex game not ment for the impatient! What makes this game so enjoyable is also its 
 complexity. The game almost want you NOT to follow its storyline as the prospect of making $$$ 
 will draw you to trade rather than fight and before you know it, you'll be managing a megacorp 
 while your faithful sidekick is still following you in his little (though indestructable) fighter.
 
  
  Many people complain that the game starts off slow, mainly due to the lack of credits. Spoiler 
 Tip: After completing mission 2, sell every possible thing on the ship that was 'loaned' to you. 
 The credits you get from this can really acclerate the game. You can buy a better ship if you want 
 to carry on the storyline or a station if you want to start building an empire. Still, patient 
 you must be when trying to figure out the hotkeys for various important actions.
  
  The major peeve about this game is actually the audio. With the lame lines and identical looking 
 ships, I don't even bother hearing the cut scenes. Space combat, however, is very engaging and 
 beats even Freelancer mainly because of the immerse number of types of ships available for use. 
 (But not all can be bought off the shelf...) Ablity to capture enemy ships also add to the fun 
 of space combat. ( Tatics instead of "kill everything in sight")
  
  Overall, this game is hard to match. The complexity itself is a draw point but turns many players 
 off. So, to get the most out of this game, patch it to v1.4 and read the forums on some of the 
 shortcuts! Cheers!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilum450
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game waiting for X3 to come out; I thought that is would be a nice warm up to 
 the new game. The advertisement on the box and even the opening movie promised an exciting game. 
 What was delivered was a very poorly designed game. The game started with a tutorial that essentially 
 provided nothing but aggrevation. The controls were exceptionally poor... let's be honest they 
 are the worse that I have ever come across. After 30 minutes struggling I removed the game and 
 stuck it on my shelf as a reminder what a true waste of money. 
  
  I cannot bring myself to buy the sequel. It is a shame, I really do love the premise of the game.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Overall 5/10 rounded
  
  - Gameplay 7/10 
  - Story 1/5
  - Graphics 3/5
  - Sound 1/5
  - Effort/Innovation 4/5
  - Presentation 1/5
  - Replay Value 
 High
  - Monetary Value $30
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (6.7/10)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (4/10) + Options (9/10) + Fluidity (7/10) = 20 out of 30 or 6.7/10
  
  X2 is an all-encompassing 
 space simulation. From quests, to combat, to commerce it has it all just like Freelancer with a 
 deeper, but unfortunately very flawed, economy. Nonetheless it was good enough to keep me interested 
 in building fleets and wealth.
  
  Combat : 4/10 (5/10 with mods)
  
  During small skirmishes the combat flow is fairly simple. Some ships you have to tail and hit from 
 behind, other you need to take head on, while other you must attack from the parallels and all 
 this depends on your ship and equipment. If you go with missiles you can attack from almost anywhere. 
 If you go with a heavy ship you can outmuscle enemies from the front. If you go with a small ship 
 you need to dodge your way to victory. All in all there is a decent amount of variety and it all 
 works fairly well except for the fact that the computer AI is lacking in the I part. The AI just 
 isnt very smart and their ships are not any more powerful than your own thus all fights become 
 trivial. To add to the debacle, you can get an item called a Strafe Drive which allows you to 
 strafe, something the AI cannot cope with for whatever reason. When you strafe the AI basically 
 shuts down and can no longer hit you at all make you virtually invincible even against all logical 
 odds. I delved into an enemy sector once with over 40 enemy ships 2 of which were capital class 
 type (destroyer and carrier) with only a silly small fighter craft. I wiped them all out with just 
 the small fighter thanks to the ability to strafe so imagine what would happen If I went in with 
 anything stronger end game. So why not just lose the strafe drive? Simple, because some ships 
 simply cannot be destroyed without it. Its a damned if you do and damned if you don't situation. 
 Not a good design at all and there is more bad news. Collisions are a huge problem in combat. The 
 enemy AI likes to circle around in front of you and crash head on into you. Its silly, its annoying, 
 its unrealistic, and unfortunately it will happen to you at some point. Not good. Finally we have 
 a serious issue with weapon balancing. Some weapons are just much too powerful while other are 
 totally worthless. I will not go into the weapons in detail but suffice it to say that by the end 
 you will probably only use 4 weapons almost exclusively. The downside to this of course, is you 
 will be able to wipe out capital class ($66,000,000) ships with silly little M4 class ($300,000) 
 fighters.
  
  Options : 9/10
  
  The world of X2 has an economy that varies regardless of player interaction. The economy is always 
 moving and changing from prices; to quantities there are areas that suffer from resource shortages 
 and other that have a surplus. The player has the option to trade resources, supplies, & weapons 
 during the game. You can buy low and sell high using a freighter. You can purchase ships and program 
 them to trade for you automatically. You can build your own factories to compete against AI factories 
 or to provide resources for regions with shortages, indeed a very profitable but unbalancing venture. 
 If you build enough factories you can eventual place a stranglehold on the universe economy by 
 varying prices however you wish thereby putting a lot of computer stations out of business. Sounds 
 great doesn't it? Well it is save for the fact that it is tedious and altogether much too easy 
 to do. All you have to do is build Solar Power Plants (SPP) everywhere, and use faster trader ships, 
 and its game over. The SPP is very cheap and the most profitable factory in the game. Also some 
 high-end factories are complete duds and make absolutely little to no money. You would think it 
 should be the other way around but again its a flaw in the economic model of the game.
  
  Some ships are designed for trading, others for combat, & others for scouting etc. There are 8 
 classes of ships in the game and 7 races each with their own versions of ships none are the same 
 as other races versions of the ship and you have the chance to buy or capture most of the ships 
 and pilot them yourself. You can arm your ships with the weapons of your choice (ships do have 
 restrictions however) and with the shields of your choice. You can upgrade (to a limit) ship engines, 
 cargo capacities and rudder controls to make them faster, give them better control, and giving 
 them more cargo space. You can purchase dozens of upgrades from computer programs to automate ship 
 actions to scanners and gun crews to improve combat targeting. The customization of your fleet, 
 should you wish to build one, is huge. 
  
  The game has a high learning curve and patience factor. If you are looking for a game that you 
 can pop in and just go this game is not for you. It takes a long time to learn everything. All 
 in all the options are there and the game is open ended so you can do whatever you like.
  
  Fluidity : 7/10
  
  The story if fairly straightforward and will never leave you scratching 
 you head about what to do next. Combat is smooth unless you have over 10 ships firing lasers then 
 it slows down and becomes very choppy. Setting up factories and trade ships is a bit too slow for 
 my taste and it is a bit hard to figure out due to lack of documentation but the ingame tutorials 
 help. Overall the game does a good job in keeping you interested because of its open nature. Bored 
 of setting up factories? Go kill something. Bored of combat? Continue the plot. Bored of the plot? 
 Go make some money. Minus 1 point for the choppy behavior, minus 1 point for lack of documentation, 
 and minus 1 point for the sometimes unbearable, slow pacing.
  
  Combat (4/10) + Options (9/10) + Fluidity (7/10) = 20 out of 30 or 6.7/10
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  X2 suffers 
 from a lack of lore. You simply have no feeling while running around the universe. The plot is 
 mind numbingly bad. 
  
  The game starts with you being captured after attempting to steal a ship. You are then released 
 and given a free ship and work From there you just follow the short linear hour plot and once 
 its over you can go on your merry way and do whatever you wish. 
  
  The plot was obviously thrown in there without any real effort. They just connected the dots as 
 quickly as possible without regard to logic, emotion, or anything else. If you play just the plot 
 you can easily finish the game in about 5 hours. Not good. Might as well have not had a plot at 
 all and advertised it as open ended like Sim City but I suppose that might have cost them some 
 sales.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS (3/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The graphics are nothing breathtaking. They are good enough for the game but some objects are seriously 
 out of scale like planets, suns, and capital ships. The game is also very choppy at times although 
 you can tweak the graphics to fit your hardware and make the game playable. The movie scenes are 
 the worst I have seen since the 1st generation of Playstation 1 games. Overall? Average at best.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music? Whats that? Oh yes there is some music for combat and in sectors just they are not very 
 notable. Sounds? Average sound effects. Voice acting was almost non-existent save for a few quotes 
 that are repeated a few thousand times. For some odd reason they decided to use (misuse is more 
 like it) Japanese words and phrases. Perhaps they thought this might give their Galaxy some kind 
 of originality Unfortunately for them I recognized the language so I can see how truly unoriginal 
 they were with the scripts. Needs serious improvement in the sound category.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT & INNOVATION 
 (4/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The universe of X2 is huge to Morrowind endeavors but much more repetitive, and frankly downright 
 boring. The sectors all basically look the same aside from the background images of a sun or a 
 planet, which arent very notable. Some sectors are barer than other and some are scattered with 
 asteroids, strange clouds and such but there really needs to be more innovation in when it come 
 to variety and uniqueness.
  
  The economy is a good working effort despite its shortcomings. It is deep and intriguing but not 
 flawless and completely unbalanced towards the player.
  
  Combat AI needs some serious work.
  
  The game suffers from not having an out of box game editor 
 thus modding it is very hard and requires reading a novel to start.
  
  Overall the effort put into this game is good. The game is definitely better than most of the garbage 
 on the market right now it just needs to be better organized and presented properly.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The documentation is lacking and the ingame tutorials simply do not make up for it.
  
  A universe 
 map would have been a great help and a short cheat to expose the entire universe would have been 
 nice for the people who start a new game and don't want to explore it all again. A list of ships 
 and weapons would have also been useful.
  
  The game is a technical nightmare. It was released in 2003 and still plays a bit sluggishly on 
 todays (2005) hardware. During huge battles, it is not uncommon for the game to slow down to 5-10 
 FPS even with my GeForce4 5700 video card and 1.5gigs of ram. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (16.7/35 
 or 5/10 rounded)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  As I state 
 in my other reviews. DO NOT LET THE 5 FOOL YOU. This is actually a very good score from me given 
 that my favorite game of all time has a score of 7.5. Some game do indeed score higher however 
 I try to keep my reviews objective as possible without being too partial. That said...
  
  The game is not perfect and it is certainly not for everyone. It requires serious amounts of patience. 
 If you don't enjoy micromanagement and organization you might find that this game is just too much 
 work for you. Otherwise if you love economy type sims you will enjoy this game. I do not recommend 
 it for anyone looking for a space combat sim.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  X2 is an open ended sim therefore you can do whatever you want whenever you want. This gives it 
 a high replay value even if you don't pursue the game plot. Each time you play you can try something 
 else. Be a pirate and villain instead of the good guy. Be an entrepreneur. Be a warlord. There 
 is plenty to do.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  $30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1981jason
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  There is so much more to this game than just flying a space ship. Thats right, You get to fly multiple 
 space ships. Along with all kinds of economy aspects and plenty of fighting action. I love the 
 autopilot and auto fight features as well. The creators used a lot of common space fantasy ideas 
 like jump gates, and jump drives, that make travel in this game a lot easier. 
  Although I have a lot of good things to say about this game, it does have some cons. You really 
 have to put a lot of your time and patience in this game. It requires you to put a lot in to get 
 a lot out. The economy aspect of the game is a great feature, But it is also one of the most time 
 consuming parts of the game. To sum it up, they hit the space sim just right with this game. Can't 
 wait to see the next big title from Enlight/Egosoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luvu01469
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Minus the prostitutes... drugs... Hot coffee mod...
  Deffinetly worth anyones while who is an avid fan of space/trade sims. Be warned. This game is 
 very slow going. You'll deffinetly need to devote some time to this game. Once you've picked up 
 the hang of the financial side of this game (which can be kind of cumbersome) you'll be hooked. 
 
  
  Space combat is nothing short of akward. Controls are flat, & aren't very acurate. You'll spend 
 alot of time just trying to get a lead on your enemy, while avoiding collisions, than you do blowing 
 them up. Something I'm hoping they've changed in X3. 
  
  Graphics are excellent. Great use of DX 9. Shadows are realistic & the ships are highly detailed. 
 Even the planets spinning around in the back, are very well done. ( there is visible cloud cover 
 moving across them!) I didn't realise until recently but, you can actually fly towards them and 
 enter their atmosphere. Nothing happens though, except you crashing into them.
  
  The music, save a few new tracks is exactly the same as the other X games. (X: btf & xtension) If 
 your into ambient new age music, you'll like it.
  I do wish they had more original tracks though. The sound is yet another let down. Weapons & shield 
 effects are rehashed effects from the first game. Very dissapointing. Some of them sound as if 
 they had been lifted from an NES game. 
  
  At its core, lies a very very VERY immersive game. A game that, if you can forgive its faults, 
 will have you playing for hours, days possibly all year, until you get sick of it. Completely open-ended. 
 The idea of building huge fleets of ships & starting your own trade empire is quite satisfying 
 once you can get it off the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackal_SS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  If you like games that take you beyond human frontiers into the unknown realms of space, this is 
 a game you must have. When taken the big picture, this game not only gives you plenty of diversity 
 but also planty of space and fun.
  Although the very start of the game may result annoying to some or maybe too hard to others, after 
 turning on a few extra of your spare braincells the gameplay escalates into a new universe. The 
 X-Universe.
  
  The story is exellent, it makes sense and makes you want more. Five mayor races and other several 
 separate factions which in complement make a total of over 50 ship types. From small and fast scout 
 ships, over larger and armed to the teeth fighters to huge battleships. Sets of different types 
 of lassers, distruptors, ion cannons togather with also multiple types of missiles make almost 
 every ship capable of not only fighting but inflicting severe damage to a superior foe. 
  One of the crucial factors of the game is freedom. In a way that you do not really have to follow 
 the storyline. At any part of the game you may go a git off the set path by the storyline and do 
 some random missions and build up your economy. Missions like, escorting cargo/personnel, simple 
 trade missions or hilarious missions like taking Spaceweed and Spacefuel (whiskey) to an alien 
 princess who's apparently ''ill''. 
  This game's two main factors are TRADE and FIGHT. With the thinking part in all of it. 
  Setting 
 up large chains of factories and trade routes to give you profits from various products. Instead 
 of buying weapons and shields you even have the ability to build your own.
  But nothing of this is possible if you don't fight for it. Good piloting skills are essential to 
 your survival in the X-Universe. Even though you start with smaller and weaker ships at the beggining 
 of the game. After some time of gameplay, you will be able to afford yourself magnifficent fighters. 
 Or, you could take them from your enemies by capturing their ships and cargos aswell. This can 
 make you popular with one faction but it can also put a price on your head from another.
  
  Downsides... the story is too short, although the amount of space to explor and hours to spend 
 on building your personal empire compensates for that.
  There are also minor bugs in the original version, but those were corrected in the last patches. 
 Even though the EGOSOFT team has made an interesting mode, the S. E. T. A, which kind of accelerates 
 time, space travell and resource/credit build up can be sometimes frustrating, not to mention time 
 consuming. But it can sometimes be useful aswell, on S. E. T. A. you could leave your game running 
 all nigh and wake up in the morning with a full stockpile of credits and resources.
  
  This is a must have for all space lovers and those who can spare a few extra hours a day. Plenty 
 to go on by in the X-Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game has them both - some good points and some bad points. I really love the whole "open-ended" 
 style of gameplay, allowing you to just go where you want and do whatever you want in their very 
 dynamic and active universe. 
  
  But it just takes a really long time to get things rolling. You really have to trudge thru hours 
 of shipping/pirating/mining to build up some capital and start constructing your fleet. It is a 
 VERY "technically inclined" game and it has a steep learning curve to boot - so if you don't geek 
 out on things like that, then this one may not be for you.
  
  X2 IS possibly one of the best "space-opera" games I've found. Ship graphics are excellent (even 
 if the human models kinda stink) and the views are top notch. But it won't be for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K__McBain
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  This is another game that is long and big but thats the way i like it and this gets my all time 
 highest scor for a game. this is a real as it gets pretty good graphics and sound and the more 
 u play the more powerfull u can become i sugest u read about this game cause it is just the best 
 and coming out soon is X3 i can; t wait but i don't want to lose all of my old stats only 1 problem 
 with this game there is no multiplayer if ther was i would almost certainly give it 10/10.
  
  if u like my reviews e-mail me at kmcba44@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When I was a much younger gamer, in college for the first time, my roomie had an Apple II something 
 or other. And one of the games he had for it was Elite, a really nifty space trade/fight sim type 
 game. I played that thing for hours, and Ive often wondered why nobody made anything like that 
 for the modern systems. Turns out they did, I just didnt find it until recently.
  
  X2 is a game that allows you to do pretty much what you want. You are an ex-con, released by the 
 grace of the influence of a powerful man. You have a ship, and a universe to explore. You can do 
 the missions and follow the plot line if you want or you can basically ignore this, and do your 
 own thing. Want to make your living as a pirate, a scourge of the spaceways? Want to hunt the pirates 
 instead? How about building a massive trading empire, complete with your own stations, all connected 
 with an intricate web of freight ships? Maybe your goal is to assemble a fleet, complete with battleships 
 supporting carriers full of fightercraft. You can do it all here.
  
  You spend all of your time either in space or in a station, in the cockpit of your ship. From here, 
 you can use an admittedly complex user interface to do whatever tasks you have, including buying, 
 selling and navigating. Flight controls are by mouse, keyboard or joystick. Joystick, by the way, 
 is preferred. Try a good HOTAS system, like the Saitek X45 and X52, but any joystick system will 
 work. Its addictive as heck, and you will enjoy building your empires.
  
  Now, the bad. Graphics are good, but its not uncommon to have something happen to slow and stutter 
 the system. Crowded systems with a lot of combat will give you a slide show, even on a powerful 
 computer. Sound is good, but seems to affect the frame rate at times also. The cutscenes are awful 
 truly and completely awful. Bad animation and bad voices. Finally, there is a steep learning curve, 
 its not an easy game to master. Help for that is available in plenty at Egosofts official forums, 
 so dont be shy about checking those out.
  
  All in all, the game is a lot of fun, and is well worth hunting out. It has some weak points, but 
 those are far outweighed by the good points. For the space mercenary and empire builder in you, 
 this game will do the trick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppetts1000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Grab this Space Sim and Trade, Shoot etc your way to an Empire. A game that has had much depth 
 added by the community since its launch is now more than the sum of its parts. Take a look at this 
 again if you passed over the 7. errr score. This is a 9 point game and with a little effort you 
 will see the sixe and beauty of this sim! Head over to the main EgoSoft site to read not only of 
 this great game but the upcoming sequal x3, you will also find a very active community and mod 
 section that will guarentee this title has ongoing support for some time yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  X2: The Threat is a game that tries to combine a space-adventure storyline and a space based economic 
 simulation in a huge, totally 3D universe. One of these things is done great; the other is not 
 so hot.
  First I will discuss how this game plays. After spending over 100 hours playing this game I feel 
 that I know it inside and out so you can feel safe with what I say. Ok, first the storyline. Many 
 people buy space adventure games because they want an awesome interactive storyline. The bad news 
 is that the storyline is mediocre and not very engaging. This may turn you away strait off but 
 wait around a little bit because the story is really a very small part of this great game. The 
 story isnt all bad, it does give you an intro to the universe and gives you some background info 
 that lets you know why things are the way they are in the universe. There are also some huge twists 
 in the story that will affect you, your business and the rest of the universe, however, I believe 
 the story just sets the stage for what I consider the really fun part of the game, the universe 
 wide economic simulator. 
  The universe in this game is made up of many sectors which are held by a number of factions/races. 
 The factions controlling these sectors have various attitudes toward each other that will affect 
 you more than each other but there are some interactions between certain groups in certain sectors. 
 One notable enemy to pretty much all groups are the pirates which pose a threat to you, your business 
 operations and other groups in many sectors. Other than these factions being present in the sectors 
 there are also many government, private and pirate ships and space stations operating in almost 
 every sector. These stations are the base of an amazing economic engine that exists across the 
 universe. These stations have their own fleets of ships that are use to fly to other factories 
 and suppliers to pick up and offload supplies as needed. Whats amazing is that this is happening 
 all around you in real time and is not just a bunch of ships flying to nowhere just to look pretty. 
 The economy that exists around the universe has been tweaked so that it can pretty much sustain 
 itself, although there are many places and means by which YOU can engage in your own business empire 
 operations. 
  What I mean by operations is, as of the current patch you can buy almost every single space-station/factory 
 of almost any racial design you have ever seen. This also goes for ships, from the tiny and cheap 
 scout to the huge and incredibly expensive battleship. Another thing worth mentioning is that you 
 can capture ships if the crew decides to bail after being attacked. Capturing is a rewarding but 
 delicate operation that requires specific tactics and equipment to be successful. To be successful 
 at this game you will need to spend a good amount of time directing your developing business and 
 since everything happens in real time you must wait for your ships hauling goods to fly through 
 interstellar space to various stations and back again many times to gain a profit. One neat thing 
 about this game thats different from any other is that you may find yourself turning time accel 
 to max and leaving the game running while you leave your PC for a while, so that by the time you 
 get back your automated empire has made enough money so you can buy that new cruiser you've always 
 wanted. Doing this has its advantages and disadvantages but is a pretty cool aspect of the game. 
 Alright, enough about the gameplay.
  I will now quickly discuss the graphics and sound in the game. I would have to say for todays 
 very high standards in graphics, they are pretty cool, but not amazing. The game's graphics are 
 more than adequate and it really looks beautiful most of the time, all the ships and stations are 
 highly detailed and the weapon animations are pretty good, however there are those very few times 
 where the graphics may appear slightly blocky or fuzzy in a very few places. One of the few bad 
 instances of graphics are the character animations. They occur in only a few story telling sequences, 
 so they aren't much of a bad impact on the game. These animations look kinda funny and just do 
 not look natural when compared to todays motion capture animations. The sound in this game is pretty 
 good. For me the music in the game never becomes annoying or repetitive and it does changes with 
 the action which is always a good thing. Other sounds such as ambient sound inside space stations 
 and the sounds that ships make are all fairly good but not totally amazing.
  Overall I would say that this game is an awesome undertaking in creating a working economy in which 
 you yourself can interact. I have had loads of fun playing the game but the fun doesnt come without 
 some frustration. The economy in this game is so huge that there will be imbalances over long periods 
 of time. These imbalances can cause some minor annoyances in a long game but can be easily overcome 
 with good business tactics. Also, after building a really huge empire, which will take a VERY long 
 time, you feel that you have nothing left to do in the universe. This is one of only bad things 
 about the game, but the expansion seems set to address this. I would say the key to playing this 
 game is to stay busy experimenting, exploring and generally doing things you've never done before, 
 have patience and always think of new ways you could make the maximum profit 
  
  
  -NOTICE- This review was written for the 1.4 version of X2: The Threat without the 
  X2: The 
 Return, expansion which is due out later in 2005. Please patch your game to its newest version 
 and buy the expansion when/if it has been released. The patches and especially the expansion do 
 and will add crazy amounts of new and exciting features to your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jurobi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2004 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that I am still playing daily a year after its release. The graphics and play 
 options are far superior to its competition, although the cut scenes are... weak. But then I don't 
 play for the cut scenes. I have restarted after each patch to take advantage of the new features. 
 Patch 1.4 even allowed the capture of Khaak ships ( I have an assault task force entirely made 
 up of Khaak heavy fighters!) While the setting up of factory chains can be tedious (use captured 
 pirate ships for your in-chain transports) , the money they make allows you to purchase the largest 
 ships and best equipped fleets. The save options are great, and the approved scripts (mods) add 
 to te game play. Highly Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2004 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Now this game takes some serious time to play. Any gamers that likes a quick fix this game is not 
 for you. It requires a certain type of gamer which prefers a slow burning pace and steady progression 
 to appreciate this effort. Also be prepared to spend a day or two learning the ropes as there is 
 a degree of difficulty mastering all of the various trade commands and options available.
  
  The graphics are of course very pretty being a space epic but the game requires some degree 
 of PC power to take advantage of atmosphere the graphic artists have created. The choices of ships 
 are good and fighter class ships look Sharpe. There are several alien races within the galaxy each 
 bringing with them their own style of ships, instruments and space stations. 
  
  Where the game opens up is within the freedom it allows you to do anything. The player can buy 
 space stations to manufacture goods, a limitless amount of ships to carry the cargo and space defences 
 to protect them. This is where it gets complicated however. The management of several stations 
 together with the ships that trade for them plus the ships that protect the trading ships, becomes 
 a bit mind boggling. This part of the game could have been improved by simply cleaning up the menu 
 system. 
  
  In addition to the manufacturing implements you can take up missions offered at each station and 
 become anything from a courier, taxi, bounty hunter etc. There is also a ranking system and a rating 
 each race gives you, depending on the players stance with them. If your rating is bad with a race 
 you cannot trade with them as you are not permitted to dock at their stations and take advantage 
 of their technology.
  
  The game also has a story to follow but I would advise anyone to not bother as the cut scenes are 
 by far the most pathetic ever produced. The voice acting is laughable and the animation is dreadful. 
 This is a puzzle as it doesnt match the rest of the games standards. Obviously this was stuck 
 in as a last thought and if you wish you can take no notice of it as it spoils the atmosphere.
 
  
  X2 is really a trading game as the space combat controls are nigh impossible to manipulate but 
 then you have lots of ships to do your bidding. This is the best attempt at recreating a classic 
 (Elite) yet but offers nothing new. If you are willing to put the time and effort in, then the 
 reward of owning several space stations, numerous ships together with a military frigate to house 
 them, is yours.
  
  Andrew Wray
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 3, 2004 7:21 pm PT
Review:  X2 really struggles to capture my enthusiasm. It will probably test your patience as well. I purchased 
 this title on a recommendation from a friend, and must say it was a poor recommendation. While 
 the ship models are somewhat unique and often attractive in their own respective ways, the cutscenes 
 and character models are superficial at best. It seems people in the X2 universe can't bend or 
 turn their necks and they all have a rigid steel pole running down their spine to the hip. X2's 
 story-line, while not actually bad, takes off with such a round-about lackluster velocity that 
 I simply couldn't get into the game. The weird "-izura" suffix attached to time expressions in 
 this game, which I must assume is a carry-over from the original X universe, is laughable. "You 
 have 15 sizuras to power down your engines or we will open fire." I was not impressed. Buy Freelancer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylsake
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 3, 2004 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is really boring. I have only played 3 hours and am still getting used to the controls 
 and trying not to fall asleep during the poorly acted cutscenes and the already repetitive navigation. 
 I have done 3 missions and had one fight, which was not even meant to be a fight. A deus-ex-machina 
 mystery ship came in and destroyed my assailants indicating there would soon be a tired plot to 
 accompany the unecessarily steep learning curve and stupid in-system travel. 
  
  This is the first of at least 10 space flight sims I have played that I already dont like. It throws 
 away most of the good ideas built upon most recently by privateer and tries unsuccessfully to make 
 up their own. Did you notice you can play a FPS immediately out of the box these days, and you 
 dont mind? Future space sims need to learn from that. 
  
  I like plots! from wing commander 1 to privateer, i liked every one. This game is also the first 
 failure. I am already too bored to enjoy the rest.
  
  This game was a waste of my money. IF you get off on learning a totally new way to navigate and 
 like C grade cutscenes - try it. I dont understand the good reviews of this failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2004 8:21 am PT
Review:  I have actualy never played a game like it. There are games out there but you could say that this 
 one is the next generation. 
  
  At first, it actualy took me a long time to learn the game and i spent a LOT of time on the forums. 
 Everyone, do yourself a favour and actualy complete the tutorial. It goes through everything. Stupid 
 me, i just went right into the game. 
  
  The gameplay is extremely addictive! Eseintialy you can do a multitude of things. You can go through 
 the missions, you can build an empire of  ALL sorts of ships! 
 There are 8 races and each have their own types of ships. 
  
  You can purchase all these ships OR you can battle it out and take it for your own. Sell it, use 
 it, whateer. Now the space fights arent as great as Freelancer, so dont come buying this game only 
 because you want to shoot things. Another option is to build factories, and trade in goods to make 
 money. This is very lucrative actualy. 
  
  The interface is actualy fairly easy to use once you know all the shortcut keys. That is the KEY 
 to this game, short cut keys lol. Sometimes i feel like im typing out codes, so if you dont mind 
 this, you will love the game. 
  
  Graphics are great, they are prety self explanatory if you look at the pictures. The one thing 
 i was kind of disapointed about actualy, this goes back to gameplay, is that you see planets everywhere, 
 and you cant land on them realy.... they arent a part of the game. I just thought that was a bit 
 strange of them to do it this way.
  
  Sound actualy is kind of monotonous, boring. So what i did was replace the soundtrack with my own 
 music. You are playing this game for a LONG time, and you might as well listen to what you enjoy 
 listening to.
  
  Value, id say if you spend a long time playing a game, its worth the money you put in. Ive been 
 playing all the time! Im hooked! And I actualy sometimes buy a game... and barely play it. 
  
  Overall, I realy enjoy this game dont regret my purchase!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2004 1:47 am PT
Review:  This is the closest game I found in the Elite genre of space faring simulations, which is both 
 good and bad. I always enjoyed Elite on the truly Old School gaming computer platforms, and I remember 
 being discouraged at it's difficulty and obtuse interface - but eventually satisfied knowing that 
 I used skill to overcome those obstacles. X2 comes with many of these same problems and reminds 
 me that it will eventually have the same reward.
  It's a fantastic trade-combat space simulation based in a giant universe, filled with hundreds 
 of stations and planets and plenty of bad guys. You fly around in a ton of completely configurable 
 and different ships, dock and trade with many stations, create your own factories, and eventually 
 develop a fleet filled with fighters, cruisers, and destroyers - all of which you can put into 
 formations and control at any time, including any of their turrets.
  
  Sounds great so far. I was hooked. However, there's a very steep learning curve involved at first, 
 and the tutorials do little to help you other than give you basic controls and only a slight mention 
 of how the economy of the X2 universe works. The game is not originally in English and the cutscenes 
 are often poorly translated and very lame, with bad character animation, awful camera angles, and 
 confusing mission parameters. Personally, I chose the "sand-box" mode by ignoring any mission past 
 #2 and giving me free reign throughout the galaxy.
  
  Anyway, you have to find out much on your own, and you'll find yourself creating multiple Save 
 Game files before and after you buy/sell some expensive items - just like the original 1990ish 
 Elite. That's a good thing for experienced and "realism" sim players, but bad for the casual player. 
 In another nod to Elite you can only save at stations or when you have bought "Salvage Insurance".
 
  
  The game can be very unforgiving. You'll be excited after your 2nd mission when you are rewarded 
 with a decent sized freighter, just to find it comes with NO weapons or shields... AND there isn't 
 a base selling those things anywhere near you. Or, you'll find this freighter MUCH slower than 
 the ships you piloted before - we're talking 10 times slower, requiring you to spend 4+ minutes 
 travelling to a station before you can even dock to sell your Energy Cells for a mere 7 credit 
 profit each.
  
  The initial pacing of the game is more than a little bit off, because you'll barely want to spend 
 time exploring the trade opportunities in the first system, let alone screw around in the other 
 4 systems you discovered during the first mission.
  
  Manual flight and combat is very hard, mostly because your initial fighters behave like a slug, 
 and you can tell the navigation console in the game is NOT built for real time action. Forget the 
 intuitive control of Freelancer or even Freespace 2. Learning to use the mouse or joystick for 
 control is a fairly involved effort, especially because the game simply doesn't let you remap many 
 hotkeys.
  
  After 10 hours in the game, you'll rarely bother to pilot your ship manually, often relying on 
 Sector maps, auto piloting and time compression - and pre-programming fighter wingman defense - 
 to get your to your destination.
  
  However these automatic features make the game a ton more fun. With enough cash, you can create 
 a massive, shielded freighter - or five - and assign each of them an escort of completely configurable 
 fighters. Every figher or freighter can have multiple turrets, each with individual AI. If you 
 don't care for the AI, you can use the Remote Monitor features to jump into command of any ship 
 in your fleet, at any time - in the current system or any other system. The options are daunting, 
 especially considering that you can create your own factories (and transports for those factories) , 
 and then set fighters to defend them if they come under pirate attack.
  
  Although difficult to get used to, and not necessarily for the average Freelancer-ish game player, 
 X2 is not without it's charms. The graphics are gorgeous, the universe is huge, and the options 
 to create your own stations / factories / economy / fleet are there. The options to manually dock 
 with stations and escort your ship inside the station and into their actual loading bays grows 
 old after a while - and you can skip it with autopilot and the right equipment - but it's still 
 a nice touch.
  
  Definitely head to the developers website to download the latest patch after you install the game, 
 which improves on the often suicidal enemy AI and fixes a ton of bugs that ship with the commercial 
 reelase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 15, 2004 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Here's a tip for anyone considering buying this game: do not buy unless you currently have directX 
 8 or below on your system. The reason for this is that unlike normal games, this one installs directX 
 9 whether you like it or not, so if you have 9.0b it confuses your system - dxdiag thinks you have 
 9.0b and if you go to windows update it will list a directX 9.0b update, thinking you only have 
 9.0. This occurs on the uk version at least.
  Graphics aren't bad, but there is a lot of tearing and no vsync option.
  Sound is awful - I experienced 
 a lot of crackling in sound and the sound effects volume is far too low. Other people have encountered 
 even worse.
  Gameplay is average - do not expect good support for force feedback joysticks (Sidewinder FF2's 
 are very limp - you only experience FF if something hits you) .
  The theme is very poor - I can see that not much work was put into the acting, as the mouths only 
 make one simple open and close movement - like robots!
  Overall, this is probably the worst space sim I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pseudoart
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2003 7:02 am PT
Review:  I've spend countless of hours lately in world of X2. And all I can do it agree with most reviews 
 about how awesome the game is. 
  
  However, there's a few quirks that annoyed me enough to want to write this review.
  
  Framerates 
 are very fluctuating for some players. People with ATI Radeon 9800 and monster specs has reported 
 it to be very choppy. Other people have no trouble at all. For my own part, I have both - some 
 places I have no trouble. At other times, I've 10ish FPS, and this is with most graphical effects 
 turned off.
  
  Personally, I find combat in this game to be highly dissatisfactory. Freelancer pulled this off 
 much, much better. Even Elite had better combat, in my opinion. The controls are bad. Perhaps it's 
 better with a joystick (which I don't have) , I can't say. Combine bad controls with bad AI, and 
 you have many collisions. Which is expensive.
  
  The rest of the game is all dandy, I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2003 10:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game is open-ended. If you enjoyed games such as Privateer, X: Beyond the Frontier (the original) , 
 or the quasi-new Freelancer, then this is a game that you should pick up. If you've played X: Beyond 
 the Frontier though, you will definitely find yourself at home and apprecite the new additions 
 all the more. Special features include a robust trade system (as in the first game) , multiple ships 
 to pilot including carriers, transports, fighters, and battleships (all new) , and the ability to 
 command a fleet of vessels across the game universe (also new) .
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are impressive to a point. The horid explosions of vessels from X: Beyond the Frontier 
 are gone, but its new replacement isn't much better. They hardly match up to the explosion presents 
 in Haegemonia. I don't know, but I require some gratification from time to time ^_^. Other than 
 that, many of the backgrounds in the stars are 3D which is a nice touch. Shadows and bumpmapping 
 cause a performance hit, but with how it looks, you'd be crazy to turn it off.
  
  Sound:
  Myriad sounds. The only thing that saves it is the music and computer voice commentary. The music 
 is great though some of the "peace" music can get old make you want to take a nap. I'm almost always 
 happy to see a pirate in the vicinity just so the music takes a upbeat tone. As I said, the sound 
 isn't too great, but it is adequate.
  
  Value:
  The ability to destroy stations, construct your own, and have a fleet will prolong the life of 
 this game much further than ever before. The only stations I believe that respawn are pirate bases 
 and you could "technically" turn that off as well. But what would be the fun in that?
  
  Tilt:
  Nosedive! The game has a bad save bug in the game which will render your saves useless 
 as they will cause the game to crash about 3 seconds after loading. There is a patch due any day 
 now, but just wanted to let everyone know that version 1.0 does have a few game-impairing glitches. 
 I've stopped playing the game in the meantime, but can't wait to get back in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmerker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2003 2:59 pm PT
Review:  If you want a good looking space trading game with good depth this is it.
  If you want a fly and fight game this might be it. 
  If you want a full featured massive universe 
 to play in then this game will hold you over till one comes out.
  
  Don't get me wrong I love this game. It is good looking from a ship perspective there are lots 
 to do and once you get going you can create scripts to handle the more boring aspects of the game. 
 I created a vast trading empire and cornered the markets on a few items. Commanded a huge fleet 
 and destroyed my competition. I played this game for 5 days straight and was entertained the whole 
 time. 
  
  However; it falls short just like other games (Freelancer, Privateer, etc...) in giving me a universe 
 I can get lost in. I had most of the economics figured out in an hour and found that they didn't 
 try to hard to make the higher end productions worth making. The plot is very weak and the characters 
 are pathetic stick figures with bitmaps. But then again I didnt get this game for the plot; hence 
 my good rating.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pak59
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2003 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to see this game coming out. I am a big fan of open ended space sim type games.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is what this game is all about. There is so much to see and do. if you are a fan 
 of open ended space games then you are gonna love the gameplay in this game
  
  Graphics: The game looks wonderful. They really went all out on the eye candy. However you need 
 a very high end machine to run it at max. I don't even think there is a system out there that could 
 run this game at max rez and options. I have a pretty decent system and I had to turn almost all 
 the options off and run at a lower rez then I play most games.
  
  Sound: Sounds is pretty good, the music is well done.
  
  Value: A good buy for sure
  
  
 Tilt: I love this series so I had to give this a 10.
  
  The Good: Great gameplay, lots to do and see. There is so much going on in this massive universe 
 you can get totaly into the game and totalt lose track of real life.
  
  The Bad: You really need a high end system if you want to really enjoy the eye candy.
  
  The 
 Ugly: When is egosoft going to learn how to use the mouse inside the game. You can't even choses 
 options in the main menu. I really wish they would make a mouse function the way it does in just 
 about every other game on the planet. Scrolling up and down instead of having a mouse cursor is 
 such a pain.
  
  Overall: Great game, if you were on the fence with this game go out and buy it. It is really worth 
 the money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleThursday
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2003 5:24 pm PT
Review:  X2 - The Threat is an AWESOME Space Adventure that you can totally lose yourself in. I won't spoil 
 the game for anyone interested (there are so many things to discover!) , but every detail has been 
 paid great attention to... The intro is awesome, the main menu is very impressive, the initial 
 plot seems interesting enough... especially when you consider what choices you really have in this 
 game, no you don't have to follow the storyline, and yes you can create your own storyline :-) .
 
  
  I give this a 10 on graphics because there are no other space games that come close. The "10" on 
 audio does not do it justice -- the soundtrack and in game audio are completely top notch. Value 
 is 10 because it's a $40 game -- cheaper than the usual $50 "high end game". Gameplay will be difficult 
 for some -- lots of commands to learn / things going on, but once you learn it, it's very rewarding 
 (this isn't some stupid console game like DX2 ;-) ) . My tilt is 10 because I've been looking for 
 this game since Elite came out in 1984 :-) .
  
  Highly recommend this to anyone interested in a Space Adventure that is not just limited to a wing 
 commander style story, freelancer level graphics and sound, or the typical (now tired) FPS experience. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
