-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X2: Wolverine's Revenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/x2wolverinesrevenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Livesay Tech.
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 15, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the developers of Wolverine's Revenge hadn't been under the gun to produce the game in time to 
 capitalize on the new X-Men movie, the end results would have probably been more polished and generally 
 more playable. 

  X2: Wolverine's Revenge is a third-person action adventure game starring Marvel's adamantium-clawed 
 mutant that features basic hand-to-hand combat and a healthy helping of stealth action. The fundamentals 
 of Wolverine's Revenge are solid, but just about everything seems to fall apart in the execution. 
 The kinds of problems the game suffers from give rise to the sneaking suspicion that it would have 
 been a significantly better game if its release didn't have to coincide with the premiere of the 
 new  X-Men  motion picture.  

          Though the game bears the endorsement, as well as some of the talent, of the  X-Men  movie 
 sequel, its story is not related to that of the film.    Though the game bears the endorsement, 
 as well as some of the talent, of the  X-Men  movie sequel, its story is not related to that of 
 the film. Wolverine's Revenge begins in 1968, with Wolvie breaking out of the Weapon X program 
 and learning about the dormant Shiva virus that was planted inside him. Jump forward to modern 
 times, when you learn that you have but 48 hours to find the Shiva antidote before it finally kills 
 Wolverine. The course of this adventure will put you up against a collection of X-Men bad-guy all-stars, 
 such as Sabretooth, Juggernaut, and good old Magneto, as well as wave after wave of faceless, disposable 
 goons. Several other X-Men make cameo appearances, most notably Professor X, who acts as your own 
 personal Obi-Wan Kenobi, offering tips on what to do next throughout the game.  

  Wolverine's Revenge on the PC is just a quick and dirty port of its console counterparts, and little 
 effort was put into adapting it to the inherently different controls found on the PC platform. 
 As such, you'll definitely need a joypad with dual analog sticks to play the game with any effectiveness. 
 The action in Wolverine's Revenge basically boils down to beating up anonymous thugs, sneaking 
 up on anonymous thugs, flipping switches or finding keycards, and engaging in boss fights. The 
 beating of bad guys simply requires you to mash on the punch button and occasionally block. Thanks 
 to the game's dull-witted and predictable AI, just about all your fights will turn into the same 
 fight, over and over again. When you have an opponent on the brink of death, or if there are several 
 opponents coming in on you at once, the word "Strike!" will appear in the corner of the screen. 
 If you press the action button in time, you'll be treated to a quick little sequence of Wolverine 
 jumping around and beating the bad guys up with some style. As you progress through the game, more 
 types of strikes become available to you, and they get progressively more visually impressive and 
 outrageous. Unfortunately, the fighting that you'll actually have control over stays exactly the 
 same from beginning to end, and the novelty of these canned kill animations isn't enough to make 
 up for the otherwise shallow combat system.  

          The action in Wolverine's Revenge becomes pretty repetitive.    Wolverine also has a rage 
 meter that fills up bit by bit whenever you engage in combat or sustain some kind of damage. When 
 the rage meter fills up, Wolverine can punch harder and run faster than usual for a few short seconds. 
 But you can't go into stealth mode or perform simple tasks like flipping switches when you're in 
 this heightened state. And since you have no real control over when Wolverine's rage will be triggered, 
 there will be plenty of times when you'll just be standing around, waiting for the rage effect 
 to subside so you can go about your business.  

  The stealth action in Wolverine's Revenge isn't much better. Activating the stealth mode gives 
 Wolverine a sneaky stance and changes the color palette of your surroundings. Bad guys give off 
 a glowing red aura, have arrows over their heads showing which direction they're facing, and give 
 off a funky green smokelike "scent" wherever they go. In the stealth mode you can also see various 
 laser trip wires, the field of vision of security cameras and automatic sentries, and the placement 
 of mines. Pulling off stealth kills requires you to sneak up behind an enemy and hit the action 
 button when the word "Strike!" appears in the corner of the screen. The real problem with the stealth 
 action is that there's no variety, and the mechanics themselves often feel unfinished. Though you 
 can sense the field of vision for security cameras and such while in stealth mode, there's no way 
 of telling how far your live opponents can see. Also, Wolverine can sidle up against walls and 
 peek around corners, but he'll also regularly sidle up against nothing at all, and it can be difficult 
 to get him out of such a position.     

  Aside from the fancy claws sticking out of his knuckles and his wicked sideburns, the characteristic 
 Wolverine is best known for is his mutant healing ability, which makes him exceptionally difficult 
 to kill. To activate the healing ability in the game, players simply have to sheath Wolverine's 
 claws. This mechanic isn't nearly as dynamic as it should have been, and it completely kills the 
 pacing of the game. Whenever you're on the brink of death, you'll just find an empty corridor and 
 stand around until you're back in fighting condition.  

          The problems with the visuals in Wolverine's Revenge lie in the details.    One of the 
 key annoyances in Wolverine's Revenge is the punishing save system, which allows hard saves only 
 at the end of a level and offers no checkpoints in between, putting you back at the beginning of 
 a level every time you die. This would be less of a problem if the game didn't rely on trial-and-error 
 mechanics so often, especially right near the end of a 10- or 15-minute-long level. Level objectives 
 are sometimes needlessly unclear, and you'll undoubtedly find yourself running through certain 
 levels over and over again.  

  The visuals in Wolverine's Revenge are probably the most polished aspect of the game, though they're 
 not without their fair share of problems. Wolverine himself is well modeled, with a unique, stylized 
 look, and reasonably well animated, usually erring toward a more-exaggerated physics model. The 
 enemies and environments, both of which become repetitive quickly, still look decent. The problems 
 here lie in the details. Clipping is a big problem, and it's not uncommon to see enemies sticking 
 halfway through a wall, or for you to pass through railings and fences unscathed. When they're 
 there, the shadows look pretty good, but they have a nasty habit of randomly appearing and disappearing. 
 The game is, on the whole, comparable to its console counterparts, though the frame rate is more 
 erratic and the filtering effect seen when you go into stealth mode doesn't look quite as good. 

          For all its problems, the single most grating aspect of Wolverine's Revenge is its sound. 
    For all its problems, the single most grating aspect of Wolverine's Revenge is its sound. The 
 game features some decent voice work from veteran voice actor Mark Hamill, who does a good, gruff 
 Wolverine, as well as some surprising turns from Patrick Stuart, Anna Paquin, and Kelly Hu, all 
 of whom voice the same characters they portray in the  X2  movie. The soundtrack is of the tense, 
 orchestral variety, but it tries too hard to make every single moment a taut one and ultimately 
 loses its effectiveness after the first hour or two. The most offensive aspect of the game's audio 
 is the in-game speech. Wolverine has approximately two different growls that he'll let loose whenever 
 he performs a big attack or sustains some serious damage. Bad guys have about a dozen different 
 phrases they'll repeat, and without fail, every single bad guy produces the same coughing death 
 knell when felled. This unrelenting repetition is incredibly annoying, and it may be enough to 
 inspire you to kill the game's sound altogether.  

  If the developers of Wolverine's Revenge hadn't been under the gun to produce the game in time 
 to capitalize on the new  X-Men  movie, the end results would have probably been more polished 
 and generally more playable. Instead, what's been produced is a game with some promise and some 
 good ideas, but a half-cocked presentation and execution. It's certainly not the worst X-Men-licensed 
 game, but Wolverine's Revenge is a game only the biggest fans of the comics could love.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: johntonx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Wolverine's revenge is a type of game that is difficult to stop playing until you reach the final 
 stage. The game have a good sense of difficult that makes the game very nice. The stages are very 
 well made, and the boss combats are hard, although being very repetitive.
  
  Talking about the graphics: they are very weak, to a point that we think that the developers had 
 to make this as fast as they can. This is unlikely for a game that could receive a little more 
 attention, as the game have the "X2" name (however, the game haven't any relations to the movie) .
 
  
  The sounds are just right. they not bad, but not good. But the soundtrack is simply amazing. The 
 musics add to the game a sense of immersion that few games made (the others are, for example, the 
 GTA series) . It's very nice to hear that song while you literally destroying the enemy. Yes, the 
 combats are simply incredible. The "strikes" makes your live easier when you fighting with a dozen 
 of characters.
  
  To finish this small review, the verdict: this game was underappreciated by the critic, but I recommend 
 both for newbies in marvel universe or for maniacs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Set after the events of the hot new X2 movie, this two-disc action/adventure has you scrapping 
 nefarious super-villains with the adamantium claws of Wolverine. The X-Mens resident badass (as 
 voiced by Mark Hamill) discovers that a fatal virus has been triggered in his body. Hes got 48 
 hours to track down the antidote and avenge the evil organization that gave him not only this X-virus, 
 but also his indestructible skeleton.
  
  From a third-person perspective youll battle innumerable underlings as well as boss super-villains 
 straight from the X-Men and Wolverine comics, including Magneto, Sabretooth, and Juggernaut. While 
 the action part of this hybrid is satisfyingly mindless, the adventure element supplies some refreshing 
 depth. The puzzles are logical and tense  with great use made of the ol poisoned and against 
 the clock gambit  without being too difficult.
  
  In fact, the seamless transition between melee mayhem and think-it-through adventuring is one 
 of X2WRs finest accomplishments. Many games aspire to an action/adventure combination, but settle 
 for an action game with dont raise any alarms missions and frustrating jumping puzzles. But 
 X2WR is surprisingly frustration-free: the smart design of both the action and adventure phases 
 keeps the pace bubbling and never allows it to bog down into either melee-malaise or puzzle-hunting.
 
  
  Each of the storys six acts houses three or so levels. Its up to you whether Wolverine should 
 enter an area hacking and slashing everything in sight, or take a stealthier approach. Wolvie can 
 take advantage of his powers, such as a sixth sense that can show danger areas unseen to the 
 human eye (exposing hidden enemies, mines, and so on) , accelerated healing (when his claws are 
 retracted) , and a berserker rage boost to unleash more damage during fighting.
  
  As a fun console-style gameplay addition, you can find and pick up three kinds of dogtags, which 
 add strength and can also be used to unlock artwork in the games Gallery section. Comic-book covers 
 are also littered around the game world, used to switch between Wolverine costumes (from the comic 
 books and the feature film) . Yeah, these are devices straight out of the kiddie park, but theyre 
 cool nonetheless.
  
  Controlling Wolverine during combat can prove difficult, especially using a keyboard and mouse: 
 not only is it tricky to toggle between enemies, but the frame-rate slows when you face more than 
 one. Moreover, the camera often swivels randomly during combat to an angle thats not conducive 
 to the situation. If you aim to enjoy this game, then youd better have a gamepad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luziorava
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Wolverine's Revenge is a classic example of when a developer company (in this case, Activision, 
 but the best example is EA) is in such a hurry to release a movie game that it ends up being a 
 generic, unfinished, repetitive, or simply bad game.
  
  The gameplay:
  
  Obviously, the most important part in any game, it feels extremely boring in this one. The main 
 controls of the PC version (which I'm reviewing) came to me so bad that I must thank the developers 
 to give me the option to change the controls, otherwise I would have had to buy a gamepad. And 
 I'm NOT a hardcore PC gamer. There are two attack buttons (Punch and Kick... wow) , a Jump one (I 
 must admit I didn't use it more than two or three times) , a Stealth one, the Action button (used 
 for retarded stuff like climbing ladders) and the Senses (WTF?) button. I don't have to explain 
 any of the keys save for the Senses one. Basically, it shows you where mines are located, where 
 are enemies looking at, their footprints (completely useless) and it includes Stealth mode, so 
 you can forget during the whole game about that key. One of the lowest points in the game is the 
 AI. All enemies, except Bosses, are like skins , because they all use the same strategy, which 
 makes the combat look more like Paper Mario than an action game (if you observe the AI carefully, 
 you'll see I'm right) .
  Whenever you are surrounded by enemies, the word STRIKE will appear on the screen. By pressing 
 the action button while this is on the screen, Wolvie will perform a fancy attack that really isn't 
 helpful at all. Also, by killing an enemy using Stealth mode, he'll drop a Dog Tag. Collecting 
 a specific number of them will unlock new STRIKE moves, but they all do the same damage and are 
 completely useless.
  Also, it's very repetitive. Objectives are always the same: kill enemies, get a key, open a door, 
 kill all enemies, open a door, kill more enemies, use a computer, open more doors and a little 
 platforming. It's as simple as that.
  
  The graphics:
  
  Wolvie looks fine, but most enemies are the same, and this game reminds me of the PSX. Really, it 
 seems as if my PC, which could run Doom 3, went back to the 90s. I know it's a 2003 game, but how 
 can it be that Super Smash Bros. Melee, which is from 2001, had WAY better graphics and they're 
 both running on the same console? Same for Halo and this game. In Chapter 2, part 2, I remember 
 suddenly going through a door and ending up in a blue world , much like the GTA games. Clipping 
 issues are noticeable, too.
  
  The sound: Lame. Wolvie and all enemies make exactly the same death or fighting sound. AT least 
 voice acting is decent, but not GREAT.
  
  The pros:
  
  -A good game to rent and beat in 2-3 hours
  -Decent voice acting
  -Wolverine looks good
  
 -Making Sabretooth get pwned can never be bad
  -Tons of unlockables including new suits and info on the X-world give the game a lot of replay 
 value
  
  The cons:
  
  -Repetitive, generic and simple gameplay
  -Graphics take you back to 1999
  -Glitchy and buggy
  -Bad sounds
  
  WR can be resumed in 
 3 words: repetitive, generic, simple. Another brick in the wall of bad movie games.
  
  I KNOW NOBODY WILL READ MY REVIEW BECAUSE I MADE IT TOO LONG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well I read some other reviews which are kind of aggressive with the poor game. They complained 
 about the stealth strikes and stuff like that. Hey it's not a stealth game. It's hand to hand fighting. 
 The game doesn't stick to the story but i don't care. Of course you fight Magneto and Lady Death 
 Strike (the lady with adamantium nails) . Anyway the game starts with your runaway from the weapon 
 x. The combos are not cool but with a combo you daze an enemy. When he is dazed you strike him. 
 There are 4 strike levels. To unlock new strike level you must have a number of dog tags ( they're 
 obtained at strike kills... at 3 enemy strike and 5 dog tags at the defeating of a boss. You can 
 also strike multiple enemies. That's cool. You also have to think a way out of some situations 
 (example : there's a heat sensor in the way and you have to go in the fridge room to chill out) . 
 Wolverine is well modeled like his enemies. Some environments are kind of poor if you study them 
 closely. If you just run trying to find the next goal you won't be so disappointed but you will 
 notice them. Anyway the combat is cool. Every boss battle has some parts where you have to do something 
 special. I loved the fight with magneto when you have to jump off ledges on him. Logan throws himself 
 pretty cool. The sound is ........ not bad...... not good.... medium. The game offers you some cool 
 bonus things like cerebro files, costumes, and dog tag challenges. Worth the money. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  I really liked X-men: Wolverine's Revenge, but apparently, that's not how everyone feels. Maybe 
 it didn't have the best sound, or the best graphics, but it's still a fun game to play.
  
  Wolverine is out for Revenge (obviously) . It follows part of the storyline from the movies/comics. 
 Wolverine's mutant claws help him tear through anyone who gets in the way. There are bosses to 
 defeat and guards to sneak past. You won't get bored with this game. Many secrets and costumes 
 to unlock that add an extra spark to the game.
  
  Overall, a nice, fun game that you should definitely play, one of those rainy days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  X2: Wolverines Revenge had the potential to be a great fighting game, but unfortunately it fell 
 far short. The concept was great, and an absolute fanboys dream, play as Logan/James Howlett from 
 his time as the Weapon X experiment for Canadas Department H through his inclusion in the X-Men. 
 Along the way, battle classic villains such as Sabretooth.
  
  Wolverine did have some cool fighting moves, which required some rather involved controller manipulation, 
 but the biggest problems with X2: Wolverines Revenge were the camera angles and control problems.
 
  
  The camera angle would adjust, seemingly at random at times, based upon Wolverines position vis-&agrave;-vis 
 walls or other objects. This became a tremendous problem when trying to use an object for cover 
 while sneaking up on an adversary. The camera angle would jump, and suddenly the adversarys position 
 was concealed. In order to determine where the enemy had gone, the player would have to move Wolverine 
 out from behind cover, exposing Wolverine to enemy gunfire.
  
  The control problem in X2: Wolverines Revenge was that Wolverine had to be directly facing an 
 adversary in order to strike him. If Wolverines position was slightly off, his attack would go 
 wide, leaving the enemy unharmed. Additionally, the videogame had the penchant for targeting one 
 enemy at a time, which would keep Wolverine facing that sole foe regardless of how the controller 
 was manipulated. This was a real problem when facing multiple enemies, as the target lock wouldnt 
 break until the enemy was destroyed; during this period, all the other enemies on the screen had 
 no problem concentrating their gunfire on Wolverine.
  
  It was unfortunate that X2: Wolverines Revenge did turn out to be such a crummy game, especially 
 since the plot of the videogame was well thought out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game tells you about my favourit x-men member wolverine 10 years ago when he was just an runawey 
 experimant he was planted with a deadly virus that kills him from the inside how amazing... any 
 way now you start to kill pepole that you dont even know like all games there is out there untill 
 you will find the sirup that will cure you... like... daaaaaa
  
  let me tell you about this game...
  
  GRAPHICS: for 2006 its the worst graphics ever!!!
  but 
 in the time since this game was reliced... its ok
  SOUND: its ok i guess....
  GAMEPLAY: the best thing in this game and its also not that good... but the thing i did liked that 
 you have the wolverines powers (all of them) in this game... and that rocks!!!
  
  in the end its not the best x-men game and not the worst game there are worst out there... like 
 x-men the official movie... wich is a piece of crap!!! dont buy it but wolverines revenge is a good 
 game wich all fans of the x-men series would love.. im not the biggest fan but a fan and that game 
 was fun for a couple of hours...
  
  see you in my next review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulworior
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game's theme is obviously a very popular one. That's where the good ends and the bad begins.
 
  
  X2: Wolverine's Revenge undertakes the ambitious task of making a player feel like Wolverine, possibly 
 one of the coolest X-Men of all times.
  
  Unfortunately, but not unexpectedly, the game fails. It attempts to incorporate stealth action, 
 sneak kills and combo moves, but carries out each in a mediocre way at best.
  
  With Splinter Cell redefining stealth action, Livesay Technology were in for a fight if they wanted 
 to compete. They lost the fight. The stealth mode, although accompanied by original visual effects, 
 usually ends up in a quick execution  la Blood Omen 2, where one could see Kain perform the same 
 coup de grce on unsuspecting foes over and over again, given that the conditions are correct. 
 Result: poorly executed stealth action.
  
  As for the combo moves and special attacks; well needless to say, they are excessively repetitive 
 and although they are very wolverine-like, lack a certain "oumph" that a catchy Wolverine quote 
 would have provided, i. e. "Come'n get it bub! *claw noise*"
  
  Now if we take the time to compare the so called combo moves to the ones found in some other games 
 like Prince of Persia, we'll be sure to realize that X2: Wolverine's Revenge is simply below par.
 
  
  In addition, the gameplay is linear and redundant: kill the soldiers, get the key card, break the 
 power generator, find the plot twist, run into a mutant, repeat from the start. The End.
  
  Now for the technical aspects...
  
  The game is a poor port; it's capacity to properly utilize 
 a computer's hardware to render beautifully drawn environments is very lacking. Another point worth 
 mentioning is the fact that the palette of resolutions to chose from is slightly restricted, and 
 does not feature the LCD Screen standard optimal resolution of 1280x1024.
  
  Final visual drawback: missing textures. THE biggest no-no in game development; in several areas 
 of the game, one will find that walls which should be textured are simply an extremely unimpressive 
 flat black, which has no light mapping nor bump mapping, making it essentially, a window into the 
 blackness of bad game oblivion.
  
  The sound... as we have found out with games like Final Fantasy, if used properly, the soundtrack 
 and sound effects of a game can make the difference between a good game and a masterpiece. Wolverine's 
 Revenge shows us a new low... the sound quality turns a bad game into a horrible game; all the 
 sounds or of a mediocre quality, with a low bit rate and the voice overs seem to all be done by 
 the same person, who's talent for changing his voice is not worthy of mention.
  
  The worst of evils, the one which will guarantee that you don't play past chapter 3: the save game 
 system is a punishment spawned from the depths of hell to compel youths to turn their backs on 
 video games.
  
  You get to save at the beginning of the level via checkpoint. Period. Suffice it to say that when 
 Sabertooth kills you 4 or 5 times after a 20 minute stage in a level, you eventually end the gaming 
 experience the same way that monopoly games end 95% of the time (See Dane Cook's Retaliation) : 
 the player stands up, throws an object located nearby and screams "F**K THIS!!!"
  
  Bottom line: It really wasn't worth the 4$ I paid for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprimer
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 30, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I don't care what anybody else says, this game is awesome because it is fun. How fun it is should 
 be the only way that people rate games, because nothing else matters to me. The combos are really 
 sweet and usually have Wolverine jumping over and around people and then slicing them up. The most 
 annoying thing is probably the way the camera works. I find myself changing the camera angle way 
 too often. There are too many glitches too. I think this game would get much better reviews if they 
 would have taken the time to fix the glitches and the way the camera works. Other than that, this 
 game is supremely fun, and I think any x-men fan should buy it, especially if you're a Wolverine 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corsyus
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 18, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to getting this game while seeing it in development. Unfortunately as pretty 
 as it appeared to be in the screen-shots and trailers, the game is plagued by a stupendous amount 
 of serious glitches and sloppy control.
  
  The graphics and story are decent, some levels are quite fun too, but just as you're about to forget 
 all the other issues this game has, another glitch or problem with the controls will come up. I 
 managed to beat the game, I don't remember how now that I look back at all the bugs I had to put 
 up with. But I haven't been tempted at playing this game again ever since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inon
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 10, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I can Believe it !!!! Who was the non-intelligent who creates this game???, the controls are terrible, 
 & all the game !!!!
  This game its a Trash !!! It is ridiculous to play this...... I can play anymore !!!
  I don't 
 like the history, It has no sense !! the graphics are bad, I mean .... we are in the 21 Century, 
 and we have a great technology !!!
  I can Believe it !!!! Who was the non-intelligent who creates this game???, the controls are terrible, 
 & all the game !!!!
  This game its a Trash !!! It is ridiculous to play this...... I can play anymore !!!
  I don't 
 like the history, It has no sense !! the graphics are bad, I mean .... we are in the 21 Century, 
 and we have a great technology !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what everyone's complaining about. It's a good game. I enjoyed it. You get to fight 
 lots of soldiers, mutants, and bosses in epic Wolverine style. The combo system is fun. You collect 
 dog tags from using stealth kills, and the more dog tags you get the higher level combos you can 
 do. Another fun thing about this game is the scary atmosphere that gets set up, where you're creeping 
 around through secret military bases infested with huge mutant goons that could jump out at you 
 at any moment. Not a game for weenies.
  Wolverine's voice is perfect, and you can find comic books to get him new costumes. The gameplay 
 is, as I have mentioned, very solid. Nothing too boring, nothing too fancy. You have your kicks, 
 your hits, your stealth attacks, and that's about it. 
  The bosses include Magneto, Lady Deathstrike, Juggernaught, Sabretooth (Twice!) and, as if it needed 
 to be said, our buddy the Wendigo. If you're a fan of superhero games, and especially if you're 
 a fan of our clawed friend, def inetly pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game (x2-Wolverines Revenge) I thought it will be in the style of Splinter Cell 
 or something, but it turned to be a total failiure.
  
  Story- the story is not bad at all he is well built and interesting, the problem is, that you start 
 the game when you are half naked with a dumb helmet and a bunch of china-sticks in your body (doesn't 
 make you feel good if you ask me) .
  
  Game play- first, guess who controls the camera, YOU and its very annoying in the middle of a combat 
 you die because you tried to move the camera for a better view...
  Wolverin is reacting slowly to your commands and it's not easy to control him.
  The combats, 
 what supposed to be the most fun part in the game turns to be boring, all you have to do is press 
 punch, punch, kick, punch like that until the enemy dies.
  The bosses are very hard to defeat in the higher levels, you must use cheats (unless you want to 
 spend hour on one boss) .
  
  Graphics- very detailed, too bad that what supposed to be detailed is not, and what don't need 
 to be detailed is detailed.
  
  Sound- not so special.
  
  If I could go to the past I would not by this game at all.
  
  Stay in contact,
  
  Raoul_haa.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZAddicted
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 31, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like this game since I am a big fan of X-Men. But when I first tried this game, this 
 game was embarrassingly boring and hard. 
  
  Gameplay: Camera work is horrible, it's hard to control the camera and Wolverine's movements are 
 kind of slow and it's kind of easy to get killed by the enemies. 
  Nothing more to say, it's just terrible.
  
  Graphics: Could be better if the game was developed 
 in the year 2003. I would say it is just ok.
  
  Sound: I'm only giving good score on this, because the game used the original music from the movie 
 of X-Men. And Wolverine's voice acting was nice. 
  
  Value: Ain't much value. The game is just horrible, and it's shame to buy this game only to hear 
 the Wolverine's voice. 
  
  Seriously, I can't believe this game is just horrible this much. Please, consider one more time 
 if you are planning to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 20, 2003 9:24 am PT
Review:  I truly wanted to like this game. I have been an x-men fan since there was just one comicbook series 
 about them and Wolvie is my favorite. The graphics, sound and concept of the game is really amazingly 
 good and I did enjoy watching that. The thing that killed the game for me was the control system. 
 It was very obvious that this game was created first for a console that was a double joystick contoller. 
 Then it was ported as is to the PC. From what I could tell there was absolutly no effort to rework 
 the control/camera scheme for the PC. The movement controls were standard WASD (no problem) controlling 
 Wolverines actions were done with the keypad (no problem) the camera/view angle was controlled 
 seperately than the movement and was done with the arrow keys (Major problem!) Try having Wolverine 
 attacking (using your right hand on the keypad) while moving the camera around to see your enemy 
 who is flanking you (with the thumb from the right hand that is using the keypad) and you start 
 to get the idea. They should have setup a static camera behind wolverine and then make a mouselook 
 mode if you wanted to look elsewhere. 
  These guys could really take a lesson from Enter the Matrix or Splinter Cell on how to make a game 
 for various platforms. Splinter Cell especially was built from the ground up to take advantage 
 of each platforms strengths.
  
  So here I sit still waiting for a good x-men game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vundi
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 21, 2003 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I've spent about 4 hours or so with the Xbox version and here's what I think so far.
  
  Graphics are smooth and clean but it looks like a first generation PS2 game to me. Not a bad thing 
 but I'd expect more from an Xbox game of today. Wolverine himself looks pretty nice. His animations 
 are well done and you can tell they spent a lot of time trying to get him right. Some things, however, 
 are almost laughable to me, like the glass with the way it just kind of flakes off on to the ground 
 when you break it and the way Wolvie's feet always fall through the floor when he walks. They definitely 
 could have spent more time on certain areas of the game.
  
  The A. I. isn't that great and the baddies just kind of roam around aimlessly like mindless zombies 
 but it's fun to smack them around. They like to gang up on you though and as such you'll probably 
 find yourself hiding in an isolated corner somewhere while your mutant healing factor fixes you 
 up (which takes forever by the way) . You can find some health power-ups lying around here and there 
 but it seems that they're always clumped together so you rarely find them lying around when you 
 really need them.
  
  The controls are pretty tight and responsive but things like bad collision detection and the God 
 awful camera make that hard to notice sometimes -- I swear I spent almost as much time controlling 
 the camera as I did controlling Wolverine. You have some pretty cool combos to work with and you 
 unlock more as the game goes on but for the most part I found myself reduced to button mashing 
 to best the baddies. They threw in some stealth elements as well but they weren't really done very 
 well and they are more of a hassle than a welcomed addition to gameplay. However, the stealth kills 
 are pretty fun to pull of and you have to pull them off from time to time to progress in the game 
 and they also help you unlock certain bonuses.
  
  Speaking of bonuses, there are some sweet extras in the game like art galleries and several alternate 
 costumes that'll keep you playing just to unlock all this cool stuff........ maybe.
  
  The sound is so-so. The music is fairly well done albeit rather uninspired. I think it would sound 
 more at home in a game like Shadows of the Empire, but that's just me. If you're playing the Xbox 
 version, you can play your own soundtrack so yipee for that. All the bad guys suffer from "clone 
 syndrome" and always seem to utter the same little phrases and one-liners as well as let out the 
 same "UHG!" when you kill them. More diversity here would have been nice.
  
  I would have liked to see Wolverine being a bit more vocal as he is one of the best trash talkers 
 in Marvel's line up and for the most part he's pretty silent. I also would have liked to see the 
 environment be a little more interactive. For a guy with Adamantium blades sticking out of his 
 hands, you would think that slicing a bed in half or popping a locker open would be a gimmie but 
 I guess they overlooked that part. A Halo-like checkpoint save system would have also been a welcomed 
 addition because, as it is right now, when you die or fail one of your objectives, you have to 
 start over from the beginning and this makes for a really tiresome trial and error experience I 
 just don't care for.
  
  In the end, I would not recommend that you purchase this game. This is the kind of game that fans 
 of the source material would enjoy more than the casual player but even that isn't a sure thing. 
 At best I'd say give it good long rental and let it be. If I were to use GameSpot's ranking system, 
 I'd give it a well earned 5.8.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2003 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I must say one thing, I love this game, but then again, I love Wolverine as well. One thing this 
 game does well is translate the whole comic book atmosphere. Boss battles are as epic as you'd 
 imagine, with all sorts of ferral attacks being unleashed according to specific situations. It 
 really captures Wolverine's essence without flaw. The voice acting is spot on and the story is 
 well... a Wolverine story through and through. But just as I love this game for all it does well, 
 I can also see how some people may be turned off. Perhaps there is a little too much skulking around 
 when you are expecting all out violence. also, while the fighting engine perfectly depicts Wolverine's 
 savage nature, most of the most brutal attacks are activated as mini cutscenes, sort of a finishing 
 move type of deal, While this is cool and the animations are sometimes spectacular, you often wish 
 you could personally carry the onslaught manually. 
  Taking everything into account, if you are a Wolverine fan, don't hesitate to pick this baby up. 
 On the other hand, if you just like action games you should wait at least until the price goes 
 down a bit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
