-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X3: Reunion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/x3reunion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous, stunning graphics and beautiful ship and station designs.
 Huge, wide-open universe that you can explore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player story lacks structure and drifts along.
 Complex game to learn and pick up, and you'll need lots of patience.
 Slow pace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.5, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,979 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Egosoft
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 10, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
X3 features more of the open-ended space exploration and trading of the earlier games, and it has 
 a gorgeous graphics engine; just don't expect a riveting story. 

  The X games (and we're referring not to the extreme-sports event, but to Egosoft's space  
 simulations) have always been a bit like the famous sci-fi movie  2001: A Space Odyssey . In other 
 words, they're beautiful to look at, but they also unfold at a snail's pace. X has become the spiritual 
 heir to Elite, the old-school, deeply open-ended space games that let you go off and do your own 
 thing for hours at a time. Rather than running through a series of scripted missions, you can explore 
 the void, buy and sell goods for a profit, and battle the occasional bad guy. X3: Reunion, the 
 latest game in the series, delivers some stunning visuals and more of that wide-open-ended gameplay, 
 which is great if you're a fan of the genre. X3 also features a single-player storyline to deliver 
 some structure for those of us with shorter attention spans, though this doesn't pan out anywhere 
 near as well.  

          Welcome to deep space and the open-ended universe of X3: Reunion.     

  Set in the 
 distant future where humanity has colonized the stars and now rubs elbows with various alien species, 
 X3 puts you in the role of Julian Brenner, the hero of X2. You start alone in your little vessel 
 and are given the hints of a plot involving a great and powerful ancient McGuffin that various 
 factions are trying to control. From there, you can try to follow the plot and see where it leads 
 you, or you can just go off on your own and explore the many different sectors of the known universe, 
 or both. You can follow the plot for a while, then go off and do something else, and then pick 
 up the plotline later on, though this isn't as helpful as it seems.  

  If you are expecting some kind of Wing Commander: Privateer-style story with plenty of structure, 
 you won't find it here. X3's single-player storyline doesn't hold your hand; rather, it exists 
 for you to stumble upon it every now and then. One case in point is an early mission where you're 
 tasked with hunting down a certain person for information. You're told where that person is, but, 
 of course, you have no idea where that place actually is. What comes next is a lot of flying around, 
 exploring sectors and charting where their jumpgates lead, and then exploring those sectors and 
 finding out where those jumpgates lead. Eventually, you'll find the place you need to go, but it's 
 by no means quick or easy.  

  Most of the time in X3 will instead be spent simply flying around, looking for missions, and buying 
 and trading goods. This is necessary, even if you're just looking to get through the campaign, 
 because you need mountains of cash to buy the various upgrades that you'll need to survive later 
 in the game. And, generally, you'll need to trade to generate that kind of cash, so if you're looking 
 to live the mercenary life, you're at a bit of a disadvantage since the payoffs are downright miniscule 
 compared to what you can make trading. Eventually, you'll get to the point where you have a fleet 
 of vessels running trade routes, and you can build your own factories and stations to manufacture 
 products that you can ship.  

  No matter what path you choose, you'll need a lot of patience in X3, because this is a game that 
 unfolds at a very slow pace. You'll spend a lot of time simply flying from one point to another; 
 however, you can have the computer fly the route for you, and then you can hit the time-compression 
 button to speed the passage of time, or you can simply "jump" from sector to sector, though at 
 the cost of energy crystals. Even then, though, you'll spend a lot of time simply exploring, looking 
 for work, and figuring out the best trade routes.  

          While combat does play a role in the game, it's not the focus of X3. You'll spend more 
 time exploring and trading.     

  We only wish there were a bit more personality in X3. Apart from the grandeur of flying around 
 some really impressive galactic scenery, there's very little sense of emotion in X3. Like the action 
 in the previous games in the series, X3's action happens entirely from the cockpit of your ship 
 (aside from the occasional extravehicular jaunt in your space suit) , so you never get a chance 
 to see the inside of any of these marvelous stations. There are the occasional diversions, such 
 as a blackjack game that you can play while docked, but even that happens while you're strapped 
 to the cockpit of your ship.  

  X3 doesn't help itself out with its lack of any kind of in-game tutorial. Aside from the 87-page 
 manual, the game uses mainly pop-up tooltips that provide lots of information but hardly any guidance 
 as to what to do next. And this is a dense game to begin with. While you can use a joystick (and 
 some space-genre purists will) , X3 is designed so that it's completely playable using the mouse 
 and keyboard. Steering your ship is as simple as moving the mouse, and clicking on the mouse button 
 will toggle between steering the ship and moving the mouse cursor around the screen to access the 
 interface, which itself is a bit complex and awkward for its own good. For instance, you can call 
 up a navigational map of the known universe, but if you want to chart a course to a specific sector, 
 you have to drop into a different navigational map to do so.  

  From a visual standpoint, few games are as stunning as X3. Though space is an empty void, the folks 
 at Egosoft have managed to make it look downright beautiful, and you'll fly through sectors admiring 
 the many intricate and complex space stations as well as the photo-realistic planets and more. 
 There's a realistic metallic sheen to ships and stations, as well as some fancy lighting and shadowing 
 to really hammer in the illusion. It's so good that even docking or doing a slow flyby past a station 
 is a treat. There's some concession to Newtonian physics, as you can turn your ship around and 
 watch momentum carry you in the direction you were originally following for a few seconds. However, 
 the game does experience a few performance hitches, even on high-end machines. Sadly, the sound 
 effects and voice acting are nowhere near the quality of the graphics; they're fairly generic for 
 the most part, and much of the voice work is pieced together much like the automated response that 
 you get when you call tech support or your bank.  

          There are few games that are as visually impressive as X3.     

  With its open-ended 
 gameplay and emphasis on trading and exploration, X3 will most likely appeal to fans of the series, 
 though if you were looking forward to a strong single-player story or campaign, then you'll most 
 likely be disappointed. Still, for what it is, X3 is easily one of the prettiest games to date, 
 as well as an impressive, though dry, achievement. If you like your space epics to be more  2001 
  than  Star Wars , you'll probably feel at home in the universe of X3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (121 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  After X3, every time a play a different space sim, I want to go back and fire up X3 again, because 
 the current one that I am playing, doesn't measure up. The only exception to this would be the 
 other classic space game that I know of, Independence War, which put the "science" back into the 
 "science fiction" game genre.
  
  X3 is complicated, and it may tax your brain's ability to keep track of everything. Science fiction 
 isn't the fantasy genre. Commanding & configuring starships and participating in an interstellar 
 economy isn't supposed to be dead simple. That's why I miss the complexity, and welcome its ability 
 to challenge me again.
  
  Do you want to control a sprawling merchant fleet?
  Or own factories that create your own ships and weapons? 
  Or set up a complex supply chain of 
 factories spanning many star systems?
  Well you can in X3.
  
  Want to own & fly carrier ships or a fleet of battleship class vessels? You can in X3.
  
  X3 
 is the reigning classic of the open ended, single player, space combat/trading genre, because there 
 are so many ways to fulfill that space opera itch.
  
  There is however, room for more design improvements. For starters, the quest logs and player messages 
 could be organized better, especially after it is filled with countless entries. In addition, the 
 space between the jump gates is too crowded sometimes. This is especially evident when one is flying 
 a gigantic capitol ship, or when one is trying to create a massive factory/industrial complex. 
 If they could make space seem more "vast," by spacing the objects farther out, and compensate by 
 increasing relative velocities, it would help a bit. Also, if there is a way to command wings of 
 fighter craft easier, it would also be welcome.
  
  Perhaps I'll find out if they made improvements in these areas in X3 Terran Conflict. I look forward 
 to it (when I have time (shudder) ) , and these types games deserve to be made, far into the future...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  X3: reunion is one of the greatest games ever to grace the PC. (that is after the 2.0 update)
 
  
  Never before have i seen game that allows so much player customization or freedom! Your ability 
 to explore the galaxy is limited only by your willingness to do so. 
  
  this game is not for everyone, in fact it is not for most people... this game can literally take 
 anywhere from a few hours to a few weeks to even figure out how everything works when your NOT 
 actually doing anything. 
  
  The reason i love this game so much is that i have been playing it for over a year now and have 
 amassed a great empire, but i am still vulnerable and there is still so much to do!
  
  This game is not for those run and gun type people, but at the same time it isn't for the kind 
 of people who like slow games either. this game is made for those of us who enjoy playing a game 
 that requires ALOT of attention and creative thinking over a long period of time.
  
  
  the bottom line: this Game requires a commitment that not many gamers are willing to give. But 
 for those who are, it is one of the most rewarding game experiences they will ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I played X3 Reunion a lot and I really love it: it's a great sandbox game where you have total 
 freedom in a huge galaxy.
  Wanna be a pirate? go and smuggle illegal goods across the universe.
  Wanna be a cop? get a decent 
 ship and patrol the lanes.
  Be a merchant and build your empire with many capital ships and stations.
  The most amazing fact 
 is the deep immersion of this game: the whole galaxy is alive around you and you'll see ships fightin, 
 pirate squads roamin, stations exploding and each of the many races will like you.... or hate you, 
 based on your actions towards them. 
  The game was born almost 2 years ago in an unfinished state and full of bugs, but the many patches 
 made this game very stable now.
  X3 let's you do anything you can imagine, and you'll never get bored.
  Two thumbs up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppickeri
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I admit the story is somewhat lacking, but the game certainly does not deserve a 7.2 rating by 
 Gamespot. Graphics and music are great, the universe is enormous, and the economic complexity of 
 building starports coupled with supply/demand is incredibly fun. You can be a privateer, create 
 a military fleet to crush other races, or just be a merchant. Customize weapons on a large choice 
 of available ships, ranging from tiny scouts to huge capital ships. The pace can be slow at times, 
 but luckily you can use time acceleration to make things go much faster. Community mods for managing 
 both economic and military tactical decisions will make your life much easier. It would have been 
 nice to have in game achievements, but achievement based gaming didn't really take off until after 
 this game came out. While the open-ended side of the game is great fun, it's up to you to choose 
 what you want to achieve. Sometimes it is more fun to have someone else challenge you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRazor52
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  This is a game that runs the gambit on trying to control the universe. The original game is fun 
 to play and takes a little while to get all the keyboard and setups done to play and learn. It 
 won't be long though before your off and running the missions to save the universe. The graphics 
 is good but have seen some problems running on a low end machine with the minimum requirements. 
 There have been some setup issues but have always found all my questions answered in community 
 forum at Egosoft. But the best part of all is the excellent support by the X3 fans and community 
 dedicated to building scripts and mods that enhance, change, add and build upon the game. There 
 has never been a moment when I get bored with this game for I can continually finding new and interesting 
 add ons of every kind to make the game even more interesting. If you have the skill you can even 
 make scripts, ships, and mods yourself with the support of the forum community. I can spend hours 
 just finding information and updates myself on the forum. This game is worth the play and keep 
 in your game collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade0099
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is pure genius story line isnt WOW but if u played all 3 u know whats going on, the combat 
 i love it there isnt any fakness a fighter v heavy frigate or battle cruiser can happen from time 
 to time but u wont win unless u match fire power or u got speed and a quick hand and a planned 
 escape route =)
  
  i really love the game im still playing it the economy the fights the whole i have an empire and 
 i will blow things up randomly with it thing going on hehe bad day at work why not send 12 carriers 
 and unload on about 600 fighters on some poor unsuspecting station 
  
  yes yes the begining is slow but you wasnt born at the age of 21 either 
  it has its fair share 
 of problem but what game doesnt just this one makes up for it in many ways 
  
  the main thing i love is that the story starts off done the first mission as requested then went 
 off and blew up some pirates and cloked the game about 2 weeks later, thats the beuty you can do 
 what ever u want the story is even optional now tell me another game where u can refuse to do the 
 story and go about your own buisness to either police areas or make ur self some what of a tyrant 
 or just be a down right evil person and make every one hate you, when u find a game like that please 
 let us know cause hell i doubt u will find one
  
  well to the point my oppinion:
  Graphics: a few things here and there but superb non the less
  Gameplay: like nothing youy have 
 expirinced to date
  Story: appealing if u like storys
  control: joy stick otherwise ur gonna have a little hard time adjusting, you have the ability to 
 adjust the controls to your preference but with keyboard they are easy to grasp just a pain to 
 keep hold off while in action so a joy stick is highly recomended
  
  this idea works all they have to do is just work on it and maybe they can release somthing like 
 this but bigger with tons more then whats already available big thinks to Deepsilver and EgoSoft 
 sims like this are the reason for playing games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGv2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I have long been a fan of space sims and in particular the 'X' series of games. X3 is the best 
 of the series to date, everything that the previous games has done it does better. The combat is 
 much improved, being fast paced and on a much larger scale than X2. The Ship and station models 
 look amazing, with realistic lighting and stunning partical effects.
  One main focus of the game is the abillity to build up a busniess empire. The busniss system in 
 X3 in Incredably in depth and somwhat intimidating if you have no buiness exprirance in real life, 
 it requires a staggering ammount of micro management. 
  However although owning a huge buiness or having an armarda of 100s of ships is brilliant, you 
 will have to have the patience of a saint or cheat. I let a friend of mine borrow it beacuse he 
 saw me playing it and was curious, he then gave it back a day later saying it was boring and was 
 no were near as eciting as it look when i was playing it. I had to explain that i was about 8-10 
 hours in. The game is unbeliviably slow to start off with and will put many people off as you can 
 tell. Also, now that im on the bad notes, the voice acting is awful and the cutscenes are frankly 
 shocking. As well as this I have found the game to be a little unstable with frequent crashes and 
 odd sound glitches. Most of this is sorted in the patches, but it is still a little dodgy.
  So my advise is only to buy it if you can handle REALLY slow gamesor have a love for in depth space 
 sims. If you want somthing more fast paced and less brain busting then buy Freelancer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I played this game just because I saw the first page of Player Reviews in Gamespot and they were 
 mostly 8-9. But after playing it for 5-6 hours i was very frustrated. Only the gamer who has lots 
 of free time to can rate this game high. Because it will require lots of gameplay to really rate 
 it high. My ratings for this game-
  
  Graphics - 5/5
  Controls - 2/5 
  Story - 2/5
  
  
  The game is stunning but it lacks a good story. Also there are no tutorial to teach the 
 game and controls. Controls are spread all over tha place and you have to spend good time exploring 
 various options.
  The pace of the game is slow and if u dont have time acceleraton SETA than it will take a LOT of 
 time to get from one place to another. Also there are frequent loadings for just 10-20 seconds 
 of ingame cutscene.
  
  I have played freelancer before and its not visaully stunning as this but its lot easier to learn, 
 has a good story and simple controls and tutorial.
  
  Dont play this game if you dont like complexity instead play freelancer its lot easier than this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It's very hard, VERY HARD. But once you get the hang of it, it is bloody brilliant. The community 
 forum is a must, since you'll encounter problems (not technical problems, but in game problems, 
 what to do etc) .
  
  BUY THE GAME, you won't be disappointed.
  
  Note, the game never ends, it's truly open ended. A sandbox indeed.
  
  You may try out the 
 demo first.
  
  Also, the one thing that makes me LOVE the game, (apart from all the other things) , is that you 
 can have a space station, filled with spacecrafts, filled with scouts, traders, fighters etc, who 
 defend your zone etc.
  
  Also there are a lot of mods for it, and patches. And the game is still supported and updated 2 
 years later on! Wonderful company, wonderful community, wonderful game.
  
  
  If you have a joystick, the game is even more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  If you've read reviews for 2005's X3: Reunion, don't believe them, the bugs are fixed.
  
  When X3 first came out, it had a TON of bugs, so people gave it bad review. These people were also 
 impatient. You need to give this game time and patience to get into it.
  
  Now, it is 2008. X3 is a whole new game. No bugs anywhere. The game developer, Egosoft has added 
 tons of bonus content ot make amends for the bad start.
  
  Okay, now let's pretend you don't know what the hell I'm talking about. In X3, you play as space 
 pilot in that lives and works in a group of star linked together by jump gates called the X Universe. 
 Your character, if you follow the plot, gets involved in fighting back a hostile alien race called 
 the Kha'ak. The story isn't what you call fresh, and the original story writers need lessons in 
 level design, but whatever. Following the plot is an option, thankfully. It also shows how free-form 
 the game is.
  
  Both the graphics and gameplay make X3 shine. The graphics, even for a 2005 game, are amazing and 
 can give the Xbox 360 a run for its money, if you have settings on high. They're that good.
  
  As for the immersive gameplay, you can do pretty much anything. Be a trader, a pirate, whatever. 
 This next part is what caused original reviews to sink. The gameplay's pace is slow. Some parts 
 of the game can get boring. However, once you get the in game credits, you do a lot more stuff. 
 But to get to that stuff, you have to work your way up. The average player (playing without cheat 
 scripts) starts with a basic fighter equipped with some weapons and upgrades. The only map you 
 have is the one of the system you are in. You have to explore to reveal the other systems. You 
 then would have to find work that gives you some easy money. Not a lot, but you have to work your 
 way up. Once you get going, you can buy more upgrades for your ships. Eventually, you can buy a 
 whole new ship, or even a space station to manufacture goods to sell on a dynamically changing 
 economy that tries to be like the real world economy. After lots of gameplay hours and money making, 
 you can go as far as to buying capital ships. Awesome, isn't it? Remember, it will take a very 
 long time to get that far into the game, but in the end, seeing a fleet of ships that you saved 
 up for and bought give your enemies a butt kicking is worth it. If you demand a fast paced game, 
 you won't find it here.
  
  Now every game has its bad spots. This game has no tutorial. But don't let that scare you. The 
 version 2 manual will easily help you. Keep it within arms reach, and you can get past any tough 
 spot that involves learning the game.
  
  The plot also isn't that good. While the story gets the job done for this game, its poor execution 
 is annoying. Once you get into the story, the game imposes gameplay limits to make an incentive 
 to finish the missions created by level designers who need to take lessons about what they do. 
 Grrrr... At one part in the game, you may lose that empire of stations you have built thanks to 
 poorly implemented twist in the storyline. The rewards for completing the story also aren't great.
 
  
  Don't let that stuff scare you. You are getting on awesome game for $20-30 (not sure how much) . 
 Just don't get the original version. You'll have to download the patches. Get the Game of the Year 
 or 2.0 editions.
  
  This game will show you that the space sim series isn't dead. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterMullock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  There are other reviews which tell you things about this game. For mine, I'll go straight to the 
 point.
  
  First thing: if you're a Freelancer fan, you might just stop reading this immediately.
  
  Second: 
 if you want immediate action, thousands of free ammo, millions in cash after fifteen minutes of 
 gameplay, forget X3 right now.
  
  Third: if you like games that offer a very modular structure, a great online community and third 
 party developments; games that have extremely vast territories to explore, wide ranges of vehicle 
 types and even more choice in equipment/upgrades to get familiar with; custom style of gameplay, 
 be it trade, combat, resource harvesting, police duty, piracy, theft, to name a few; then you could 
 possibly be very happy with X3: Reunion.
  
  There are different game start status which you can choose from, along with difficulty levels. 
 Some will grant you more money from the very start, some will provide you with better reputation. 
 But you can be sure that you won't control the universe in one day, nor a month, even in the easiest 
 selection of all modes available.
  
  Take the time to enter the ultra-vast universe of X3, earn some money, and you could do such things 
 as:
  
  - build stations, which can be factories (producing a wide range of goods, from ore to high-tech 
 weapons) , trading docks and more
  - connect stations together to make complexes
  - buy, equip and command whole fleets of armed ships (light fighters to interstellar destroyers, 
 capable of hostig other ships) and gigantic cargo transporters
  - buy, install and run software plugins for your fleet ships computers, allowing you to automate 
 their behaviour in many different fashions
  - use the features offered in the "Bonus Pack", available from the developer's website, which adds 
 a whole series of new exciting functions to the original title.
  
  This list is far from complete. A treasure awaits anyone who cares trying to find out what this 
 title is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aswoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I see X3 as a completely different genre in space empire building. This is a dramatically different 
 take on a PC game and is likely to frustrate most who are used to getting into the storyline within 
 seconds of starting. This one takes time, patience, and some due diligence to really be able to 
 appreciate what can be offered. However, beware, if you do delve deep enough, it can be deeply 
 immersive and totally suck up your life.
  
  There is an entire community built around this game and I would suggest that anyone playing visit 
 the EGOSOFT web site. The latest manual and lots of player guides on how to start are available. 
 This will take much of the frustration out of it. Also, most people should begin with the Quickstart 
 option.
  
  I agree that starting off blind can be incredibly frustrating. However, after devoting dozens of 
 hours to X3, I've got to admit that it truly can suck you in to the point where many hours of your 
 life can be lost to this game. One things for sure, I'll likely still be playing this game when 
 Terran Conflict comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I tried to give this a chance. In fact I probably spent more time agonizing over this game then 
 I have ever alloted to another game. While the graphics are reasonably good, and the gameplay is 
 smooth, the game is just too slow paced to be enjoyable. I found that to even get started trading 
 I had to spend countless hours exploring the different systems, not to mention the amount of time 
 it took for me to locate all the key features in the User-Interface.
  This is the first real space-sim I've played since Freelancer, and the best I can say for this 
 game is that it inspired me to go play Freelancer some more. Overall I give this game a 4/10 for 
 having somewhat decent space combat, a very limited sound track, decent graphics, and a frustratingly 
 huge and sprawling universe. I didn't even no where to begin to rate the difficulty of this game. 
 The UI is complex and difficult to figure out, but the combat is so slow that its quite difficult 
 to not be good at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinvel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  X3 Reunion is the best space Combat Sim that I had seen in all my life. It has a good quality of 
 graphics and also having a beautiful music and soundtrack. The storyline is very straight forward 
 and also having a good story at all. There are three different storyline difficult: the normal, 
 quick start and the X-treme storyline mode which the latter can be very though. You should have 
 a good CPU power and a good graphic card because on my computer I needed to lower the graphics 
 level to play it smoothly also there isn't any windowed mode in this game. In X3 Reunion there 
 isn't any multiplayer since there is the storyline and the simulators were you refine your combat 
 and command skills. There are awful ships, space stations, side missions, ship upgrades and station 
 buying, and beautiful scenarios to combat in. You will love all this graphic and happy game play. 
 Thanks to Enlight Software and Egosoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Alright... I spent most likely over 30 hours getting through a few of the main plot missions and 
 I will totally agree that the game is STUNNING! the controls are well handled and you can get a 
 pretty good feel for the game from the start. 
  
  HOWEVER.... my word! NEVER in all my years of gaming and I am talking over 15 years has a game 
 ever SOOOOoooOOOooo Enraged me. The plot has good voice acting and goes smooth, but if you don't 
 have a walk through handy then I don't understand how anyone can even get past level 2. The game 
 is set up in such a way to simply make you pull your hair out. I keep kicking my self every time 
 I load it back up and try again and again and again... I just get more and more frustrated. 
  
  So.... 
  
  Game Play FUN
  Graphics WOW
  controls.... Not so much
  over all game flow 
 COULDN'T GET ANY WORSE SIMPLY HORRIBLE
  
  not just that.... after you play for a bit you start to understand that you must have done something 
 wrong to get your but kicked so easy. At level 4 I was getting shot down and smeared across space 
 in a few seconds. What did I do wrong? ... followed the game plot... don't know. Simply pulling 
 my hair out here. 
  
  Conclusion... the game has wonderful potential but that's about it. If you looking for a "fun" 
 game like Freelancer.... then DO NOT LOOK HERE. GAH! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I am a fair rater of all games compared to the different games i play.
  
  I agree the tech support is on the low side, for custom build systems mostly i guess.
  I had 
 no big problems myself, but i expected starforce would do this.
  
  And its hard to get started if you never played a sim like this, but then dont rate it low and 
 take your time.
  I recommend freelancer or something else like that first
  
  I have played a lot of other space sims like this one and i have to tell
  Compared to other games 
 this is a great one, beautyfull graphic`s and you just get the feeling you are in a real, breathing 
 and living universe were you can do what you want, a kind of real business life in space..
  
  This game makes me get old school memories again from those old space games i played.
  
 
  The game starts slow, thats a little bad point but afther a lot of time, you really begin to understand 
 and feel why this game really grows on you..
  No more comment.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caldric
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Then this game is a must have. Anyone who ever played privateer which is older then some of the 
 people posting here then you need to go and buy this game.
  
  I can't stand reviews that give a game a bad review because you have to think. I read the cons 
 here on gamespot and it said hard to learn ok yeah you have to think to play this game for sure. 
 You must (gasp) read a little to understand it. X-Universe is the only space opera game to own 
 there is nothing out there like it at all. All the instant gratification games such as Bio-Shock 
 or some such flashy games as that is not even in the same league as X-3.
  
  You must fight and trade and build and learn and play and god forbid immerse yourself into the 
 game. You can play the missions or if that is not good for you then there is an open universe to 
 explore and exploit and destroy. There is no end and the add-ons are free and add 2 or 3 or 4 times 
 the amount of space to kill, get rich and loot your enemies. Its up to you and your imagination.
 
  
  7.2 is an insult to thinking people on the review.
  
  Surely I am not the only old man star who remembers Privateer and hours and hours it gave of pure 
 game? I thought Privateer was the end all in 1993 of space games nothing would ever touch it. How 
 wrong I was then and now. X3 is the perfect balance of freedom and game play. Buy it and play it 
 you will love it, unless you think all games should fit the Xbox360 console instant gratification 
 generation. If so then go play repetitive brainless games like Bio-shock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  i was really looking forward to this but if you have a graet deal of patience to learn all the 
 controls then maybe this game would be a good one but for me the controls are allover the place. 
 the graphics are quite nice the planets look quite realistic but as we all know it's gameplay that 
 makes the game why have something good looking if you can not use it for me if you have a friend 
 who has it call over before you intend on buying see how you get on with the controls. for me buy 
 freelancer instead it's a much better game and it's cheaper as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxer99
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start off by saying that X3: Reunion has it's issues. Firstly, you have to have a fairly 
 beefy machine to make the game look nice without stuttering. Secondly, the game can be quite slow 
 at times, and the trade mechanics can be a bit daunting to new players. At it's core, it's really 
 all about establishing yourself as a successful trader while micro-managing many fleets of beautifuly 
 crafted ships. So why give the game an eight?
  
  
  
  The game is a real pleasure to look at. Egosoft did a fantastic job making space look alive with 
 vibrant nebula, massive shadowy astroids and bright stars peppered throughout the many explorable 
 sectors. Not only do the environments look good, but the ships and stations are a real wonder to 
 behold as well. When you see a battleship pass by your insignificant M6, it is all you can do to 
 keep yourself from squealing with lust and delight. Unfortunately not everything is equally beautiful. 
 The explosions and missle trails could use a bit of work. This is a fairly minor gripe though. 
 Finally the sound effects can get repetitive, though they are decent! The music is different in 
 each sector, and is quite well done, though it suffers fromt he same fate as the sound effects... it 
 gets old fast. Ship controls are difficult to adapt to, and definitely require a bit of skill if 
 you want to be a proficient combat pilot. There are plenty of hostile ships roaming the trade lanes, 
 and the game provides freedom to fire upon whoever you wish, though caution should be used when 
 firing upon one of the four main factions for your reputation will diminish by performing violent 
 acts on friendlies. Trading is quite boring starting off, being that you have a very small ship 
 with a very small cargohold, and must make dozens of trips to earn eough credits to buy something 
 bigger. Once you have enough capitol though, you can start auto-managing your fleets and build 
 your own stations if you wish. Guarding, providing resources, and managing a few stations is a 
 job within itself, and there is virtually no limit to the amount of real-estate one can own.
  
  
  
  The simulated economy int he game is very well balanced, so trading can be very gratifying. 
 If your a person who likes immediate rewards, or is rather impatient and just wants to get to the 
 best a game has to offer in the least amount of time possible should most likely look elsewhere. 
 Those of you who enjoy planning and putting many hours of strategic effort into your gaming time 
 will love X3, provided you like space simulations! While this game doesen't offer any revolutionary 
 improvements to the genre, it is still a very enjoyable and worthy experience, especially to die 
 hard space sim fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay::: This is one of the most complicated games I have ever played but once you get used 
 to it the game rocks!!! The interface is kind of like reading the contents page of an encycopedia 
 and gives you tons of options. Ships look very cool, especially the Destroyers (battleships basically) . 
 Scale is amazing if not misleading in a way, for example you see a meteor which you THINK is about 
 a couple meters away but it is actually miles away and your lasers can't even hit it. You can do 
 anything, create your own city, start a buisness, be a merchant, a soldier, build your own fleet, 
 take over sectors etc etc. The economy and traveling is quite slow, even with it sped up but the 
 dog fights are fast paced. Money is quite hard to earn or maybe I just suck :) It has a nice big 
 manual but the learning curve is still about a day BUT it is well worth it. AI is amazing as they 
 well send fleets against each other and migrate from place to place, imagine STALKER but they actually 
 build stations and things. Ships dock and patrol, the economy is constantly changing as wars and 
 demands rise.
  
  Graphics::: Some sectors are plain with just a planet at one side and dark space on other while 
 others have nebulas and weird fog. Could be more interesting. Space ships look fantastic and the 
 plasma shots are HUGE.
  
  Sound::: Love the music and the guns sound powerfull.
  
  Value::: Got everything you want. More things to do then oblivion and explore.
  
  Tilt::: I 
 was put off at the start by the dull universe but it turned out to be really fun. Missions are 
 varied such as taxi service or paper boy or just killing things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Now this game is huge, not just big, i mean absolutely huge! this game could keep you going for 
 months as long as you have a lot of patience.
  
  GRAPHICS: very very good, one of the best games i have ever seen graphicly speaking at least
 
  
  SOUND: some very atmoshperic music and great sound effects
  
  GAMEPLAY: also very entertaining the dogfights are some of the best I have seen when using a joystick
 
  
  CONTROLS: amazing with a joystick not so great with mouse and keyboard
  
  VALUE: definatley worth it
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone looking for a very time 
 consuming, involving and beliveable game. But if you are looking for an instant action game this 
 is not your best bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campbell_todd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  X3 is essentially the perfect game for anyone who likes both Space sims and Strategy games.
  
  The sheer size of the universe, and the huge amount of different things you can do, mean that 
 the game has so much to offer in terms of playability. I dont think Ive ever put as many hours 
 into any other game; theres always something else you want to do, goals to achieve, an empire 
 to build.
  
  Its a real challenge to build up your financial empire, in whatever way you choose to do so. Hiring 
 a cargo mover, choosing a system and exact spot to build your first massive space station gives 
 a feeling of great achievement, and a desire to continue building up until you have a massive manufacturing 
 complex.
  
  Starting from a single ship, working your way up to organising and controlling hundreds of cargo 
 ships, fighters, cruisers, destroyers and space stations, this game has as much to offer strategy 
 fans as it does those interested in dog fighting against pirates. What do you want to purchase 
 next; a new cargo ship so you can hire a pilot and reap the rewards of his training, or a solar 
 factory to feed your energy-hungry ore mines? Perhaps a M6 class cruiser in order to protect your 
 latest facility from a pirate or Kaak raid? Its your choice, and building up your empire as you 
 choose is quite satisfying.
  
  Perhaps not quite as satisfying as taking your first brand new destroyer out for a spin  thats 
 when you know youre a true power in the galaxy, both militarily and financially; after all, it 
 just cost you around 300 times as much as your first cargo ship!
  
  Unlike some other games in the genre (Darkstar One is a prime example) , a lot of effort seems to 
 have gone into making the Universe seem real. Different areas of the galaxy, the different races, 
 and even the individual systems actually feel different, not just copies of one another with a 
 slight change. You really get to know many of the systems by name and by sight. The economic system 
 of the galaxy is really quite outstanding for the genre. Unlike DarkStar, where every system has 
 the same two stations selling exactly the same commodities, you have to learn where and what you 
 can and should be trading. Dynamic prices and sensible relationships between various goods which 
 are used by factories mean trading is not just a simple buy agriculture here, sell there, buy 
 ore here approach, but nor is it too complicated.
  
  The combat in the game is varied and interesting. The different classes of ships really are a different 
 type of experience which each have their own merits, although theres very little chance youll 
 want to use a light fighter once you can afford the heavier options. But the experience of dogfighting 
 in a heavy fighter is quite different to a slower moving cruiser, which can take quite a beating. 
 Theres nothing quite like flicking between your 8 turrets on a destroyer as you chase down and 
 destroy fighter after fighter; unless of course its flicking between turrets on your carrier, 
 taking out enemy fighters as they battle the swarm of your own fighters which you just launched 
 at them.
  
  There are plenty of different weapons to try out, with various advantages and disadvantages and 
 ship restrictions, so youre not going to end up just using the same type of weapon over and over 
 again, just getting slightly more powerful (as in Privateer) .
  
  The graphics are really impressive, particularly in reference to the level of system its working 
 on. I was able to use a much higher level of detail and a larger resolution on my laptop than I 
 was able to with Darkstar, and yet it was still smoother. The systems themselves are very graphically 
 impressive, and all the stations and ships are distinct, and quite detailed.
  
  The storyline of the game is not the most immersive in the genre, and they should probably pay 
 more attention to that in future if they are producing a sequel. I found myself just kind of dipping 
 my toe in on occasion, and then left it alone until Id really got my empire going such that it 
 was mostly self sufficient and only required minimal intervention. But with the sheer amount of 
 other things you can do in the game, this slight lack in story doesnt stop this from being one 
 of my favourite games. In fact, the second time I played the game it was with the storyline option 
 turned off, starting as a merchant with a cargo ship instead of a fighter, and focused simply on 
 building a financial empire. The start of the game can be incredibly slow (if using the storyline 
 option) , but well worth persevering with. Once you earn enough for your first cargo ship, the speed 
 of the game will start to snowball.
  
  The latest patch for the game is well worth installing, as it adds a few new missions and features 
 which just cap off this excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunky12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I say this is quite the game for all you space sim game lovers out there as i would definitely 
 reccomend it to those sort of people or anybody who is willing enough to actually read the manual 
 as this is quite a tricky game to master flight wise. So since im review this game lets give it 
 pros and cons
  
  PROS
  
  - Best graphics i've ever seen in a space simulation game
  
  - about 160 star systems to explore - ability to fly every ship in the game - always something 
 to do
  
  - dynamic economy and construction/destruction of ships and stations
  
  CONS
  
  - sometimes this game seems lifeless as it were since there is a lack of either radio 
 chatter between ally ships or when your just flying around space
  
  - Takes a while to master the controls of the game
  
  - if not equipped correctly it is very 
 easy to die in this game
  
  - inability to dock inside of stations (X2 had this i do believe) - requires a very technologically 
 advanced computer with a good processor and graphics card to play the game to its full
  
  - when talking to someone over communication channels their avatar is VERY cheesy and their mouths 
 dont match their words
  
  In every way this game has its upsides and downsides but i do say this game is absolutely perfect 
 in my opinion and the only game i can think it matches play wise is freelancer which is also a 
 brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyyus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the best combination of all games. I love to fight, trade, explore and roll-playing in 
 the same game and this one has a lot of. The graphic is perfect and the game engine is more than 
 perfect, it's incredible how it's working so well. I love the music style and the special effects. 
 The game is huge and has a nice story it reminds me about Battlestar Galactica the movie. At this 
 moment Im playing the XTended-Mod the latest add-on and I like it very much, it changed the 
 game entirely. I recommend this game to all Roll-Playing, Strategy and of course Space Combat Sim 
 fans.
  Thank you EGOSOFT for this game, I hope that a new one is coming soon.
  
  Andrei 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilthik
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  X3 can be a very fun game, but it's definitely not for everyone. The first time I picked it up 
 I got disgusted with it and set it down for several months before picking it up again just recently.
 
  
  What drove me away the first time? Simply put, X3 drops you into one of the most complicated, unintuitive 
 interfaces I've ever seen and doesn't bother showing you how to use any of it. The manual is a 
 joke. Thankfully it lists key settings, but often these keys must be used under special menus that 
 aren't explained, and since many of the keys are used repeatedly for different skills you'll be 
 very confused at first. This is alright, you're on your way.
  
  Luckily, the game doesn't start you off with anything too difficult. The first mission can be accomplished 
 simply by moving around and the second one requires minimal shooting skills to get something done. 
 However, all bets are off after that. If you screw up the game isn't going to cut you any slack. 
 You'll either get killed or have to start the mission from scratch. It can get frustrating, but 
 the reward of this process is a greater understanding of the control interface through repeated 
 use. Besides, the game looks and sounds so damn good that you won't mind repeating a mission a 
 dozen times... at least not too much.
  
  Eventually the storyline becomes more of a side-quest on your own personal power trip. What can 
 be more fun than galactic domination in a gorgeous universe with a game that allows you to take 
 any path you choose? All the early frustrations pay off in the end, if you make it that far.
  
  That's really the trick to it: having the patience to stick to it even when the game kicks 
 you in the teeth. If you can do that, the possibilities are endless. This is one of the few games 
 that still carries itself with pride when so many others are poorly designed rubbish with a pretty 
 paint job released only to grab your money.
  
  Bottom line: If you're a fan of the space sim genre, you need to at least try this game. It's the 
 best to come out in a very long time and probably the best we'll get for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppergomez
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  well, it's been about 2 years since it came out. while it had some serious flaws when it was first 
 released, these have been fixed now. add to that superb mods like the xtended mod, cockpit mod, 
 minimual hud mod, and the ability to add ships from space movies (serenity, star wars, aliens, 
 star trek, babylon 5, etc) , and you have probably the best current in-depth, mature space sim on 
 the market now. it's a game designed for more sophisticated players, not attention span challenged 
 console gamers. full joystick support, a storyline that you can ignore, trading fighting and building 
 in a dynamic universe, incredible graphics --- all there. x3 isn't as 'player centric' as most games. 
 in other words, the universe here exists and is doing its own thing- lots of races and factions 
 who don't even care that you exist. indeed, when you start, you are puny and insignificant.
  
  herein lies the challenge and turn off for many gamers, who are likely expecting a 'churn and 
 burn' 3 week game. not gonna happen. x3 is designed to be played and explored over many months, 
 even a year. i'd say it's like an elder scrolls oblivion, while most recent space sims are more 
 like doom 3 or half-life2. x3 is an intimidating and very difficult game at first. if it weren't 
 for egosoft's great support forums, i would be completely lost in the game.
  
  unlike x2, which was kind of clumsy, x3 has great combat, so don't listen to those who call it 
 boring. it can be fast and visceral, or slow and methodical. the immense amount of player freedom 
 means that it's your choice how to proceed. to make matters even better, x3 is now available for 
 very cheap, and starforce free, on steam or in the deluxe dvd release from egosoft, which updates 
 the game with patches and bonus material. egosoft, the developers, are doing a great job of adding 
 great bonus content and further refining the game with patches.
  
  long story short- if you are willing to put in the time and thought to explore and prosper in a 
 very dynamic, open ended, and huge universe, skip the childish approach of games like darkstar 
 one and spaceforce, and enter the x3 universe. ps- take the professional gamesite reviews of x3 
 with a grain of salt. these are professional journalists working under a deadline, with other articles 
 they need to write. unlike most other games, x3 is intentionally designed to take time and patience 
 to explore. so, some writer, such as those at gamespot, gamespy, etc, who has maybe a week or two 
 and spends maybe an hour or two a day will hardly even scratch the surface of this game. though, 
 to be fair, gamespot's overall score is fair for the INITIAL release of x3, which was pretty seriously 
 flawed (rushed) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houndpuppy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game to me showed that they went to a lot of trouble attention to detail to make this game 
 feel alive the varity of things you can buy from energy to ships to space stations enjoying the 
 fact i have to do the work my self to gain statue amoungst the other races to be able to advance 
 in my own empire Destroying, capturing other ships givning the freedom to roam around and see the 
 universe the only thing that i thought was lacking was the ability to talk to others in game giving 
 you only a couple of options dose make the game a bit distant make you feel alone also guess thats 
 part of the game to feel alone in space the expance of it all and how small we play a part in the 
 bigger piture of this game i loved the game and for a older person i find the enjoyment of it all 
 i hope with the upgardes of computing and gaming they make number 4 and more interactive with the 
 other races but with the same feel i found in X2 and X3 thank you for a really great game and hope 
 the next one is just as great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  X3 is another test of patience brought to you by Egosoft. Let`s be fair, this game is much more 
 than X2 and less boring most of the time. The Good
  - The interface got changed and work fine, despite the vast numbers of keys you need to remember. 
 In truth is easy, for those already familiar with X2, to pick up a couple of necessary shortcuts 
 and ignore the rest, since fighting and trading aren`t rocket science.
  - Fighting/dogfighting is less painfull and dull than before. Ship movements look almost good if 
 you stick to mouse and enemy pinpoint using Home key.
  - Good graphics and a surprisingly stable engine. Since Esc. key is no longer required crashes 
 and corrupt savegames - don`t ask me what relation could be between those, but it is in X2 - are 
 less visible.
  - Hunting abandoned ships and caping pirates/outlaws are a real motivation to stay in such a big 
 game.
  
  The Bad
  - Trading is still a pain without a fully maximized Dolphin.
  - Finding jump gates may be fun in the beginning, but we need time to do something more rewarding 
 than flying around asteroids to find their location even with triple scanner.
  - Docking a station was fun before. Now it`s kind of strange to dock to some landing clamps, outside. 
 Don`t get me wrong, it`s tedious to fly inside a station to find a free parking space, but I need 
 to see more than planets, space dust and ships.
  - No planet landing in a space sim - trade - fight is kind of lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 10, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Warning: from very start the game is as difficult as World Of Warcraft at level 70. But dont consider 
 this as disadvantage because X3 is 10x deeper than WOW and provides enormous range of features. 
 The game is absolute masterpiece of cinematic graphics, top notch designs of spaceships, design 
 of gameplay itself and provided freedom. And on top of that- its very romantic!
  But once you decided to go for it, please take your time and read guides, tips &amp; tricks in 
 forums, etc. And thats nothing sensational again- there are lots of games (incl. WOW) that you 
 cannot play in full without reading the guide books.
  The bottom line: dont buy it! Otherwise you will be spending your nights in the outer space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you've all seen movies involving space ships. I'm also sure you would like to command 
 such a ship. Bah! Throw away the movies!
  
  X3 Reunion is a game for the smart, the wise, the mind-agile sort. This game is perfect from a 
 lot of perspectives! In some situations, it asks you to use soo much memory and ration that will 
 make chess look like a crying baby!
  
  Explore: Explore the absolutely huge X3 universe, discover new planets, dock with new stations, 
 uncover the diversity of races, immerse yourself into the adventure of exploration.
  
  Fight: Fight massive armies and small-talk with your small fighter or your huge destroyers. Command 
 entire fleets of fighters, bombers, destroyers and capital ships.
  
  Trade: Trade and become rich by uncovering opportunities in cross-station tactics. Upgrade your 
 ships with shields, weapons, special components etc. Build: Build a trading empire formed out of 
 economical stations, cargo ships and an array of strategies meant to make you powerful. Build a 
 military empire worthy of being mentioned formed out of cross-race ships and huge fleets! Think: 
 Well now, we all know what that means!. There is only one more thing to be mentioned: If you consider 
 yourself an individual with an advanced and complex mind, then you need to try out this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madness_3D
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is buggy, yes, I still to this day have problems with it crashing and what not but when 
 it does work, my god is it good.
  It can suck you in for hours on end, forget the story its stupid build youreself a massive galactic 
 empire show this AI universe that you can make huge amounts of money
  Graphically it's beautiful, no one can argue with that (unless you've got an old machine and if 
 you do get a new one) There is no reason not to TRY this game if you don't like it, thats you're 
 choice but i think its one of the best games i have ever played,
  
  worth the &pound;200 i paid for the graphics card to run it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, so where to start...
  I'm personally a big fan of space simulators. I've played just about all the sims out there, from 
 the straight up glorious to the down right cheesy ones. Freelancer, DarkStar one, Freespace.....
 
  Yet I'm not a hardcore gamer with the latest hardware and gear (I dont even own a joystick) . I 
 was skeptical about getting X3 right after I looked at the absurd system requirements. But I'm 
 always into trying a new game even though I might gamble with the framerates way too much for my 
 own good. The latest patch did in fact save me. The fps is way better compared to the retail version 
 of the game, but you probably know that already. Anyway, I wasn't dissapointed once I started playing.
 
  
  Once starting the game, though I would highly recommend trying the simluator option first off, 
 just to get the hang of the game, since there is no tutorial whatsoever. I realized that it actually 
 helped me quite a lot instead of starting a new game and having to worry about the actual mission. 
 The game has a steep learning curve since the commands to learn are so many and the universe is 
 so large. But once you fly around and figure out how to dock, how to aim, how to use the time accelerator 
 and how to fly to different sectors, you probably won't need anything else.
  
  Introduced that, I'll talk about the actual game. X3, as you probably have already heard, is one 
 of the best looking space sims out there, no doubt. The asteroids, the planets, the ships, the 
 stations are all amazing to look at. You probably will end up just flying for an hour to a tiny 
 dot on your map just to see what the heck it is and enjoy the sightseeing along the way.
  The universe in itself is another awesome aspect of the game. There are dozens of races and groups 
 within the races that interact with each other and as a whole, creating that amazing realistic 
 feel that X3 is so famous for.
  
  So, all in all, the game offers certain really good aspects that are a must have if your a space 
 sim junkie and I would recommend it if youre a gamer of this kind, but if youre not, and you lean 
 more towards FPS games or RPG games, then I would advise not to get this. It would be too hard 
 for you to learn and once you do learn, you might be dissapointed.
  
  Try Freelancer if you never tried Space Sims, its really straightforward and easy to learn.
  
 Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragondoom01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has had a rough time, it started buggy, but now, at its peak of perfection, it truly 
 shines. Many complain that it takes too long to learn, or its boring, but these are shallow arguments. 
 The truth is this game is a diamond shining under a mountain of other garbage games. There is an 
 unbelievable amount of depth to this game, over a hundred unique sectors, moving music, unforgettable 
 graphics, excellent design, and more heart has been poured into the making of this game than most. 
 Sure, it has flaws, such as a clunky interface, and the story could be better, but that is not 
 the focus of the game. That is the problem most people have with this gem, the story. Many of these 
 people do not see underneath the story and realize that it is not what this game is about. This 
 game is about doing whatever you want, trading, fighting, exploring, building an empire. And so, 
 because of this ignorance, this game has been overlooked by many. The depth of this game is what 
 counts. Between venturing into the unknown depths of space, creating massive fleets of everything 
 ranging from fighters to capital ships, building factories to sell manufactured products, and fighting 
 off enemy legions bent on destroying the universe, this game has almost achieved perfection. The 
 modding capability of this game further pushes this title towards greatness. With mods that add 
 new weapons, ships, sectors, effects, and even factions and gameplay mechanics, you can increase 
 the lifetime of this game ten fold. (I recommend Xtended Revelations www. xuniverse. com) Overall 
 i have played this game for over 200 hours and have yet to get bored. So, if you are looking for 
 a game with deep gameplay AND fantastic graphics, i recommend X3 Reunion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cotitanium
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  X3 is immense. It is one of the biggest games I have ever played, bar none.
  
  Because of the size of the game, your lowly starting position in the grand scheme of things, and 
 the time required to do anything you can easily decide this game is not worth your time. I know 
 I did.
  
  That was until downloading the newest patch and Bala Gi Missions. I tried the game out again, this 
 time leaning on the gaming community to help me out. There are number of great guides out there 
 that will guide you through as much or as little of the game as you want, and you will want.
  
  The other thing to try is t he script editor. Since this game is only single player you don't 
 have to worry about cheating others. Play the game using some of the scripts and learn how the 
 universe really works as far as placing factories, setting up your traders, combat, and navigation. 
 Then, do as I am doing now, start over without the scripts and see how much better you do than 
 the first time you played. The learning curve is steep, and the hardware requirements can tap your 
 budget (another reason I put the game off, I needed a new graphics card) . However, the return when 
 it all works is well worth the work. Be prepared to sit for hours, or learn the SETA tricks to 
 sit back and gain money and influence over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tristan_palmer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  If you've played each of the previous games in the X series, you can really see how the game concept 
 and universe have developed over time, so that this latest installment really is close to the sheer 
 vastness and open-ended enjoyment that I remember experiencing when playing the original Elite 
 way back then.
  
  The trading system now works much more realistically than in previous games, so that it's now quite 
 difficult to find those 'killer trades' that increase your credits really quickly, giving a greater 
 sense of satisfaction when you do achieve a profitable transaction and extending the lifetime of 
 the game.
  
  Of course, if you want to make a quick buck you can take the (far more dangerous and, therefore, 
 more profitable) bounty hunter route and spend some time hunting down and killing criminals. The 
 combat system is faster paced and more challenging than in previous games, requiring FPS-like control 
 of your mouse hand, and this path is further improved by the latest patches which increase the 
 number of said criminals roaming the universe (giving you more opportunites to frag them!) .
  
  The plot is fairly standard fare and exists more as an extended introduction to the possibilities 
 of the X-Universe than anything else, but is worth playing through as various stages reward you 
 with otherwise unobtainable (or just expensive) equipment or less tangible rewards.
  
  As far as presentation goes, the game has a wonderful sense of grace as you drift almost lazily 
 through space (sometimes a little TOO lazily) , and interactions with other pilots, message boards 
 and objects are cleverly managed using a 'cut and paste' system which gives responses a great deal 
 of flexibility and range.
  
  One (fairly large) sticking point is the instability and poor performance of the unpatched product. 
 The minimum system requirements on the box are totally unrealistic unless you download the latest 
 patches (which also include a fair amount of added functionality) , though the patch fortunately 
 resolves most issues effectively and increases performance by a quite amazing amount.
  
  Definitely a must buy for anyone who enjoys space combat a-la Tie Fighter or open-ended trading 
 and resource management a-la Elite, Pirates, Civ. Just make sure you get that patch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freewing
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  X3 is very fascinating game, very complex and quite difficult to learn; sometimes frustrating, 
 but... unique.
  
  The control system is quite badly designed, graphics are fine as the atmosphere.
  
  It's a 
 kind of game half-way between love and hate: you'll love it and you'll play it for a very long 
 time; you'll detest its rigidity and the lacks of playability.
  
  Graphics are quite fine, the CPU must be very solid to play this space sim; you need a load of 
 time to learn how to play and move, but, if you begin to work on it, you'll difficultly uninstall 
 it from your PC.
  
  The 1st releaseof this softwarehouse are ALWAYS a mess, unstable and full of bugs; but after 1 
 year the games are on the market they become stable and working.
  
  And that's all! - Enrico www. aecaosta. it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademaestor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  X3 is one of those games that you either love or hate (as reflected by the reader's reviews) One 
 the one hand, its hard to get into, has a very different interface to many other games, has very 
 little in the way of help to get started, the cut scenes and acting are corny, when it was released 
 it was buggy as hell (it took up to patch 1.4 to get things working properly in my opinion, we're 
 now on patch 2.0.0.2 and it makes a hell of a difference) .
  
  Beyond all those negative aspects lies a brilliant game, it has amazing graphics, each ship is 
 nicely designed and individual (it wasn't the case to begin with, but patching sorted that out) 
 the backgrounds are simply beautiful and the stations look like they do what they claim to! (e. g. 
 giant solar arrays for solar power plants) .
  
  The gameplay allows you to take different pathways, or all of them at once, you can be a fighter 
 and kill or capture pirate ships, or you can turn pirate and kill and capture ships of one of the 
 5 good races Argon, Boron, Paranid, Split and Teladi. There are multiple classes of fighters and 
 for each fighter class there are multiple variants of that ship as well as pirate varieties which 
 have their own specifications - the vanilla fighter is usually balanced amongst all its attributes, 
 the vanguard edition focusses on weapons (i think) , the sentinel on defence and the raider on speed 
 and weapons (at the expense of shields) the pirates have their own variations of the vanguard and 
 vanilla, I have yet to see a pirate sentinel class ship. There are 3 classes of fighters - scout 
 (M5) , light fighter (M4) and heavy fighter (M3) usually players start off in a light fighter of 
 the Argon race (each race has its own ships) and from there the universe is open to them to do 
 with as they please! You can own corvette class ships (M6) , as well as the huge station transport 
 class ships and carriers and destroyers all that can hold their own fighter wings and big big big 
 guns!! To buy ships from each race you need to build up relations with them either through fighting 
 or trading the higher the class of ship the better your relations need to be with them.
  
  The trading system in this game is fairly straight forwards, factories in each sector require supplies 
 of various different things to make products, the lower their supplies the higher the price they 
 are willing to pay and vice versa. The same can be said of the produce of factories, the higher 
 the surplus the lower the price. Trading can be done manually (indeed you have to at the start) 
 or when you have enough money, software can be bough to automate the process (Trade software MK3 
 available from your local Terracorp HQ and Teladi equipment docks) Its a great way to make a bit 
 of money whilst you galavant around in your fighter. There is also the opportunity to build factories 
 or even (if you are brave) build complexes of factories (would recommend you having a look at the 
 egosoft forums before you do for some tips) and sell your wares to the universe, you can open your 
 ports to all traders to come and buy and sell or you can just have your own transports running 
 your supplies. Eventually (if you have the latest patch) you will be given the opportunity to own 
 your own sector and have your very own Player HQ where you can even give your ships custom paint 
 jobs and reverse engineer other ships so that you may build them yourself!!! (I'm not this far 
 along yet, only recently started playing again!)
  
  The soundtrack is suitably spacey with very chilled out tunes serenading you as you zip or crawl 
 across the sectors, changing when you get into close proximity of trouble, by trouble I mean anyone 
 that is likely to fight you and that shows up as a red target (usually pirates, Xenon or Khaak 
 if you are playing nicely) to something faster paced. The voice acting, as usual with space games, 
 is corny and the dialogue can be annoying, but other times funny, probably unintentionally, when 
 lines cut into each other e. g. killing a pirate ship piloted by a member of the split race: Split 
 say.. AAARRRGGGGHHHH! 
  
  This game is open ended so there is no limit to what you can do even after you finish the main 
 plotline, that's if you actually choose to finish it, or if you are like me you may choose to do 
 a couple of missions (enough to get a free jump drive and transporter) and then just do your own 
 thing, it will take you hours to even explore all the sectors that are available. Will you choose 
 the path of the trader, the fighter or something in between, can you be bothered to build factories, 
 or would you prefer to just have automated sector and universe traders running. Starforce protection 
 is gone now with the latest patch, so those that used to be worried about it messing up your system 
 need worry no more and the latest patch even makes the game nocd so you can spare your precious 
 dvd. It is also available via the steam client.
  
  The one thing I really should mention is that this game is long, the amount of time you need to 
 put in to get a decent ship can be daunting!!! Also the experience you get out of this game is 
 dependant on the work you put in, if you cant be bothered to learn the controls and the interface, 
 explore and simply mess around and get to know how the universe works you aren't going to get a 
 lot out this game, chances are you would stop playing and say its rubbish. For those with the time 
 and the perseverance, X3 is a amazing open ended game which presents you with a universe where 
 what you see from ships to stations can all be yours, you can be a sole pilot, with one ship tooled 
 up and blasting away, or you can have a full fleet and wipe out sectors indiscriminately. Build 
 giant station complexes and have a fleet of traders or pirate other traders cargo!!!
  
  X3 is one of those games I just keep coming back to I simply love the freedom, sometimes I will 
 jump in my scout and simply zip around doing BBS missions (missions offered by individual stations) 
 other times I'll get into my heavy fighter and blow some pirates away then go looking for bargains 
 in one of my trade ships! This game has the potential to be an amazing game for some people, but 
 be honest with yourself before you purchase it, do you have the time and the tenacity to learn 
 the game first and the patience to find out what this game has to offer? If you do, prepare to 
 lose many hours to the universe that is X3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvrak
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game takes at while to understand how it works, but even when you get used to the controls 
 the way to make money is too slow. I really think a trading system in space is too annoying for 
 many reasons.
  
  Not only do you have to trade from one station to another but you have to hunt around for the best 
 prices to make sure your not ripped off. I bought a whole cargo full of items and i wasn't sure 
 of the cheapest deal but i thought it was fair enough, but when i was flying around trying to make 
 a profit it was too annoying becuase you have to check everywhere to sell for more money. this 
 gave me stress because of the lack of research of what's a good price or not, even when you think 
 you've got a good deal. which means you have to compare every station for stock prices before you 
 fly around from one sector to another just to make a small profit of one load.
  
  also the asking price for new ships are over the top, i've spend a good ten hours before making 
 around 30000, but to get something decent i have to spend 300000, which is an enormous amount of 
 trading time.
  
  i don't think i could dedicate my life to this game when i have so many other games worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonatanr
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The game looks good I must admit that. When I first started playing I was really impressed by the 
 graphics. It also gave a realistic feel. But then the troubles started. I mean seriously&acute;. 
 Why doesn't a game that complicated have a tutorial? The controls are so numerous and so complicated 
 that its frustrating even after an hour of gameplay. That is by the way the amount of time it took 
 to actually figure out where did I have to go. Seriously its the first mission and there is no 
 help whatsoever. The briefing was useless as it only served to complicate things further. When 
 it finally seemed that the controls began to feel familiar, I was really disappointed by the almost 
 idiotic storyline and acting. Ii gave up soon after I realised that most of the NPCs had a personality 
 of a three-year old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about a year now, and prior to that had played X2. Although i 
 didn't buy this one on release because it was a buggy piece of a coffee coaster, and i find more 
 and more companies are going down the road of release now we'll sort it out later because there 
 is always a fanboi at the shop counter, but hey thats another story.
  
  Egosoft have patched 99.9% of the issues more in fact than most other games, and thats pretty good 
 considering the scale of this game, it, is, MAGNIFICENT, you are launched (intentionally) into 
 a universe where you don't know where the throttle is from the lasers and its up to you to figure 
 it all out, from trading to station building to exploring to fighting, its up to you to figure 
 out how its done, and thats pretty unique, as well as frustrating and ultimately rewarding. Think 
 of yourself being launced into another universe full of weird and wonderfull ships and races without 
 any real guide!! Xcept the community which is mature (for the most part) .
  
  Egosoft have to be praised for sticking to their guns and not trying to please everyone, they have 
 (for the most part) stuck to their niche core and staved of the dirtyhanded pressure of the publishers 
 who are intent on gerericising (is that a word) all releases.
  
  BACK to the game the graphics are astounding although beware you need a mid-high range system before 
 contemplating puttin this in your drive. some of the vistas are so beautiful, at times you gotta 
 remind yourself what you were doing, the sound is good but can get repetitive, there is alot i 
 would like to see added, changed, but hey i can live with that, and thats the sign of a great game. 
 Quite frankly ya got to try it for yourself it is definately a slow burner so give it time, BUT 
 ITS IN YOUR BARGAIN BIN NOW SO GO GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lu_Shen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off. X3 isn't you're typical game. It is very slow paced and has a very steep learning 
 curve. Especially if you haven't played an X# game before. The game has an unusual start. You are 
 thrown right into the game like last weeks mail. No tutorial, Outdated manual, and you have no 
 idea what to do first. Well, first thing you should do before even clicking the New Game button 
 is go to the forums at www. x3reunion. com. Many dedicated fans have posted guides on how to get 
 started. Once you have a basic idea of the game it gets much easier. However keep it mind that 
 this game requires ALOT of time for you to actually get anywhere.
  
  The point behind this game is to Explore, Build, and Fight. You start off with a very weak ship 
 and about 100k credits depending on which difficulty you choose. The game's story is definitely 
 It's weakest point. The story is horrible, the voice acting is much worse, and It's completely 
 linear. You will probably end up skipping the story and getting right down to the empire building. 
 As you start to collect more and more cash you will eventually have enough for a station. These 
 range from stations that produce a certain good like Wheat or Beef. To weapons and equipment like 
 Lasers, Shields, and Missiles. Each station requires products for it to produce it's primary product. 
 For example, A Wheat Farm - which is one of the cheapest stations you can get early in the game. 
 Requires a resource of Energy Cells. Now you can actually go to a station and buy Energy Cells 
 then return them to the Wheat Farm. Or you could set up an automatic trade route which basically 
 does the trading for you. Most stations require more then one resource. And you can simply set 
 up trade routes for each of the resources that particular station needs. Once you own 3 or 4 stations 
 and have a steady income in. You could connect stations into Complexes. Complexes link stations 
 nearby. And the linked stations share resources. So instead of you sending a hauler to collect 
 resources that a station needs. You could build the station that supplies that resource. For example, 
 A Crystal Fab requires Energy, Silicon and Meatsteak Cahoonas to produce It's primary resource. 
 Which is Crystals. A power plant uses crystals to produce Energy Cells. So you would connect the 
 Crystal Fab and a Solar Power Plant together to form a complex. Now those building share resources. 
 And you don't have to get haulers to constantly bring goods back and forth to the stations. You 
 can link as many stations as you want. The universe is a dangerous place... There are Pirates that 
 constantly try to destroy you're empire. And a mysterious race known as the Kha'ak always try to 
 ruin your day. That's where combat comes in. Each ship is categorized in class. M1 being a Capital 
 Ship. And M5 ships being Light Fighters. All of these types of ships defend you're empire. And 
 also yourself. You can buy as many ships as you want and they could be used for defending a Station, 
 Escorting a transport, or simply fighting. But eventually when you have the money. You can build 
 an entire army of Fighters and Capital ships to defend you're empire or conquer the universe. It's 
 really up to you.
  
  Whichever way you decide to play X3: Reunion. There is much that awaits you in this vast universe. 
 It requires alot of time and patience to get anywhere. But managing you're Fleet and building you're 
 Empire is what makes this game very fun. I highly recommend this title to any Space sim fan. It 
 may be overwhelming at first. But stay with it. And I promise you, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboyart
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Did anybody play Elite since C64 era? A view trough the looking glass gives the newer game some 
 depth but only to those who are hung on space trading or space combat and not much else. Fans of 
 the series would probably say that I don't know what I am talking about. Well what I wanted to 
 point out is that there is no real exploration spirit which whould drive you. Everything is neatly 
 set in the boundaries of space gates, leaving nothing for the players imagination to consive and 
 search for. For the gameplay of space combat which lays heavily on the inertia force, there is 
 much to be said, but put in a few words it is not easy at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perti
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I love space sims -- there needs to be more of them. But this game is so intolerably buggy that it 
 is nearly impossible to play; and the patches haven't fixed the problems. This game is surely immersive, 
 huge, and could have been the best space sim ever, but there are so many bugs that I can't believe 
 anyone would actually bother to play it. I don't even know where to start. Some buttons seem to 
 be in a superfast auto-repeat mode, making it impossible to lock on a target; practically none 
 of the view buttons work, on and on I could go. I'm not a noob, and my system is top of the line, 
 this game just sucks. It's hard for me to understand how a group of people who are talented enough 
 to make such an obviously incredible game could be abject failures at fixing these bugs. This is 
 the most disappointing game I've ever purchased simply because there are no other games like it. 
 I was looking forward to a great space sim -- this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  In terms of quality, storyline and pick-up-and-playability, this game isn't a slice of what Freelancer 
 was. However, in terms of its sheer scale and the complexity of its in-game economy, its far more 
 advanced than Freelancer. X3 has that kind of spaced out feel where the game is just so large you 
 truely feel its somewhere else, rather than a small little game world.
  
  The graphics engine for this game is just unbelieveable and that has pulled my mark for it up immensely. 
 Its music is also very good. However, the dialogue is wooden and the lip syncing is clearly intended 
 for German voices. I am surprised actually that they did not use an AI lip sync like the source 
 engine uses, where the lip movements are not scripted at all, but generated on the voice patterns 
 of the characters speech. So in that respect this game feels incredibly tacky.
  
  Another bad point is also its total lack of any Tutorial, a must MUST have for a game with as many 
 hotkeys and buttons to press as this game. My advice is get a Joystick, as using the keyboard for 
 this game is just too much of a hassel. Again, Freelancer trumped its every move in this respect 
 too.
  
  All in all, with the latest patch installed, this game is actually quite fun. But its computer 
 demands and over-complexity put me off quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenakakhan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  There can be few games that re-create such a huge Universe with such beautiful visuals, but you 
 will need the patience of a saint to see this to the end and appreciate everything X3 has to offer. 
 You are essentially thrust, blind and disoriented into the game, with a sparse single-player thread 
 to follow and a lot of space to explore. However faithful fans of the game would unanimously agree 
 that this is exactly where the game's strength lies. You are offered near endless options while 
 playing; will you be a peaceful trader or a pirate? An ore salvager or the scavenger of destroyed 
 ships and cargo? An explorer or an entrepreneur? Your choices are all limited by money, as you 
 will need an awful lot of it to procure the large selection of upgrades and/or ships available. 
 X3's economy is faithfully re-produced in a powerful, albeit complex interface spanning many screens, 
 and your choices in game will be largely motivated by the desire to be successful in this market. 
 You're able to maintain your very own trade empire, complete with production facilities and guards 
 for your ships and trading routes, but it will cost you dearly to do so.
  
  The most noticeable aspect of the game aside from the visuals is the pace of the game. This is 
 not a matter of a few hours or days in front of your computer, this is essentially a cyber career 
 which unfolds as slowly and as challengingly as real life. A lot of your time will be spent between 
 the stars travelling, but somehow the game manages to offset this through it's atmosphere and charm. 
 The trance-like music and immersive sectors will draw you in and try to keep you there, and it's 
 difficult to resist. The single-player aspect of the game is a diversion, but one that seems to 
 have been hastily put in place once everything else in the game was completed. Sub-standard voice 
 acting and dubious cut scenes provide a pale shade in comparison to your ability to set your own 
 goals, and achieve your own targets. Often a player will have their sights set on a particular 
 ship, or a particular station, and the sense of achievement (especially considering the time it 
 will take to accomplish) is palpable. The controls, despite being complicated are easy to pick 
 up with a little time, and you will have plenty of that. Fans of the genre and realism will be 
 able to enjoy joystick support, but by far the easiet way to control your ship is to use your mouse 
 and keyboard. Pulling up the relevant menu is sometime a case of some admirable fingers-flying-across-keyboard 
 skills, but the pace of the game is such that you will rarely be rushed to find a given function. 
 In short, X3 is a game that will take you in and keep you should you only let it. If you're looking 
 for a game that will satisfy fast-paced space combat action, you will be disappointed as these 
 elements are relatively far between depending on your choice of direction in game. However, if 
 you want an immersive, atmospheric and completely free adventure, where all the targets are set 
 by you and you alone, you need look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjranck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game keeps getting better and better. After dabbling with X2, I thought the new graphics would 
 keep me more interested. Now we have trading, which is a big and fun time, fighting and capturing 
 other ships, and building stations, which also provide income.
  
  One of the key interesting parts of X3 is the large number of scripts written by creative young 
 lads, who want the game to do something in a more convenient way. One example is the script for 
 Task Force. I can manage hundreds of pilots using a task force commander, who will assign the pilots 
 to patrol duties or will assign an attack. The pilots can gain rank by gaining experience.
  
  Trading is lots of fun because you try to find the golden areas where cheap goods are plentiful 
 and then sell those to the highest bidders. I am busy for most of the game just trying to keep 
 up with my trading ships. So I purchased a command to let the pilot and ship trade on their own, 
 creating wealth automatically.
  
  The story line is also good fun, I go back to it from time to time. Most of the time I just fly 
 and fight for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeatingmonky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  A great game that spans an enormous world of incredible beauty, with endless activities, missions, 
 and people. You start as a single person, with no name for yourself, but before long, you can be 
 whatever you want to be: A pirate, a mercinary, a bounty hunter, even a buisness mogul. The possibilities 
 are endless! The graphics in this game are simply breathtaking. Flying towards a massive factory 
 or ship dock is an incredible sight. The controls are a bit odd, but after playing the game for 
 a couple hours, you start to get the feel for it. Definitely worth the $5 I paid for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChucklesMginty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: Some of the best graphics you'll ever see on a PC game, huge area with over 100 sectors, 
 optional story mode, large selection of ships, can keep you playing for a very long time.
  
  The Bad: Awful voice acting, high system requirements mean very long load times on most PC's, 
 can start to feel boring at the beginning of the game, steep learning curve, no tutorial but they 
 do give you a handy 89 page manual...
  
  If you've read the hitch hiker's guide to the galaxy (and I hope you have) you'll know that space 
 is big, very big and it's just impossible to imagine how big it is. Well X3 is far from being as 
 big as actual space but for a game it's just amazing to stop the game from lagging like hell it's 
 divided into over a hundred different sectors which all very in size. It's hard tio describe the 
 size of the game because in space you don't just move forward, back left and right you can move 
 up and down as well meaning there's hundreds and thousands of miles to move around.
  
  The graphics in X3 are amazing if you've ever seen the film Solaris the planets look in X3 look 
 like the home planet in that. There a burnt out stars, moons, planets that remind you of Earth 
 and even Ice worlds. Its a shame they put so much detail in these planets because you never get 
 to go and land on them I wondered what would happen if I tried to land on a planet so I went to 
 a sector that seemed like the planet was right next me so full throttle forward hyper jump speed 
 drive crap! Nothing... it takes about 10 minutes to get near and then you hear a warning entering 
 atmosphere please turn- *Massive explosion sound, game over* and thats what happens when to try 
 to go to other planets... So you don't have to try now. Sound wise the game is quite good it plays 
 the dramatic sci-fi kind of thing you'd expect. Some sectors like burnt out suns or sectors with 
 pirates in them (space criminals, it's cheesy I know) play more up beat more oh my god I'm in space 
 music. The sound is pretty good but the voices are what spoilt the game they're just awful so don't 
 by the game for the sound, or any game in fact... As I said before there's a very steep in X3 and 
 even after playing it for a few weeks and after reading the instructions three or four times you 
 may still find yourself saying I never knew that was there before why didn't they tell me? there 
 are three or four main things in the game you can fight, trade, build or you can focus on the story. 
 The game will tell the fourth thing is think I'm not sure if they meant think about what the hell 
 am I meant to be doing or what so I'm not putting that in the review. The fighting is quite fun 
 but when it comes down to it there's really not much skill involved at all and when it come down 
 to it it's really just who has the better ship, it can start to feel a bit like 3D space invaders 
 with actual space ships and more weapons. All you seem to do is chase the enemy round and round 
 shooting at the marker which shows where the enemy will be when the laser reaches there. It's still 
 quite fun but can start to feel repetitive and sometimes frustrating. The trading is rather straight 
 forward you by some units of one of the games many different materials and sell it for more than 
 you bought it for. To stop you selling something for billions of credits it's all about supply 
 and demand. If an area has recently had a lot of it's factories destroyed everything becomes worth 
 a lot more and you can start rolling in the... Credits. It can sometimes be unclear where to buy 
 and where to sell so the game has a 'best buys locater' which you can get from an equipment dock 
 however it really just feels like another part of the game where you have to learn how to use it.
 
  
  When your really rich you can do a whole lot more you can buy more ships and use the auto pilot 
 on them to follow you around and protect you, attack enemies you get the idea. It then starts to 
 get much bigger because you can even build your own trading stations, equipment docks even solar 
 power plants. You can then use your ships to set up trading routes between factories so you start 
 automatically making money. You'll even have to give your ships weapons to protect them from enemy 
 ships. X3 is such a big game it's almost hard to believe I really is a living breathing universe 
 you can talk to any of the different ships or space stations in the game you can earn different 
 ranks in fighting and trading you can also earn respect from different species so that they'll 
 let you buy bigger and better weapons from them. You can even buy a police license. You can be 
 friends with some species enemies with others or be the enemy yourself.
  
  Even if our're not a fan of space sims you might want to try out X3 anyway because it's really 
 so much mor than a Space sim and not something you'll want to miss and if you are a fan of Space 
 sims say goodbye to social life and/or sleep. I've really only just started to tell you about all 
 the different things you can do in X3 because it really is just bigger than you can imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumen222
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  STONE THE CROWS. WHY SO MANY BLOOMIN CONTROLS.
  If you've got time to the read the 4 pages of fighter controls in list format and fly the bucket 
 of bolts given to you, then my hats off to you. Just say you would like to dock with a trading 
 ship, okay lets dock,,
  SORRY, DOCKING DENIED. 
  You open your book of controls, mmmmmm. ..... why won't it let me dock, OH CRAP!!! I forgot to turn 
 off the thrusters and KERRRBANG!!!!
  Its all over. Totally annoying. I thought Starfleet command 3 had too many controls to learn, but 
 this takes the biscuit.
  Then I flew from jump gate to jump gate looking for some action and it's really few and far between. 
 To the makers of this game....... heres an idea, HAVE A POINT, ITS HELPS. 
  This game is an anecdote by accident, unless somewhere out there, there is ome sick and twisted 
 individual who thought this up to take the mick.
  My mountain bike goes faster than the ships in this game, even when I have a gale force wind in 
 my face, I can still go faster. Please, just give a standard shoot em up, 1 missile button, 1 fire 
 button, pitch controls etc..
  Although.... the graphics are magnifique, the sound makes you cry its so good, but sorry, theres 
 not enough here to hold my attention. Its like..... GRAN TURISMO... in space, build up your ships, 
 test them in combat..... HOW CAN I UPGRADE WHEN i CANT BLEEDIN WELL DOCK TO TRADE????
  Summing it up, take a long jump off a short pier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  X3 is a big ,big game. Involving alot of learning and trial and error at first. But ounce you learn 
 the interface and the tons of other things to know the universe is your play thing. This game has 
 it all. Anything you could possibly imagine you can do it. I have been looking to get back into a 
 good space sim for awhile and I am glad I did. This is an epic type game. If you want to just start 
 blasting aliens non stop right of the bat and keep it simple this is not the game for you. Try darkstar 
 one. However if you like a pratically never ending journey that will take you many many hours to 
 even get your bearings let alone build your massive empire then you will love this game.
  Make no mistake this game will take you awhile to get it together. But for sheer content and a great 
 comminity of players as well as egosoft being known for really listining to there fans this is 
 a game that is simply a delight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connary
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  What must I do next???? Where are the tutorial?
  I cant made a savegame for  There are a great problems in this 
 game for a lot of people (playing oblivion at this time for sure) .
  Try to learn the rules of the X universe is a great part of the game.
  Egosoft forums are the 
 'space station' where the adventurers, pirates, argon heroes.... try to learn about. Really interesting 
 and funny.
  This game is big.
  This game is beautiful, one of the best art works in the market.
  This game is modders friendly 
 and change constantly. (sometimes i think i still playing an online game)
  This game is an adventure.
  Its a rpg ( the real roleplaying, not the sword+1) . Its an strategic 
 combat/economics game. Its a flying simulator.
  
  Its all in one  One of the best games made ever. Only for creative 
 and open minded people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  The reviews are all over the range from "crud" to "perfect". This is because each reviewer is really 
 only reviewing a part of this game.
  
  Short take on the two aspects of the game:
  
  Part 1: "Space adventure", or the game plot game. You are a young pilot who has made his name and 
 your part of the galaxy is in the middle of a war with the alien Kaahk.
  
  This covers 20 missions and is good fun, in spite of the many bugs you can have many hours, I'd 
 say about 40, of rollicking space-adventure fun saving the galaxy. Trouble is that the plot has 
 a few killer bugs so you need to keep your save games handy (22 are allowed, thats plenty) . The 
 number of bugs would made me give this game a 4.1 score initially, the latest patches help but 
 you still run into some problems. Also you need to tone down the graphics details for the plot 
 missions as there is so much stuff flying around that it will slow down even a fast machine to 
 a crawl.
  
  Part 2: "Space Sim", or having fun flying around the universe doing the "Think, Build, Fight" stuff 
 that this game really shines at. If you consider the 20 plot missions as an introduction to the 
 rest of the game, then you have understood what this is all about. Similar to SimCity or other 
 build-it-up games that let you build and empire this is where this games shines.
  
  The game caters to all tastes. If you want to build space-stations, go ahead! Prefer flying around 
 shooting stuff, fine! Into pirates? Avast! There is weeks, months and for some even years of fun 
 to be had with this great space-sim.
  
  Whats good: superb graphics, fantastic space-sim and empire building, loads and loads of missions 
 that let you play space-pirate, mercenary, trading mogul, or whatever. Lots of great mods that 
 expand on the game and good community support.
  
  Whats bad: plot bugs, User-Interface a bit cranky, requires a powerful PC to show its stuff. Developers 
 are concentrating more on pretty graphics instead of game play pleasure.
  
  Who will like it: You like great graphics, action, building empires, open-ended or space combat 
 games.
  
  Who will not like it: you hate reloading because of bugs (at least for the plot missions) , you 
 play games only for a few days, you prefer strong plots and don't like open-ended games.
  
  Final note: This game has been out for a while, so the available patches fix most issues. With 
 all the game mods available you actually get quite a few space-sim game add-ons free of charge. 
 For the faint of heart, cheats are available.
  So it it is a solid investment; recommended for everybody who ever wanted to fly around in a space-ship. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew_the_Mag
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  This game has so much going on it is hard to keep track of i often use pen and paper in these types 
 of games to keep little notes for myself. While i admit to not really playing the story line i 
 liked the free mode better so i could do as i saw fit and not worry about advancing a story line.
 
  
  With time and money you can build a massive Fleet of auto traders and even entire Factory Complexes 
 suppling items to be sold by your traders and/or to the public traders. You can also switch ships 
 with ease and leave a small fast scout type ship docked for when you want to buzz around and pop 
 back into your big bad war ship and go tango with you want.
  
  I idea of 2 separate "alien" invaders to the galaxy was a great touch i thought but that is just 
 my 2 cents. I even say the separate invaders appear in the same sector and start to attack each 
 other as well ever one else, It made for some great battles.
  
  The graphics of this game are AMAZING and i don't use that word lightly if you computer can handle 
 it turn it way up. I caught my self flying around taking in the sights more than a few times just 
 because they where so well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyghosterly
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible.
  
  You have to give it time. Search the web for hints and tips. Many (most) users don't get voice, 
 because of codec issues, which can be resolved quite easily by searching for solutions on the web.
 
  
  After you get the game working properly, it's a real treat.
  
  This is no small game... it's quite vast. It's extremely comprehensive. You can accomplish almost 
 anything in space you might imagine you could. I've played every space game ever released in history, 
 and this game is by far the best, hands down.
  
  Steam has this game for sale for 20 bucks... your robbing them blind by purchasing it.
  
  g^2
 
  
  P. S. You can't even imagine the capabilities of this game until you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reliantk81
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played space sims since wing commander but I have never played one let alone any game 
 that was shipped incomplete. Most North American coppies have the infamous disk 2 error where a 
 couple of sound files were improperly copied to thousands of game copies. You can bypass this by 
 inserting disk 3 in and hitting ignore till the install starts again. Also after I uninstalled 
 it once and tried reinstalling it, I now get a bleu screen that says windows had to shut down to 
 proptect it from taking damage every time it got to disk 4. You can try going to egosofts website 
 for tech support but all there moderators ever say in the end is take it back to the store and 
 exchange your copy for a new one.... hmmm that might work if they ever correct the problem by finishing 
 the game before shipping out more.
  As for the game play this is no privateer, don't expect action fo any sort You fly from gate to 
 gate looking for the best trade deals. I wish I had played long enough to fly the carriers and 
 destroyers but to earn that money you need to spend huge amounts of time studying the economic 
 needs of different sectors. Missions came in 4-5 options in previous titles like freelancer and 
 privateer, but I usually found one mission in the whole sector by flying to and docking with every 
 base in a sector. I had high hopes for this title but it turned into a real let down pretty graphics 
 but that was it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Think, Fight, Trade, Build is more like Tolerate, Suffer, Bore, etc. The main thing about X3 relative 
 to X2 is better graphics that end up looking more like the resolution was turned up and thats all.
 
  The campaign picks up where X2 left off - Kyle Brennan is still in a coma and you start investigating 
 through the plot. The storyline is pathetic - not much of flow at all. That said, the ending was 
 quite interesting but it seems very forced given the build up to it. Kind of like putting together 
 a story with duct tape - and very low grade duct tape at that.
  The graphics aren't great as I mentioned earlier. While they are an improvement - as they should 
 be given that it is a standalone sequel to X2 - the experience one gets from it is that the resolution 
 was just turned up in the same game. 
  Sound effects haven't changed at all. Its the same old scenario. At best, play around with the 
 volume levels till the ambient sounds (voice and music) are at a tolerable level.
  The gameplay is perhaps the worst. X2 had a lot more stability than X3 does. This game should get 
 the bugginess of the decade award. Thankfully the updates solve most of those bugs. Still, the 
 designers need to take a page out of microsoft's book and learn stability. Freelancer was a blissful 
 experience compared to this given its balance and knowing what it wanted to be. This game is confused 
 as to even which genre it falls under.
  The economy is still as terrible as in X2 and while I do enjoy being a merchant - drilling the 
 experience into me is something I don't appreciate. I shouldn't have to spend my entire life jumping 
 from system to system just to eke out a living while facing dead ends at places that don't have 
 any of the wares that I need in stock.
  On a side note on the gameplay, the individual missions are put together as badly as the overall 
 plot. The designers' wishes to make this more challenging results in a blatant disregard toward 
 reality and focus. Some of the missions involve you squeezing through tunnels rather than flying 
 as you're supposed to do. Ahem - a space combat sim not a tunneler sim. If I want to do a trench 
 run I would play XWing Alliance. And besides, most of the tunneling runs in X3 are done at a painfully 
 slow rate. Perhaps getting out of the ship and travelling in one's spacesuit would have been quicker. 
 Besides that, there are enough bugs in the missions themselves.
  Another major issue is the button mashing I had to resort to. Several times the game refuses to 
 acknowledge that you've pressed a button and you have to repeat your keystrokes.
  I would say I enjoyed the space combat but the fact is that any game can provide you with the same 
 experience. While X3 is trying to provide more than that it does a dismal job in those areas as 
 well. I hate to say this given that I don't recall ever having judged a game like this but it would 
 be best if the designers stop making games or drastically change their approach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FcPoliFan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the X Universe ever since it appeared. I just love spending time in space, 
 admiring the fantastic views, shooting down nasty pirates and mysterious foes, while putting a 
 buck under my pillow in between. 
  
  X3 is, I believe, the best Egosoft have offered us to this moment: a huge galaxy filled with secrets 
 and opportunities which also leaves enough room for any possible approach style. The new system 
 of 'respect' implemented - and by this I mean, of course, the way in which your standing with a 
 given race can open new doors for your development - creates a new layer and forces you to think 
 before starting to trade around 'planless'; if you don't, you might find yourself yearning for 
 a spaceship you are not allowed to buy. Acquiring missions has become easier in this new version, 
 but what is even more impressive is the manner in which the X Universe seems to have a life of 
 its own, with all sorts of news items 'lurking' in the dark and private space ships floating innocently 
 through space - even though they may be far from innocence. The trading system is well put in place, 
 while fighting still presents some difficulties - but nothing impossible to manage, especially 
 if you've had previous experiences. 
  
  To those who say the game is boring... well, I can't disagree. But that is exactly because it is 
 so full of life. Daily existence can be tedious too. The question is what you are willing to do 
 in order to make it seem less so. Sure, after a while you'll have the stuff needed to keep getting 
 involved in real 'action', but it takes a while to get there. As untypical as it may seem, I like 
 to read a book or so while traveling through space, from one sector to the other. So X doesn't 
 only make me have some fun, it also makes me more cultivated . It's really a good time. (of course, 
 reading can be replaced with any other activity of your desire)
  
  So if you've got the patience, X is definitely the game for you. A gorgeous experience, as they 
 say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grinch123456
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  While this game has its flaws, it's certainly better than its predecessor, X2. However, playing 
 X2 first is my recommendation since it's going to help you out quite a bit in X3, both plot-wise 
 and gameplay-wise.
  
  ==GAMEPLAY==
  Some other reviewers may have stated this game is boring. You know something? They're absolutely 
 right! Good god, I was falling asleep as I just woke up while playing this thing. However, for 
 some reason or another, this is incredibly addicting. I've been playing this game for 30 hours, 
 give or take, and I haven't even started the plot missions! 
  Basically, you're a guy in a ship. In X2, you saved the universe. In X3, take a wild guess at what 
 you do. You guessed it, you save the universe again! Unlike other games, there are multiple ways 
 of doing it. You can either play a flight-sim with guns and fly in there with a big fighter and 
 blow up your enemies yourself. Or, you can get a big Destroyer and blow up everything using batteries 
 of large cannons and nuclear missiles, or you can play it like an RTS b building up a fleet and 
 sending them to do your dirty work while driving anything from a cramped "M5 Class" scout ship 
 or your enourmous "M1 Class" carrier with a full compliment of fighters. It's like fire and forget 
 almost. Or, you can screw the storyline (like yours truely) , and build up a trade organization, 
 sell your wares, become filthy rich, and THEN build up a fleet or two, or heck, even 3 or more! 
 Maybe you're a pirate, and you capture ships, and sell them or their crew selling them as slaves, 
 or use the ships are your own fleet creating a rag-tag armada of different ships from different 
 races. The possibilities are incredible, but each one takes a long time. A really, really, really 
 long time.
  
  ==GRAPHICS==
  What can I say about the graphics? You've seen the screenshots and trailers. Absolutely stunning. 
 Words cannot describe the beauty of several fully loaded carriers and destroyers bounding away 
 at each other. My X800GTO handles them fine at 1024x768 with 4x AA 0x AF with max settings. Your 
 performance will vary.
  
  ==SOUND==
  Almost as good as the aformentioned graphics, is the sound. Every different race's territiory has 
 a different soundtrack, each one masterfully composed and each beautiful sounding. It's not intrusive, 
 but not non-existant.
  
  ==VALUE==
  Considering the depth of this game, it's worth far more than 20 bucks on Steam. As I said before, 
 I'm 30 hours into it and haven't even began the plotline. Mods, found in Egosoft's forum certainly 
 enchance the replayability and enjoyability, and if you're into that sort of thing, cheating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortel3-Pheonix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  "With the shock of the last destroyer's explosion still shaking the ship, the battle was now over. 
 Gripping the controls, he strafed the ship into a slow swoop past the wreckage and towards the 
 sun. Dropping the throttle down, he looked out of the ship interface and surveyed the wondrous 
 sight that lay before him. He remembered all the time and effort that he had put in to getting 
 here; the fortune, empire and fleet that had been built to achieve this moment. His heart lifted, 
 with a wave of emotion, as he realised that despite all he had done, nothing could compare to the 
 ultimate prize. This is not the end. This is not even the beginning of the end. But, it is, perhaps, 
 the end of the beginning" - Winston Churchill.
  
  To achieve such a feeling that is described in that quote, is something that actually IS possible 
 in this game. Now I admit that I am writing this review with some mild bias, but this, quite possibly, 
 is the best game of the year.
  
  You start the game at the end of a war (which you have won) . You may be a veteran, but now you 
 are merely a freelance trader with a small One Man Buster ship. You are forced to look for work 
 wherever you can find it in the X Universe. Trading goods, smuggling space-weed, or becoming an 
 Argon Police Officer and hunting space-pirates are some of the ways you can get by. Once you have 
 enough money, you can upgrade your ship, by a fleet for fighter support, or even build a space 
 station and start your own meatsteak franchise.
  
  But be warned, all of this takes a long, long time. You start with around 1000 Credits. The average 
 space station is up in the tens of millions of credits, and this is no easy task to earn such money. 
 Think of other games and how long they take to complete. Halo? 10-15 hours. Half-Life 2? 10-15 
 hours. Lets try and think of a longer game, say, Star Wars KOTOR2. That is about 20-30 hours if 
 you want to complete it fully. In X3: Reunion, even doing just the mainstream missions and achieving 
 the glory mentioned earlier, takes, at bare minimum, 300+ Hours. The advertising motto of the game 
 is "Say goodbye to sleep and/or social life". Well, since I have started the game I have said my 
 goodbyes to both. It is just so captivating.
  
  And you would think 300 hours of gaming would get tired and repetitive. But no; if, for example, 
 you're on a routine passenger transport through an unknown galaxy, there is a range of things you 
 will come up against. You may see a very nice looking (and unprotected) tourism ship, and you might 
 just get the urge to blow the crap out of it. That's whats so great about the game. If you even 
 feel a hint of boredom coming along, YOU can choose a way to spice up your space travels. Whether 
 it be picking a fight with the locals, going into enemy territory to fight (or make illegal deals) 
 with space pirates, or even the occasional attack on a police cruiser, just to see how many galaxies 
 you can jump before they give up the chase. It is, in every possible sense, a game that lets your 
 do whatever you want, go wherever you want to go, in the whole universe. Sure, games like Grand 
 Theft Auto let you go where you want to go, but you'll be amazed at the size of the X Universe. 
 You can literally go on forever.
  
  The magnitude of this game is not only defined by the size of the Universe, but what fills it. 
 Each ship you see (there are 1000's in any one galaxy) , has its own memory bank and AI. Each tiny 
 ship you see is trying to make its way in the universe, each will pounce on an opportunity for 
 a good trade, and each has the same urges to pick fights just as any human does. That said, you've 
 got to be wondering about frame rates. It is true, you cannot marvel at the best of the galaxy 
 without dropping a frame (or 12) . That being said, it is a worthy sacrifice just as long as you 
 can appreciate how dazzling this Universe really is. Graphics are just superb.
  
  The music score was composed especially for this game, with lots of working obviously being put 
 into it. It gives a great sense of serenity when you are cruising along, in a particularly empty 
 galaxy, to have beautifully composed violin or flute solo playing. While this is going on, don't 
 let it lull you into a false sense of security, because at any moment, the sirens go off, the AI 
 states "Enemy Cruiser Approaching", and the beat of the drums helps you realize just how silly 
 it was to sell your guns for that new pair of shoes. Every choice you make makes a difference to 
 your future.
  
  To finish, the 300+ hours of trying to make your way from scratch is fun in itself. But becoming 
 a billionaire weapons or meatsteak factory owner, flying around with your A-Class Battleship and 
 fleet of crack-mercenaries, blowing the crap out of pirates and finally realising the empire that 
 you have created; is truly the one of the greatest senses of achievement any game can ever deliver.
 
  
  Mortel3's Rating:
  
  Superb, an absolute marvel and a benchmark for any game to ever be made for PC. I recommend downloading 
 the patch off of the official website, but after that, "Say goodbye to social life and/or sleep".
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I have given this game several weeks of attention now and decided that I do not have the "patience" 
 that so many reviewers have NEEDED to play this game. I can appreciate the versatility and scope 
 of this game it offers plenty. However to unlock this potential requires a slow and laborious process 
 of flying round in dead space and station hopping that has less enjoyment than a camping holiday 
 in a sewage works. One real bugbear is the way you have to find all the jump gates to find the 
 next sectors. the way the mapping works mean you can spend hours!! flying round looking for these. 
 The music although atmospheric quickly becomes irritating and does nothing to eleviate the complete 
 lack of entertainment this game has to offer.
  
  Space combat is nothing special and completely inbalanced where you can win very easily or die 
 in a couple of shots.
  
  Although the graphics are pretty to look at exploring the nebulas can be a pain in the neck as 
 there are no visual signs of stations which is your best guide to explorring.
  
  The interface is encumbersome and to many functions bog this game down far too much.
  
  Playing 
 the game feels like a chore rather than entertainment, and although people have been hailing this 
 as the new Elite, it is dwarfed in comparison to the joys that game brought. X3 is a desolate, 
 void of atmosphere, offering nothing in the ways of entertainment. This is a real trainspotters 
 game and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K__McBain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  thrilling to x3 features alot of changes from X2 it contains a new hud wich allows you to fight, 
 think and build with ease (not that it is an easy game) 
  X3 has got to be one of the longest games i've played aswell the storie line is thrugh the roof 
 not that that is the best thing bout it this is like the future GTA only with way better graphics 
 nd realintic.
  
  in all of the X games you have an endless range of choices and for every decision you make ther 
 is a consaquence for example you could build a powr plant in an area that needs alot of energy 
 cells but is populated by pirates if u have good ships to defend your base u should b fine but 
 that costs money. or you could build it in a safe place but most safe places in space r not usually 
 profitable and that is the whole point of X3  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  If you are a a fan of Elite type games, then this is one for you. This game is the best "X" game 
 in the current series, previous ones have been good - particularly the first one - X: Beyond the 
 Frontier - this is the best however. 
  
  Graphically excellent, decent sound and music. Not serious complaints here. I also found the controls 
 and interface to be a good deal better than the previous games - especially when using the mouse. 
 
  
  The game involves many aspects, trading, combat and missions. You can when you have enough credits, 
 buy you own stations equip them with cargo ship and a lump of credits and they will buy resources 
 and produce whatever the factors is design to produce, hopefully netting you profit over time. 
 Though I can recommend for a beginner trading first in silicon, power cells and ore. 
  
  The learning curve is not too hard, especially if you have played previous games - though you can 
 easily spend hours on this game. 
  
  It certainly suffered from bugs to begin with (as did X2) - but Egosoft have done a good job releasing 
 patches and the current version (1.403) is very playable and almost glitch free in my experience. 
 It seems fewer and fewer developers are willing to continue to improve a game after release - after 
 20 odd years of play games, I expect bugs, but I also expect them to be fixed - especially as distribution 
 of patches via the Internet is so easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yngvefoshaug
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for an insane amount of hours now, and feel I am prepared to make an objective 
 judgement of it.
  
  The game is basically about travelling in space and trading, fighting or finishing the plot of 
 the game. It is a very open-ended game, as well as a very visually pleasing game (if you have the 
 hardware to do it ofcourse, as this is quite a power-demanding game) . My PC is a Pentium 4 3.0Ghz 
 with 1024MB ram and a Nvidia 7800GS graphics card. With the newest patch, It runs smoothly.
  
  Why do you require Patience, Patience and Patience? 
  
  1: The new patch that has been 
 released (1.4.03 at time of writing) has fixed almost all of the problems in the game. Many reviewers 
 have complained about the errors in the game, and it is true. The original release version was 
 horribly flawed in almost all aspects. Now, however, the game is reported to run much smoother 
 on all computers, and the amount of crashes has plummeted to zero (on my PC at least) .
  
  This was a lesson learned already with X2: The Threat (the previous game in the series) : Because 
 the developer is a small company, they have to use YOU (the player) as a sort of beta-tester. This 
 is purely a money issue, and Egosoft is a very respectable company as they have an excellent technical 
 support forum. Also, they release a lot of patches to their games (unlike some developers who never 
 patch their broken products) . All that said, you have to be patient if you purchased this game 
 on its release date (I did, but I knew what I could expect) . I, for instance, helped some other 
 players on the forum with some Saitek-joystick issues that I had discovered the solution to. The 
 X3 community is a very devoted and helpful community, and their forums on Egosofts website are 
 second to none. My patience paid off as the game is currently very good and is running smoothly. 
 It is now pure enjoyment for me.
  
  2: This is not a game you play for 10 hours and then uninstall, because you have explored all star 
 systems, bought the most expensive ships and space stations and won the main plot of the game. 
 The game can literally take hundreds and hundreds of hours to play through if you want to see everything 
 (like I do) . If you just want to blast through the main plot of the game as quickly as possible, 
 it will still take at least 20 hours (I am guessing here, as I have not done it that way) to complete. 
 This is the reason my review is written so long after the game's release date. It took me half 
 a year of joy and tears to really grasp the game... And I have played X2 (saved me some of the 
 learning curve) ... It is THAT big
  
  3: The third reason you have to be patient is because this is a game about outer space. Travelling 
 from one end of the galactic map to the other will take quite a long time (even at 10x time acceleration) . 
 My point however, is that it is not a game for the purely action-hungry gamer who wants to buy 
 a good fighter-ship and attack hordes of enemies 5 minutes after installation. You can ofcourse 
 play this as a shooter-game, and kill some pirates for a while (or become one yourself) , but the 
 real depth is only experienced by playing all the parts of the game. Patience is needed because 
 the possibilities of what you can do in the game are many... very many. And it takes time to earn 
 the money to do all those things.
  
  Well... Looking back on the first part of this review I realize it is more a political statement 
 than a review of the game. As you might have picked up on by now, I really love this game (I would 
 not play it for 100+ hours if i didn't... right?) . Graphics and music is beautiful, and the whole 
 game is a great experience.... But what about the bad parts?
  
  The bad parts of this game is mainly the story ("the plot" if you like) . It is interesting, but 
 poorly delivered. You are sent on missions to recover some crystals in the beginning, and things 
 evolve from there, but it is not very easy to understand what they want you to do next. The game 
 is in great need of a "quest log" or something similar that you find in most good RPGs these days. 
 Also, the "cutscenes" are quite bad and the sound is badly synchronized. Sometimes the speech in 
 a mission briefing is cut short because the animation is finished, and you wont hear the last sentences 
 (it is written in you message log afterwards, but it gives a stuck-up feeling) . Generally, the 
 technical issues with the plot are not yet resolved, but actually, that is not the worst problem 
 with the plot...
  
  The worst problem with the plot is.... It does not make much sense if you have not played X: Beyond 
 the Frontier, X-tension and X2: The Threat before. The story of the universe so far is neatly presented 
 in the manual but it still does not make much sense... What does this mean: "In 2912, Capt. Kyle 
 William Brennan arrived, in his experimental gateless jump ship, in the X universe after an accident, 
 which took him far beyond the frontier of Earth. Kyle became instrumental in the attack on the 
 Xenon mother ship (...) " and it continues in a similar fashion. If you have not played any X games 
 before you might ask: what is a "gateless jump ship", what is "the X universe" (another dimension 
 maybe??? ... no it is not, for the record) , what is "the frontier of Earth", and what is "the Xenon". 
 I have played X2, so I can answer most of the questions, but not the parts about the gateless jump 
 ship as it was the story of X.
  
  Once again, this can be attributed to the weak economy of Egosoft, as they cannot afford to create 
 long elaborated cutscenes with voiceovers by celebrities reading lines written by real writers.... 
 but is is really a shame as it detracts somewhat from the experience.
  
  Fortunately, the "rest of the game", or as I might call it "the biggest part of the game" is very 
 good. I can tell many stories from the game that I have personally experienced, and that is a sign 
 of quality (in my opinion) . Ofcourse, you have to have good imagination and a weak spot for science 
 fiction to enjoy it, but I can tell you stories of dangerous smuggling runs through hostile systems. 
 I can tell you of the time i saw a huge battle between pirates and Kha'ak (dangerous aliens) in 
 a sector, and I just hid behind an asteroid... hoping not to be seen. I can tell you of the strange 
 sights I have seen in the X-universe (everything from a derelict spacecraft hundreds of kilometres 
 from the trading routes to strange spaceships without callsigns zipping through the sectors) . I 
 can even tell you of fantastic trading stories where great profits were earned... A story beginning 
 with "I remember a time I was on the Seizewell-Kingdom End trade run when I suddenly saw..." is 
 yet another story I can tell you from my "other life" within this game. It is a game about pretending, 
 playing, thinking and imagining. It is only as enjoyable as YOU make it yourself. If you only build 
 a space station, switch on time acceleration and leave the PC on over night to earn money for you, 
 you have missed the point of the game. You are supposed to enjoy it, and it is supposed to take 
 TIME.
  
  If time is not a luxury you have, I would not recommend this game as it can be dangerously addictive.
 
  
  If you do not like spaceships... I would not recommend it either.
  
  If, however, you have the time (and the patience) to play this game the way it was supposed to, 
 it can give you some of the best experiences you have ever had in front of a PC.
  
  The Good: Graphics, Music, the Experience of being in outer space, trading, fighting, earning money, 
 graphics, physics on spacecraft (better than X2)
  
  The Bad: Story glitches and choppy briefing, No landing on planets (maybe an unreasonably high 
 demand considering the vast number of systems and planets in the game...) . No cockpits (although 
 you can download a very good cockpit-mod from the website now)
  
  What should be added in the next game (X4 ?) : Planets you can land on. Individual cockpits for 
 all spaceships. And finally: The option to select a more realistic physics model (I want to be 
 able to switch off the thrusters and glide through space... like the game "Independence War" was 
 on "free thruster mode")
  
  Why I bought it: I played X2 and loved it. I love spaceships, sci-fi and outer space.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  As being an old X1 - X2 vetern I see another great sequel but little intovation other than minior 
 tweeks and of course a huge graphical over-haul. This is no freelancer but it will have to do until 
 DarkStar One comes out this August. So I'll make this review simple and easy to read:
  
  Graphics are the best I've seen to date in any space sim period!
  
  Gamplay is good but if 
 you never played an X game before it may seem very hard to learn especially with navigating through 
 the numerious game menus.
  
  Sound is good, could be better as in is in Independence Wars 2 which was excellient!
  
  Physics 
 are cool with green and blue lazers coming from your ion cannons and others. The explosions seem 
 to stand out but for some odd reason they don't see to have the colarful visual appeal as they 
 did in X2.
  
  Story is weak and almost non-exsistant but so was the last one in X2.
  
  Overall this is a great space-sim, maybe not up to IW 2 or FS 2 standards but what game is? There 
 really is not enough RP in X3 to statisfy me for very long ; Freelancer 2 it is not, but the combat 
 has improved somewhat and of course a little more user-friendly menus make the game playable.
 
  If your looking for Freelancer 2 skip this and look towards Darkstar 1 but if you just want to 
 build an space empire, trade and of course blow up lots of alien ships then X3 will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When this game was released it was unquestionably still in its beta stage. Patches have definitely 
 brought it up to a much more complete state, especially in the performance department. There's 
 even an 'official' cockpit mod available, for those who missed that from X2. 
  
  I actually managed to play most of X3 on the 1.2 patch, despite some serious performance issues 
 with asteroids and certain weapon effects. I still found the game to be fun. The depth of options 
 is incredible. You can pilot your own ship, fighting and trading directly, or you can hire traders 
 to work for you autonomously. You can build factories, link them together, and unless I'm mistaken, 
 even move them around with the latest patch. Mobile mining is also possible. You can buy or disable 
 and salvage other ships and build up your own fleet, have them follow you into combat, or send 
 them on patrol. The entire game world is very dynamic, all the other AIs moving around from sector 
 to sector, each doing their own thing. If you want to declare war on a particular race, you can 
 do that. You can even go sector to sector, annihilating everything in sight if you have the ships 
 to do it.
  
  After the 1.3 patch, the AI was tightened up quite a bit and enemies offer up a pretty good challenge 
 now. Weapon/shields/hulls and ship loadouts have been adjusted for better balance in combat. It's 
 much tougher to take on a capital ship with a fighter now, especially those with flak artillery. 
 Collisions have been resolved for the most part. AI path-finding around asteroids still looks lousy 
 though and is most painful with capital and TL ships.
  
  The combat in X3 isn't on the level of  War, but it's believable 
 enough. Enemies will always lead you, so rapidly strafing in several directions is usually enough 
 to evade one or two ships firing on you.
  
  The interface is clumsy and usually requires multiple pages to execute a command, but I can understand 
 the difficulties involved when you have so many command options available. I did get used to it 
 after a while, and while not terribly efficient, it was serviceable.
  
  The graphics are stunning, though somehow the feeling of scale isn't quite there - I think it's 
 the lack of cockpits, which can be fixed with the mod.
  
  The sounds effects are a little understated - of course in reality you should hear nothing in space 
 because there's no air to compress into sound waves, unless something strikes the hull. The music 
 is pretty nice and works well for the feeling of space.
  
  The main story is almost an afterthought, not particularly engaging, with generally short missions 
 containing some frustrating chase sequences. The meat of the game is in the freeplay and not the 
 campaign.
  
  Indeed, X3 has a steep learning curve, but it's worth sticking with it for at least 4-5 hours to 
 get the basics down. After the initial learning hurdle, it gets much easier from there and many 
 things will become second nature.
  
  X3 is a tremendously open-ended sandbox-type game where you can play it pretty much any way you 
 want. There aren't any other games like this out there right now, nor in the foreseeable future, 
 so X3 is your choice if you're into space sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a game! Gamespot. com tends to always have "ubergeeks" who have played all the previous 
 games in a series! Theres no way a new person to X3 reunion could learn the gameplay in 1 hour! 
 Try 4 or 5! The manual itself is super extensive, which I love. The only problem is that it seems 
 to be written by some new-age Shakespear! Theres parts in the manual that require you to read and 
 re-read the section severall times to fully understand.
  The game has outstanding graphics! I have above the suggested requirements and it looks like pure 
 eye-candy! The game is more in depth than I ever could have hoped for!
  The game has more things to do than you can shake a stick at! I have been playing for over 5 hours, 
 and Im not even close to understanding the gameplay that is offered to me!
  BestBuy sells it for 29.99, go and buy it, it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  I played Elite on the C64 (yeah, I'm that old) and loved it. I played Elite: Frontier on the Amiga 
 and loved it. I played the first of the X-series and loved it.
  
  X3 is just missing something.
  
  Whether it's cut scenes and quest sequences that pop up at 
 inopportune times; taking control away from the player; a lack of sense in the way the economic 
 model works out over time; the imbalance in ship combat; the lack of flow in the story-line; or 
 just the poor lay-out of the GUI -- it's hard to get immersed in X3 as I was in the other games.
 
  
  For the most part, the game plays like its predecessors. However, there have been numerous flaws 
 introduced into the game as a result of "innovations"; Egosoft would have been better off leaving 
 well enough alone.
  
  The cutscene system used to advance the story-line does a poor job of conveying the background 
 information needed by a player to immerse himself in the game. The cutscenes come across as a disjointed 
 mish-mash of short video and dialog sequences that just don't quite fit together properly and thus 
 don't succeed at telling a story. The sequences can be intertwined with gameplay in a fashion that 
 does not provide any opportunity for the player to save the game at intermediate steps -- meaning 
 playing for an extended time, trapped in a sequence, only to die at the end and thus have to replay 
 the whole sequence from some point in time where the player last saved prior to beginning the sequence. 
 If Egosoft was going to use this sort of scheme, they should have at least forced an auto-save 
 at the beginnin of the sequences.
  
  The economics model is "station-centric"; prices at individual stations are based solely on the 
 inventories of the commodities at the station. It doesn't matter whether or not there is any demand 
 for the commodity outside that particular station. It doesn't matter if there is a glut of inventory 
 available to the universe outside that station. It doesn't matter if there are dire shortages of 
 a commodity throughout the universe. All that matters is how much inventory that particular station 
 has at any moment. Sorry, that's a dumb economic model... I just bought a product at this station 
 at a bare minimum price and sold it to that other station for a good profit; on return for another 
 run, I find a transporter has arrived first, buying a large quantity of the inventory, and now 
 I must pay the absolute maximum price. Why? Is the universe suddenly depleted of all BoFu? The 
 complete lack of predictability in the economics model that results from this station-centric approach 
 makes attempts at being a trader somewhat fruitless. I don't recall the economics model in the 
 predecessor games being this ridiculously volatile.
  
  A big disappointment was that much of the ship add-on's were already on the ship at game start. 
 The sense of satisfaction that game in the predecessor games from adding each piece of hardware 
 has been lost (this problem isn't as bad at XTRME level where you don't start out with as much 
 "stuff") . However [sarcasm follows] , this "problem" has been "offset" by the complete depletion 
 on equipment dock inventories by the time you earn enough credits to buy new weapons for your ship.
 
  
  I used to love the ship combat in the predecessor games. Now I find that my "maxed-out" ship barely 
 nudges the shields of opposing ships, but the slightest hit on my ship quickly wipes out my shields 
 and very soon after I am blown up. Granted, I'm playing on XTRME level, but the imbalance is somewhat 
 ludicrous. Add to that the costs of repair for ship damage; I went to repair some very minor hull 
 damage; over 48,000 credits!!! Combine that with the fact that equipment dock inventories are all 
 empty so you can't upgrade to higher qualities of weapons (which your opponents also don't have; 
 just their low quality weapons do much more damage than your better-quality weapons) . Okay, apparently, 
 if a ship takes damage, Egosoft expects the players to reload the last save game prior to a fight. 
 Egosoft apparently expects players to avoid all combat that might have any potential of damaging 
 the player's ship. Egosoft apparently does not expect players to actually play the game...
  
  Graphics, for all the hype, do skip periodically ... like right in the middle of a fight... 
 More than likely, since I have a top-notch graphics card, this is not due to excessive numbers 
 of vertices, shadow calculations, etc. Since skipping seems more common when there are greater 
 numbers of game entities present in the same system as the player, the problem is more likely the 
 AI or other calculations loading the main processor. Since I have a high end processor, players 
 with lower end machines probably should hesitate to buy the game.
  
  From my perspective, the hierarchial GUI system just doesn't work. Having hot keys that are contextually 
 sensitive to whether you're flying in free space, docked at a station, currently looking at a navigation 
 map, etc., re-using the same keys for different purposes, just doesn't make sense.
  
  In summary, Egosoft built on top of the older games, but what they've added didn't improve on the 
 "game" as opposed to the graphics. Unfortunately, graphics do not make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exraccord97
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was awesome. I own X2 the Threat and love that game as well. Visuals and sound 
 are awesome. The open ended game play is amazing, however almost to open. At first it can be overwhelming 
 trying to figure out what to do. The only true negative feature of the game is the system requirements. 
 I bought it not realizing this and could barely play it on my old computer. 
  
  Once you get situated into the missions the game easily moves foward. Branching out and doing your 
 own thing is easy enough to get used to with some practice. Battles can be intense.
  
  Great Game and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetarget
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  First... bad first... dissappointing... My PC is far higher specs than those stated on the box. 
 And i'm getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The X series of games from Egosoft are perhaps one of the best kept secrets in PC gaming. These 
 games fill a niche previously occupied by the classic game Elite from the ancient days of vector 
 graphics. Space trade/fight sims have always been a small but dedicated audience who have been 
 starved for attention, except for the folks at Egosoft. X3 Reunion is a sequel to X2 The Threat. 
 Originally conceived as an expansion to X2, they changed it to a completely new game when they 
 realized that there were too many additions and changes for the older engine to handle. Thus, the 
 sequel.
  
  The game starts out with several possible difficulty levels. These levels determine starting resources, 
 starting character and storyline. They make no change to the actual game difficulty, just the beginning 
 points. The main storyline continues the plot form X2: You are Julian Brenner, an ex-con done good, 
 the child of some very powerful individuals and a major hero in the war against the Khaak (an alien 
 race) . In X3, you continue to deal with Khaak, Xenon (a blood crazed race of AI's) and lots and 
 lots of pirates. The actual storyline is ok, but isn't fantastic.
  
  The greatest thing about this game is that you don't actually have to play the storyline unless 
 you feel like it. In the continuing tradition of the X games, X3 is almost completely open ended. 
 You can do pretty much anything you want. Build factories to produce goods for the universe, develop 
 a trading fleet, hunt pirates, be a pirate, mine minerals from asteroids... All of this is possible 
 within the framework of the game. All of this can be done without playing any of the storyline 
 except the first couple of missions. You can set your own goals, and do your own thing. There is 
 never a shortage of things to do, as long as you are willing to decide your own ambitions. You 
 can even take various missions from BBS systems at various stations (though there is a problem 
 with the game, these missions don't show up very often at all) . It's really up to the player in 
 the end.
  
  The graphics in this game are just flat out gorgeous. There's no other word for them. Detailed 
 models of ships fly by, reflections gleaming from their shiny hulls. Giant stations loom in the 
 stygian blackness of space, lights blinking in the darkness. Asteroids float by, spinning, giant 
 drifting resource sources if you have a mining laser. Nebulae, gas clouds, lasers and explosions... 
 All the details are in place and vividly clear and colorful. There is a downside to these fantastic 
 graphics. This game will strain your machine to the limit. Even with an SLI setup with 7800GT's, 
 there are parts that skip and stutter briefly at least. A lesser machine will need to have options 
 cranked down, or it will likely catch fire trying to display the eye candy. And heaven help you 
 if you get caught in a massive firefight with lots of ships! A slideshow is sure to develop. The 
 graphics engine is poorly optimized at best.
  
  Sound is above average. The laws of physics regarding sound in a vacuum are cheerfully ignored 
 to present us with laser blasts and engine sounds. Even the voice acting, which was very very VERY 
 bad in X2, has improved a lot. It's still not very good, but it's better than it was. The animated 
 cut scenes have also improved from X2. Universally, these were considered to be garbage in the 
 earlier game, but they actually look good this time around.
  
  The best part about this game is it is almost endlessly changeable. Users can make their own mods, 
 scripts and even design entire universes to play in. There are literally dozens of mods and scripts 
 listed on the official forums, some of which completely change the game into something else. There 
 are even mods that add and change the ship and station models. The community, a very active and 
 friendly group, keeps these games fresh with a constant supply of great mods.
  
  Now, there are problems with the game. When it was released, there were some game breaking bugs 
 still in the system, including at least one that would shut down the storyline. In addition, the 
 North American release had an outdated and incorrect manual included, with more errors than facts. 
 In Egosoft's favor, they released patches quickly to fix the problems they could (up to 1.4 now) 
 and made an updated manual available in PDF for download, but some of these errors should not have 
 occurred at all. The game has a very steep learning curve, and is a slower paced game, which may 
 not appeal to everyone. X3 takes a lot of work to get into, but the active forums at the Egosoft 
 site have a lot of users who are happy to help with almost anything.
  
  This is a solid offering that fills the gap left by the lack of space sims today. If you want a 
 game with a slower pace that requires a bit of strategizing and thinking to succeed in, and if 
 you have a powerful computer, this game may be just what you are looking for. At least as long 
 as you are willing to forgive some errors and keep your patches up to date. Get a good joystick 
 or HOTAS, plug in and develop your empire at your pace, you'll probably find you enjoy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_Giannelli
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Ever since the privateer days Ive been dying for a freelance style space game with an epic story 
 to go along. Freelancer sort of did this, but it was greatly dumbed down to appeal to a broader 
 audience. In the end the game was still good, but left a big unsatisfied hole in my heart. Then 
 I noticed a mention of X3 on gamespot. I looked up the game and picked it up a few days later. 
 This review is based on the 1.4 patch which is the only thing Ive played on. 
  
  I have serious mixed feelings on this game. The story and cut scenes are laughable and an embarrassment 
 to the game industry. But thats easily over looked because this is a sandbox style game. Quite 
 honestly the first sandbox game Ive been able to play for more than an hour in years. As I write 
 this Ive been sleep deprived from playing X3. Needless to say X3 has not fulfilled my Epic Storyline 
 needs, but it has filled many other holes. 
  
  The graphics are simply awesome. Ship scale is huge and realistic. Stations looks their part and 
 are well varied. They orbit huge planets that spin ominously in the backdrop, complete with layered 
 atmospheres. Theres 4 races in X3, each with their own unique look and style. In short space has 
 never looked so beautiful. 
  
  Before I get to the meat of the game theres a big issue: New user unfriendly. Im new to X universe. 
 Ive never played it, and Ive never heard of it until this month. Skimming the rather skimpy manual 
 the came with the box gave little insight into ship classes, weapon types and their imaginary time 
 scheme. You just have to deduce that some random word means hour or minute. X3 seems to cater 
 only to those whove been with the series and offers little hope and guidance to newcomers. But 
 that didnt stop me, and I searched the message boards for everything I had questions on. Most 
 went unanswered and I had to answer many questions on my own. But Im a seasoned multi genre gamer 
 so I could get into the swing with less hassle than a total newbie. 
  
  That brings me to another topic: The user interface is like punching a concrete wall. Its far 
 too complex and cumbersome for anyone but a seasoned gamer, or masochist to get into. Theres a 
 lot of RTS and city building (think Civ) fundamentals in the game. These pieces are great concepts 
 and if the menus were properly implemented for easier use it would enhance the game considerably. 
 Managing ships takes getting used to, Ironically its easier to manage your fleets from the dangerous 
 space than the safety of being docked in a space station. Once you get used to the interface quirks 
 you can fly through the encumber some menus pretty quickly and navigate massive fleets. Ive yet 
 to be able to afford wingmen so I cant tell how thatll be yet. 
  
  The universe is huge and divided logically into sectors. Trading between sectors is easy, with 
 a jump drive and navigation relay satellites to monitor local economies. The economy is dynamic 
 too dynamic for me. With the advent of free traders theres serious competition out there to 
 make some cash. Its also hard to find an exploitable region for quick cash. Usually I see a great 
 deal, rush a freighter there and a freelancer beat me to it spiking the price to unprofitable. 
 It spices up the game and adds some real world issues. 
  
  Being frustrated with legal trading I decided to be a pirate and capture ships and cargo. I guess 
 since the 1.4 patch this has become extremely difficult. I spent the last of my cash on a Mako 
 and ion Canon, police license and freight scanner and went to a nice border region to make some 
 semi legal kills and captures. Killing pirates netted me bounty cash since I was in domain space. 
 Scanning cargo was legal due to the police license. Also because of a nice loophole in the law, 
 I didnt loose faction with the current race for unprovoked hostility on another races ships. 
 Capturing was somewhat of a pain but after 3 hours of attempts and save game reloads I finally 
 managed to capture an M3 class ship and call it a night. Practice makes perfect they say. 
  
  Ive yet to set up sector and galaxy traders, mostly in part because I lack money. I invested 
 most of it on a failing business of ore mining. I wish I knew how to sell factories to recoup some 
 cost. 
  
  In summary Ill say the game is worth a buy. Ignoring the story, its open ended design is very 
 pleasant and gives you lots to do. The graphics are remarkable and the sound is not too shabby. 
 It lacks considerably in the new user and tutorial department (old school gaming) , but with some 
 effort youll be able to get into the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, that i am writing this in a gaze of confusion, exhaustion and just..... amazement.
 
  
  I got the game yesterday on a whim, as someone told me that it was a game like Privateer and... he 
 spoke the magic word ..... Elite.
  
  That woke me up, the old passion i had for Elite on the BBC Micro B and the C64 woke me into that 
 warm fuzzy feeling of something you missed.
  
  Installing it took some doing, well, it was easy enough. plop in the DVD an lose 4Gb of space (watched 
 a Babylon 5 episode in that time) .
  
  The start was a little odd. the manual is nice and not too revealing, then the actual game started. 
 I kid you not when i tell you that i dropped my coffee mug on the floor (that i will have to clean 
 tonight) . the graphics were just so overwhelming. The controls very easy on my logitech, and the 
 view of space, whoah, what an amazing experience. The game started with me 'volunteering' for a 
 little escort for new pilots. It get's you a little in the game, but a lot was not covered, and 
 too many screens pop up with all kinds of information. An unsettling 5 minutes, but then the joy 
 of spacefflight and the joy of finding your way comes to you the player. The radar navigations 
 was identical to C64 Elite, so i was up and hunting the enemy in no time. This is more like it!
 
  I got two of them, and without further notches on my laserbarrel i completed my tour. You get 
 a little nack for manouvering around in this mission.
  
  This is not a small game, apart from the harddrive space, there is the added parts of finding your 
 way, and going to trade. I predict that this game will keep me happy for many months to come.
 
  
  The sounds are awesome the music is nice to listen too, but the gameplay and graphics, they are 
 just out there. I haven't even gotten to the online part of it all. 
  
  I haven't been this excited for a long time. what will happen next? well, let's see if i can start 
 trading a little left and right tonight. I will catch up my sleep in the ofice during the day. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuSvardenvyrd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, my review is for X3 v1.3. And this game will turn-off most newbies to the X-universe!! 
 NO TUTORIAL!!! So unless you've played the precursors to this behemoth, don't buy.
  
  HOWEVER, it's worth the pain!! :D
  
  The grapics are awesome!! It's simply indescribably good. 
 Gone are the cartoon renditions of X2 and the rest. This IS the real thing!! The sounds are wonderful 
 all around, except for the character voices; I especially despise the woman who speaks on station 
 loudhailers everywhere!! [:-hate] Stability is BAD thus far. The longest I could play was 6hrs. 
 Then it hung up on me. And somehow you can no longer leave your seat and let your automated stations 
 and ships to make money for you -- an inactive player means a guaranteed crash in under ten minutes!!! 
 :'- (
  
  Ahem!! This is one really cool universe!! You can either start with the storyline or just play 
 normally. Difficulty levels are available. You start in a mid range fighter (and with a free freighter 
 as well if you're playin in easy) and can play as you like; from bounty hunter to pirate, from 
 petty trader with one freighter to multi-billionaire owning stations by the dozen and fleets of 
 ships (from scout ships to carrier class vesels :D ) to protect your investments!! A non-linear 
 game that can literally last forever!! I played X2 for almost six months, and I only turned off 
 my pc for power outages and small rest periods!! (you could set auto and leave in X2 after update1.3 
 without stability issues)
  
  WARNING: Will require almost Buddha-like patience!! Don't buy unless you can wait ages for the 
 update that'll make the game really stable and playable! X2: The Threat was stable after update 
 1.3. X3 is still buggy at 1.3. Just saw the gamespot 1.4 update. Hopefully this'll finally reward 
 me for my fortitude!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuya_m
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  X3 reunion is one of those games who try to combine several genre into one big monster game.
  While X2 failed in achieving this dream, X3 does a good job. New improved and easier fighting system, 
 new improved automated economics and trading system and a huge universe really full fills the demands.
 
  But never the less while this time all parts of the game play, trade fight discover and build 
 are working good together, I still have to say that al parts are still not good enough.
  For example, the learning curve in all 4 genre could have been way easier, the difficulty is still 
 very high, the prices for big ships are unbelievable and sometimes the enemies are just to much.
 
  But this game also offers some revolutionary parts, apart the game play mix
  The graphics, never before seen glare effects combined with wonderful bump maps, all in high res. 
 The post processing effects and the superb bloom effects are doing the rest, and voila, stunning 
 high tech cinema graphics. But that's not all, the ship and station design is this time unbelievable, 
 even those new Star Wars movies could not make it better.
  What about the sounds now. Lot's of old sound effects have been recycled and some musics have been 
 polished but some music clips, especially those who are similar to good old square soft games are 
 great.
  Closing comments. If you want to impress you friends with an interactive movie, then go and get 
 it, but don't expect too much from the ultra complex game play, you will need lot's of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qball145
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  So I was looking for a space combat sim a-la X-Wing Alliance or something. There really isnt anything 
 out right now; the closest thing is this X3: Reunion game. Ive never played any of the prior X 
 games and decided to give it a shot. 
  
  As far as presentation goes  
  The graphics are gorgeous; its interesting to just fly around the space stations and larger ships 
 just to check them out. The music is appropriate for a space-sim type game. Sound fx are ok. My 
 major complaint in the graphics department is that the game doesnt support widescreen formats; 
 the screen just gets stretched on a widescreen monitor so you just have to settle for 4:3 mode 
 if you have a widescreen monitor. And this type of game would ideal for widescreen with all the 
 on-screen information! Bah! 
  
  As far as the gameplay goes  
  At first, I really disliked this game. The learning curve is high, and the game doesnt introduce 
 players new to the X universe properly at all. There are no tutorials whatsoever, and the X-universe 
 is overwhelming. 
  
  All the stuff the player must to obtain better ships, weapons, equipment, etc., is totally unclear 
 to the beginner. And everything is so outrageously expensive that the game is very discouraging 
 unless the player figures out the secrets to making the big bucks with trading and fighting. And 
 that is made difficult for players new to the X-universe. 
  
  E. g. initial trading runs in your initial ship on Normal difficult net a measly 1k credits when 
 the weapons you need are hundreds of thousands of credits. The better ships are in the millions. 
 You get rejected for almost all missions, and even the very slightest damage from enemy encounters 
 are massively expensive to repair and leave you bankrupt. The newbie has to figure out that with 
 a network of nav satellites, a freighter, certain specific upgrades, and some understanding as 
 to how the X economy works, trading runs can easily and consistently get over 50k credits. But 
 you just have to stumble onto these game dynamics or happen to piece it together by reading the 
 right tips from the right information stations which are scattered all over the place. Bah! 
  
  The jumpgates to get from sector to sector are often not immediately visible on the sector 
 map. So how does the player immediately know where they can get to from a particular sector?? What 
 weapons and equipment are compatible with what ships? How does a player know from the station menu 
 which weapons will be compatible with their ship? How does the player know the cargo capacity of 
 a particular freighter before buying it? Why cant I capture an enemy pirate ship? Am I doing something 
 wrong or is an enemy giving up and ejecting a random occurrence? Theres tons of stuff like this 
 in the game which makes it more annoying to play. 
  
  And how about a little bit more personality? I found the LucasArts X-Wing games to have plenty 
 of personality whereas X3 feels kinda bland. Maybe if the station bulletins were actually interesting 
 to read and had some relevance. Or if there was something to do or some sort of distraction during 
 those boring trading runs. Also storyline plot missions themselves (or at the very least side missions) 
 should introduce the player to the various game dynamics IMO. This would have made the game much 
 more accessible to newbies and added depth & personality. 
  
  The game can be maddening if you dont know what you are doing. I floundered around with the game 
 and almost gave up on it. But after having given this game a chance and learned a few tricks, Im 
 enjoying it. The X-Universe is very rich and deep if you can figure out all the tricks and not 
 make critical money-wasting mistakes. The game features a very dynamic and realistic economy system, 
 lots of other races to discover, and tons of stuff to do (if you can just figure out how to do 
 it) . The combat is exciting enough and well-done, but generally speaking, this is a slow paced 
 open-ended  type game thats not at all comparable to something 
 like the X-Wing games. If you are looking for a fast-paced action-packed game, dont even think 
 about this game, look elsewhere. 
  
  If youre a patient person who might be into slower-paced building/exploring/planning type game 
 with some space combat thrown in, X3: Reunion really isnt bad. But it could be much better. Basically 
 my opinion is that underneath this disorganized poorly presented mess is a gem of a game if you 
 have the patience to find it. Because of this, I have a hard time giving it much more than a 7. 
 
  
  BTW  Im playing v1.3 on a hot-rod gaming rig (Athlon64 FX, GeForce 7800 GTX, etc.) and havent 
 encountered any stability problems a lot of people are complaining about. Maybe all these problems 
 have been fixed in the v1.3 version or the game is finicky about hardware?? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSO_Original
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  X3: Reunion has been one of thos games for me... I'd put in in a similar category as Civilization 
 (1, 2, & 3) , Colonization, X-Com, Transport Tycoon Deluxe, or Sea Dogs. It caputred my imagination 
 and consumed a lot of time.
  
  I have a lot of games that I don't play much, and I have better than average hardware and gaming 
 peripherals.
  
  I'm not quite sure why I got X3. I had some credit at EB Games and I read part of a review for 
 X3 that sounded interesting.
  
  The game is flawed, but I still got hooked. I started playing it and didn't have a clue what was 
 going on. Apparently the wrong manual revision got printed for North America which didn't help. 
 I probably restarted 3x in the first 5-6 hours, and couldn't figure out how to make any money
 
  
  * If you don't have a way to patch this game, don't buy it.
  
  ** If you live in North America - ignore the manual that comes with it and download their revised 
 version 1.3 manual (in pdf format)
  
  *** Visit the forums and download non-cheating scripts to enhance your gameplay
  
  **** Visit 
 forums for tips as well
  
  It's a great game with great atmosphere and although i've never played any mmorpg's myself, I think 
 this gives me a feel for what they're like. 
  
  The game is also very editable. There are lot's of scripts that can be downloaded from the forums 
 at egosoft that enhance the game.
  
  It has a plot which you can ignore, pick up, leave off, almost (and possibly) ) indefinitely.
 
  
  Huge Scale as far as money and military might go. You start out with 100000 credits on easy and 
 a small fighter and small freighter. 
  
  This is probably the most trouble that i've had with a game, as far as being unstable. I even tried 
 my 2nd computer and even did a fresh format on another drive to try and gain stability... One upgrade 
 later and I seemt o have found it.... for the most part. It's a testament ot how much I liked the 
 game that I held on. I've also learned to buy salvage insurance like there's no tomorrow, and to 
 use it like there's no tomorrow.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makaronnik
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I tried to give it a chance. I tried hard. First I started out having to fight it to get it even 
 to work. It didn't like something about my system so their stupid copy protection wouldn't even 
 work. Just when I was about to simply take it back because it wouldn't even run I finally got it 
 to work with the help of a utility meant to undo some of the damage StarForce causes on a person's 
 system. Their choice of copy protection schemes is almost enough to make me hate the game on principle, 
 but, I did my best to rate it fairly nonetheless.
  
  First thing I noticed when starting up was the options are quite minimal. You can't get to control 
 setup until you're in-game (which is a serious screwup if you ask me.) Don't bother trying to use 
 the simulator until you've begun a normal game since you'll get killed and all your settings wiped 
 out trying to set controls in it. (It doesn't bother to save until you manually go to save profile 
 or when you back all the way out of the settings menu it will ask if you want to save. Until then, 
 your settings will be wiped out if the game ends suddenly.) I thought to set my controls in the 
 simulator and then begin a real game and regretted that decision after about 10 tries and only 
 three controls changed in the time alloted before you die from inactivity. There's a pause option, 
 but, the moment you press a button, say to navigate a menu, it unpauses, so the pause is only useful 
 for running out of the room to do something.
  
  Once I began a normal game, got my controls and other settings finally set and saved, I began to 
 try to play. Ok, basic controls like move forward, fire, etc all work as one would expect. The 
 game is even designed correctly enough to have a dead-zone on the joystick, which is good because 
 some are easy to drift or even off-center (I hold it against anyone who supports joysticks without 
 a basic dead-zone, even a hardcoded one.) For the most part, the controls for actual flight are 
 ok, but, anything beyond actual flight starts to get tricky. For example, I got far too used to 
 being able to select a target under my cursor with Freespace and the lack of this, forcing me to 
 dig through all the myriad of targets in the area to get to something right in front of me is a 
 pain. And figuring out how to do simple tasks like communicate with a target feels pretty unintuitive 
 to me.
  
  Probably the worst thing about the game is they just dump you right in there, completely on your 
 own to figure it all out. The original reviewer who said that there was a one hour learning curve 
 probably has played X and X2 or something, because I couldn't figure out how to do things like 
 figure out what to do next in my mission, where to go, and etc. I'm just dumped out there completely 
 on my own. The manual just isn't much help for me at least. I tried, but, just lost interest and 
 gave up.
  
  I will say that the graphics are good. Yay. So what. I love great graphics, I bought a X850XT PE 
 despite it's expense for them. Gameplay still comes first. I found gameplay to be terrible and 
 the graphics aren't enough to hold that up. The reason why I give graphics less than a 10 score 
 even though they are among the best for a space sim game is because the movies use CG of a quality 
 I haven't seen since the early 90s. Everyone looks like puppets with practically no hinges being 
 used and a puppeteer who really hasn't had time to learn his trade.
  
  As for sound, the BGM is great. It sounds like what you should hear in such a game and quite decently 
 so. The voices are another matter. First of all, I don't expect personality from the onboard computer, 
 but, does it really have to spell out every single thing I'm looking at? When you're forced to 
 go through the huge number of targets in an area to figure out what you want, it reads out every 
 single one to you in that same annoying voice. Also, voice acting is some of the worst I've heard 
 in a long time. Especially in the movies. It sounds like the devs themselves decided to read the 
 scripts and didn't want to bother with a second take either. When communicating with people in 
 game, there's this huge pause between them saying things like "I don't know where so-and-so is, 
 but, you might try...." "..." "..." "... past the north gate" (and, btw, where is north in space?) 
 Having to listen to all this makes the BGM not good enough to prop the sound rating up if you ask 
 me.
  
  Overall, I'd say graphics and sound aren't going to do it for me. I still have an old dusty copy 
 of Freespace and Freespace 2 as well as one of Freelancer (though I still am upset that they won't 
 let me use my joystick in Freelancer -- the mouse is nice and playable, but, never the same.) Even 
 though Freespace looks terrible compared side-by-side to X3, I'm taking back my copy of X3 tomorrow 
 and spending the rest of the day playing Freespace instead. Gameplay comes first, and I didn't 
 find it here. I was hoping for a game like Freelancer with a joystick and better graphics, and 
 I was sorely dissapointed to get a game that feels like one from the really early 90s given a modern 
 day graphics and sound engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karmafarmer
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  ... It's so buggy that getting it to run on your su=ystem can be a real chore, if you can get it 
 to run at all. 
  
  However, when you can get it to run it is beautiful to look at and a joy to play, despite the steep 
 learning curve. This latter is compounded by the lack of a tutorial or an adequate manual shipped 
 with the game. 
  
  Should they get all of the bugs worked out in the not too distant future, it will be well worth 
 playing. Until then, save your money and keep checking the Egosoft web site for updates on progress 
 made in patching the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBERD74
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I did not purchase this game until after the 1.3 patch. I also waited until I updated my graphics 
 card to a 7800gt. I just want people to understand that the graphics card makes all the difference 
 in this game. Though I know its playable on a system with an older 9250 w/256 ram and a 2800 xp 
 (my brothers system, who plays it with all systems turned to low and with the beta patch/ play 
 smooth for him) Anyway back to my system, which with the above card has just one gig of ram and 
 an Athlon 3200 64. I play it on high settings but have the screen resolution turned to the lower 
 end. I personally can't see the difference, except maybe when your not moving and are looking at 
 one of your accompanying ships (which is almost never) . The only down sides are that it has a steep 
 learning curve, you have to look hard in the book and on-line book to find what you need in certain 
 ship upgrades, and having some of you're other ships do runs takes a few trail and error runs at 
 it. But after 10 hours you get the hang of it. Haven't played the story line out so can't attest 
 to it. All in all its a good game with great potential for add-ons. I here there thinking of adding 
 more missions to the game. Enjoy the game, I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Where to start....
  
  X3 was supposedly an expansion for X2: the Threat, but Egosoft went and took it the extra mile 
 by releasing X3: The Reunion as a full fletched sequel to X2. Now if that's a good or bad thing, 
 its left for you to decide, but here are some pointers about the game before you continue reading 
 any further.
  
  Are you the type that likes to play complicated MMORPG's? Or the type that enjoys flight simulation 
 games? Or are you just a person who sometimes plays games when you have time? If youre the latter, 
 X3 is defenately not a game for you. It is such a complicated yet rewarding game, that spending 
 hours and hours with it will either entertain you or bore you to tears. 
  
  Gameplay wise, this game is jam-packed full of things to do, places to go to and has a well functioning 
 space system (with realistic economy and the like) which has never been portrayed so well, even 
 in MMORPG's like EVE Online. It contains so much content (from ships, space stations, characters 
 etc) that it will keep you busy for months to come, but only if you have patience, and LOTS of 
 it.
  
  Graphically, the game is gorgeous. No simulation game looks better than X3. Period. Even the upcoming 
 Flight Simulator 10 looks meager in comparison. From planets to nebulaes, you will spend hours 
 just admiring the scenery (hopefully with a good computer) .
  
  The sound of the game is wonderful too. Music is great, and even if the voice acting sounds awkward 
 at times, it serves well.
  
  Overall, the game is good but only if you decide to spend hours with it. If you do, you will love 
 it to death. If you dont, youll be far better off playing Freelancer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hadi_f
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  X3 does not restrict the player to follow a certain story and you are free to do what ever you 
 like. Trade with races that you prefer, fight the ones you dont like, artificially increase the 
 prices in a sector so you can be benefited more in your trading, build factories, transport goods 
 for the profit, be involved in illegal goods and build your very own armada and much more plus 
 a story that if you like you can follow. 
  
  To say the scope of X3 is huge is an understatement. There are a lot of sectors and about seven 
 races. The equipment, upgrades, weaponry, goods and ships are scattered among the races and the 
 sectors so you are expected to do some exploration to find what you need and to find the best places 
 for trading.
  
  Space combat is fast and not very forgiving. It is not as simple as say freelancer and loosing 
 your focus even for a short time will end up in disaster and will cost you a lot.
  
  The games pace is very slow specially in the beginning and it will take time and patience to advance 
 and reach the more interesting and rewarding parts. Another problem of the game is the interface 
 that needs to be stream lined a lot. This is a big issue especially considering how much the game 
 tries to accomplish. Think about it this way, in the same time you explore the world and you fight 
 and encounter hostiles you need to keep an eye on your fleet and factories. 
  
  I started playing the game after patch 1.3 so I did not encounter technical problems that the others 
 are complaining about and after playing about 50 hrs the game has never crashed on me (ok it crashed 
 once when I used the to switch to the desktop) . 
  
  The graphic is one of the main selling points of the game but you will need a powerful PC to enjoy 
 it fully. I recommend an athlon 3500+ CPU and a 7800gt or X1800XL graphic card with more than 1 
 GB of memory. Even with these specifications in certain sectors, the game will be hardly playable. 
 If you are, a fan of sandbox games and has a soft spot for space simulator games then X3 might 
 be enough to justify the upgrade. You will not regret it.
  
  You are on your own to learn the game since there is no tutorial and not even a proper manual and 
 believe me it is worse than you might think. Imagine you need to buy a space ship and the only 
 thing you see in the game is the spaceships name, type and price. Therefore, you cannot compare 
 the spaceships unless you buy them both. To buy other stuff can be worse, for example even after 
 buying a missile you will not know its strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  The bottom line is that this game is not for every one and you will need a lot of patience but 
 if you invest in this game then you are for a great ride through the galaxy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikey3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  One of the few "old" greats games still remembered was privateer- a space conquest game back in 
 the early 90's where you add mods etc etc... Now-Time... Ive been looking for a game like this 
 for a while now, and at first didnt think I had found it. I was totally lost for a bit. X3 Reunion 
 is deep, if you havent played the other Xx series games. But what I like about it mostly is that 
 its wide open dynamic- meaning you dont "have" to follow any script or story line, and what you 
 do really does effect other things in the game. D Y N A M I C .... What a cool thing.
  
  What I dont like is being better corrected every day by its maker. Like a RECENT new patch, and 
 now a new added on to downloadable manual... You will need it. Then Like me, you wont be able to 
 stoip thinking of ways to better play the game, because like the egosoft forum shows- there are 
 MANY. Thats right folks- not only is this puppy dynamic- its also playable many ways. Wanna be 
 a pirate? Wanna be a trader? How about just capturing ships and selling those for a living? Or- 
 working missions off of the built in BBS inside the game? All in all, quite addictive, but DONT 
 expect to learn ever trick and twist and resource and battle plan this game has to offer in a few 
 hours. DEEP, but good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomase
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Being a minority in the PC Gamers world is not a good thing, and what makes me a minority is my 
 lack of Broadband internet access from home. Therefore after reading various stories on the adventures, 
 back-stabbing and other forms of good fun to be had in Eve-Online, I decided to ask a good friend 
 of a recommendation on the next best thing that I could happily play for hours on end with no Internet. 
 That friend recommended X3: Reunion. 
  
  X3 offers a huge playing environment which any player can roam around and attempt to create their 
 huge corporations, increasing their "credits" (The in-game currency) as well as hi-jacking ships, 
 drug and alcohol trafficking and many other profit-making activities. Many stations and units can 
 be built and trade networks established. Think of it as part RPG, part RTS over 140 maps, with 
 each map having a different economy, global changes according to player actions and a MMORPG feeling 
 for the singleplayer, and you have pretty much sum-up X3. 
  
  I have started playing at a good time, the 1.3 patch has been released and most of the horrible 
 bugs have been removed from the game, while annoying they can be fixed. 
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful, artistic and inspiring. The sounds are fitting and the overall 
 feel is of a highly polished game in sound, graphics and gameplay (when it isnt crashing) .
  
  If you have no 'net then you cant go wrong, just make sure you have some where to download 
 the patch from and be prepared to spend a lot of time learning the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzmarc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  The so called `X2 The Return` expansion was cancelled a while ago! 
  Instead `Egosoft` came up with a brand new graphic's engine and all new model's for the sequel 
 `X3 The Reunion`. All though the system requirement's for a P. C. are P4, 2GHz CPU, Min 512MB RAM 
 (recommended 1GB) . and a Graphics ard that has 256MB VRAM and handles Pixel shader's v2!
  It is an extremely Good game with only a few minor problem's, which no doubt
  Egosoft will bring 
 update's to fix these? It continue's the story from `X2` and you get to meet a new race or two!
 
  
  Main problem's in game are:-
  --------------------------------------
  1) AI with autopilot is non existent in some sector's, so beware!
  2) Was able to pass through 
 object's in some place's and cheated in game!
  especially the Nyana Hideout asteroid part (inside) !
  3) Near final scene if you try to pass 
 the Crystal Splitter Fab that creates the Earth Jump Point, then game crashes.
  
  Also more information on Product's and Plant Resource's would be a big help!
  
  Overall don't 
 be put off by little glitch's, this is still by far worth 35 and an amazing game, not just graphically 
 (`cos graphic's are amazing) , but the story is better and you have different types of story's to 
 play afterward's!
  e. g.
  You can play the Quick Start for story line
  Normal Game and story line
  Explorer and explore the new X3 universe
  or play as a Pirate, 
 Bounty Hunter or even Trader, all in different mission's
  And of course there's the eXtreme Level, As if the game's not hard enough!
  
  Well done Egosoft 
 keep these type of Game's Coming, and PLEASE WILL YOU REFRAIN FROM USING REALLY BAD COPY PROTECTION's 
 especially anything that has StarForce in it as these are Malware and can cause damage to CD-DVD-RW 
 Drives, and they add to performance issue's on the P. C's. However i will probably have to build 
 a newer upgraded P. C. by the Fourth Installment!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_god
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like X3 Reunion, I really did. I read the reviews and did my homework before 
 plopping down the $40 to buy it at retail, and I figured I'd at least get a halfway decent game. 
 Sadly, I was very disappointed, and within 12 hours of installation, I'm already uninstalling it 
 and posting it for sale so I can get some money back from this dog.
  
  First, let me point out X3's strong points: to start, the multifaceted space theme of trade, build, 
 fight, think is a good premise and a nice hook - I expected something of a new Elite from the old 
 C64 days where I can start off as a lowly space bucket jockey that works his way up to riches and 
 power. The graphics are also strong and appealing, although the first Homeworld really set the 
 bar up higher than X3's reach several years ago... the models are nice, and X3 does a decent job 
 making the emptiness of space less boring than it could otherwise be - accuracy is discarded for 
 the sake of gameplay, which is fine with me. 
  
  But after that, X3 begins to lose steam very quickly. The learning curve is really high, and the 
 game does a really poor job of helping the user get started. The folks at Egosoft should take a 
 close look at how Everquest 2 introduces newbies to the game and learn from its example. Despite 
 being a hardcore gamer for well over 20 years, I loathed having to slog through the control and 
 UI learning curve of X3. 
  
  The music was nice, but the voice-overs quickly became repetitive and annoying. Since you have 
 no choice but to listen to the PA annoucements that occur when you're docked, within hours I turned 
 down the voice-overs, and soon after that I just muted the game's sound completely. Every time 
 I docked in an Argon station, I always always greeted with the same greeting, over and over and 
 over. Blech. Some variety would have been nice. And before anybody gets all huffy on me, I've written 
 voiceover scripts for more than one published videogame (PC and console) , and let me tell ya', 
 X3 comes up really weak.
  
  I could have cared less about the plot. Actually, after having spent almost 10 hours on it, I still 
 have no idea what the plot was. Granted, it seems the intent of the designers was to allow someone 
 to bypass the plot and play a freeform game if they wished, but sheez, even when I selected to 
 play using the plot I still wasn't sure what to do or why I was doing it. X3's storyline writing 
 is pretty weak - if you want depth and story, go elsewhere, because you won't find it here. And 
 for the extra cheese factor, names like "Ban Danna" and "Goner" don't exactly go over very well 
 if you want to be taken seriously. 
  
  The BBS in stations are worthless. Most of the content is rubbish that's of no use to me, just 
 pointless fluff that tries to pass itself off in the game as "depth". It didn't at all. And when 
 I was offered missions, most of the time I was rejected, and the missions I did get were for so 
 little money that I couldn't even cover the huge costs of repairs my ship needed after taking battle 
 damage. It quickly became pointless. I got a mission for 17,000 Cr, and I'm supposed to eventually 
 be able to build huge space stations for 60 MILLION Cr? Given how hard it was to make 17,000 Cr, 
 I wasn't going to waste any more time. 
  
  But what really dismayed me the most about X3 was that it is utterly boring. Yes, space is big. 
 Yes, travel takes time. I get it. But jeez, to offset size and travel time, at least give me something 
 interesting to make it all worthwhile. Let me interact with other 3D characters, not just the same 
 broken boring video talking-heads that serve no purpose. Of all the people in all the Argon stations, 
 all it seemed I could do was ask them where the local shipyard was... and in one case, I *was* 
 in the shipyard and I was still able to ask where the shipyard was... oy veyh.
  
  The UI is terrible. Next time I recommend Egosoft left an experienced gamplay designer put the 
 menus and flow together, not let an artist drive it. Getting around in the menuing system was grueling 
 and monotonous. I felt like I was hunting for the appropriate buttons. Some were too small, others 
 were illogically placed, and some seemed irrationally arranged.
  
  And finally, the gameplay itself. Fly around, dock, trade and play you can scrape together some 
 profit and pay for all your damages, fly around some more, dock, trade, fly around yet again, and 
 maybe you'll be lucky to get some combat action in. And when you do get into combat action, it's 
 really, really boring. You'd get more action by installing Microsoft's Flight Simulator and just 
 driving your Cessna into the ground. Sorry guys, I know you meant well, but it's just not compelling 
 at all. It's all style and very little substance.
  
  So, I'm giving X3 low marks. One would think that after 3 iterations of a X-product that it would 
 have progressed further by now. Frankly, I'm not wasting money on any future X games... this stinker 
 put a really bad taste in my mouth. 
  
  Even if you're really desperate for a space odyssey game with strategy and combat, skip this dog. 
 You'll be wasting your money. And please, I played Elite on the C64 when it came out. This is not 
 some kind of next generation Elite... this is 20 year old staid gameplay with 21st century graphics, 
 and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olyoberdorf
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is punishingly slow and unresponsive on my system, which is above the minimum specs. I 
 set everything to minimum settings and even tried windowed vs non-windowed. I clawed my way up 
 from 3 fps to around 8. This is a system that has no problems with WoW, Far Cry or any other game 
 I've thrown at it - even Eve Online, which is quite similar to X3, runs flawlessly.
  
  The manual refers to a variety of graphics settings that simply aren't there. I stopped short of 
 the suggestions to "turn off antivirus and other such programs". I love when game companies think 
 that stuff is just "fluff eating up resources the game should be using". Added bonus, this game 
 installs a nasty driver-level copy protection system and I'm not sure I'll be able to remove it 
 without an OS reinstall.
  
  Too bad, this is the kind of game I've been waiting for a long time, but no game for me and one 
 more unwanted dll hack in my system to boot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamper01
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I unwrapped this as a christmas gift and installed it the next day, patched it up to the latest 
 version (fairly) quickly and easily and was playing it within half an hour of putting it into the 
 disk drive.
  
  "great" I thought as I started it up, first setting the graphics to the medium setting as my graphics 
 card was only just above minimum requirements. On finding that medium was still too hard for my 
 computer and just gave me a load of rainbow coloured squares I closed it down and re-started it 
 in low settings.
  
  The graphics blew me away, every single ship, station, object, planet etc. looks like they have 
 been hand crafted by top class artists, they were beautiful and i was merely playing on low graphics 
 settings, after i had sat through the, again beautiful but boring and poorly syncd intro movies 
 that get you up to speed, (everyone is killing everyone else) I actually got down to the flying.
 
  
  From here everything starts to drop, I was a huge fan of X2 and I was a) Very good/used to the 
 controlls they had there b) Itching to see where the storyline lead next, 
  
  I found the plot of X2 very immersing near the start then lost it mid-way and was brought snapping 
 back to it at the very end, It was on this edge that left me itching for this game.
  
  Unfortunately the storyline in this game, at least at the start is boring and doesn't appeal to 
 me in any way, it doesn't answer any questions I had left after X2 and only added some more. I 
 hate it when things do this. I can only it goes on to answer more.
  
  Back to my first point, I found the controlls for X2 fairly hard to work out but with twenty minutes 
 and the help manual I had it almost mastered, even if it completely threw me at first. The controlls 
 for X3 I still have trouble learning and using effectively and the manual is either confusing or 
 just completely wrong on some aspects I also find it is trying to be more helpful for the people 
 who have mastered the game and are succeeding in every way, rather than for the people who have 
 just started who don't really have a clue whats going on. Which is generally who uses the manual.
 
  
  The part I also found highly annoying myself, although this might be prejudiced as not all people 
 have joysticks, is the change in the way the menus, controlls and HUD work.
  
  I found the 'press enter and enter the main menu and from here yo can do almost everything' approach 
 rather than the much more complicated way that X3 has of putting all the information I want to 
 know, e. g. What weapons does that ship have, wheres the freight of my ship etc. In X2 you could 
 'press enter and get to the main menu where you can do anything' whereas X3 is highly reliant on 
 you knowing all the immediate shortcuts to where you want to go and has completely removed the 
 'press enter main menu option'. This would mean a newcomer to the series would
  
  Another thing I dislike is the way they have greatly reverted to using the mouse, I found using 
 the keyboard and joystick easier as I could use one hand for each, whereas keyboard, mouse and 
 joystick I find hard to use all at once. The mouse usage I again find annoying when docking at 
 stations, They have made it complicated to use and the things I generally access at stations (the 
 trade and BBS (Bulletin Boards) ) have been hidden down so many sub-lists that by the time I've 
 got to them I've forgotten what I wanted to do in the First place and these have no easy shortcuts 
 that take you right to them. On the trading note: Even though Egosoft have been saying that the 
 economy is much more advanced I find it almost the same as in X2 with very few differences apart 
 from stations are built and destoryed more often.
  
  I much prefered the view from X2 from within the cockpit which gives the craft a musch more personal 
 and realistic feel, rather than the view in X3 which has no change according to the ship your in 
 and doesn't show any inside at all, just bars and numbers which I find slightly overwhelming.
 
  
  One more bad thing is the sound which is like talking to an automated call-taker it is clearly 
 pieced together from different recordings which make people sound like robots when they are actually 
 people.
  
  To finish with some good notes: 
  
  Combat: The controll of ships is much more realistic, the sliding along when you turn and the much 
 improved strafe and rotate controlls are much better as long as you can remember which button is 
 which, the ship classes have been modified so that the fighters are much stronger and the scoutss 
 are much faster, so you can now have a very slow M4 fighter which can take more than 3 hits and 
 take out enemies that would have been impossible before, even if the enemy ship was a scout. also 
 the weapons are nicer and more complex but not any more complicated than before. 
  
  General: Some pretty silly things in X2 for example having to hold down a button and the tell the 
 ship to turn in order to get a strafing move are simplified and improved, so it's not all bad.
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing (in case you don't know)
  
  So... A Hard game with a cliff for a learning curve, slow opening up, amazing graphics, Really 
 bad speech, quite a good music track (very spacey) , Great Combat, Poor in-game menu controll, Bad 
 storyline (so far) but you don't have to follow it and was unplayable because of bugs until it 
 was patched,
  
  Oh and don't get it if you havn't got a quite powerful PC as it will have a frame rate of about 
 4fps, shame about that.
  
  I havn't got very far in the game so my View may change but I'd recommend getting a demo (if there 
 is one) to see whether you'd be able to stick with the game all the way through, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sreed
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  I really like how dynamic it all feels however the interface just seems so clunky. I just can't 
 seem to figure out how to get started. I printeda getting started FAQ from the EgoSoft forums but 
 the text really doesn't match up with any options I have. It says I start with two ships yet I 
 only have one. Also stated I start with 100K but I only have 5K. Some of the default mapped keys 
 don't seem to do anything. (target nearest enemy 'E') .
  
  At this point I so frustrated I may just give up again. : (
  
  The game interface feels very 
 unpolished and I didn't expect that from a game with such a good history. Perhaps they didn't put 
 much though into new players and assume everyone who buys the game is returning? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are the most amazing I ever seen in games!!! X3 uses the latest technology available 
 today! You just cant lift your eyes from it! Every minute is the enormous graphical orgy!!! The 
 sound is awesome! The New Age music is very appropriate to the space setting, giving it the amazing 
 atmosphere and depth! 
  This game is extremely huge!!! The space divided into many sectors, sometimes so huge it takes 
 40-50 minutes just to travel from one end of the sector to another. Everything you do change the 
 life in the whole game. The global economics and warfare are so masterfully represented that you 
 completely forgetting that you are sitting behind the monitor and you disappear into the world 
 of X3!!!
  Now for the minuses: they are few Yes, there are a lot of bugs in the retail version of the game. 
 But the two latest patches fixed most of those problem, plus they added more features like new 
 ships and space stations. Because of this game is so huge and graphically stunning, it takes a 
 very hi-spec machine to drive it. The framerate went down a little bit sometimes even on my pc 
 (Athlon 64 3700+, 2GB Dual Channel RAM, GeForce 6800 GT) . But it happened only few times during 
 huge space battles involving a lot of ships.
  This game is a must buy for every space sim fan!!! It features so many elements that you completely 
 disappear into it! Like the PCZONE writer said: Say goodbye to social life and/or sleep
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Jimbo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Im about half way though the game and im enjoying it heaps.. tho i wish i had a bit more time to 
 play straight with work at the moment ive only been able to play a couple of hours a day..
  
  Now alot of people have been complaining about the bugs.. i havent noticed any major game breaking 
 ones yet.. a few missing features is about all but that will happen when a game is released before 
 its finished
  
  performance wise.. well the game ran like a slug in the sun on salt... not very far at all.. then 
 i patched up to the latest patch and it runs very nice on highest details -- P4 2.8, 1 Gig ram, 
 Radeon 9800 Pro, Audigy 2 zs
  
  The AI seems a bit smarter or well better at killing me anyway 8) ... and it has taken me a long 
 time to build up any kind of money to even think about buying a new ship.. but then finding out 
 a i need to rasie my reputation with each race b4 i can even buy a good enough ship to take on 
 the pirates so i can raise my reputation 8 (..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaniel420
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the X games before but I was missing the space sims so bad that I took a leap 
 of faith and picked it up. At first I was annoyed that the manual was absolutely worthless and 
 that copy protection of theirs is more than despicable. But I downloaded the patch (1.21 or something 
 like that) and read through some of the forums on getting better FPS and I must say that it's a 
 delight to play. I actually get to use my brain! Back in the days where space sims reigned (God, 
 do I miss them) , most games needed some elements of thought. And it's beautiful to look at. My 
 system is by no means top-notch (2.4 GHz, integrated audio, ATI RADEON 9800 pro 128mb) but it's 
 totally playable. Plus, I know there's another patch coming out to smooth the creases. 
  
  Bottom line: It's not perfect but if you're in to space sims that involve some thought, give it 
 a shot. I'm happy I did.
  
  Addendum: Well, I sure would have thought this patch and these answers I was looking for (i. e. 
 manual) would have happened by now. I have since lowered my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannons
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  My score is based on the developer patching the game to resolve the many issues folks have experienced. 
 I, myself haven't had any issues.
  
  I really enjoy this game. I installed the patch before even starting the game, and it hasn't crashed 
 on me even once. The graphics are gorgeous, and I love the fact that I can do what I want to do 
 without having to follow the storyline. 
  One word of caution though. This game takes a ton of time to get familiar with. I probably spent 
 10-12 hours getting comfortable with the interface, and familiarizing myself with all of the in 
 game commands, testing them etc. The game itself is very slow paced, but that works for me, as 
 I enjoy watching the different cinematic views, and studying the different sectors during flight.
 
  I get 20-30FPS in light sectors and 10-15 fps in busy sectors, especially close to stations.
 
  
  If youre a patient gamer with a lot of time, and like the space genre, this game may be for you. 
 While its not a fast paced Freelancer or Wing Commander, it is a enjoyable slower paced trading, 
 fighting strategy game with many issues yet to be resolved, but should be in upcoming patches.
 
  
  My Specs:
  
  Windows XP Sp2
  Athlon XP 2700+ 2.16Ghz
  Gigabyte KT400 333Mhz FSB mainboard
  1Gig pc3200 ram
  Geforce fx 5900 ultra (256mb) video (Agp)
 
  Audigy 2 audio (pci) (7.1 speakers)
  Logitech 3dpro joystick
  X2 projector native 800x600 displayed at 1024x768
  (Yeah, my picture is around 5 feet diagonally)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roseygamer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  Where to start  and developer fibs... i have bought buggy and broken 
 games before, but i have never bought a game that was so broken and so bug ridden,.. you cannot finish 
 plot because it breaks at every stage, usually AFTER a long drawn out set of reboots and system 
 crashes and freeze..., you cannot free roam due to constant crashing and game freezing, which isnt 
 a simple freeze and close program, you have to reboot pc everytime...... theres many many errors 
 and blatent faults with game, manual and box, system specs is totally wrong, there are major chunks 
 of the game missing which egosoft promise to activate or fix in future patches, and when you ask 
 a question in thier forum you will either get ignored or at best have your question locked as others 
 months ago asked same question, the tech support consists of being told its your pc, codecs or the 
 way the sun shines on your computer at certain times of day ... seling this game to people must 
 surely border on the criminal, as we dont want to be beta testers..... to say this is a bad release 
 is is a massive understatement as even egosoft say it was released massivley unfinished and untested 
 to the general public.... but the real killer is that it is a major backward step from previous 
 releases, it lacks any kind of atmosphere or gameplay and runs so badly that the stress caused by 
 trying to play it will do you permanent mental damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowgue34
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  The user interface is needlessly complex and cumbersome to use.
  
  They admitted that the US version of the manual is a draft copy that had had considerable changes 
 made after it was printed and should have never shipped with the game. (Still waiting on the promised 
 PDF downloadable version) .
  
  No ingame turorials which is just unfathomable considering the manual is about as useful as a beverage 
 coaster for trying to figure out what to do or how to do it.
  
  It runs very very poorly even on rigs that beat their recommended requirements hands down.
  
 
  If you alt+tab out to try and seek guidance from the forums (which you will need to do about every 
 5-10 minutes if you're still dumb enough to buy it) it locks up not only the game but your whole 
 system and you have to cold boot.
  
  The graphics may be beautiful but if the game is coded so poorly that it can't run smoothly then 
 it's just a pretty screensaver in my opinion.
  
  Bottom line avoid this thing like the plague. Vets of the series claim that if this follows suit 
 with the rest of the series then it will be great in a few months after they get it all patched 
 up, but if you're even considering buying it I would watch for that and not pick it up until it 
 happens. If you do it will just give you hours upon hours of frustration and make you want to pull 
 your hair out the way it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'll admit the game is not perfect. There are things i would have done differently, but overall, 
 this game is a great game and really the only one out there on the market. 
  
  The Graphics are amazing. I'm playing it at 1900x1200 with everything turned on and it's just awesome. 
 (Thanks to the ATi x1800 XT) However, as soon as you begin to tweak the settings to something lower, 
 man, the game suddenly begin to look awful. Also, the in game briefings and such, were created 
 at a low resolutions and they look very pixalleted. Even though that does not matter since it's 
 the game graphics that matters, it is kind of annoying that a good looking game has such flaws. 
 
  
  The Gameplay is nice. Better than X2. The gameplay will depend on you, if you like scripted games 
 and knowing what to do, well, you may get aggravated with this game. If you like open ended game 
 where you decided what to do, well, you are definitely going to love it. I do wish there was a 
 bit more interaction with the AI characters. 
  
  The Sound is okay. I think they could have added more stuff, and the music is similar to X2... 
 if not the same.
  
  This game will keep you busy for hours and hours and hours. So for $39, pretty worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  'X3: Reunion' has excellent graphical and musical content. It offers a huge, dynamic universe, 
 populated with many different alien races and political factions. The game has a (brief) plot as 
 well as an open-ended RPG 'feel' to it. These are all pretty good!
  
  However, gameplay is choppy and I am not just refering to framerates here. You will most assuredly 
 encounter a large number of bugs and glitches (yes, there is a difference: bugs are repairable 
 with patches whereas glitches plague your system and corrupt your save-files) . In fact, 'bug' is 
 a gentle term to attribute some of the problems you will come across while playing this incomplete 
 and hastily designed and programmed BETA application.
  
  Great graphics and musical score are not sufficiently redeeming features when considering that 
 so many "features" of the game do not even work yet or are in fact missing. Yes, missing. For example, 
 you can buy a remote drilling extension to mine asteroids, but you will soon find that there is 
 no point, since mining has not been 'implimented' yet (please see the EGOSOFT website for yourself 
 if you think I am just being mean here, their own list of bugs and missing content is huge and 
 includes this information in detail) . The controls listed in the gamebooklet are incorrect and 
 the 'tips and hints' section will actually steer you the wrong way, since it was printed before 
 the game was even released. In fact, the booklet misleads you with the wrong information on several 
 pages. Heck, you can't even type text normally in this game; it interferes with your computer's 
 hardware and that is no exaggeration. If you want to rename a ship, for example, since they all 
 come with a Microsoft-esque "My Spaceship" kind of name, you will have to hit your keys quite firmly, 
 and often have to hold the keys down for a moment for just one letter to be recognized by the sluggish 
 and unskillfully programmed software: unoptimized is an understatement.
  
  The game promises a galaxy editor, but you have to unlock it, which is impossible because the most 
 recent patch actually destroys the plot, making the game unfinishable. In effect, there is no galaxy 
 editor -- not even a tutorial. There is a combat "simulator" but that is about 5 minutes long and 
 tells you nothing about the controls or hotkeys, it just has you "destroy the enemy ships" ... 
 well I will give you a hint, the "fire" key is your left mouse button, end of simulator.
  
  Forget the 'dynamic' economy, you cannot buy most things without having a solid faction reputation. 
 This may sound reasonable at first, but the way that you increase your faction standing is through 
 trading (just TRY trading the things that you cannot buy nor sell) and combat. That brings us back 
 to the very poor performance 'X3: Reunion' displays, even on my fancy new computer. You will have 
 trouble earning reputation through combat, since the framerate is too low to accurately hit anything 
 moving faster than an orbiting freighter.
  
  In the end, 'X3: Reunion' is an ambitious piece of BETA software that is riddled with bugs and 
 glitches. Although it has wonderful graphics and music, it has far too many problems in its present 
 state for this reviewer to recommend it to any gamer out there.
  
  Disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldkr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  Even with all the bugs and problems that people say it has, it is still the BEST and MOST enjoyable 
 game on the Market.
  This is one of my favourite games and I could not wait for it to be released.
  It is an open 
 ended game that gives you ultimate freedom, not like other games that offer you 10 hours of game 
 play on 12 missions. NO, X3 is up there and a lot of developers can learn from the X3 team. You 
 can almost do what you want and can play forever buidling your empire. It is a Flight simulator, 
 strategy and action packed game. It has all the different kind of games in one. I personaly have 
 not encountered so many bugs and errors and is defnitely much improved from X2, which was also 
 one of the best games at that time.
  I just cannot stop playing, this is how glued you become to the game, you just want to do this 
 or change that before you go to bed and before you know it another 2 to 3 hours have passed. It 
 has a very steep learning curve and the X3 team could maybe have given a bit of more info to help. 
 A tutorial would have been great to just briefly go over the certain aspects of the game, especially 
 the trading part. This could well be the most difficult part of the game to get started with freighters 
 and factories and most new comers or rookies will waste a lot of money trying to get it right.
 
  To finish, this is defnitely worth the money to buy it because it never ends and you will really 
 enjoy this open game even with all the so called hundreds of bugs (I encountered very little bugs) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SpaceGamer_
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Much has already been said about this games lackluster performance, reliability problems, and system 
 altering StarForce copy protection... so I won't bother to revisit those aspects of the game. Just 
 be aware that if you want to get anywhere near decent performance from X3, you'll need a very high 
 end system that is designed for gaming and configured for best possible 3D game performance (fast 
 processor, plenty of memory, powerfule 3D video card, few unnecessary background tasks, recent 
 driver updates, and possibly certain advanced display properties changed for added performance, 
 ie. AA/AF/etc, if needed) . Otherwise, you may be forced to make certain compromises, such as turning 
 off the HUD for much of the game or waiting until your next big system upgrade before getting the 
 performance you want. 
  
  Many of us who enjoy games like this are eagerly anticipating the 1.3 update, which promises to 
 help address the crashes, freezing, and performance problems currently experienced by many players. 
 Until then the value and gameplay suffers a bit for most players, including myself. But once these 
 areas can be improved, X3 will likely climb the ranks as a nice addition to the genre. After having 
 experience with X2 and Egosoft's track record for the game, I have confidence that they will work 
 out a lot of the problems in X3 soon.
  
  So with that out of the way, I'll move onto the other areas of the game. The graphics are great. 
 There are a couple of gaps (gates for example) that seem to drop the ball big time when doing certain 
 activities in the game (space is dark, but a blank screen with sound only is bad even for a space 
 game) . The graphics also chug in many areas, even on what should be a plenty fast system (far above 
 the minimum specifications stated on the box) . But the presentation is very good. I dare say the 
 planets are near perfect with space backdrops also being done well with a captivating appearance. 
 A lot of the environments are just backgrounds though, with no option to descend and land on planets 
 (you just explode when getting to close) , and no legitimately beneficial options to use various 
 environmental aspects to your advantage (tactically in combat or otherwise) . Ships look great, 
 although the blooming, hazy, fuzzing edges sometimes inspire me to want to look for a 'clean the 
 camera lens' option on the HUD. The effect is not bad, to most players it probably helps the game 
 to look a lot like concept art. But I would like an option to tone it down a bit, or perhaps have 
 it be used more selectively. I used the term camera lens earlier due to the fact that there are 
 no cockpits in X3 as there were in X2. This detracts from the immersion factor and almost makes 
 it seem like you are remote controlling your ship rather than actually being in it. A few scarce 
 HUD details are all that's presented, which ironically seem to hinder performance when active. 
 Overall though, the graphics are fantastic and you can obviously tell where a lot of the developer's 
 resources were spent when creating this game.
  
  As for sound, this aspect seems to be receiving criticism from some others, but I find the audio 
 to be excellent. Some claim it is unoriginal, which is the case for some music and effects, but 
 the formula works well and particularly the combat effects are a great fit and are quite immersive. 
 I score this aspect of the game at a 9 because the sound does so well at fitting with the game, 
 provides a superb sense of environment, and is a great futuristic presentation. If some of the 
 audio is unoriginal, so what, it isn't broken so I see no reason to fix it. I would rather see 
 good sounds re-used rather than new bad ones added.
  
  Gameplay is sort of a mix of themes. There is an element of 'capitalism in space' about the whole 
 game, where you are pursuing your own empire complete with management details and remote handling 
 of many activities. Some players may enjoy this type of gameplay, others might be bored or annoyed 
 with it. This major element of 'real time business simulation' and 'empire building' might seem 
 like a departure from the combat and trading gameplay many fans of this theme might be looking 
 for. But I'll leave that up to the players individually to decide if it's something they'll enjoy 
 or just try to avoid. And avoid it you can, with the option to focus on trading activities and 
 combat being available. However, combat AI leaves something to be desired. In short, the challenge 
 is there, but it isn't much of a challenge. In a single player only game, I'm surprised more effort 
 wasn't put into the combat opponents aspect of the game. Your enemies don't seem to use much strategy 
 or skill when fighting you. This could be easily excusable if you could team up with other human 
 players for combat or cooperative objectives, but there is no multiplayer option available at all. 
 
  
  There is a story that you can follow, although I didn't put much time into this area of the game. 
 I prefer to focus on the freeform gameplay offered in this genre and I do wish X3 had a better 
 tutorial to help new players get started (the game seems to expect the player to already be familiar 
 with the previous games) . But the option to follow the plot is available for those players looking 
 for something with specific goals to complete.
  
  In conclusion, X3 is a nice addition to this genre and will likely appeal to players looking for 
 a heavy emphasis on business simulation and empire building in their space games rather than immersion 
 and polish in trading and combat. Those players looking for multiplayer gameplay, planetary descents, 
 smart combat AI, and more focus on trading/combat might want to check out the other game posted 
 recently on GameSpot, Evochron Alliance at http://www. gamespot. com/pc/sim/evochronalliance/index. html? q=evochron%20alliance 
 (or http://www. evochron. com for the latest builds) . Players looking for a simplified approach to 
 this type of game with a more lone-wolf style might prefer FreeLancer (which also comes with multiplayer 
 and a short, but enjoyable single player story) demo on GameSpot at http://www. gamespot. com/pc/sim/freelancer/index. html? q=freelancer 
 (it's an oldie, but still a great game with good graphics and very simple gameplay) . However, for 
 many players looking for a space trading game with a lot of depth, X3 is one to check out. I find 
 X3 to be a great game with a lot of potential and if the patches live up to the modest expectations, 
 this could become one of the preferred additions to any space gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hezekiel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  I read a lot of documentations before starting a game. I never played an X game before. For a noob 
 like me in this universe its hard to understand and not so friendly user but you have to give 
 it a try! The learning curve for that game its more than 2 hours. I put for now 3 hours and I 
 dont understand all that game can do.
  
  Theres a lot of deep in that game its not like freelancer where you have to only fight. In X3 
 you have a deep economic management. 
  
  X3 is the best Space sim I ever played!
  
  Hezekiel
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unurkan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I CANNOT believe that people are giving this game good reviews! This game was shipped so incomplete 
 with so many glaring bugs that it boggles the mind. Why are people rewarding companies that have 
 clearly pushed out a product before it is complete? Because people put up with bugs and are willing 
 to buy obviously unfinished products, companies do not think twice of shipping a game early. I 
 was lucky enough to read reviews not to buy this game, but my brother did. He gave me his copy 
 after becoming too frustrated with the crashes.
  
  This game has a lot of potential and maybe in a year or so there will have been enough patches 
 to make the game playable, but until then, do NOT buy this game. You'll be kicking yourself after 
 having crashed to desktop for the umpteeth time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosephVann
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  First, the game is beautiful. That's the trend for now, space-sims have been pushing the limits 
 for the last few years at least and x3 strives to extend that legacy. Only the finest tuned systems 
 will be able to play this game with no jerkiness.
  
  Second, the audio. It's nice but nothing to call home about. The voice acting is good, which means 
 it doesn't jerk you back into reality but it isn't top notch.
  
  Last, the gameplay. The game is difficult in general. I'll defer this and get into what the game 
 is aimed at. The game, in my opinion, it meant to allow the player to become completely immersed 
 in the game, to spend countless hours expanding, improving, and tweaking his or her empire, and 
 exert complete domination over the universe. The scope reminds me of an MMO, in EVE there is a 
 vast universe, as well as in x3. In WoW one can play for hours and not run out of tasks, so can 
 the player here. The real difference is that there is not the presence of other PCs, which either 
 increases or decreases enjoyment of the game. 
  
  Back to the difficulty, the game took me about 12 hours to actually get the hang of. Beyond that, 
 it took me another 3 or 4 hours to figure out how to make enough money, starting on normal, to 
 seed my fledgling empire. There is little direction, guidance, or restrictions in the game. Is 
 that your flavor?
  
  Generally, it's a strategy game with action gaming as the execution of those strategic decision, 
 and a diabetic amount of eye candy.
  
  Games with similar attributes are Rome: Total War, Civilization (s) , EVE, Star Wars Galaxies... 
 and that maybe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_F
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to this game as I live the old genre of space trading, fighter sim etc 
 etc. Well I've given it a week and given up.
  
  Firstly you need a very high spec pc to play it succesfully the 1.2 patch doesn't fix much. The 
 learning curve is huge i. e a week +. The manual is next to useless all 84 pages of it. Ive been 
 onto various forum looked at spoilers and walkthroughs and I still cant get started. The controls 
 and interface are very difficult to use. I am 100% a mouse and keyboard man. This is terrible to 
 use in this game so I dugout my gamepad which faired better but I hate using it so forget that.
 
  
  I havent experienced the many bugs people speak of because I'm not going to give it a chance. I'm 
 gutted this game fails in so many departments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yopefonic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  the game has a kind of nack to it. u really have to have patience because it wil take you months 
 to complete a proportion of the game. it has freedom to let you do what ever you want to do, the 
 story line is not really that important. more so it is important to conquer and dominate the universe 
 the game is played in. and its huge! i've been playing for over 30 hours now and i still haven't 
 found the boundaries of the game!
  
  but one thing of the sheer size of the game can be annoying. it's so big that it takes a lot of 
 time to play the game. so u need to take you time and don't try to rush it. there are some ways 
 you can get around more quickly and i advise u to get those upgrades for your ship as soon as possible.
 
  
  It can be a very nice game, but it is a type of game that you like or you will hate it. Fans also 
 maybe some what disappointed by some lack of improvement. but un general its a really nice game. 
 take your time, be a good space cowboy and don't do anything i would not do ] :-) .
  
  greetz,
  
  YFC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8envy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  When will I learn not to buy games released 'just in time for Christmas?'
  
  Good news is ego has a track record of finishing games many months (years?) after they first ship.
 
  
  Bad news is ego has a track record of finishing games many months (years?) after they first ship, 
 and this is no exception. You must immediately patch this game with the latest patches, don't even 
 THINK of running what came on your CD.
  
  As previous posters mentioned, the game comes with Starforce. This copy protection has been known 
 to destroy hardware, lower performance, make drives disappear and disable Nero and the like. Fortunately 
 I was lucky enough not to encounter these problems, but YMMV.
  
  The immersive feel of X2 is gone with X3. You are now piloting Windows XP in Space. Instead of 
 a cozy in-fighter feel provided by a cockpit or a grandiose capital ship feel provided by a bridge, 
 you get Windows-like windows with title bars. Lack of inertia adds to the 'I'm just scrolling around 
 in 3d' feel.
  
  Many BBS missions are copied right out of X2 with no changes. Which is part of the bigger problem 
 -- this is really just X2 with some features removed, some economy tweaking, and prettier graphics.
 
  
  On the bright side, the graphics are shiny and pretty, and there are more options of what you can 
 build. Trading and manufacture are improved over X2.
  
  This game, like X2 of the time, requires the absolutely beastliest machine to play in other than 
 slideshow presentation mode when the action gets busy.
  
  Bugs, notably savegame corruption and crashes to desktop are present and accounted for.
  
  
 In summary, just wait for egosoft to finish this title before buying. You'll just wind up frustrated 
 with the game shelved until patch 1.3 or 1.4 anyway.
  
  p. s. Negative sentiments on ego's forums appear to be quickly locked by very active forum moderators. 
 I was pretty shocked when similar to this review posting was locked by an admin in a matter of 
 minutes, with only 2 replies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppetts1000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  Well X3 the follow up to X2 The Threat has a number of hurdles to over come. A publisher unconcerned 
 with issues such as finishing the game seemed to have pulled this release and plopped it on the 
 market a good 6 months too early. The presence of a large number of issues, bugs, CTD and missing 
 content (present in the manual) have given X3 a poor start but maybe not an unpredictable one, 
 X3 emulating its past version X2 which also suffered from the same problems. In fact it took X2 
 12 months to shape up into the game it wanted to be with some very heavy commitment from the X 
 Universe community, one of the most loyal and vocal I have ever seen for a game, as well as a number 
 of patch's and support from Egosoft.
  
  And here stems the problem, the vast majority of the hard core fan base had no real desire to have 
 to go through the same 12 months of development on X3 to get the game they wanted to see, this 
 unfortunately now seems to be the case as the X community again look forward to the next Patch 
 and the next Patch after that hoping for solutions to their problems and to see the game content 
 either in the manual or all but promised from the fan site.
  
  Saying that Egosoft is doing their usual Patch bonanza in an effort to stem the disaster set on 
 them by the publisher Deep Silver and have already released two patchs 5 weeks after release. 
 While the community seems, for the moment anyway, to be holding firm, it has exercised its right 
 to a vocal ear bashing to those it feels have let it down. More often than not this has fallen 
 on an unwitting Egosoft who's moderators do their best to explain the relationship and differences 
 between a developer and a publisher in the fast paced and expensive world of PC games.
  
  So onto the game:
  
  X3 contains many of the elements of X2 with a little bit of polish added 
 and also adds a few new elements that are not quite so polished.
  
  You will be taken into a universe with the ability to fly various ships, to dock at many space 
 stations owned by a variety of races. In these stations you may trade for goods, upgrades, ships, 
 read the galaxy news or find jobs that people would like your help with.
  
  You can also purchase these stations yourself and set up your own trading empire, replete with 
 laser towers and a cruising defence force of ships.
  
  Last but not least you have combat, with the use of missiles and deadly beam weapons you may destroy 
 your enemy.
  
  There is a plot that runs through the game but to be honest it is so removed from the tactical 
 elements of this space management sim that many ignore it, begging the question why bother at all.
 
  
  If you ignore the bugs problems and the huge system hog this game has become you may be surprised 
 how this game can grow on you. If you wait and buy this game as an Easter present for your self 
 I am confident you will find a mostly stable game with good content and less drag on the system, 
 reflecting a much better score than the one presently given.
  
  It does have wonderful graphics and a universe waiting to be explored, it keeps allot of the elements 
 that will keep you playing this game into the early am and you will be able to come back re-load 
 and build you empire anew, just not yet.
  
  If X3 deserves any word it is potential and it has buckets of it and a community of faithful Modders 
 who may be able to tap into what Egosoft and DeepSilver missed.
  
  But as with any game it is personal opinion, if you like a space sim (and there arent many!) then 
 this is your bag, wait until next year and this will be a great buy. If you are a fan of fast past 
 shoot em ups like Freelancer then this game may not provide the pace you are looking for.
  
  Like it or hate it X3 is still the most advanced Space sim on the market and the only one that 
 seems to have a future........ unless IWARS3 appears on the horizon but this player of games feels 
 that may be at the same time Elvis re-appears on the moon! 
  
  Mup
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corsoski
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  I have a rather standard (high-end, workstation) , but custom-built computer. I do have alot of 
 hardware in the computer; two soundcards, three separate ide-controllers (two onboard, one pci-x) . 
 I haven't experienced any problems with other games or software.
  
  This game would not install correctly on my machine. I had to use System Restore to repair my system 
 (which luckily worked just fine) . 
  
  I had to threaten the store with a law-suit to get a refund. 
  
  Completely unacceptable. Probably 
 due to the StarForce copyprotection (since I have three ide-controllers) , but as the game simply 
 freezes and reboots my computer if i try to start it, I really don't know what is wrong. 
  
  I tried to reach any type of support by phone, email and through the web. None available.
 
  
  I'm henceforth declaring a boycott on Deep Silver and Egosoft. I do not condone the distribution 
 of software that damages, illicitly modifies or incapacitates hardware and/or software which I 
 legally own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oden_darklord
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Upon finally recieving this game, I was almost hesitant to open the box. Many reports of bad gameplay 
 glitches and starforce drivers on the discs almost kept me from buying it altogether. However, 
 I decided to stay my course and give this game a shot, especially since hype about this game has 
 been all over the internet for the past six months.
  
  Installation went on without a hitch. The game (US version) comes with five install discs and a 
 game disc. As I understand it, the UK version comes on a DVD, which makes installation a snap. 
 Players should be warned that this game will replace your cd driver with a new driver from starforce, 
 an anti-piracy firm based originally in Moscow. Fortunately, this driver appears to be stable, 
 and won't affect your other games. Unfortunately, this game will most likely never have a "no-cd 
 patch". Gamers who have the latest software and powerful hardware should have no problem at all 
 (the minimum specs include a 1.7Ghz processor with 512MB RAM) . 
  All users should install the latest patches immediately. There is a publicly availiable patch for 
 the US version that updates the game from 1.0 to 1.2.1, drastically increasing the quality of the 
 game, and makes it feel like a more complete package.
  
  Starting to play this game can be hard for the most ardent computer gamer, as the steep learning 
 curve is not accompanied by a tutorial. The game universe is incredibly dynamic and vast, and it 
 can be too much for fans of Freespace 2 or Freelancer.
  
  Gameplay is centered around player actions, so it's best to learn what to do by asking around game 
 forums. It can take you hours to figure out the simple task of managing multiple ships, and seconds 
 to do so once you know how to do it.
  
  Combat in the game is simple, but enjoyable. Most enemies will choose to engage you independently, 
 as opposed to using flight tactics like in Elite. This doesn't really detract from the game, and 
 players can easily enjoy this part of what can be described as an incredibly open adventure.
  
  The storyline is not particularly interesting, mostly due to the fact that the voiceovers and 
 sequences are poorly produced. I would personally recommend that players only try a few missions 
 to get a feel for the game before going on their own path.
  
  
  X3: Reunion is a unique experience, and serves as a breather for this genre. Players who liked 
 games like X2 will find more of the same open-ended gameplay formula, and won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjnav
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  I had waited months for this game to be released. When it finally came out I was more than a little 
 disappointed. The game crashed when I went through my second jump gate. The whole interface was 
 changed leaving me with a manual that doesnt tell me anything I need to know. I was fishing around 
 for 20 minutes to figure out what keys had changed and how to navigate. Then I had to download 
 patches that were nearly 80MB. But after that the game started to get better. The crashes stopped, 
 I can play it with higher graphics and navigating the menus only takes me a couple seconds. Now, 
 after almost 15 hours of play I am as hooked on this as I was on X2. I would recommend using the 
 easy settings if your unsure about how to play and then moving to more difficult levels later. 
 
  
  Much of the game like the graphics engine have been greatly improved. The combat in particular 
 has become a lot more faster. Dogfights are very challenging now especially if your up against 
 more than a couple enemies at once. The trading has also been tweaked. The X-universe feels a lot 
 more dynamic, with the economy reacting realistically to changes in resource levels. Whats improved 
 the most has to be the astounding graphics. My PC wont run it on max graphics options but even 
 then the whole universe is breathtaking. I literally stop and stare. The stations are massive the 
 ships look so much better and the whole visual aspect makes it a joy to play. The improvements 
 to factory building are also a plus. The missions are still no different than X2s with only slight 
 improvements to some of the levels. Much of the audio remains the same from the last game which 
 may feel a little second-rate but none the less -its not bad music.
  
  Overall, if youre a fan of space sims be a little patient and give this one a chance and you may 
 find yourself hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis50
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  Invasive copy protection system, they talk about Sony's this isn't much better, I liked the idea 
 behind X3, but having to re-install windows after, just wasnt worth the effort. Game sent back 
 to store. Sadly I dont think this game is PC friendly, I wouldnt reccommend it to friends. Took 
 forever to first get it running, even had to restart the computer for installing it. Back to the 
 old Freelancer game for me. : (
  
  Pet dislikes:
  Game installs hidden devices which DO NOT get removed when you uninstall the game. It changes system 
 drivers. It can disable other devices on your computer such as sata drives. I want to own a game, 
 not have the game own my computer. Removal of hidden devices installed can only be done using a 
 software tool, which you have to search for on the internet. Why dont they include the removal 
 tool on the disk? Copy protection is fine, just leave my operating system alone.
  
  Recommened for those who dont like their exsisting computer setup, you get to do it all over again 
 if it corrupts your OS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaduos
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:05 am PT
Review:  On the outside, X3 delivers outstanding visuals and promise of a great space simulation - a fact 
 you wish were true, but in reality, it falls short of what it was trying to accomplish.
  
  From the beginning, X3 throws you in the game with no tutorial, requesting you perform a multitude 
 of tasks that you haven't a clue of how to do - and the only means of direction or help with the 
 complication of it's controls come in pop-up hints and messages sent to your comm thats buried 
 under a half dozen different buttons to choose from. Finding the right tools for the right time 
 become a chore, and while learning the hotkeys would simplify this task, there are just to damn 
 many of them to remember. 
  
  But these aren't the only problems with X3. Besides having to learn the entire game by yourself 
 and all its tiny nuances, the game jumps back and forth between different cutscenes on a variety 
 of different missions, confusing you as to what you are doing, where you are and where you're supposed 
 to go. The execution of these "sub-plot" videos really have no place and aren't blended together 
 well, often becoming jagged load screens throwing you from one scene to the next leaving you with 
 no clue as to what is going on.
  
  Like any hardcore space sim, the game primarily advances while you sit in your ship and watch the 
 drama play out. While you can explore huge areas of space (usually filled with nothing... as space 
 is I guess) , it would have been nice to explore the ships and planets you come across. Though, 
 being a fellow game designer, I can hardly cement this as a reason why the game is bad since it 
 would take a lot of time to build those environments. Although, what we are left with in the end 
 is a bland game that effectively puts you to sleep, rather than pull you in.
  
  The battles are... almost... fun to play, bringing back memories of Wing Commander and the X-Wing/Tie 
 Fighter series'. My only beef is that, as the battles draw on, it becomes less and less entertaining 
 and more and more difficult to complete. The set of weapons your ship comes with, twin-laser type 
 blasters, have a power meter. When the meter becomes low, your weapon becomes stunted - shooting 
 at an incredibly slow pace until they have time to power up again. In the heat of battle, this 
 can be a problem as it will take a bit to get used to the controls and every shot counts. Missing 
 to much will drain the effectiveness of your weapon, leaving you the only option of flying around 
 until it recharges - while at the same time, receiving a barrage of enemy fire (who's weapons don't 
 seem to have this problem at all) .
  
  As if these weren't problems enough, the space in which you fly is HUGE and probably endless (I 
 never felt the need to fly off into no where to check) and the action takes place in small sectors. 
 Outside if these sectors is... well, you guessed it... nothing. Space is also 3D - being that; 
 north, south, east and west are not N/S/E/W. It feels odd to have this built in compass when it 
 truly doesn't help you find where you need to go, since objectives and ships of all kinds can be 
 above, below and all around you. This only adds to the massive sense of confusion you're probably 
 already feeling just by trying to figure out how to play the game.
  
  On the bright side, as mentioned briefly earlier, the game is beautiful and the sound is top notch. 
 The new age mix of slow and fast techno/surreal music lends to the atmosphere of the game, being 
 its only high point that I can truly appreciate.
  
  In short, X3 barrages you with a ton of information that NEEDS to be learned, giving you a dozen 
 different menus to go through and even more hot keys as shortcuts to these menus. Digesting all 
 this information in a short period of time is impossible, which sails the learning curve through 
 the roof. It'll take time and a lot of patience to enjoy this game.
  
  In the end, X3 is a game you want to be as good as it looks. The visuals are stunning and vibrant. 
 The battles, while suffering from some minor problems, are enjoyable. The story itself though lacks 
 immersion, becoming stale and non-enjoyable. The various other bugs throughout the game will also 
 need to be corrected before X3 can truly become what it needs to be.
  
  You'll love or hate this game, regardless if you're a hardcore space-sim fan. Its not like Tie 
 Fighter and its certainly not like Eve online. Its a variety of both of those packaged into a game 
 that doesn't feel complete. The maps are endless voids filled with a few ships here and there, 
 solidifying the rumor that "in space, you definitely feel lonely". If you can get by with all its 
 problems (and trust me, there are a lot not even mentioned here) , taking a chance with X3 may not 
 be a total waste. Its a game thats need more polish and a few patches, which may come in the future. 
 Right now, though, X3 is a boring space sim with a lot of nothing to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinEdwards
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  OK. I bought the game and everything about my system meets requirements. Guess what... It locks 
 up on the first screen! Tech Support is near unreachable and unresponsive, and the website now 
 won't let me into the forum..... but everything else on the website works?????
  
  The game's release was delayed, delayed again and delayed again.... and from looking at the reviews 
 it doesn't work on half of the other machines that are trying it. Apparently, once you get into 
 the game it's still full of glitches, crashes and hang ups. It's ridiculous and a waste of time 
 and money. 
  
  
  ABYSMAL.... yes... that/'s the word I was looking for .... ABYSMAL... that's my rating!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Space fans deam budget PC's Nightmare. The solid gameplay and complex economy were the biggest 
 surprise I was expecting it to run a little slow at times even on my computer. In the bigger sectors 
 where there are 15 space stations and 70 ships it does slow down but it is verry predictable and 
 you don't do much combat in these safe zones. And after I had the game running for 8 hours streight 
 I had to reboot b/c some memory didn't get released properly but the fact that I was playing for 
 8-10 hours streight says something too. It still hasn't crashed but it has been loads of fun.
 
  
  Trying to combine cargo runs with missions, saving a few energy cells just incase there is a time 
 sensitive transport mission to do with my M5 getting a police license and getting paid 5000 credits 
 just for killing a pirate that I was going to kill anyways it all adds up to alot of open ended 
 gameplay that you take on with your own terms. I transported a guy whho was running from the borg 
 (Xeon are a mechanical race like the Cylons or the borg) and they came after me, I jumped to the 
 next sector and they followed. So I started running circles around an Argon cruizer and between 
 that and the local patrols they got distracted and I swooped in and finished off the last 2 and 
 got a 1000 credit bounty on each of them.
  
  So the game play is there.
  
  The bad news
  
  There is no learning curve it is more like a learning blade. There are lots 
 of commands and they are burried in different places. Took me 10 minutes to figure out how to change 
 ships but now I can do it in 3 seconds flat.
  The manual talks about some of the stuff but doesn't go into too much detail.
  
  Also you will 
 need a beefy system to enjoy this game a SATA hard drive is a must. 
  
  Overall it is worth the effort of learning the menu system to enjoy the beutiful sights and rewarding 
 game mechanics. Similarly I recomend avoiding this game if you have frame rate problems on any 
 other game b/c this one will drive you nuts. IMO the sectors are so rich with buzzing ships and 
 raiding pirates that I prefer the choppy frame rate over the void empty sectors of freelancer.
 
  
  If you like this kind of game don't miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronwexler
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  What can I say; I was excited about this game for months. I grew up with wing commander and space 
 combat sims has always been my favorite genre. When bought this game I also picked up a new controller 
 because I knew it was going to be that awesome. Boy was I wrongthe only thing this game might 
 be good for, is filling in the empty space at the end of your book shelf. I was going to write 
 this whole long review about what is lacking but I would rather not waste anymore time on it. In 
 short, the graphics are wonderful and thats the only good thing. The story is lame and almost 
 impossible to follow. The universe is boring and you quickly lose interest flying around, (even 
 with the cool graphics) . When are game designers going to learn that graphics are the topping and 
 not the filling? I have never been so wrong about a game in my life. I usually wait until a handful 
 of reviews come out and now I remember why. To bad you cant return software, but I am going to 
 try and return the joystick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS - Gameplay 5.3 - Story 1 - Graphics 4 - Sound 1 - Effort/Innovation 0 - Presentation 
 1 - Overall 3.5 - Replay Value High
  - Monetary Value $15
  
  First, let me start by saying that this game was originally slated to be an expansion to X-2 but 
 was later changed to a stand-alone game. No one but the company knows the reasons for this but 
 I assume it was an economic decision since the game plays almost exactly like an expansion.
  
  Two, this game will not work out of box. You must go online to download about 75MBs of patches 
 and it still crashes every few hours and some saves simply do not load and just crash to desktop 
 every time. This game uses Starforce copy protection so pray your CD/DVD drives don't get damaged 
 and die on you like my old Hitachi DVD drive did with a previous game. Also pray that it doesn't 
 slow other games down reducing their performance.
  
  Three, the old X-2 content was shamelessly recycled and aside from the change to modern graphics 
 nothing is different. Same universe, same people, same lack of story, same flaws. Basically its 
 just like KOTOR 2 but lacks a true plot.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (5.3/10)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (3/10) + Options (10/10) + Fluidity (3/10) = 16 out of 30 or 5.3/10
  
  X-3 like its predecessors 
 is an attempt at an all-encompassing space simulation game. It is an excellent attempt at becoming 
 both an action shooter and space economy simulator but unfortunately it doesn't do either well 
 at all. The same issues that plagued its older brother X-2 still plague X-3.
  
  Combat : 3/10
  
  For the sake of my health I am not going to rewrite my X-2 review word for 
 word here. If you read my X-2 review then you know what combat is like in X-3. There are however 
 a few minor changes. You no longer need to buy the strafe drive cheat, you automatically start 
 with it making you virtually invincible from minute 1. Also, the AI has become even dumber than 
 before. You can kill them easily by flying near stations and asteroids just waiting for them to 
 crash. At some point during normal dogfights they simply stop maneuvering and come to a crawling 
 speed allowing you to kill them easily. If the AI was bad in X-2, then its ridiculously pathetic 
 now.
  
  Options : 10/10
  
  Like X-2 this is the games strong point. There is so much to do it can easily consume your life. 
 From petty trading to factory building, to combat and ship capturing its all back in this game. 
 There are several new things here including:
  
  You now have the ability to physically link factories so they share resources directly without 
 the use of freighters. Unfortunately this feature is very clumsy to set up and reduces your options 
 on what and when to sell which product. Factory prices have finally been rebalanced since X-2 so 
 that they are now more logical.
  
  Some ships have been redesigned other remain the same. In general there are 3 classes of ships, 
 the freighter class, the fighters, and the capital class ships. Each class has several different 
 members with different abilities but for those that played X-2 its much simpler to just say its 
 all exactly the same with some variations to the specs of the already existing ships. There are 
 new weapons and missiles to choose from.
  
  Fluidity : 3/10
  
  Like X-2 the story is a side feature thrown in late in development just so that Egosoft can claim 
 the game has a plot. Unlike X-2 however the plot is choppy and not understandable. A lot of audio 
 and video clips get cut off prematurely and some missions can be impossible depending on your hardware 
 setup. Other times, missions are simply confusing asking you to go to sectors you have not explored 
 yet without directions. Sometimes you can ask NPCs for directions but there were a few missions 
 where the option was not even there to ask thus I was completely lost till I stumbled across the 
 sector in question by accident hours later. Not good.
  
  The game is very slow. Ships move very slowly and the game gets very choppy in areas where there 
 are many objects. Ive had the game slow to slideshow proportions several times and I am using 
 an Athlon64 3000 with 2GB RAM and an X700 video card with all settings on medium. Setting up factories 
 and trade ships remains a slow process just like X-2.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY (1/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Like X-2 this game has a plot but its obviously not a focal point for the game. You are expected 
 to know what happens in X-2 in order to understand what is happening in the game otherwise you 
 will be lost. As stated earlier the plot has a lot of holes and is sometimes confusing and not 
 well thought out at all. 1 point for having a plot.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS (4/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The graphics are a huge improvement over the older game. Ships look excellent and textures are 
 robust and lifelike. Sizes are also portrayed much more realistically and in better detail. No 
 complaints here however cut scenes remain horribly bad and choppy.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (1/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The voices are recycled from X-2 for the most part however music has been improved slightly with 
 the addition of a couple of tracks that play exclusively in a few sectors of the game. Combat music 
 however was recycled as well and remains dull. Voice actors are decent enough but they suffer from 
 working for the worst playwright in modern gaming history in my opinion.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (0/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  That's right. 
 Its not a misprint. That's a ZERO up there. The developers of this game did the minimum to create 
 this game. The game is basically exactly the same as X-2 except for the better graphics however 
 some of the graphical work was nothing more than retexturing of old models plus the graphics in 
 this game are much easier to create since almost all the objects in the game are rigid or static. 
 The cut scenes, which needed the most work of all, did not improve at all and still look like PS1 
 graphics. All in all, nothing new was added since X-2 that is worth noting thus this game truly 
 is nothing more than an expansion that brings to the table nothing more than minor features to 
 the older X-2 game. I am not sure whether Egosoft has the laziest developers on earth, or if they 
 were just not on task, or if they are mismanaged but somewhere in there they have a problem that 
 needs fixing. To bad because X-2 (and its expansion pack X-3) still have a lot of potential for 
 a space sim.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The documentation remains incomplete and the tutorials are still very limited. There are some tooltips 
 ingame now but they are never there when you really need them
  
  I restate from X-2, a map of the known universe would have been a great help and a short cheat 
 to expose the entire universe would have been nice for the people who start a new game and don't 
 want to explore it all again. A list of ships and weapons would have also been useful.
  
  The game suffers from being unplayable out of its retail box. It needs to be patched and the patches 
 are huge. The addition to Starforce (I am in the USA) was unwise and will certainly deter some 
 folks from buying or even trying the game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (12.3/35 
 or 3.5/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This game is the 2nd biggest disappointment of the year for me. I figured that at the very 
 least the game will be as good as its predecessor but unfortunately even without the bugs and crashes, 
 the game has gone backwards with a dumber AI and a even more pitifully written plot that sometimes 
 leaves you scratching your head about what to do next. There were a few additions to the old game 
 however they are all so minor that they do not deserve mention given that this was supposed to 
 be an entirely new game. In fact a lot of the improvements mentioned were already handled in X-2 
 via downloadable mods thus they are in fact not new at all.
  
  Shame on Egosoft for using their loyal fan base as their Beta testing genie pigs and doubly shame 
 on them for stealing from the innocent folks who cannot play the game (even with the patches) and 
 cannot get their money back because software cannot be returned once it is opened.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Like X2 this game is open-ended and has unlimited replay value. Just remember there is no real 
 plot.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If the game actually worked and is bug free
  
  $15
  
  It is just an expansion after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJSoulJammer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Spikes2020 i have to say some thing ,befor i even post any coment on the game ,man you have no 
 idea what you talking about ,and specialy Freelancer and X2 or X3 ,man any way its matters of opinion 
 .Definitly best game ever in gender made by Egosoft and all X-Universe series .Definitlly best 
 Game suport on the all NET , and Totaly Awsome Forums ,best help you can ever got ,any problem 
 sugestion or help will find solution for you .
  
  Now little about Game X3 Reunion .Game is unbealivebly amazing with Grafics and Action ,I have 
 play X2 and befor long ago X-BTF but this new X3 is revolution in X Univers .Game you can play 
 in any way you want it or like .Amazing game . Yes indeed was some bugs from the start and they 
 already fix in first week of relist and now soon will be out sec update and fix all other small 
 problems but ,biger picture is Game is Totaly Recomanded for people who want to have great time 
 and awsome game play .And btw X games are not like other games you ever played befor ,this game 
 is to be played for an years if you want ,and never even need multy player at all .I just love 
 ti ,specialy people playing Freelancer now talking in Egosoft forums they are sory they didn't 
 start to play X series long ago ,and not just now .Game is hard and sugestion for new players is 
 starting in Easy mod and more you learn you will see there is no like X3 Reunion .
  God bles Egosoft :o) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikes2020
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  
  I was looking forward to a game that you could play like freelancer... have better polygons... 
 and some nice game play, while installing it was 6 CDs... And 3 gigs of space, its got to be the 
 worst programmed game I have seen in a while...
  
  Once inside the game flying around is ok... your ship moves so slow... and I thought that if you 
 turn off your thrusters that you would drift in that same direction... like in real space but nope... 
 you just stop... not only that but trying to figure out all the keys.. None of them are listed 
 in the book and you have to search though menus to find them, o BTW the menus lag really bad 
 also you can not pause the game while youre looking in the menus... so you drift in to a station 
 or something and explode on contact.
  
  EvE Online has twice the graphics as this, it runs smoother and its a multiplayer RPG... EvE is 
 a 2 year old game and it beats the pants of this one... I think freelancer is even better... as 
 far as the user friendliness goes. Im taking this game right back if possible and if not Im going 
 to find some chump to sell it to...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrimpcrackers
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  To even play this game you need to have the latest starforce DRIVERS.... yes you need to install 
 drivers to even play this game. You see, it comes with a vicious copy protection scheme called 
 Starforce to try to prevent illegal copies. Not such a bad thing? Actually it is.... This means 
 that to play one game, it has to change the way your dvd or cd drives read. This means new drivers 
 and hassle for many people. This causes read problems, slower frame rates due to more system resources 
 being devoted to copy protection rather than game playing. Anyway, you can read more about the 
 many laments of starforce by doing research online.
  On to those pesky things called bugs. Boy does this game love bugs. For now, I say wait for a newer 
 patch. This game was unplayable before the 1.2 patch which came out recently, but I still insist 
 on waiting for a complete game. You have to turn off your HUD or your frame rates can drop by HALF! 
 This was an incomplete, rushed game. 
  
  There's a decent game hidden behind the chaos, but one shouldn't have pay money for an incomplete 
 game that installs malware. This is a decent space-action-trading game although albeit slow. Decent 
 game, worth the effort and pain of installing and fixing? Maybe... Good for those freelancer and 
 x2 fans who have been dying for ANY space sim to come out. Otherwise, I say hold your money close 
 and show those developers that you expect better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxy613
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  Ever sense Egosoft said that they ditched X2: The Return in favor of making X3: Reunion, I was 
 waiting for them to release it. When it came down to release date it was REALLY painfull because 
 Europe and the UK got a solid release date, but it seemed like Enlight wasn't on the ball, heck 
 they had both feet on the ground walking in circles!
  
  Anyways, on to the game. If you are expecting completely new gameplay, completely remade maps, 
 tons of new ships and sectors, and very little in connection with X2. Then sad to say my friend, 
 you over hyped yourself. But what you WILL get is HIGHLY improved combat, better econemy, more 
 exploring, varying sector sizes and makes, and much more things that seem like small changes but 
 makes great differences.
  
  The HUD is another thing that has been improved, though sometime it's just as tangling as X2's 
 at least you can now use the mouse now! The universe map has sadly not been changed, not like there 
 was anything bad about it, it's just looks pretty much the same as before.
  
  About sectors in general. The sectors in X3 are quite different then X2 sectors, X3 sectors truely 
 vary in size, from 40km x 40km to 100km x 100km, and the gates are not placed anymore on a set 
 grid, which makes finding gates in nebula sectors a bit annoying.
  
  Some people can rant on and on about how great X3's graphics are, but all I'm going to say on the 
 matter is two things: The graphics are STUNNING, and I can run X3 on it's highest setting in 1240x1024 
 resolution with my Ati 9800Pro 128MB and still get good framerates!
  
  What this shows is that X3 is not as a graphic dependent as most people think. What is MOST importent 
 in X3 in terms of system specs is your processor and RAM. I run on a 2.0Ghz and 1Gb RAM (and the 
 9800Pro said above) , and during battle I find myself sometimes turning off the HUD (Shift-H) just 
 to get a FPS boost so I can stay on top of combat.
  
  The really big problem for new people is the fact that X3 does NOT have a trading tutorial. You 
 will have to learn as you go. If you want help on how to start X3, go over to Egosoft. com, register, 
 and ask! There is also a good "Getting Started" guide that is stickied there.
  
  In closing, if you can give X3 a piece of your mind and time, it can be a fun game. If you like 
 a challange and wouldn't mind flying through massive sectors looking for combat, trade, or just 
 exploring, this game is for you.
  
  Any more questions? Ask on the Egosoft ( http://forum. egosoft. com ) forums! My username there is 
 Galaxy613. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  The controls are quite difficult. I try and use my joystick, but the mouse is more maneuverable, 
 but harder to control. This is my only gripe about the game so far. The graphics are stunning, 
 the animation is stunning, the visual effects are stunning. I *LOVE* the complexity of this series 
 so far, and while it's not a new genre altogether, it improves on its predecessor a great deal.
 
  
  The economy in the game is a *LOT* more complex than in other games, so be prepared for a steep 
 learning curve. I think this was a sincere attempt at broadening merchandise capabilities, and 
 not making a trade game seem so boring. Most of us are going to shoot our way through the universe. 
 Why? Because it's plain FUN! This isn't a game where only raw skill will keep you from dying. You 
 need good equipment, and even the hottest space ace is going to be humbled by this game. (I consider 
 myself to be one of the best space aces that have ever lived, and this game is hard for me.)
  
  I need to find out how to get better control with this thing, but all-in-all, it's a step up, 
 and I'm enjoying playing it so far. It *HAS* crashed my system a few times, but so has CIV IV, 
 so I don't know if it's their fault, or mine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've played this year, it also has some bugs.
  
  I'll start with the negatives. The first few hours with X3 will be a frustrating experience for 
 most people. To begin with you need to download an 80 mb patch or the game is unstable. Even when 
 the 1.2 patch is installed the game has plenty of bugs. It can give bad frame rates on the highest 
 spec machines, yet others with average machines report it runs fine. The plot is currently broken, 
 it is recommended that you do not complete one of the end missions until a further patch is released 
 (Due mid November) . The manual does not do the game justice, in-fact some of the keys in the manual 
 are wrong leading to confusion. There are no tutorials to the game, just a couple of practice combat 
 missions. If you've never played any of the previous X games I can see this being very hard to 
 get into, but it is worth it.
  
  Despite all these current problems, this is still the best looking, most rewarding game experience 
 I've had for some years. The graphics are astonishing, you really do feel like your in space. You 
 could spend hours gazing at the cloud cover rolling over the surface of a planet, or slowly flying 
 over the gigantic space structures and stations. Those of us who fondly remember Elite and Frontier 
 will feel right at home as this game is the best on the market that captures the feel of these 
 classic games.
  
  Combat has been greatly improved since X2. There is a small amount of inertia built into the game 
 which makes combat more interesting. The weapon systems available to you seem meatier than ever 
 before and seem to fire quicker than in X2.
  
  There is a single player story which you can follow, but this has always been the weakest aspect 
 of the X series for me. The cut scenes and storyline have improved over X2 but they still look 
 quite poor in comparison to other modern games. The good news is that the game is also completely 
 free form. You do not have to follow the storyline, you can go off and do your own thing. You can 
 become a pirate, bounty hunter, trader, explorer, business owner. Over time you can build up a 
 massive empire spanning the galaxy. The possibilities are almost endless.
  
  Once you get past the initial problems with the game it is a very immersive experience, and it 
 is one of those games that eats up your time and destroys your social life. I just cannot stop 
 playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misinformed2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  I opened my copy of the game early Friday morning, that was the highlight, it went downhill from 
 there.
  
  Having played X2- The threat, its predecessor which was rather buggy, had terribly scripted cut 
 scenes, and a storyline that didnt really engross, but was a great game overall. I was hoping 
 for a massive improvement over X2 with X3. It is after all the closest thing weve go to ELITE. 
 The space trading/combat simulator which set the genre in motion all those years ago. But instead 
 what I received is somewhat problematic to review, I have mixed feelings about it. Therefore for 
 the rest of the review I will go over the various aspects of the game and try to offer some incite 
 into what its really like. 
  
  X3 Reunion takes off from where we last left off. After a rather annoying out of sync news reporter 
 gets you up to speed on current events. You can either choose to start a new game, on one of the 
 three available difficulty levels (quick start, normal or X-treme) . Unfortunately the difficulty 
 doesnt not effect the ai or the economy just your starting equipment. Or forgo the story line 
 all together and start off as a trader, assassin or explorer for a bit of role-playing. Which basically 
 disables the storyline and lets you do whatever you want right from the start. 
  
  Veterans of the x - universe will find themselves in a familiar environment however new players 
 may become overwhelmed, alienated and frustrated with x3 right from the start because your plunged 
 into the deep end.
  
  First thing you will notice upon playing x3 is that the graphics are sublime to say the least unfortunately 
 the second thing youll notice is that your getting 15 frames a second, so unless youve got a 
 6800 GT/ultra or equivalent polygon pumping machine you wont be able to run it on the highest graphics 
 which are set by default. However if you do have a powerful rig your in for a treat. 
  
  Now x3's not for the faint of heart nor is it for someone looking to get a quick fix, this is a 
 full time job. Your either going to be addicted from the start or you will instantly dislike it. 
 
  
  So here we are in the middle of space, whats there to do? Well like x2 you can trade consumer 
 goods/manufactured products and weapons between various space stations for profit, attack pirates, 
 or become one (or both) , amass a large fleet of ships to do your bidding. Explore unknown areas 
 run missions from various individuals and build up an empire of stations to compete with the npc 
 economy. And of course work towards the what many players of x2 thought of as their ultimate goal, 
 owning a capital ship or a fleet of them. And of course theres the main storyline to consider. 
 All sounds very attractive doesnt it? Thats because it is. 
  
  The AI economy in x3 unfortunately, despite being told otherwise acts very much alike to the economy 
 in x2 which is fairly rudimentary compared to a real world economy. Working on the premise of supply 
 and demand, for example buying goods from a station with a full stock of the product will get you 
 a cheap price and selling to a station with very little of the same product will get you a nice 
 return on your money. However thats about as complicated as it seems to get. Npc traders are constantly 
 competing against you for the best prices which adds price fluctuations, and occasionally a new 
 npc station is created which shakes up supply and demand a bit but thats it. 
  
  The combat in x3 is fast paced and enjoyable with a fair amount of skill involved depending on 
 whats shooting you. The Ai isnt particularly smart, mainly preferring to do a number of strafing 
 runs at you rather than employing any fancy combat manoeuvres, however its still provides a definite 
 challenge especially when fighting multiple enemies. The number of ships in game is quite impressive, 
 and thats not mentioning variants of different ships with their own modified ship models. For 
 example theres a ship called a Nova, this nova also comes in the sentinel and vanguard variants 
 to name a few swell as the original nova. Which subsequently have different strengths and weaknesses. 
 
  
  Exploration is a worthwhile and intriguing use of your time in x3 not only may you discover new 
 trade routes, trading goods and weapons to purchase but you might find one of the hidden items 
 dotted around the game. However because of the very nature of a sector (which could be described 
 as a solar system to give you another perspective) the stations are usually all clumped together 
 in the middle leaving a lot of open space on all sides. Now the great thing about x3 is that for 
 example you see a moon over in the distance, you can actually go there, it will take a long time 
 but you can get there, the bad thing however is that theres really no incentive to go there.
 
  
  And finally the storyline, its never been a strong part of X games, it was normally something 
 you considered to do on the side from time to time, and X3 is no exception. The storyline is about 
 as gripping as a lubricated water balloon. Utilising a combination of in game communications between 
 the main characters, in game cinematics, and out of game full screen cinematics to convey the story. 
 And it does a shoddy job of it, developers egosoft dont seem to have learnt the importance of 
 lip-syncing which prevents you from taking any of the characters seriously. However its an improvement 
 on x2. When switching between these various story driven components you will find yourself constantly 
 adjusting the volume as the clips are usually to quiet. The missions themselves arent particularly 
 challenging and see you performing a variety of tasks from overseeing a rookie patrol to mounting 
 gun turrets on capital ships and shooting down incoming fighters. However the storyline just lacks 
 that polish which should lend itself to the game, sometimes graphical errors, sometimes an ai controlled 
 ship will crash into a station, and it just destroys the atmosphere the game should be trying to 
 maintain. 
  
  Now unfortunately at release the game is full of bugs, it seems like they worked round the clock 
 just to add them. If your in need of further convincing check out egosoft community forums for 
 evidence. In my opinion the game has not been beta tested sufficiently and this is the consequence. 
 There are a number of graphical errors in game as well as fundamental problems with the storyline 
 (at present no one is able to complete it due to a bug in mission 12) and the economy (AI traders 
 wont trade some goods) . The game is also a complete system hog, if you meet the recommended requirements 
 for playing this game there is a chance that you wont be able to run x3 for whatever reason, which 
 a number of people have been reporting. 
  
  If your a fan of the X - universe buy it, brave the bugs, you may be a little disappointed by the 
 way in which x3 borrows a lot of material from X2 (X3 uses a lot of X2 soundtrack and audio) and 
 a little disappointed by having your high expectations dashed but it will grow on you. If youre 
 not a fan wait until November when the 1.3 patch is released otherwise you may not stick with it 
 that long yourself. 
  
  This is the definition of a diamond in the rough. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
