-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X: Beyond the Frontier
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/10beyondthefrontier/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  9, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Egosoft
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you miss the days of Elite and Privateer, then chances are you'll love X: Beyond the Frontier. 
 

 Some space combat games offer plenty of white-knuckled dogfighting action that's just as intense 
 as any first-person shooter could ever claim to be. X - Beyond the Frontier is not one of those 
 games. In fact, if you aren't the sort of gamer who likes the idea of spending countless hours 
 exploring the far reaches of virtual space, fighting occasionally but spending most of your time 
 tinkering with finances, then X - Beyond the Frontier is not for you. On the other hand, if you're 
 a grizzled veteran of Elite and Privateer, then X - Beyond the Frontier will definitely bring back 
 fond memories of those classic, open-ended games of space exploration and financial exploitation. 

 Developed by German software house EgoSoft, X puts you in control of Earth's first light-speed-capable 
 spacecraft, the X Prototype. But something goes wrong during the first test flight, and you suddenly 
 find yourself transported to a distant, alien galaxy. Unarmed and unprotected, you encounter the 
 Teladi, an alien race fixated on trade and profit. They outfit your ship with some basic shields, 
 sensor software that lets you maneuver between systems, and a few credits with which to buy goods 
 for trade - but they also leave you with a sizeable debt that they expect you to pay back soon. 

 And so your adventure begins as you set out in search of some way to earn enough money to pay back 
 the Teladi. Gameplay in X is very open-ended, though there is a plot lurking about somewhere in 
 the background. You aren't forced to follow the plot, however. In fact, the game almost encourages 
 you not to follow it, since you are free to explore space at your leisure, buy and sell goods, 
 fight pirates and evil aliens, and even purchase and manage your own space-born factories and mines. 
 Given enough time, you can establish a massive, interstellar financial empire if you play your 
 cards right.  

 X comes with only a skimpy manual that explains few of the game's most important intricacies, which 
 was apparently an intentional design decision. How to purchase a factory or mine - one of the key 
 features of the game - is left for you to discover on your own. You must also learn how to hire 
 freighters and fighters to service and protect your possessions. Other matters, such as the best 
 places to find better shields, powerful weapons, and various trading commodities, are also left 
 unexplained. Where to find good deals and better equipment might not seem like the sort of information 
 that should be in the manual, but when every commodity in the game is sold by a different space 
 station - and not every kind of station can be found in every system - you can end up spending 
 an awful lot of time looking for what you need. It also doesn't help that you must manually identify 
 each installation in a new system, rather than simply download a sector map on entry.  

 However, exploring is the name of the game, and if you don't get frustrated by X 's snail's pace 
 in the first 10-20 minutes, chances are you'll love the experience of flying from system to system. 
 Six different alien races occupy the game's 50-plus systems, each with its own sphere of influence 
 and array of commodities and space-station designs. There is some crossover between the races, 
 such as the identical-looking inner doors on virtually all space stations, but for the most part 
 each race has a distinctive appearance.  

 Fortunately, you don't necessarily have to travel from system to system to make a buck, as you would 
 in Elite or Privateer. For example, you can buy energy units at a system's power plant and sell 
 them at a factory or mine in the same system. Doing so can save you a lot of time, since you begin 
 the game without a time-acceleration feature (which must be purchased as an add-on from an equipment 
 supplier) , and travel in X is a time-consuming process.  

 After as little as an hour of gameplay, with some shrewd trading on your part, you should be able 
 to outfit your X ship with a pair of lasers, a larger cargo bay, a navigational computer and the 
 time-accelerating "singularity time distortion engine." After that, continued trading can quickly 
 yield enough cash to purchase your own power plant or other installation. You even get to display 
 your own logo on each installation you own (with a picture of your favorite Simpsons character, 
 for example) . Keep your installation protected from Xenon ships and supply them with the resources 
 they require, and you'll soon have a fortune on your hands. You can even buy some freighters for 
 your larger installations, and as long as they have access to money, they will go out and bring 
 back all the resources necessary to keep the installation running. Then all you have to do is set 
 your selling price for the installation's end product and watch the profits roll in. Unfortunately, 
 you cannot sell your ship and buy a new one as you could in Elite and Privateer. However, you can 
 outfit it with tons of cool hardware, and eventually you can build up a vessel that is capable 
 of taking on most warships in the galaxy.  

 Combat in X isn't terrible, but it's not great either. It's abundantly clear that trade and exploration 
 were the main focus of the development team, because some elements of combat seem half-baked or 
 flawed. Pirate ships, which appear frequently in almost every system, are primarily there for target 
 practice, despite your sensor's warnings about their massive shields and powerful lasers. These 
 lumbering transport ships shoot back rarely, if ever, but they do possess one very annoying tactic: 
 They like to run into you. Their kamikaze habits seem more like a consequence of bad artificial-intelligence 
 programming than anything else; most pirate ships will just try to ram you instead of maneuvering 
 for a clear shot. And because X's laser and damage effects block most of your view, the kamikaze 
 runs are often successful.  

 The obstructive combat graphics are the game's most glaring graphic flaws. Its other visual problems 
 include a tiled nebula background in some systems where the tile seams are clearly visible. Furthermore, 
 each alien race has a distinctive color to its engine flare, so you can always tell whose ship 
 is passing by when you see the bright corona around the tail; but the same goes for pirates, who 
 apparently haven't noticed that their telltail purple engine glow gives them away. Also, destroyed 
 ships simply disappear behind a wall of animated flame, which is really a minor problem, though 
 it does look sloppy on closer inspection.  

 Some of the 3D spacecraft and installation models are well detailed, and nicely animated whenever 
 appropriate. However, with only a few exceptions, the spacecraft models are mostly simplistic low-polygon 
 shapes. Considering the game's overall visual beauty - thanks to the gorgeous colored lighting 
 effects and the highly detailed rotating planets - some of the less spectacular ships really stand 
 out because of their blandness, such as the Teladi transport ships and the capital ships in most 
 systems. On the other hand, the serpentine Boron space stations look quite good, as do the Argon 
 trading stations and the mines found in most systems.  

 X - Beyond the Frontier has some other problems. You cannot save your game in an installation, not 
 even your own, unless the station offers "salvage insurance." There also seem to be some very strange 
 problems with the market values in some of the systems. You'll often find that it actually costs 
 less money to purchase materials at their logical sale points rather than from their source; for 
 example, silicon might be cheaper at a computer-chip plant than at a silicon mine. This simply 
 doesn't make sense, and it can be very frustrating to would-be traders, especially when the mine 
 has tons of stock and the plant has very little.  

 In addition, the profit margin on most items is too consistent, regardless of the items' value. 
 For example, you might make 15 credits profit for each 20-credit energy unit you sell, but when 
 you unload a shipment of 300-credit silicon wafers, you'll often end up making the same 15-credit 
 profit per unit. There should really be more variation between high- and low-ticket items. And 
 of course, although the game is intended to be learned and explored without a lot of handholding 
 from the documentation, EgoSoft really could have given you a little more information to go on. 
 Even an in-game encyclopedia or journal feature it would've been a marked improvement.  

 Even so, few such issues actually detract from the overall experience that X - Beyond the Frontier 
 offers. If you miss the days of Elite and Privateer, then chances are you'll love X - Beyond the 
 Frontier. It's the sort of game that will carve out a space on your hard drive and stay there while 
 other, newer games come and go. X is not for everyone, but it'll almost certainly become a classic 
 for fans of more slowly paced, economics-intensive space simulations.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paul939
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Yeah, you heard me, I'm not interested in becoming a long haul trucker in space. The ultimate aim 
 in this game is not battling evil, but buying low and selling high.
  You are a pilot flying a prototype "faster -than-light" craft, but during the course of the experiment, 
 something goes wrong and you get sucked into some other galaxy filled with aliens called the Taladi. 
 They proceed to give you equipment, shields on condition that you pay them back. Now, i dint figure 
 all this by hearing the story, simply because I couldn't understand ,no matter how high I set my 
 volume, what the alien NPC was saying. It seemed all like radio static to me. The voice over acting 
 is very poor indeed, Almost all stations say the same messages again and again, and sounds and explosions 
 are'nt much to write about.
  Perhaps the most irritating part of the game was the time it took to get from one destination to 
 another. I made some trips in which I was able to make some popcorn before I reached my destination. 
 And I dint find many pirates on the way, I was sometimes able to leave my computer for long periods 
 of time without anything happening. You can fly absolutely straight for half an hour, and nothing 
 absolutely happens. There's a time compression device that you can buy, though it dint reduce the 
 time much. The graphics of the game are pretty ok, and are quite good. You can ignore the story 
 and continue with money making, it's almost as if the developers wanted you to do exactly this. 
 
  Overall, I wasn't impressed with the game, and the trips were maddening. Maybe good for people 
 liking an open ended system and business like applications, But I'm not interested in being a trucker. 
 If I wanted to become one, I would have stuck with Freelancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxgrin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  "X - Beyond the Frontier" being the first of the "X" is also probably the best one so far. While 
 it lacks the dynamic lightning and advanced particle effects, the technologies simply not present 
 at the time of development, it demonstrates a great gameplay as well as a superb storyline.
  
  "X - Beyond the Frontier" sends you, an unnamed pilot, on a journey into a far away world of 
 X as a result of an unsuccessful experimental flight. Once teleported out of the warp the pilot 
 virtually crashes into an incoming space cruiser. From here on the player has a choice between 
 following the storyline, which is completely linear, or building up his own space empire by purchasing 
 factories, spaceships and newer combat systems.
  
  The game is definitely worth a try and despite its age, is probably the best of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Like many space sim junkies, I cut my teeth on the "Wing Commander" series of games from Origin 
 back in the day. The most unusual of the games associated with that universe was a game called 
 "Privateer". In this game you could trade, take missions, trade ships, fight, steal, spy etc.. 
 all from your cozy desktop. The graphics were from hunger but the game play was fabulous. You could 
 trick your ship out, buy a new one, anything you wished long as you had the duckets. All the worlds 
 were different... the bars might have been a little repetitive but oher than that it was great. 
 I've always longed for a game to take "Privateer"'s place and while XBTF is not perfect it is fun.
 
  
  Installation: 
  Pretty easy once I got the got the grame extracted to my Hard drive. I got the "gold" pack that 
 includes the add-on "X-Tension". In addition the disk also had a patch button to bring the game 
 up to speed. I had a problem running the game until I utilised a menu button optimizing it for 
 Direct X6. This may seem a little silly today but that's the only way I could get the game to run 
 and recognize my modern graphics card. After that it was smooth sailing. 
  
  Graphics:
  Considering this game is over 6 years old (a lifetime in videogaming believe me) the graphics hold 
 up pretty well. Once you tweak the resolution and colors to maximize the improved hardware, XBTF 
 is quite pretty to look at. Space looks marvelous, the enteriors of space stations do not. But 
 what do you want for a game this old. All polygons no curves in sight but you don't miss it after 
 a while. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is good, it tracks well, you can tell what's where when you're flying around the universe. 
 Good tracking from front to rear and right to left on my speakers. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Well this is a mixed bag. They drop you in this universe with a busted ship, no money and little 
 or no knowledge of the locals or the sit rep. You're expected to teach yourself how to navigate, 
 fight, fly, buy, sell and build with little knowledge to go on. When you do figure out what you 
 need to sell, your ship is so dang slow it takes hours (literally) to build enough cash to get 
 an engine boost and a nav upgrade so you don't collect social security waiting to finish this game. 
 It is slooooow and boring for the first 5 hours or so but that'swhat the developers intended. After 
 a while you get some cash and a factory or two and you've enough money and ship under your butt 
 to go exploring. 
  
  "Exploring" is a term I use loosely as most systems are the same ole factories with a adifferent 
 moon and a different planet in the back drop. Seen one seen em all actually. When the Xenon (badguys) 
 show up though things get hectic. It costs a lot of money to get your ship strong enough to fight, 
 heck it costs a lot to get your ship upgraded enough to RUN!!! But when you can fight it's fast 
 and furious furballs. The other races love you and pay you when you slag a badguy so it's fun and 
 profitable and this game is all about da CREDITS!!! 
  
  I play this game with my Thrustmaster Uber Cougar setup and CH ruder pedals, this makes this one 
 immersive experience, but you can just as easily play this thing with mouse and keyboard. Once 
 you're in it for a day or two you'll find XBTF immersive and fun and cheap. Not sold in the U. S. 
 anymore (if ever) you'll have to go on ebay and score a copy from across the pond. And don't expect 
 to find any walkthroughs around either... All in all I like this game, more variety in the destinations 
 would've been perfect but other than that, it's all good.
  
  Worf101 99th Pursuit Squadron, 332nd V. F. G. "Spit Fire" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
