-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: XIII Century: Death or Glory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/xiiicenturyswordhonor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep, challenging battle mechanics.
 Wide range of historical battles from the entire 13th century.
 Detailed terrain has a tremendous influence on battles.
 AI that knows enough to use the terrain and exploit your weaknesses.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay deals solely with tactical RTS combat.
 Direct-IP multiplayer only.
 Some performance glitches with video and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 243 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Unicorn Games
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 12, 2008 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Attention to battlefield detail and smart AI make XIII Century a serious real-time tactical challenge. 
 

  Calling XIII Century: Death or Glory a poor man's take on the Total War series may seem like a 
 condemnation of this tactical RTS with mere faint praise. But even though this compendium of great 
 medieval battles might not be as all-encompassing as its big brothers from Creative Assembly, first-time 
 developer Unicorn Games Studios has put together a challenging historical warfare simulation with 
 outstanding depth. It feels a little stripped down when it comes to frills and extra gameplay options, 
 although the game has it where it counts if all you're interested in is pitting your mettle and 
 might against enemy generals on the battlefield.  

            Freeing Andalusia from the occupying Muslim armies, one bloody battlefield at a time. 

  There actually isn't much here aside from you going all medieval on the computer's posterior. XIII 
 Century swaps the stereotypical grand campaign where you rule an empire for "campaign light" mission 
 packs where you fight alongside the medieval armies of England, France, Germany, Russia, and the 
 Mongolian hordes of Genghis Khan. Each of these collections features five separate historical battles 
 that you unlock one by one. So the English start with Evesham then move on to Falkirk, Conwy, Lincoln, 
 and Lewes. The Russians fight at Yaroslav, Torchev, Lake Peipus, Rakovor, and Lipitsa. The French 
 take to the bloody fields of Taillebourg, Muret, Tagliarozzo, Benevento, and Bouvines. And so on. 
 You get a pretty comprehensive tour of all the 13th-century hot spots by the time you work your 
 way through all five nations and a set of bonus battles that open up as your rank grows through 
 winning battles.  

  All this might seem a bit on the skimpy side to anyone coming off of an overwhelming epic like 
 Medieval II: Total War. But since the battles here are so thoroughly depicted, it's hard to quibble 
 with the warfare-centric focus. For starters, XIII Century is tough. Battles are founded on a rigorous 
 rock-paper-scissors formula, so you can't just lumber about and rush foes with no consideration 
 as to their relative strengths and weaknesses. This isn't a simple formula, either. Although many 
 basics are in play here (keep cavalry away from pikemen, keep archers on high ground, that sort 
 of thing) , unit statistics are heavily detailed. This gives you a lot to keep track of during battles, 
 which tend to fly by even at regular speed, but at least the interface provides ready access to 
 everything you need to know. Moving the mouse cursor over unit formations provides banks of numbers 
 detailing morale, number of wounded, whether or not the flanks and rear are covered, and so forth. 
 So you can get instant snapshots of how your troops are faring when things are going hot and heavy, 
 which lets you keep pace and give the right commands at the right times.  

  Stats aren't much help when it comes to dealing with battlefields, though. Maps here are so intricately 
 detailed that you have to use the terrain to your advantage in order to have a chance at victory, 
 even if the odds are heavily in your favor. Each is packed with hills that provide great positions 
 for archers, paths that allow cavalry units to pull off sneaky flanking maneuvers, rivers that 
 let you set up almost impregnable defenses, and so forth. Having to take the lay of the land into 
 account before giving even the most basic order really enhances the realism of medieval warfare, 
 and underlines how battles can turn on presumably minor issues such as how well a general uses 
 a hill. Beautiful, detailed graphics really bring these backgrounds to life, too. Panning around 
 during battles reveals postcardlike vistas of hills, mountains, and rivers, along with the rather 
 incongruous (if majestic) sight of soldiers in full armor.  

  Cunning artificial intelligence makes the challenge presented here even stiffer. Enemy forces know 
 the rock-paper-scissors formula well and use it to pull off some truly stunning attacks. Expect 
 any and all openings to be exploited, so be sure not to leave any archers uncovered by heavy ground 
 troops or enemy cavalry will decimate them in moments. One mistake can easily cost you a battle, 
 even if it looks like you're presiding over a triumphant rout. Defenses are also adroitly handled 
 by the AI. Even if you execute a brilliant plan that catches the enemy off-guard, computer-controlled 
 forces tend to launch counters that can turn things around in the blink of an eye. Battles can't 
 be won on one or even two astute maneuvers, so you have to string together a full series of smart 
 moves to emerge victorious. It's astonishing how well computer armies rally from serious setbacks, 
 regularly bouncing off the canvas from even crushing blows like having archers slaughtered by a 
 sly flanking cavalry charge.  

            The scope of battles in XIII Century is more than a bit daunting, but at least you've 
 got a great interface to help you make the tough decisions.      

  As good as XIII Century is on the battlefield, it doesn't offer all that much off of it. Only the 
 Custom Battle mode is a worthwhile addition to the campaigns, as it lets you set up battles with 
 more than a dozen nations and family factions and buy armies with set starting amounts of cash. 
 Multiplayer is something of a lost cause at present, as it supports only direct IP connections 
 (although a patch providing access to a matchmaking server is apparently in the works) . And the 
 visuals and sound are a bit on the wonky side, with occasional frame-rate hitches and sharp pops 
 whenever you get into heavy battles with hundreds of units onscreen at once. The game can become 
 nearly unplayable very fast when this happens, which can sabotage your ability to control battles. 

  Still, XIII Century: Death or Glory provides a deep, challenging taste of medieval warfare even 
 with its singular focus on the field of battle. That might not be enough for some strategy gamers, 
 although anyone with a mind for military tactics should appreciate this exacting look at one of 
 history's bloodiest centuries.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: starwars2000
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  First game after total war series that is even better in controlling your units and giving it a 
 dose of realism.
  But this game would be better if there weren't problems with the engine of the game.
  
  It 
 constantly crashes or just notifies u that the game engine doesn't work and after that if u are 
 lucky you will return to the game but the graphic's are all screwy.
  
  My score for this game is 7 and it would be higher if the game isn't buggy.
  Hope that with some 
 patch this will be fixed but lately a lot of games do not even get a patch like "Hard to be a God" 
 which still doesn't have a patch or working site.
  
  I will eagerly wait for some release to fix this problem but, i am not sure that will ever happen.
 
  This game uses ground and view point to the max, and units look good.
  That's all from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Is it possible to be to real? If so, this game goes way overboard on realism.
  
  What started out to look like a very promising game turned out to be quite a disappointment. Plagued 
 by bad AI and multiple crashes, this game fell short of my expectations.
  
  Graphics: Not to shabby for an RTS of this type. But having it crash on my system every 15 minutes 
 kind of took away from the glory.
  
  Gameplay - Just plain... well rough. To hard to control the formations. The inability to customize 
 your keyboard. And the lack of a better than average tutorial didnt help much either.
  
  Storyline - Authentic, and done quite well. From the acurate depictions to the voiceover, this 
 was the only saving grace for this game.
  
  This is definitely a bargin bin game and I would strongly suggest waiting for a few patches before 
 even attempting that. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
