-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: XIII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/xiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,461 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Paris
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 18, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
XIII has a unique and potentially interesting premise, but the game doesn't really differentiate 
 itself from the wide array of other first-person shooters on the market. 

  XIII is a cel-shaded first-person shooter based on a long-running French comic book of the same 
 name. The game definitely plays up its comic book roots, complete with readable sound effects and 
 comic-book-like panels that pop up while you're playing. While it definitely has a certain sense 
 of style to it, the game itself misses its mark, and the total package isn't one that will hold 
 the interest of most first-person shooter players.  

          It's natural for the amnesiac lead character to sound a little confused, but David Duchovny's 
 voice work just doesn't capture XIII in a compelling way.     

  XIII, or "Thirteen," is both the name of the game and the name of the character you'll play as, 
 though there's definitely some question about your character's identity. The game opens with you 
 waking up with a gunshot wound after washing up on a beach, unable to remember anything at all. 
 As you proceed through the game, you'll begin to piece together your past, which is an interesting 
 one, to say the least. As it happens, you have the face of a man accused of assassinating the president 
 with a sniper rifle. But are you, in fact, that man? Or are you an agent given a new face in an 
 attempt to get to the bottom of the assassination conspiracy? The game attempts to answer these 
 questions with prerendered and in-engine cutscenes, as well as slightly interactive flashbacks 
 that occasionally burst out in the middle of a level. While none of these devices are particularly 
 effective storytellers, the story has enough to it that you'll at least be interested in seeing 
 it through, even in the face of XIII's rather rudimentary gameplay.  

  XIII may have a unique look for a first-person shooter, but the game behind the cel shading really 
 doesn't go out of its way to distinguish itself. The objectives are basic, the weapons don't pack 
 much of an audiovisual punch, and the AI is pretty bad. For example, guards will run into a room 
 and bump their way past you to bend down and look at a dead soldier instead of just firing at you 
 immediately. Or soldiers will somehow manage to hit you with gunfire even though they aren't facing 
 you. The game does have some idea of location-specific damage, but this is really only noticeable 
 with headshots, which slap three comic-book-style panels on the screen each time you land one. 
 Some enemies will be wearing helmets, giving them some protection against players with good aim. 
 But the game is largely about getting from point A to point B. In some sections you'll have to 
 escort an AI character along the way, and you'll have to use a grappling hook from time to time 
 to move forward. The level design isn't especially complex or interesting, but the game does effectively 
 transition between indoor and outdoor environments.  

  You can save anywhere, and as in most shooters, there's also a quick-save feature. But strangely, 
 neither type of save method can actually be used to restore your exact position. They'll send you 
 back to your last checkpoint. The levels do contain a good number of checkpoints, but the fact 
 that you can't even use a quick save to restore your exact position is a little frustrating, especially 
 when attempting to navigate some of the stealthier sections.  

  The game starts you off empty-handed. You'll quickly find a throwing knife, which you can use to 
 get a pistol, which you can use to get an assault rifle. You'll also encounter a sniper rifle, 
 a different assault rifle with a grenade launcher attached, a submachine gun, two types of pistols, 
 grenades, flashbangs, and so on. The game rewards short bursts over wildly inaccurate fully automatic 
 fire, but even short bursts from the rifles aren't terribly accurate. The pistols and, of course, 
 sniper weapons are far more accurate and far more useful for simply landing headshots and eliminating 
 enemies without much fuss. Aside from gunplay and maneuvering, you can also pick up items, such 
 as shovels or ashtrays, and bonk people over the head with them. Since some of the levels put you 
 up against innocent bank guards and other people who have you confused with the enemy, you'll have 
 to use this sort of nonlethal force from time to time. You can also take people hostage, which 
 will prevent these guards from taking shots at you. All told, the single-player campaign's 13 chapters 
 will take the average first-person shooter player somewhere between eight and 12 hours to complete 
 on its default difficulty setting.  

  The PC version of XIII ships on four CDs and gives you two install options. The minimum install 
 is smaller and leaves some of the game content on the CDs. The full option installs 2.5GB to your 
 hard drive. You would think that something labeled "full installation" would actually, you know, 
 put the entire game on your hard drive. But no, even when selecting this option, you'll still have 
 to actually swap CDs in between some levels, possibly because the game's shoddy, poorly encoded 
 prerendered cutscenes still reside on the discs, or possibly because it's a sadistic, new form 
 of copy protection. This is a relatively minor annoyance, but it's certainly worth mentioning. 
 The game should have used the "install discs/play disc" mentality used by other games, or maybe 
 the full install should actually work as advertised.  

  XIII contains online multiplayer as well as the ability to play against bots, though the bots don't 
 really put up much of a fight. The game uses a built-in server browser to find online games, and 
 it contains deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and sabotage, which is a class-based 
 team game that has one team defending a series of checkpoints while the other is charged with blowing 
 them up. The multiplayer certainly works, provided you can find a server running, but the maps, 
 most of which come from the single-player campaign, aren't very exciting. Also, an abundance of 
 health and armor on many maps, combined with a general lack of punch from the weapons and the fact 
 that the game only allows six players per game, dulls the excitement.  

  XIII is a cel-shaded game, which effectively plays off of its comic book roots, but it certainly 
 looks less than impressive. The models and environments are really quite basic, and the animation, 
 particularly the facial animations for the speaking characters, is bad. The game's style covers 
 up some of its shortcomings, but the problems stick out enough to mar the experience.  

          The game has all the elements that you'd expect a first-person shooter to have. It just 
 doesn't combine them in an exciting way.     

  David Duchovny, Adam West, and Eve all lend their voices to the game. Adam West and Eve do reasonably 
 well, but Duchovny, who plays XIII himself, doesn't come off sounding terribly natural. Beyond 
 that, the sound effects and music are par for the course. The gunfire and explosions are satisfying 
 without excelling, and the music fits the action pretty well.  

  XIII has a unique and potentially interesting premise, and some will certainly want to drag their 
 way through the single-player campaign just to watch the story unfold, but the game doesn't really 
 differentiate itself from the wide array of other first-person shooters on the market. The cel-shaded 
 graphical style works in the context of trying to re-create a comic book, but the models and other 
 graphical elements fall short. Given the extreme amount of competition in this genre, fans of first-person 
 shooting are advised to spend their time elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pyro4144
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  when my brother first got the game on pc it was Amazing and the story line is good but then he 
 gave it to his friend and that was about six years ago and then i saw it in ebgames on ps2 so i 
 go it this year and i played it and i still like the game because its go so if i was you i would 
 get it, and at the ending it dosen't show you if he dies or not i think that they might make a 
 second one but they might not, because it has that ending where he [XIII] might die or not, so 
 if you find it just give it a go and play it it is good on two player if you have a ps2 but i forgot 
 if you can play two player on pc, so just give it a go and if you like it keep it, in the game 
 they have bossers i if you get to kill about 10 or 9 forgot sorry, any way like i said the game 
 is good and when you kill somebody with a crossbow you get to se a closeup on the head and it shows 
 you there times but different one: see head as it is two: it is next to the head three: it is in 
 the head the end, so rock the houes!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 5 - Very average typical story with an even worse ending.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8 - Very unique style of graphics, unfortunately it almost seems to make the 
 game seem older than it is. Could have done a lot to fix this.
  
  Sound: 6.5 - Sound is so-so, nothing out of the ordinary or stunningly great about it. Above average 
 at best.
  
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Maps correlate with the games story quite well. Very usable environment for 
 it's time. Some of the maps just seem pointless though.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 6 - Somewhat bad development on this part. Game is a little buggy and certainly 
 needed some more time to have made this game what It could have been.
  
  Interface: 6.5 - Above average interface for it's time being you could use some of the objects 
 around you for offensive weapons.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 6.5 - Your average, not so special, FPS with a very unique style of graphics. Unfortunately 
 the graphics make the game seem older than it really is. Bad ending was enough for me to be almost 
 completely down about this game. If development had spent more time and put more quality in the 
 story and game-play, this could have been a hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -THA-hamst3r
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I will sum up my feelings for XIII in one image:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/images/81. jpg
  
  Yes, it's so bad it makes me want to annihilate every seal on earth with a battle axe. If you're 
 not interested in reading a full review about why I think the game sucks, I'll try and sum it all 
 up in one phrase: XIII is a horrible stealth game. If that's good enough for you, stop there. If 
 not, please continue:
  
  Anyways, I was playing XIII just moments ago and have decided that I am not going to play the game 
 anymore. I have had my fill.
  
  You're probably asking yourself, "What, so you're not even going to finish it!?" and you know, 
 I thought of that too  but then I came to the realization that you can not beat this game by playing 
 through it. Some things can not beaten by continuing to do them. Like smoking crack or being the 
 winner in a contest to see who can kill themselves faster by choking on their own fist. To win 
 the game is to lose.
  
  If I were to keep playing XIII I would probably kill myself. it feels like this game does absolutely 
 everything wrong. Well, almost everything. XIII actually has a somewhat interesting storyline, 
 some cool spy-action music and a stylish cell-shaded art stylebut beyond that the game is broken.
 
  
  The controls are slow and the inventory system is cumbersome. Yeah, there is a noticeable 1 to 
 2 second delay between selecting something from the inventory and the time that it actually shows 
 up on screen. Forget quickly switching weapons during a gunfight. When you go to select a weapon 
 a small menu appears in the lower right corner of the screen allowing you to see what weapon you're 
 picking before it selects it. Which actually reminds me of the horrible weapon menu in Half-Life 
 2the menu that you can disabled by enabling Fast-Weapon Switchingbecause why on earth would anyone 
 want Slow Weapon Switching?
  
  The game has a some odd glitches, poor game design and bad AI. The game also has some poorly done 
 NPC paths as enemies will slide on the ground rather than run and other stuff like that. The lack 
 of a proper quicksave feature is also bothersome and really shows both the age of the game.
  
  Oh and here's a good one: The babysitting mission with General Carrington. Carrington is an 
 absolute bullet-sponge with zero intelligence. He runs extremely slow and loves to stand around 
 while he's being shot. The Icing on the cake though is when he says, "I have a present for you" 
 and he hands you a sniper rifle at the end of the level... WTF, why isn't he using that himself!? 
 
  
  Honestly, if I had known it were this broken before purchasing it I wouldn't have dished out the 
 75 cents that I paid for XIII and bought a Snickers bar instead. I have no problem with "bad" games. 
 I will play a game deemed derivative and mediocre by both critics and the swarmjust as long as 
 it's not completely broken. Sadly, XIII falls in to the latter category and after playing 25 of 
 32 missions, I've had enough.
  
  To read my review in it's original form visit:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/article/52/thoughts-on-xiii-aka-number-thirteen
  
  - Hamst3r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  STORY  XIII is based on a Franco Belgium comic book which goes by the same name. You take on the 
 role of XIII, who is an undercover agent of sorts who is being perused by both the government as 
 well as terrorists. Why? You have no clue. All you remember is the last five minutes before you 
 were washed up wounded on a beach. As you proceed through the game, you'll begin to piece your 
 past together which leads on to a sinister plot that threatens the foundation of the entire nation. 
 XIII's story is very interesting and also one of the best the FPS genre has ever seen, the story 
 alone will want you to get going till the very end.
  
  SOUND - Voice acting's in XIII are decent and so are the sound effects (nothing to special about 
 them) but what will really catch your attention is the games soundtrack. Background scores are 
 amazing to hear & they are marvelously synchronized with the given situation.
  
  GRAPHICS  XIII's graphics are a real treat for sore eyes. The crisp cell-shaded graphics are a 
 real break from the usual FPS games around. The comic book style deliveries in game & during the 
 cutscenes are simply mind blowing.
  
  GAMEPLAY  The gameplay is a combination of stealth and action. Along with your weapons you can 
 also use objects such as bottles, chairs, etc. from your surroundings to dispose of your enemies. 
 The game features an arsenal of weapons ranging from a pistol all the way to an underwater harpoon 
 gun. The gameplay also takes you to a variety of locations from rooftops to the sea. This makes 
 the gameplay exciting. Talking about the games bad points is its A. I. At times it is not too great, 
 for eg. If you are hiding in a corner, an enemy soldier may walk past you and not even notice you're 
 around even though you're just a step away. A few goofs in the A. I leave a little dent in the gameplay. 
 Another problem is the save system. Although it has an in game save option it doesn't make a difference 
 as it does not save on the very spot like other FPS games but rather the save takes you back to 
 a checkpoint. All in all a few problems won't stop the excitement to get to the end.
  
  THE GOOD  Crisp cell shaded graphics, amazing storyline, and a lovely soundtrack.
  
  THE BAD 
  Save system, Enemy A. I.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Though it wont be remembered as a career highlight for either David Duchovny (The X-Files) or 
 Adam West (TVs Batman) , the spy-versus-spy whodunit XIII is the best first-person shooter ever 
 based on a Roman numeral or a Belgian comic book.
  
  All joking aside, comic books and video games have long shared the dubious cultural presumption 
 of being just for kids. Im sure some of you may even gander at XIIIs cel-shaded, thick-lined 
 graphics and think, When did Zelda get an Uzi? To that, I sigh and shake my head. XIII is one 
 of the most stylish shooters released this year, and it would be wrong  no, tragic  if adult 
 gamers (note the M rating) couldnt look past its funny-book heritage.
  
  The ripped-from-the-comics look is integral to the games design. You star as a wounded amnesiac 
 (voiced by a somnolent Duchovny) who regains consciousness on a beach, wanted for the assassination 
 of the President of the United States. The only clue to your identity is your tattoo of the numeral 
 XIII. As you uncover further evidence, helped along by the feisty Major Jones (actor/singer Eve) 
 and General Carrington (West, over the top as usual) , hunted by a succession of armed killers, 
 the truth about who you are is slowly revealed.
  
  One of those revelations is your sixth sense skill. It allows you the same omniscient powers 
 given to a comic-book reader: the ability to view an unseen opponents location by seeing his 
 footfalls (as represented by comic-book text) , to perceive pop-up frames highlighting important 
 items or enemies, and to witness sudden flashbacks when a chunk of memory is filled in.
  
  Whats more impressive is that your sixth sense isnt window-dressing: its absolutely necessary 
 to completing the games 37 levels, especially the later stealth missions. So, while XIIIs level 
 design is right out of the rigidly linear No One Lives Forever rulebook  mandatory stealth missions 
 (hiding bodies, avoiding alarms) mixed with gunplay and an occasional boss  its visual panache 
 and immersion are totally fresh.
  
  Cut-scenes unfold in a mind-boggling swell of animated panels. The Unreal engine replicates an 
 interactive comic book: headshots are accompanied by graphic close-ups of the impact; frag grenades 
 explode in a big, readable BOOM!; and tense moments are dynamically punctuated by a pulsing soundtrack.
 
  
  If XIII has a major flaw, its the save-game system. Inexplicably, you can permanently save only 
 between levels, and though there are checkpoints within missions, youll have to restart the entire 
 level if you quit the game. On a few occasions, I also saw NPCs jogging into a wall, but for the 
 most part, the AI drew few complaints  enemies always take cover under fire, and I was actually 
 surprised to see a soldier loot his fallen buddies for ammunition.
  
  XIII is rounded out by a tantalizing multiplayer component thats playable over LAN, Ubisofts 
 online service, or against bots. Modes include classics (deathmatch, team deathmatch, and CTF) 
 as well as newcomers like Sabotage, in which teams attack and defend checkpoints.
  
  However, my most compelling reason to recommend XIII is personal: The game ends on a cliffhanger 
  which means the only way Ill discover how it all turns out is if theres a XIII: Part IIor 
 XIV? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Xiii is probably one of the most innovative games ive ever seen. It's look and art style is undeniable 
 and it should have some serious gameplay to back up that claim, right?
  
  As I said the game looks amazing. While not exactly the best looking game i've ever seen, the cel-shaded 
 visuals plus a comic book style interface make it unique. It's just so satisfying to see a big 
 fat BLAM! over a guy's head after you plug him in the face. Or shooting a guy off a cliff and seeing 
 AAAAAAHHHHH following him down the cliff. Awesome stuff.
  
  Audiowise the game is kind of a mixed bag. The enemies sound like they should, the music is well 
 done and kicks in the action heats up, and guns sound.... well like guns. However the voice actors 
 are embarrassing, and sound hungover or just bored. The awful VO drags down the audio, but just 
 think; you see BOOM! as opposed to just hearing it.
  
  Gameplay is mixed as well. The shooting kind of kills the game too. With a game with such a unique 
 look the gameplay feels like the original doom or quake, nothing innovative but it works. The A. I 
 is odd too. They jump from genius to retard to genius again. They take cover in wide open spaces, 
 but loot their dead comrades for ammo. I dont get it. But hey, the game looks good.
  
  Overall XIII is very innovative, but only in its art style. The gameplay works, but feels dated, 
 the VO is sad, plus all this and a disappointing ending make XIII lack in what it should have been. 
 But I had fun with it, and if you want to see something unique in a shooter its worth a look, just 
 dont be expecting something massive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theKJ0012guy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  an awesome game great story good gameplay an jaw dropping grafix. a man named thirteen died and 
 you look just like him but since you have amniesa you dont remember as you begin to remember you 
 start are attacked by multiple people and you lady friend-life guard get the **** blown out of 
 her end of story. but if you purchased this game be aware they do say **** and they say thedont 
 on the back. so there you have it esrb lied! lol! but this game is awesome anyway and i recommend 
 getting it.
  
  if you have any q's on thirteen or any q's at all contact me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I had heard about this game for a long time, until I finally got my hands on it and played it for 
 the first time just a couple of months ago. I was pleasantly surprised by the cool cell shaded 
 graphics and unique storyline. Not knowing what was going on, you could really put yourself in 
 the main character's shoes from level 1. The weapons don't vary that much, but you'll find yourself 
 using mostly one gun the whole time anyway. (I usually used the 44 special or the assault rifle) 
 The difficulty wasn't too bad either, and the AI has pretty good aim. But overall, I was having 
 a lot of fun playing through the story. The one thing that has really made me mad at Ubisoft, however, 
 is the very disappointing cliffhanger at the end. I was even more frustrated when I heard that 
 there is no sequel in the progress. Surely, I thought, the sequel must have come out by now, having 
 been 4 years since the release of XIII. But, alas, there is none. It seems that the world will 
 never know what is to become of Number I and Jason Fly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I had played XIII before on the Xbox and found it to be a mediocre shooter with a nice graphics 
 novel twist. So when I found it for only five bucks brand new on the PC, I figured hey, I'll give 
 the game another try so I did. And much to my surprise I fell in love with the games story, characters, 
 and how the whole story unfolds leading to the biggest conspiracy in gaming and US history. You 
 wake up on the beach with no memory. Just a tattoo that says XIII and a bunch of guys that want 
 you dead. The president has been killed and all signs point to you as the assassin. You must team 
 up with your former military colonel (who is voice by Adam West) and you must find out what really 
 happened and clear your name. This is all very fun and it leads up to a twist ending that I did 
 not see coming and boss battles make you feel like your playing an old fashion shooter which is 
 a plus. Graphically this game is pretty good. It is told in comic book like form so it is very 
 colorful, and the graphic deaths are pretty cool. Because of all the color there are some occasional 
 texture problems but it is quite easy to see right past those you will see just how beautiful this 
 game is, and I give it props for being original. The sound in this game is pretty good. Eve, Adam 
 West and David Duchovony all offer their voices to this game. The sound effects are very good as 
 well. My only problem is being a die hard Family Guy fan I found it hard to sometimes take Adam 
 West seriously as he says some things that his Family Guy character says. Controls work perfectly. 
 There are no complaints here, they are pretty much the same as every shooter around. If you have 
 played any other first person shooters on the PC everything should play the same as you remember. 
 The lasting appeal for this game isn't very high but there is still fun to be had after the game 
 itself is over. The game took me about nine hours to beat on easy mode and afterwards even though 
 I could not find anyone to play with the bot matches are fun and there are lot of different maps 
 to be entertained by. Pros: + Nice graphics + Story is filled with many plot twists that will keep 
 you guessing + Actors lend voice to game + Controls well Cons: - some texture problems - hard to 
 take Adam West seriously if Family Guy fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 29, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought XIII when it released, I was excited because the screenshots looked great for theri time, 
 and it had a interesting singleplayer.
  
  Gameplay:
  Interesting looking, you're given a variety of weapons (throwing sharp objects, regular pistols, 
 SMG, assault rifles, miniguns and a crossbow and more) during the single player mission, the comicbook-look 
 also will flash towards you when you kill somebody, like if you shoot somebody, you'll see about 
 three pictures of closeups from the bullet piercing thru its head, its neat.
  
  Graphics:
  Top-notch for their time, and also enjoyable in 2007, the style in the game is a big 
 part of its selling point, if you throw a grenade, a few seconds later after the explosion the 
 words ''BANG'' will come up from the remains of the grenade, it has a certain touch, if you fire 
 a bullet it'll also say ''POOF'' or something, if you hit somebody, you'll see bubbles saying ''NOOO!'' 
 and '' DAMN!'' Cellshading did good in this game.
  
  AI:
  To good, even on default settings, the bots seem to hit you from any position, you'll die alot 
 and fast in some missions, making it a frustation expierence.
  
  Story:
  You're this guy with amnesia, he wakes up at a beach and already gets a assault of terrorists behind 
 his back, you kill them etc, and move on.
  
  Main story line goes thru as you named as ''XIII'' trying to get his memory back, and no, he won't 
 get it back by shooting down lots of people, he'll mainly go investigate places which may lead 
 him to his destination, but lots of conflicts with terrorists will happen alot.
  
  The level designs are good, some are pretty fascinating, like a level where you go thru shaft, 
 and you look down the ventilation and see terrorists talking about how to kill you, its funny at 
 times, but most levels are rather boring and overdone.
  
  Sound:
  Sound could be better, I'd love some cheeseball/psuedo music you'd expect from a game like this, 
 but it gives you no music, only rattling of guns and people screaming names.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Theres a multiplayer, but everytime I get on it mostly two or three people are 
 playing it, back in the days there were hundreds of servers, the game was interesting, there were 
 CTF, DM and TDM and a TDM with shotguns only.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Kind of, its a hard game, but the style makes up for it, the game is cheap as dirt right now (few 
 bucks or something) and is worth the 2 dollars it is now if you want to check it out, you can play 
 the demo if you guys want, it has some action for you that'll might attract you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I've had XIII for over a year and every time I sit down to play it I find something better to do 
 - such is the life of a Video Game Collector. Well, today was the day and I finally put in the 
 CD and installed it while watching the longest NFL draft in history (Drew Stanton got robbed) . 
 My first quibble arose before the game started - I put in CD 1 because, like every other game in 
 the history of games, CD 1 is the play disc. Apparently CD 4 is the play disc, so I put that in 
 and the game begins, although it windows out and asks me to Insert a XIII Disc. Okay, that's descriptive. 
 It turns out CD 2 (???) is the ticket, and the game begins.
  
  Immediately the unprecedented visual style steals away focus on gameplay - no other game in my 
 memory has the graphic-novel format and utilizes it to such effectiveness. The graphics are 3D, 
 they are merely cell-shaded (cartoon-y) with great shadow and lighting effects. And when something 
 bad happens to an enemy, eg; you shoot them in the cranial vicinity, little pop-ups arise, detailing 
 the gruesome kill - very cool. Everything is stylish, including pop-up exclamatories such as Ouch! 
 or Kabooooooom, which further power what early-on promises to be a fantastic story-driven FPS.
 
  
  That, however, is not the case and after the initial style factor wears off the poor design choices 
 seep out and begin to sour the experience. For starters, the quicksave feature is worthless - if 
 you die and press quickload, you will begin at the beginning of the level. If you die and press 
 nothing, you will commence from the last checkpoint - all progress to the beginning of the level 
 is erased if the game is exited as well. Now while I'm all for checkpoint systems in platforming 
 games such as God of War or Mario, any FPS or any PC game in general should never, ever, ever, 
 ever implement such a feature. It frustrates to the point of madness and is the biggest detractor 
 in what otherwise is a good -if not spectacular- game. Other design flaws are the inability to 
 bypass in-game speeches and cutscenes, which is infuriating if you quit mid-mission and have to 
 endure all of them over again -and there are quite a few because XIII is a very story-driven game. 
 Additionally, the voice acting is subpar and becomes rather annoying after an hour or so -if you 
 make it that far.
  
  The graphic novel presentation is one which could be wielded so effectively in crafting any type 
 of game. Imagine a PC adaption of 300: all the style and flair would adapt flawlessly into that 
 type of engine and could very well be a 9.5 or higher game -as could XIII had the aforementioned 
 annoyances been corrected. It's almost as if Ubisoft neglected to perform quality playtesting and 
 simply ported the PS2 version to the superior PC platform -something which, if the developer wants 
 high scores- needs to be done carefully and with much retooling.
  
  In any case, XIII is a quality, well-made story-driven FPS which has flaws that make the game too 
 frustrating for me to play. Others have and will continue to find XIII a fantastic game, but I 
 refuse to indulge in games which overlook the powers of hard drives, RAM, and caches - no checkpoint 
 saving systems ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I wrote a review for Tron 2.0 last week in which I lavishly painted the game in slobbery praise 
 for its astonishingly vibrant visuals and endearing little bits of busywork (downloading blips 
 of exposition, happily futzing around with subroutine configurations, etc.) , yet knocked off a 
 whole seven-tenths of a point for some hostile encounters that just werent quite all that they 
 could be. I have the exact same feelings for XIII: I loved the games look and level of interactivity, 
 but I never found my heart pumping a mile a minute as I poked holes in various villains. In fact, 
 I enjoyed XIIIs mellow stealth sequences more than its battles, a possibility that I never once 
 considered.
  
  Just as T2.0s metallic neon tinctures kept my eyes locked on every cutscene and character  with 
 their cool blue, angry red, and sickly green hues  XIIIs thespians were likewise inviting in 
 their simple yet unique cel-shaded glory. I was often fascinated by the way shadows played across 
 a characters features as he or she moved between light sources. The way in which the article of 
 a bad guys demise  crossbow bolts, throwing knives, and even chunks of debris -- remained embedded 
 in his skull at the precise point of impact was grisly, but absolutely spot-on with regard to the 
 level of detail that I like to see in a shooter. XIIIs use of onomatopoeic tags for different 
 sound effects (like the Zap! Pow! Clobber! Queef! titles that flashed across the screen in the 
 wonderfully hoary Batman TV series) were incredibly fitting in a game designed to function completely 
 like an interactive comic book, not to mention very helpful: the TAP Tap tap of a guards receding 
 footsteps often mitigated the frustrating experimentation and mistimed peeking that typically rots 
 the stealth experience for me. Ill never forget the first time an aggressors NOOOOOOooooooo 
 death knell formed the wake of his plunge to the unrelenting planks of a beachside boardwalk. Call 
 me easily amused, but eye candy like that is well worth thirty-to-fifty bucks a pop.
  
  Smacking enemies around with all kinds of commonplace objects  bottles, ash trays, bricks, brooms, 
 chairs; if its there, the player can most assuredly hurl it  was a very nice touch and reminded 
 me ever-so-slightly of Number 47s impromptu executions in the Hitman series. Again, my general 
 disdain for the try, try, try again monkeyshines of most sneakers cooled considerably since 
 I usually had the option of clouting a noncombatant into the arms of Hypnos rather than wait around 
 for them to wander off. The areas in which an exchange of bullets is the only option were far from 
 dull  the makers of XIII threw in a few brief but effective point defense scenarios to satiate 
 my affinity for shooting galleries  but I frequently found myself wishing for a few more nice, 
 quiet headshots with my crossbow over the shoot-first-or-die ambushes or the awful (but thankfully 
 rare) escort jags.
  
  After mentioning the old Batman series a few paragraphs ago, I wanted to take a moment to send 
 some mad phat props up Adam Wests way. The guy was born to do voiceover work  case in point: 
 the eponymous lunatic he portrays on Family Guy almost always delivers the funniest, most absurdist 
 lines in any given episode  so the balance his General Carrington maintains between gravity and 
 levity (overhearing him barking repeatedly about his cigars was funny without reducing the old 
 warhorse to a silly caricature) is pitch-perfect. For that matter, Eves cool-handed portrayal 
 of Major Jones also impressed me, while my boy Duchovny was just flat-out awful. A friend and I 
 still get a lot of laughs out of several of Davids stuporous line readings, many of which might 
 count as spoilers if repeated here, so Ill just say that Capn Rowlands wispy, ganja-slurred 
 reactions to many of the storylines monumental revelations were severely understated. Since I 
 really do like Duchovny  he did a fine job with Area 51, after all  Ill ascribe the problem 
 of his lackadaisical musings to the recording director and move on.
  
  GameSpots score for XIII is, in my opinion, unkind. The titles coding was pretty tight and its 
 environments were very well realized. I actually pushed my chair back from my desk and sat marveling 
 at the ocean view from the Sanctuary levels dizzying promontory for several minutes, so majestic 
 was that otherwise underused vista. The fireworks display toward the end of the game was another 
 incidental effect that drew long, narcotic stares out of me even though I was eager to wrap up 
 the proceedings and move on to the next adventure on my hard drive. Ubisoft did a fine job with 
 XIII, and I recommend it for any sneaker, shooter, or graphic novel fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  XIII is an action / First person shooter game from the ubisoft , this campany released a lot of 
 wonderful games on Consles &amp; PC but this game is a normal one.
  
  Story you take control of an agent (i forget his name) and you are in a huge problem , the main 
 character and you will take control is a suspect in killing the president , in the start of the 
 game you woke up in a clinc and some guys strat to attack you , you must escape and find the solution 
 for the problem and prove your inoccent.
  
  Gameplay
  
  XIII is an normal FPS game you have different weapons to use against your enemies (Revolver , knives 
 , Rpg , . . . ) and also u have items help you in this games.
  
  Graphics i think this kind of graphics is known in some games its like a comic books &amp; and 
 seriously i dont prefer this kind of graphics its reallu awful. . .
  
  Sounds sound its really god in this game and the cool thing is they wrote the sound in words like 
 the comic books . . . for example when you use your RPG and lunch a missle it will explode and 
 u will see the word boooooooooom written really funny liike the comics. . .
  
  My Rating 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  XIII is the type of game where its a good story but the gameplay isnt all there. I think that 
 its fun for the first few missions and then it basically all falls apart. The story and the comic 
 book style was really keeping me but the levels are all not there. I just think the gameplay really 
 hurt the game. Its one of your typical first person shooters. Now the sound in this game was pretty 
 good. The voice acting was really good in this game. The cut scenes were pretty cool it was the 
 Max Payne type of cut scenes. I do think the comic book style game play will become one of its 
 own genres. I think its really cool gameplay only not with XIII. XIII I felt like Ive just done 
 it before. It did not blow me away. I liked that there was lots of stealth. But thats about one 
 of the only great things. I just think the only reason Ill be playing this game is for some LAN 
 if no other game works or just to play the first few missions. Nothing much going for this game. 
 So if you really want an FPS game and you own just about everyone of them. You might want to look 
 into this one and try to find it pretty cheap if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it's been quite awhile since I played the game. True. But, I remember GOOD games. This was 
 definitely one of them. It's quite unique in it's style, kind of like playing a comic book. Pretty 
 cool and innovative. I've read some of the negative reviews here and I have to say they're unwarranted. 
 No, this isn't Unreal, where you just shoot everything and anything. Nope, not one of THOSE stupid 
 games. Granted, it's not complicated of difficult. It's just simply a blast to play. I would recommend 
 it to anyone. There were very few negatives I had from it, and that's pretty rare. I've had a zillion 
 games I've tried. I sold or trashed many. This was one I saved, because I plan to play it again 
 and again. So, when you read all these evalutations, keep in mind that WE each like certain kinds 
 of games. I bore easily when there's not enough action or not enough plot. This has both. I guess 
 it all depends on what you're looking for. I, personally, rate this game as superb because I enjoyed 
 it so much. you can probably pick one up used from Amazon. com. If you're at all skeptical, buy 
 one there and try it. You won't be disappointed. It's well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Highs: The gameplay is an extremely nice mixture of full frontal shooter action and caught from 
 behind stealth James Bond type action. It refreshes the shooter genre with a little bit of Mentos 
 freshness.
  
  Lows: There are enough that there will indeed be plenty of people who wont like it. XIIIs save 
 system, though not unpleasant will grate against people who feel that they should be able to save 
 anywhere.
  
  First Person Shooter Fans: This game is for you. This represents the cream of the crop, one of 
 the best of the year. Pick it up now, and if you dont feel like paying 40 absolutely do not miss 
 it when its in the bargain bin.
  
  Stealth Fans: Plenty can be found here to make this game worth 40, but this may not be your favorite 
 cup of tea. It wont be the worst action game you ever played, dont necessarily wait for the bargain 
 bin, but give it a good hard look before making up your mind.
  
  Everyone Else: Dont sweat this. Maybe give it a try if you find it in the bargain bin for 5 dollars 
 sometime in the future, but dont sweat it. You wont miss anything here.
  
  Who doesnt want to step into the shoes of their favorite comic book character? Step up and clean 
 up the riff raff of the world. Take out the dark conspirators by leaving such a trail of blood 
 that the world has never seen before. A fantasy come true, in a way Thirteen is to guys what a 
 prince charming is to chicks. And by and large it is an unparalleled success.
  
  The look of the game is extremely unique and very well done. The feel of a comic book permeates 
 every aspect of the game in a cohesive fashion and it feels very good. It also feels very pixilated. 
 Even on the highest resolutions available your eyes will be assailed by that blocky plague of the 
 desktop screen. On the other hand it must be admired that XIII runs well on an Athalon 900 and 
 an Elsa Gladiac GeForce2 with 32 Megs of RAM. Talk about scarily low specs. Microsoft Word barely 
 runs on that hunk of junk. It felt like a little breath of fresh air to not have to worry about 
 system specs at all.
  
  The game play is so well blended together that there are very few moments that are hard to pick 
 apart from the rest of the game play. There are some moments where you suddenly find yourself in 
 a situation lacking any tension but without any weapons, which is an awkward way to start off without 
 any weapons. Something just doesnt quite feel right about some of the stealth levels; however 
 some of them go well above and beyond the standard fare for similar games. Often one of the largest 
 distractions in game play can be a spawning enemy within an immersive environment and it felt so 
 good to not see that used in XIII. In fact it keeps the stealth missions fun.
  
  One of the harshest decisions the developers made were the inclusion of save points rather than 
 save anywhere. It seems kind of funny to have a quick save that doesnt do anything but save the 
 game at the last checkpoint you passed. This game shines as an example of making a decision like 
 that a design decision and not a crutch to make the game harder. The game and level design are 
 so well done, and the saves so well placed that there are few points in the game that will have 
 you just praying to be able to save anywhere. The worst in particular for me was the final fight 
 in the game. The save is so far away from the boss that there is quite a lot of walking to get 
 there and then an un-skipable cut-scene before you can actually begin the rather difficult fight. 
 Though very, very few, moments like this made me wish that I could save after all the wasted time 
 and then reload and hop right into the fight.
  
  The voice acting was bad. It was bad in the way that you might describe Hannibal Lector as a bad 
 man. How could it be bad? Where did they go wrong? They had David trust no one X-Files Im 
 a real actor Duchovny cast as the main character. Ubisoft had I only need one name Eve! Adam 
 West was funny. That really doesnt say much because Adam West is always funny. I hear in real 
 life he got kind of funny in the head after playing Batman. A lot of people say he was never quite 
 right in the head. But the people who love him dont care because hes funny. He just sounds funny, 
 like someone who you really want to know. Everyone else sounded like maybe they were phoned in 
 or something. I mean you PLAY Davids character and you barely hear his voice, and when you do 
 it feels flat and unconcerned. Oh. Look. It is the conspirators.  Eve wasnt bad, but her character 
 had fewer appearances that most of the others.
  
  That really sums up the majority of what there is to say about this game. Aside from the rather 
 stunning use of cell shading and in game frames that really pull you inside of the comic book XIII 
 falls short of making any real changes to the genre. Everything about it is too good to fall flat 
 but way too normal to be an eternal classic. Of course that never stopped a game from being action 
 game of the year and this is easily one of the 2 or 3 competitors this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  XIII had a unique concept from the start, the games visuals on the computer screen appeared 
 as if they were taken from a comic book or an animation cel. The videogame itself labeled the visual 
 style as cel-shaded, which meant the black lines were all heavy. Additionally, cutscene animation 
 appeared as it came out of a comic book, with the use of splash pages, pop-up windows, and comic 
 book panels. Visually it was very appealing.
  
  Unfortunately the gameplay didn't live up to the graphic representation. XIII was a straightforward 
 first-person shooter (FPS) , and not a good one at that.
  
  The storyline appeared as if it had been lifted from The Bourne Identity, complete with a government 
 agent who lost his memory as a result of being shot and falling overboard off of a yacht (while 
 XIII was released in 2003 and the film adaptation of The Bourne Identity was released in 2002, 
 the novel the film was based upon was released in 1980) . The main character's memory slowly returns 
 throughout XIII both through flashbacks and by locating briefcases with information relating 
 to the back story at various points (don't worry if you can't find the cases, the videogame will 
 provide any briefcases that are missed) .
  
  In addition to a borrowed storyline, XIII featured extraordinarily linear levels. There was no 
 free roaming; each level had a clear path to follow. Fortunately there were more than 30 levels 
 in the videogame.
  
  Perhaps most disappointing, XIII ended with a cliffhanger, and based upon the poor sales of XIII, 
 I don't expect to see XIV anytime soon.
  
  If you must have this game, check the discounted PC game bin at your local KB Toys, it is guaranteed 
 to be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileynum1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Geez Gamespot why such a bad rating? I would definetly reccomend this game to anyone enterring 
 the first person shooting world, I got my mate into this game and he hates first person shooters, 
 just finished the game and got to say slightly peeved off about the ending and I'm even hoping 
 for another XIII game from ubisoft, anyone want a follow up?
  
  From the moment you begin the game you're frown straight into the height of a first person shooter 
 and it's superb, the game can be hard at stages but you find ways to pull through. Theres elements 
 of stealth in this game that would be otherwise hard to achieve in certain games, have you ever 
 tried being stealthy in Half life? Yes? then you get my picture.
  The game can feel slightly linear at times but what first person shooter doesnt. You'll find yourself 
 shooting everything from what looks like ku klux klan members, to helicopters to crazy scientists, 
 this game just gives. Sometimes with the cartoon style graphics you may find yourself getting lost 
 or retracing your steps and then once you find the entrance to the next area you just think what 
 the F#*k i was here a second ago, so thats a bit of a let down. The game did seem a bit too short 
 though, maybe it was my absence from the game (due to loss of CD, which does in fact make the game 
 run faster, well on my system anyway) and forgetting the story or maybe it was just too much playing 
 and losing track of time, who knows. The game needs to go on its too short!
  
  Another great feature of XIII is the multiplayer, something which my friend (mentioned earlier) 
 and i instantlly got addicted too, and my friend cannot now get enough off, i swear he just comes 
 to see me for the game. The best multiplayer modes being Deathmatch, team deathmatch and the hunt, 
 surprisingly hardly anyone seems to put a server up for a Hunt game yet there are loads of sabotage 
 servers open, (sabotage is kinda like XIII's cheap remake of counter strike) This brings me to another 
 point, XIII IS NOT LIKE COUNTER STRIKE GAMESPOT GEEEZ! Anyway i have to say this game is worth 
 playing, even if you do play it just at a mates, and its certainly worth buying if you are into 
 instant action first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapidspeed
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  XIII Is based on the french comic series created by W. Vance and J. Van Hamme. The first comic was 
 made in 1984 and was called 'Le Jour Du Soleil Noir' and was inspired by Ubisoft to be created 
 into a game. This game is one of a kind, the graphics are not next generation or anything but suit 
 the genre perfectly. The story is not a let down although brilliant and will make you wish a sequel 
 was created. The story is that the president of the United States was murdered and YOU are suspected 
 to have assasinated him although XIII has amnesia and can't remember a thing , NOT EVEN HOW HE 
 IS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis8888
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Xiii is just a plain fun game. you take a the role of a man who has just lost his memory and you 
 can around in the game trying to find out what you have done.
  
  the game is action packed even though the shell shaded graphics. it is still a very fun game. the 
 weapons are very fun as you a prettty wide range of weapons.
  
  there is a few let downs by ubisoft in this game but its still an excellent game, it has a good 
 arcade type feel to it. sometimes it does get hard but most of it is pretty easy. the game elements 
 really are stealth and action as some missions you have to sneak around not killing anyway and 
 make sure no alarms go off. but on the other hand you get to go in blast everything in your sight. 
 the cartoon type feel is really unique giving gamers a feel that they never have had before.
  
  the problem is they leave the game at a cliff hanger at the end... and its been a while now. 
 and no sequal. i know alot of fans are dissapointed including me. but the game didnt sell to well. 
 but its a good game is worth playing if you just want to have some plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvusp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The storyline is seriously amazing! I'm serious, when gamespot reviewed the game and gave it a 
 6.4, they didn't take the storyline into effect. It has everything, tons of unexpected twists, 
 especially the ones toward the end.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool, because in a semi-animated world, all the people are animated. It's 
 a nice touch.
  
  The gameplay is good. It actually reminded me of 007 Nightfire, but with the long awaited (though 
 animated) blood and violence effects. The weapons are also standard, your fists, a throwing knife 
 (with a melee atack option) , two pistols, two rifles, an SMG, two machine guns (including the Kalashnikov 
 aka AK-47) , an RPG, a heavy machine gun, grenades, a sniper rifle, and (the coolest!) the crossbow. 
 You can also use lots of things you see in the environment.
  
  You also have a number of gadgets from a grappling hook to a lockpick.
  
  All in all, it's 
 fairly good. You may want to rent it as I beat it in three days, but to enjoy it, you need to play 
 it at least three times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elwor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game, especially the cel shaded graphic, just like you a playing a carton. 
 The history is also grate, and with some surprises. The game is pretty short, think you can beat 
 in less than 10 hours. It's not that hard, pretty forward and enemies are not that smart. The controls 
 can be a bit annoying, the history and graphic really are the reason I like it.
  
  So if you want a different game, that you can beat in a weekend, stop looking:) Could be cool if 
 they would make a new one, but it probably didn't sell that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xand3rro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  XIII is also the name of the main character, which finds himself on a beach, with a tremendous 
 headache, and no idea about his past or who he is. After he is taken to a first aid station by a 
 lifeguard, the bullets start flying, and XIII finds himself hunted both by the authorities, and 
 by a shadowy group, who seems to be very irritated by the fact that thirteen is still breathing. 
 What follows is a story full of conspiracies, shadow plays and unexpected turnarounds, with everything 
 revolving around the recent assassination of the United States president, which XIII is being accused 
 of. As you can see, the story is more serious and mature than in other FPS, and so its target public 
 is more likely to be grow-ups.
  Besides the in-game movies and engine created ones, the story is pushed forward by seemingly random 
 and semi-interactive flashbacks of the main character, flashbacks which are triggered at the sight 
 of a person/location or during a conversation. The only thing that will disappoint you about the 
 story is the mini-series style ending, which is totally anti-climatic and will leave players saying: 
 Oh you have got to be kidding me! However, I believe XIII was conceived as the first in a game 
 series, and the sequels will probably follow depending on the success of the initial game.
  One of the main selling points of the game is its cell shaded graphic, which give it its comic 
 book look and feel and from the start of the game you will be blown away by the original style 
 and look of XIII. When the lifeguard mentioned above is shot, a sequence of TA-TA-TA-TA will 
 appear on screen, symbolizing machine gun fire, with cartoon fonts as you would expect. Also, when 
 an enemy is close enough you can see his footsteps due to the Tap-taps that appear on screen, 
 which allow you to pinpoint his exact position without having to be in direct line of sight.
  The characters are highly detailed, with excellent models, hi-res textures and comic book looks, 
 with strong defining lines and cell shading. When an enemy is far away, but still represents a 
 threat to the player, a comic book panel will show up, to indicate his location (call it a sixth 
 sense if you will) . When you sniper someone, another three panels will appear, portraying his death. 
 The locations are also good looking, and are diverse too, ranging from city banks, to desert areas, 
 snowy mountains or military bases. The water and character flashbacks benefit from the services 
 of pixel shading, while the particle effects and rag-doll physics add to the realism of the game. 
 All of these elements, combined with a unique comic book style and artwork make XIII one of the 
 best looking shooters out there. Although the graphics are impressive and original, the same thing 
 cannot be said about the core gameplay. Although it had all the elements to be an above average 
 shooter, XIII simply doesnt pack a lot of punch. There are some stealth missions, but they simply 
 lack the intensity needed for such endeavors. The rest is just good old firefighting with lots 
 of enemies, on youre way from point A to point B. As a variation, you will sometimes need to protect 
 an NPC from point a to point B, and you will have to kill your enemies pretty fast, because the 
 NPC wont care much for his own life, but more on that later.
  The puzzles are your typical find the key (in this case magnetic card) to open a certain door, 
 a door which you cant open by yourself using the lockpick (you can pick the locks of certain doors 
 all you have to do is the lockpick on the door and wait for the hacking timer to expire) . Although 
 you can use a grappling hook to get past certain areas of the game, the exact locations of where 
 you can use it are pretty well hidden, and you will have to be very close to them in order for 
 your cursor to change and allow you to use the hook. There are some interesting ideas implemented 
 though, like using a hostage as a human shield so that the police doesnt fire on you, or using 
 chairs to knock out your enemies (for instance, at the beginning of the game, you will be required 
 to get out of a bank without killing any of the guards) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  In this game you play as the main character Jason Fly, or like it is described by the majority 
 of the story: Steve Rowland. You are facing a problem, people think you are guilty of killing the 
 President, so during the story you will have to face people like the F. B. I, the bad guys called 
 Spads, and also some gangsters. You are having nice weapons such as 9mm gun, one revolver, a sniper 
 rifle, grenades, bazooka, shotgun and much more. For making your time faster you will have a disabling 
 lock key, a hook shot and bombs. I have not tell about the part of the comics; for example when 
 you kill one of the bad ones, it will appear its expressions as they die like in the comics, also 
 the videos are divided in squares as if it was in the comics, and the people when they talk is 
 seen as if it was in the comics. I think you will like this game with its cool story and game play, 
 and i hope you enjoy one of the best first-person shooter games ever made.
  
  Thanks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happyman-pyro12
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first played XIII, I was excited over the comic-book style graphics... but flash can only 
 go so far. The gameplay in XIII is simple, you run and gun small fleets of enemies at a time, with 
 the occasional stealth mission. After two hours you'll find yourself bored, and wishing to add 
 new gameplay twists. Sadly, none will be coming. The story is mildly engaging, but nothing that 
 is groundbreaking. The graphics are what make the game stand out, however. The environments are 
 very nice looking, and the characters (although they have a stiffness about them) look exactly 
 like a cool comic book. The gun animations are nice and the pop-up death scenes are unlike anything 
 else. XIII has above average sound as well. The weapons have a nice sound to them (espescially 
 grenades and the Kalash) , and the voice acting is nice. The enemy's death cries get annoying fast 
 though. XIII isn't a long game and once you beat it, the online and split screen matches won't 
 keep you occupied long. Overall, XIII has nice graphics, but seems to have an unfinished feel. 
 With not enough options online and in the main game, this game will leave you bored... a feeling 
 you shouldn't feel in a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaruulin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The game's story is nice. The president has been killed and youre the world's prime suspect. He 
 was killed in cold blood by an anonymous killer. You start at a beach you have an amnesia you remember 
 nothing, not even who you are. The FBI, the CIA and a gang of numerous killers are already hunting 
 you down. You can not trust anybody. The story is realy interesting and makes you think. Are you 
 the killer or not?
  
  The Game itself is also quite nice, i love the cel shaded graphics and I love the clips that come 
 when you kill someone with a knife or a crossbow. The AI is not the best but it's not bad. The 
 controls are quite average just like any of the FPS genre games. I also love the way you can take 
 hostages. This game isn't just any of these run and gun games you have to think and use tactics, 
 you also have to sneak time to time. The multyplayer ain't that great but it's quite good. The 
 sounds are great specially speech and gunshots. 
  
  Overall this game is not the best but it's great and it's realy underrated it should have 8.0/10 
 at least maybe if you are an hardcore FPS fan you won't like this game but if you'll looking for 
 something different than this game is for you
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Summary
  XIII is a first person shooter that presents itself in comic book style with some unique features. 
 Despite this the game fails to be compelling and is frustrating at times because of it nasty save 
 game habit. 
  
  The good bits
  The part I liked about the game was it's comic book presentation. Much is done to keep in style. 
 So story lines are depicted in their own cells and When a person is shot in the head you see it 
 happen in three progressing screens, when something is blown up you see BOOOOOOM written large 
 across the screen. The same is when you need to sneak past guards. When they spot you you see a 
 text box appear above their head so you notice they have been alerted and are planning to run to 
 the nearest alert button. Another feature is that sounds of footsteps of the guards are also written 
 in words. Depending on the distance to you the words grow larger when they close in or smaller 
 when they move away.
  Also much is done to bring variance in the game. So next to frontal battles there are sneaky parts. 
 In some you just need to head to the exit by removing the opposition barring the way , in another 
 you need to collect some items to open a door or activate an elevator to advance, in another you 
 need to escape a building by using a hostage.
  
  The bad bits
  Unfortunately, like in so many first person shooters, the storyline, mood and characters I found 
 dull and plain. XIII is, as we all suspect (sigh) , in reality a highly expert loyal soldier out 
 to prevent some nefarious plot. His personality has no dept. Then there is the typical rough and 
 ready general who is the boss and who is yet another instance of those cigar smoking general Patton 
 types. As a last example there is the woman who is of no help at all and who's main function is 
 to produce exclamations to accompany your actions. 
  In addition the bad guys, always one of the crucial types in a game, have almost no identity, partly 
 because this is a conspiracy story and partly because they are as common run of the mill and humorless 
 as the good guys. 
  XIII at no point shows that the developers actually enjoyed making this game. Maybe it would have 
 been better if they had not tried to convert a comic book to a game but instead used the concept 
 as a starting point.
  One thing which I found frustrating was the save-game system. Regardless of when I saved I found 
 myself back at the beginning of a part of the game when I reload the save game. This frustration 
 was heightened because I was being forced to watch cut-scenes and movies again, which I couldn't 
 skip, (sigh) of course. 
  Another annoyance is the the lack of alternative ways of doing things or routes to take. In this 
 XIII is truly revealed as a linear fps. 
  A last annoyance is the lack of what i call a sneak-o-meter. I had no clue how well I was doing 
 when I sneaked around. In the end I found sneaking to be unreliable and that simply killing guards 
 is the easier stratagem. Indeed I felt a lot better when the opposition was out of the way, so 
 I could retreat if necessary to a cleared area.
  
  Evaluation
  XIII starts out as a good concept but quickly reveals itself as just a dull shooter and as a shooter 
 it has nothing remarkable and bores after a while. Since I could find no reason to finish the game 
 I have no reason to replay it. Mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that breaks free from the mainstream, then you should find something 
 else.
  
  Other than being the same as every other FPS, it is quite a good game. Multiplayer isn't that fun 
 though.
  
  I would suggest you rent it instead of purchasing it.
  
  The cell shaded graphics are a nice touch and I enjoy this game quite a bit. 
  
  There is supposed 
 to be a sequal because the ending is a cliffhanger, and says "to be continuted..." , unfortunatley 
 it seems that Ubisoft doesn't plan on creating one right now which leaves the plot at a messy dead 
 end.
  
  Rent it, play it, enjoy it and return it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hethegreat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This review was writen in 2003 as I was playing the game. 
  
  The game starts out in a well done video, rendered with the game engine (Unreal Warfare with Cell 
 shading) . The video is of the assassination of the president, which you are accused of. This video 
 is done as though it was being read though a comic book so after a clip finishes they zoom out 
 and show the book and then either turn the page or move into another clip a little further down.
 
  
  During game play you have flashbacks to memories of before your amnesia. These flashbacks are kinda 
 black and white, and have been blurred. Whats nice about this is you still control the character 
 so you can walk around in it. (The memory is small so you can't walk too far because it fades off 
 into darkness.)
  
  The gameplay, along with the storyline, seams very nice. Its not quite a fast passed shoot 'um-up 
 game like Doom or Unreal. And its not, from what I've heard about Metal Gear Solid (haven't played 
 it yet) , as Stealth oriented. But it does have a nice mixture of both. In one of the levels I played 
 I had to take a hostage and make sure I did not turn my back to the security guards as I entered 
 an elevator. They also give quite a bit of ammo for your sniping weapons (the sniper and Crossbow) 
 and I like this because then I feel more like I can use it rather than save ammo for use of it 
 later (I don't wast ammo) .
  
  Now on to the bad stuff. The worst thing is saving. You can save anytime you want, but there is 
 a catch, it does not matter when you save it only saves the information from the last check point 
 you crossed. So if you save when you reach a check point and then kill off 20 guys and fill up 
 all your ammo and then save again, its still going to be the same saved game as the when you saved 
 it after reaching the checkpoint. And Check points take awhile to get to, unlike in Halo. 
  
  There is one more thing. When you do something like trow a grenade around a corner then a new 
 window will pop-up with a view of where the grenade has landed, which is quite cool at first but 
 when the guy comes chasing you and you can't see because of the word Baooom across the screen. 
 I can get very annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review because more-than-likely I have forgotten what have experienced in my 
 journey.
  
  This adventure starts by the assassination of my beloved president. Of course I'm to blame for 
 this. Hey, I didn't do this, OK! Even though there are pictures of me with a sniper rifle aimed 
 at the president with a bullet dislodged in the very same room where I was standing means nothing. 
 I have amnesia...
  
  My job is to locate the mysterious twenty people who are (I think) linked to this disastrous crime. 
 Look, the president has been assassinated!!!
  
  The overall scenery, even though my vision states that the entire locations and people are cartoonish, 
 are very impressive. I love when the water crashes in the ocean during sunset when I was at the 
 monastery... the boat... ohh my head...
  
  (5 minutes later)
  Where was I... oh yeah... the sounds... the sounds. Guns, bazookas, grappling hooks, doors all sounded 
 good however not great. Maybe I have lost my sense of hearing. I can't remember. Maybe it's because 
 of the background music is so excellent that it muffled everything else. The next thing is going 
 to be a little odd so stay with me. The words from anyone that I converse seems to be almost out-of-order. 
 It's like their lips are out of sync with the actual words coming from their mouth. Music... dancing...
 
  
  (21 minutes later)
  '... wake up McFly...'
  Ummmm - my overall experience was absolutely wonderful. I'm a frill seeker myself and this adventure 
 has it all; from underwater explorations to grappling down on the edge of a cliff whilst mowing 
 down people. Also I can use chairs, bottles, broomsticks etc to give my friends a certain 'wake 
 up call'.
  
  One of the most painfully strange concepts in this adventure is my recollections (cut-scenes) and 
 trying to back-trace my footsteps (quick save options) . Somehow I cannot remember where I was unless 
 some 'check-point' arrives; even then I cannot remember being in a checkpoint unless I mark it 
 (press the quick save button) . Also, once I remember anything at all (cut scenes) I cannot recall 
 them at all. Period. A paradox?
  
  Overall, this reminds me (funny that...) of another adventure called 'Hitman' or 'Agent 47' in 
 regards of the 'slower' type missions. However you will get your buck for your money when it comes 
 to 'cleaning up'. So if you like 'Hitman' then you'll like this.
  
  Now I must go and see the fireworks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_gelth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The key novelty in this game is the comic book graphics, so we cant really say it isnt realistic 
 because thats the idea. It makes good use of its comic book license too, with panels popping 
 up to show incoming bad guys, speech bubbles pop up on screen, text saying BANG whenever you 
 blow something up and small freeze-frame boxes showing important information. All this makes it 
 the most visually pleasurable game since LEGO Star Wars; proof realistic graphics are not necessarily 
 the best. The sound is good too, with credible (ish) dialogue and great voice acting. The soundtrack 
 is good too, and very memorable, the pick of the tracks being the military theme which plays when 
 youre in the SPADs camp. 
  The story is gripping too, with multiple flashbacks (Thats a new gameplay concept to me) and some 
 excellent twists, with the final unmasking of Number I a complete shock as youve trusted him all 
 game.
  The basic gameplay is great too, with the multiple guns and gadgets all great, including a grappling 
 hook you can use to swing from to get up or down dangerous drops, or hang from and shoot stuff. 
 The game has some levels where stealth is mandatory, and makes it hugely tense as you watch the 
 onscreen Tap Tap Taps. Also, it limits your weaponry as using a large machine gun or a grenade 
 may kill your quarry, but it will alert other guards who will sound the alarm or even just radio 
 HQ unless neutralized quickly. Pleasingly, there are other levels where you simply have to shoot 
 anything that moves or clonk people over the head with a broom (One use only) .
  The real problem with the game is how easy it is to finish. If you harbor Medkits from stealth 
 or easier levels, you will find the majority of the levels (Bar the last few, which up the ante 
 considerably) relatively easy to breeze through.
  However, there is a multiplayer mode, allowing you to either go online or play against bots, in 
 a welcome PC multiplayer mode which doesnt need the net to work.
  And so the game cuts ahead of most PC games, but sadly No One Lives Forever 2 is still better.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubedoXT
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Love this game, instant classic. Nice twist to first person shooters, only one thing... WHEN WILL 
 THIS GAME CONTINUE!??!!? The ending is very open ended... and XIII finally finds out who number 
 1 is (wont spoil it) ... is there gonna be more out of it or theyre gonna end the game and story 
 at the point?! Did they specifically say to be continued or not? I can't remember, I beat this 
 years ago. The game play and story are amazing as I recall, the events of the game never go drab, 
 everything keeps nicely consumed into the story at every scene. A must buy... if you can find it 
 anywhere these days that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  At first this game was very very annoying to me. I was sitting in front of the screen thinking... 
 why am i playing a game with such dumb comics for graphics. It took me about half and hour to break 
 myself of that mindset. Once I did though this game got a lot better really fast. The story isnt 
 original but it gets you thinking a bit. I liked the song that the people would sing at different 
 points in the game or whistle or whatever. That is the part of the game that I most remember sorry 
 to say. The bosses were a bit difficult but nothing an average gamer couldnt handle after a few 
 tries. I liked how if you sniped someone or killed them in a special way it would cut scene their 
 death. I hadnt played a game that was comic graphic'd before this (besides paper mario) . This game 
 was pretty good even if other people dont believe so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Amazing cell shading effects... finally we see some of that on PC. A highly stylized 
 comic book presentation backed up by top-notch cinematics and music. All this makes the game fun 
 to play.
  
  Music: Awesome dramatic, battle, techno, jazz and funk styles. Great stuff.
  
  Sound: Voice overs are pretty pleasing. In game sound effects seem pretty poor. There seemed 
 to be problems with 3d sound positioning (A guy sounding like he's in the distance on your left, 
 but he is in the opposite direction to the right. Many of the powerful machine guns had extremely 
 annoying overblown sounds... to the point where you didn't want to use those weapons.
  
  Story: Refreshing twists to the whole spy and consipiracy themes. Can't wait for the sequel. The 
 game centers around you being an agent who knows certain information (like the identity of people) 
 but you start the game with amnesia and pick up your memories along the way.
  
  Gameplay/Mechanics/Controls: Presentation and story aside, this is a standard FPS with hardly any 
 innovation. The only thing it brings out are comic-book themed elements such as seeing a "tap tap 
 tap" in the general direction of someone walking behind a wall and picture-in-picture windows appearing 
 to show important events or information.
  
  XIII delivers a refreshing twist for FPS and spy/conspiracy games, with a funky and lasting comic-book 
 like presentation that doesn't grow old. Audio effects could have used more work, and weapons/puzzles 
 could be beefed up as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lycan_werewolf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The first impressions XIII gave me was that it was a rip off of the Bourne identity, but as I played 
 the game I realized the original story line and fantastic plot was much more. The graphics are 
 unique with their comic book style and display. The action in the game may leave a bit to be desired 
 but the story will drag you along through a twisty tail of conspiracy and espionage. The ability 
 to pick up objects from around the environment like chairs, bottles and bricks, adds the FPS feel 
 and increases the gaming pleasure. The game its self was a bit short and the levels could be more 
 challenging but it is easy to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlracing
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  when i started playing this game, i was just expecting cartoon styled graphics and some fun. but 
 later on, i found this game much more than just eye-candy.
  to me, the most appealing aspect of this game is the gameplay and the story. it is not like many 
 of the classic FPS games which have repeating run-and-shoot missions through-out the game. it has 
 logical story background and well designed, different styled missions. as fast paced action is 
 never my strong point, stealth missions are my favorite.
  many kinds of the actions in the game are well programmed and feel realistic. for example, when 
 u hold an hostage, u can not reload a weapon. if the string of grapnel hits a beam when swinging, 
 the grapnel will come off. those may seem easy but the developer's paying attention to small detail 
 in a shooter game of 2003 should be praised. (this review was written in Feb. 2006)
  u can take this game for fun, or u can also take it serious. it let u experience the caution, intellence 
 and precise skills of a real agent - not to the extent of the real thing, of course. if u take 
 it for fun, u may turn on the game music and play at the easiest difficulty. if u want some serious 
 experience, turn off the music, choose the highest difficulty, cool down your head, listen, watch, 
 move slowly, aim precisely, and try to not get shot or get spotted, or u may die instantly if u 
 were an agent on duty in real life. OK, there maybe some more serious games out there, but this 
 one has missions that never make u get bored.
  the only thing i don't like about the gameplay, is fighting the bosses face to face. it is arcadish! 
 OK it is only my personal preference - i am not good at that and i find it hard even at the easiest 
 difficult. ;-b
  BTW, if u like this type of game, also try 007 games. I tried 007 nightfire on PC. it is interesting 
 as XIII, or even more, but XIII the game has much higher quality - i don't find a bug in this product.
 
  graphics are beautiful, not to mention they are cartoon styled which is fresh - never before on 
 FPS games. the environments are realistic and pleasant. further more, the graphic interface is 
 somewhat a piece of art, as is always the style of Ubisoft.
  sound is pretty good. but the music is too loud so as to be distracting - there is no music volume 
 adjust. i prefered to turn it off after i finished the game for the first time.
  there are several multiplayer modes some of which are creative. that adds some value to the product. 
 but hey, i am never into fast actions, i enjoy the story-based singleplayer mode much more.
  since this product is "polished" (as another reviewer put in) or in my words, every thing feels 
 solid and smooth, this game is bug-free and stable, playing this game is a pleasant experience. 
 (i hate bugs in games as i hate seeing horrible monsters in games - i hate doom, quake or unreal 
 type of games)
  
  SETBACK -
  there is a major setback of this game - the saving function, as was mentioned in other reviews. 
 i also found it annoying when i play the game for the first time. i only advise is, get familiar 
 with the objects and rules in this game, then turn off the music, concentrate, play it for another 
 time, u will get more sastisfaction and less frustration out of the game. but, anyway, please give 
 us the proper saving function in the next product, Ubisoft.
  oh, speaking of the next product, when will u release the next XIII game, Unisoft? didn't u say 
 "to be continued..." at the end of this game?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuba05
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game is so diferent from everything else out there. The cartoon graphics are so great, they 
 just enhance the game so much. With a wide arsenal availible to you, from ashtrays and glass, to 
 crossbows and snipers.
  
  The storyline in this game is top noch, very immersive and so very addicting. You go through many 
 stages, holding hostages and shooting people in the head many times, but it never gets broing due 
 to close-ups to see your brillinat shots take you enemies noses and eyes off. it is so very satisfying.
 
  
  I have finished this game on norma and hard settings, and i would finish it again, it is so addicting 
 and exellent in every way. Very original, unlike most 1st person shooters, and is a whole lot of 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornej
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 2, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is a good FPS that is certainly worth purchasing. 
  
  Needed a better save system. There are some parts of the game you may fail the first time or multiple 
 times and the current system makes you to play the entire section over again. That made it tedious 
 in some sections. Other then that one thing, the game was very enjoyable. The graphics and sound 
 were very well done and the comic book style cut scenes added even more flavor to the game. The 
 story line was well developed and the ending is a bit of a surprise. Like I said at the beginning, 
 this is an FPS worth playing... period. 
  
  I really think GS is a bit too critical of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This FPS game can be describes as, Award-Winning Conspiracy Thriller with Graphic-Novel Style! 
 Much like the Max Payne games, this adventure takes on a script right from a paperback novel or 
 better yet a comic book. In fact many of the shots by 13 are in slow motion and captured much like 
 a comic book would portray them.
  
  The voice-over by David Duchovny (playing 13) from X-files added a nice familiar touch to the comic 
 book-like adventure. Agent 13 starts out on a beach with no weapons and no memory the game-play 
 continues as his memory returns and skills come back to him.
  
  It should be realized by the player that the graphics are meant to be comic strip in nature. Not 
 near perfect animation, but good art work, meant to accompany a story such as this one.
  
  Overall, the game is extensive, with four discs to load. It is interesting FPS game-play by UbiSoft 
 and deserves high rating. The author is waiting for the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 26, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  XIII is the story of a man who has lost his memory. He wakes up on the beach not able to remember 
 anything whatsoever. No items are on your person and the only thing that remotely identifies you 
 is a mysterious tattoo of the Roman numeral XIII on your neck. You are helped by a beach lifeguard 
 who takes you back to her HQ and radio's for help. But before she can help you, she is killed and 
 you are next on the agenda. 
  
  So starts your trip into the game XIII. The game itself prides itself on a great story and visuals. 
 First off is the gameplay. XIII does present you with a great story. You are implicated in the 
 assasination of the President of the United States. You have been captured on video committing 
 the crime. But you have no memory of it. You are then paced through 15 or so missions that have 
 several mini levels built into each one. They slowly tell you the story of how you came to be who 
 you are and what your place is in the conspiricy. The game is based on the French comic book of 
 the same name, but I have never read the comic, so I cannot atest to how well it translates from 
 the paper to the video world.
  
  The levels are very well designed and have a nice size to them. They are fairly linear in nature, 
 but they are full of details and interactive items. In fact level design is one of the strong points 
 of the game next to its story. They are set in different locations and they all have a great logical 
 design. 
  
  Graphics are the big hook of the game next to the story. The game uses a heavily modified Unreal 
 engine, but puts a layer of cell shading on the entire process. The world is beautiful, and you 
 feel like you are in a comic book. The character models look fantastic and everything has an uber 
 cool look to it. Cell shading definitely gave this game a great unique feel from any other FPS 
 that I have played recently. The small visua cues are great showing footsteps with visual "taps" 
 on the screen. And the picture in picture shots of people dying like a comic book were great. Graphics 
 are really well done in this game.
  
  Sound is an up and down in this game. The weapons sound good and full, When you fire off an AR-15, 
 it sounds loud and strong. Same with most of the other weapons in the game. And the blast range 
 of the grenades are well done, with the effect crater going outward based on physics. Unfortunately, 
 the main character has a voice over by a barely awake David Ducovny of X-Files fame. He sounds 
 so bored with his role in the game. It definitely takes the game down a notch.
  
  But the biggest crime that this game has done and I have penalized it significantly is the save 
 system. You seem to be able to save anywhere. But what you don't realize is that it just moves 
 you back to a save checkpoint, immediately undoing any work you may have completed after that fact. 
 This is absolutely unacceptable. With a computer, I have a massive hard drive and should be able 
 to save anywhere. Just because this is a console port does not excuse that. It is a crime to save 
 before a boss in the game, get killed, and then realize that the save game only restores you to 
 about ten minutes before the boss on the other side of the level. This really interfered with my 
 gameplay and added on a couple extra hours of gaming that I should not of had to repeat.
  
  Overall XIII gives you a great story and fantasic visuals, but with an unispired acting performace 
 and a devistating save system, move this title from greatness to mediocre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  XIII is a very fun game to play. The gameplay is good. It plays like an FPS from this time. And 
 I like the way the FPS are playing. 
  
  The graphics are pretty. I like the cartoons and the way they did it in this game. But the facial 
 animations and some other stuff like that are not done very well. Every time you shoot or when 
 someone dies, You see these cartoon bubbles in the air. That's pretty fun to see.
  
  The sound is like the graphics. Not good and not bad.
  
  The game is as long as a FPS from 
 this time. Around 10 to 15 hours. The game has some replay value.
  
  I enjoyed playing this game. I think it's a really fun game to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgindles
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical when I first heard that there was going to be a first person shooter coming 
 out that featured comic book elements. I envisioned a game in which the user would have to sift 
 through endless pop up panels to get to the actual game. Imagine my surprise when I started playing 
 this fps and saw exactly what the designers had in mind.
  The story of XIII is nothing new or original. You, the character, may or may not be an assassin, 
 may or may not be a bad guy, may or may not be a covert operative, etc. However, the story itself 
 unfolds quite nicely over the course of the game. You start out on a beach with no memory of who 
 you are. When you are taken to a life guard shack for medical attention, a hit squad immediately 
 shows up at your location and you must fight your way to safety. You then progress through levels 
 such as a savings bank, FBI headquarters, and many other exotic locales in your search for the 
 truth. Even the levels themselves seem to advance the story. Many times you will be moving through 
 a level and trigger a flashback sequence as your character spots something or someone familiar 
 in his surroundings.
  The graphics are really where this game shines. It features the colors and shading one would expect 
 from reading a graphic novel. And as far as the pop up windows that I was dreading, they come and 
 go automatically and dont interfere with the game play at all. There are even instances where 
 Blam and Kaboom and various other Batman-like words appear on the screen if you blow something 
 up or get the drop on a bad guy.
  David Duchovny, Adam West, and Eve also lend their voices to the game. While I didnt buy the game 
 for this reason, te recognizable talent made it feel as if I was playing a type of interactive 
 movie (and this game would make a great movie) . The rest of the sound effects and music is almost 
 forgettable as I honestly cannot remember anything that stood out besides the acting. 
  Gameplay is pretty straightforward. If youve played a fps before, youll figure these controls 
 out in a matter of minutes, if not less. Your character can do the running and crawling and jumping 
 etc. that is standard in most games of this type.
  Now on to the down sides. This game features one of those annoying checkpoint save features that 
 seems to be in every game Ive played lately. How this works is that the computer keeps track of 
 your progress through the level and saves your game once youve reached certain things or done 
 particular tasks. If your character dies or otherwise fails his mission, youll have to start over 
 from one of these checkpoints rather than one of your own choosing. This can make the game more 
 challenging or frustrating, depending on your point of view. My grievance came from a particular 
 level in which you must storm a facility and ride a cable car down the mountain. I repeated a portion 
 of this level no less than one dozen times. Heres the frustration: I had to first do various mundane 
 things that took several minutes such as flipping power switches, finding parts, neutralizing patrols, 
 and so on, before I ended up in the levels climactic firefight, where I kept dying. Then I would 
 have to repeat the entire process just to get to the battle again. It would have been nice to have 
 been able to save at my own pace.
  This also brings about problem number two. While the AI in the game is certainly no better or worse 
 than others, the placement of the bad guys does not vary. In my above example, there was a particular 
 office that I knew as soon as I opened the door I would be confronted by one guard standing in 
 front of my and one behind the desk to my right. Combined with the checkpoint system, portions 
 of levels sometimes become more an exercise in memorization of target locations than any type of 
 strategy.
  Finally, there were times when the game tried to include elements of things it was not. First and 
 foremost, the is a first person shooter and very good one. However, seemingly at random times, 
 the game becomes a puzzle game where you have to find and assemble things or figure out how to 
 work a particular switch to move on. While there are nice stealth sequences and whatnot, the puzzle 
 aspect seems out of place when it appears.
  Overall, I would recommend this game for anyone who likes first person shooters. Ive heard this 
 game does not translate as well onto consoles so youll have to ask someone else about that. Any 
 frustrations or problems I had with this game were insignificant to the amount of fun I had playing 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 11, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  XIII is like an animated interactive movie in which the player advances through a linear layout 
 of conventional shooting. the artistry is professionally done, while close range designs are contrasting 
 a lot with the background textures, yet nicely toned. The whole merging seems to be well optimized 
 though we can experience from time to time some unfinished polygonal work, and occasional clipping 
 issues. Nothing stands exceedingly great nor a disaster in this game; almost every compound is 
 just on par with the average standards of the industry. True, the developers could have refined 
 more thoroughly their license of Unreal Engine 2 used here: the results are standard, showing a 
 pleasant texturing combined with a lacking resolution & surfacing partly due to the heavily cell-shading.
 
  
  Leveling presents a subtle mix of indoor and exterior environments. Strangely, all these varied 
 localizations are not entirely put to good use as the player progresses through the later stages 
 of the campaign, of good length, and unfortunately generating tedious objectives. Such tedious 
 moves ultimately mean a boring experience in the end, when reaching the 2/3rd and later on. Some 
 boss battles, either humans/mercenaries like you or a chopper, and so on, are nice to see, yes, 
 however they are just simply uninspired, and artificially enhanced to be challenging. Not in a 
 fun way.
  
  But admittedly, the overall experience is interesting enough to attract the fans of the genre, 
 particularly fond of comic book panelisation. Some action sequences involving regular foes can 
 be quite intense and should satisfy addicts in need of additional adrenaline, should they be patient 
 to reach said well sparsed locales. And XIII can offer some in a fresh way since the artistry helps 
 a lot to improve the stylised feeling. A style that can be somewhat reminiscent of GTA....... It 
 just needed more polished gameplay mechanics. Many scripted events are intertwined in a strange 
 fashion; inbetween we find some shoot-em-up levels - like a canyon - that can swiftly become boring 
 to deal with, as we encounter timid character modeling too.
  
  That said, a nice musical score helps to uphold a more realistic approach alongside the cartoony 
 construct, keeping much of the spirit from the comic book series. Fans of the cell-shaded blending 
 should definitely take a look at XIII. It's still an acceptable attempt of the peculiar genre. 
 However, compared to the mass products available, it remains a niche action game  la ''jack-of-trades, 
 master of none''. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 13, 2004 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game at first. It's very stylish, it's very cool to look at, it has a great, 
 unique soundtrack, and it starts off with an intriguing story. Then, when I got halfway through, 
 something happened. XIII gets horribly bogged down halfway through the game was some terrible stealth 
 missions. Normally, I don't like it when an action game has a token stealth mission. But we're 
 not even talking about the token mission here. Almost the entire second half of the game is stealth. 
 Every mission is about an hour's worth of frustrating, annoying stealth and then about ten minutes 
 of fun action. The save system is very unforgiving, and you fail most missions if you get detected 
 once. If I want stealth, I want it done right, like in Thief or Far Cry. XIII could have been a 
 great game if it had stuck to the run-and-gun shooting. Instead, it's a mediocre game at best because 
 the second half of the game is not at all fun to play through. 
  
  Another problem that this game has is that its story pretty much peeters out in the middle and 
 fails to deliver on its initial promise. The game starts off with a lot of suspense and mystery, 
 but that's over by the halfway point, when you are just infiltrating bases and uncovering a few 
 details. The ending has a little "surprise" that is very predictable. 
  
  I love the game's comic book style presentation. Contrary to what some other reviewers have said, 
 I never found it to get old. The game looks excellent from beginning to end. There is a wide variety 
 of indoor and outdoor environments. One thing that you can't say about this game is that it wasn't 
 inspired. Nailing guys with headshots is fun, because you get a little three-frame cutscene at 
 the top of the screen. What's even more fun is when you blow a guy up with a grenade, and you get 
 a little cutscene in the corner that shows him getting blown across the room, with a comic book 
 style "BOOM" for emphasis. The audio is another great part of the game that is squandered because 
 of the gameplay. The soundtrack is very unique, and overall, the voice acting is very good. 
  
  I wish that I could make developers stop putting these wretched stealth sequences into games 
 with engines that don't support stealth. XIII is one of the worst offenders that I have ever played 
 in this regard, and the checkpoint save system makes it even worse. This game looked pretty cool 
 to me when it came out. I can see now why it flopped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2004 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game was the demo version, and I loved it, but I waited until a couple 
 of days before to buy it, actually I was a bit hesitated between two games, Manhunt and XIII, Gamespot 
 gives Manhunt great 8.3 and XIII a fair 6.4, I think 6.4 is not fair at all to this game
  
  At the end I decided to get the XIII, and I was right, I did not finish with it yet.
  
  (Gameplay) : 
 Game full of fast action, the shooting engine is very good, and I like to hold up a chair and slam 
 it over the heads, taking hostages also is unique, I never played a game that you can take cover 
 by holding hostage, only Splinter Cell and XIII. The AI is not very clever, but it gets harder 
 by the levels.
  
  (Graphics) : I never thought that cel-shaded game will look that good, very nice color themes, neat 
 graphics, and the cutscenes are done in a very nice way, specially the flashbacks, and it has a 
 very unique way to alarm you of enemies, like the words that moves on the screen representing the 
 sound of walking, or the comic-book-style panel that appears showing you the next enemy hideout, 
 its one of the best game presentation I have seen.
  
  (Sound) : Sound is fair, it has nice backgroup music to it, and I like it when the heat build up, 
 the music changes and you feel yourself in some action movie, the rest is normal, the sounds of 
 shooting, guards screaming, nothing new in here.
  
  (Value) : I think I will not get bored from this game until the end of it, and I guess I would like 
 to play it again.
  
  (Saving at checkpoints) , I did not face that much problems here, many games offer to save at checkpoints, 
 I find it more challenging this way, at least it will give you the reason to play the game with 
 caution, and the levels are not very long, the long levels has more than one checkpoint.
  
  (Disk swapping) : What Disk swapping?! ,its not as bad as you think, you will be requested to change 
 the CD only once to continue with the other levels, and when you start the computer again you dont 
 have to swap back to disk 1, you can start from the current disk. Still this does not explain why 
 there is a Full Installation option, but I can live with it.
  
  Overall, I am enjoying this game to the full, its not as good as FarCry or Call of Duty, but the 
 unique way the story folds and the fighting and shooting engine are very good. I recommend this 
 game to anyone that like the FPS kind of games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryl
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 16, 2004 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I really like to play games like XIII. It has a good combination of FPS with some basic cool tricks 
 to pull off now and then. However, I have decided that the idiots who would put a save system in 
 like this one deserves no more than a low score. I don't really agree with checkpoint saving in 
 the first place but this one takes the cake. They actually give you a "quick save" option to find 
 out it simply saves at the last checkpoint.. Huh? Either it is some kind of joke or the developers 
 are really dumb asses. From this point on, I will never give a game more than a 6.0 if it doesn't 
 offer some reasonable quick save funtion. I don't care how good it is otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby838
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2004 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm VERY surprised at the Gamespot review of XIII. While its not best of the best, this is a damn 
 fine game. The look is fresh and very well done. The story interesting and compelling if a bit 
 overly-complex. The gameplay is fun, solid 1st person shooter fare. A touch of stealth-line Splinter 
 Cell in there for good measure.
  
  Most importantly this is a POLISHED game. It's slick, the game feels like a well-produced product.
 
  
  While I wouldn't put it equal to Splinter Cell, Call of Duty, or Knights of the Old Republic, this 
 is BY NO MEANS an "also-ran" game. Anyone looking to kill some time and have fun with a fresh looking 
 game should give XII a try, especially if you can get it for a good price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanslake2002
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2004 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Once again, game developers have made a game that mistakes annoying frustration with a good game. 
 The game goes along quite well and then you reach a level that is based on key mashing luck. I 
 don't profess to be a wizard at playing games, I do it for relaxation. It is not relaxing or is 
 it fun to all the sudden be dropped into a level that is (for me) impossible to complete. This 
 is not why I buy games. Devolopers some day have to realize that there is no satisfaction in not 
 being able to complete a game. Making it nearly impossible to complete does NOT make it a good 
 game. If I cannot finish a level after 20 or 30 tries based on my inability to shoot someone in 
 the head 15 times with a .44. it loses me, and it loses my business, as well as me informing as 
 many other gamers as I can that it's just another blister inducing key masher not worth the purchase.
 
  Developers have to smarten up. A large portion of the gamers are not hard core live only for the 
 game people. When the cost is evaluated against the time to complete a game and comes out in the 
 15 to 20 hour range, that is a good ratio. But if I cannot finish the game because it is made too 
 difficult I basically quit buying that Company's product. OH look there goes XIII to the garbage 
 can now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2004 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why Gamespot gave this game such a low score. Yeah, ok so the graphics aren't the 
 greatest in the planet but this is like playing through a comic book so the graphics were fine 
 for the setting. The story is really good and yes it's probably been done before but this had enough 
 twists to keep it going through to the end. I really liked the cutscenes I guess you'd call them 
 of when you got a headshot with an arrow or bullet, etc. That was pretty cool. I thought the sound 
 was also really good. 
  
  The last level on the boat the graphics for part of it were just awesome. I won't say what, but 
 you'll know what I'm talking about when you get there. The game played like any FPS so no troubles 
 with the controls. I liked how you could sneak up on enemies and take them hostage. That made the 
 game more fun. I also liked how they didn't overload you with so many weapons that you didn't know 
 which ones to use or had to many to choose from. Some levels just gave you a set to start with 
 and that's what you got for that level, possibly picking up 1 or 2 more weapons on the way. 
  
  I thought it was really cool with David Duchovny voicing the main character, though it's kind 
 of hard not to picture Agent Mulder in his place instead. None of the bosses were terribly hard 
 either. My biggest complaint about the game was the way it ended. I really wasn't expecting it. 
 I guess to go along with how some comic books are, it made some sense. Don't know if a sequel is 
 planned or not. Overall, it was a good game and I recommend it to anyone who's a fan of conspiracies 
 or FPS or comic books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcarleto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2003 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Man the review given to this game made me so mad, I'm actually submitting my first rating in over 
 3 years.
  
  While the reviewer did get it right regarding the save game feature and the disc shuffle, that 
 was about all that was right. This game is so much more engrossing than Call of Duty which got 
 a 9+ rating it's not even comparable. COD was a bug fest throughout with frequent crashes and lock 
 ups for ATI graphics cards users. The only solution that was provided was to regress back to older 
 drivers. Nice.... not. I'm not saying COD was a bad game just there is no way it can be rated 9+ 
 and XIII gets a rating of 6.4.
  
  I beseech the editors to have the game re-reviewed by someone else, clearly the person who did 
 this review had some sort of axe to grind or maybe just didn't enjoy the story and the game play 
 options. In no way did XIII deserve such a low rating. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
