-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Xtreme Air Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/xtremeairracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: eGames
Genre: Flight Simulation
Date:     Sep 14, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Xtreme Air Racing is an innovative and exciting cross-genre game that should keep computer-game 
 pilots and racers busy for a good long while. 

 Typically, games that use the once-trendy term "extreme" (or its misspelled variant "xtreme") in 
 their titles are memorable only for their distressingly poor quality. But Xtreme Air Racing is 
 the polar opposite of practically every extreme game that came before it. A tribute to the winged 
 hot rods and daredevil pilots that compete every year in Nevada's Reno Air Races, Xtreme Air Racing 
 is one of the most innovative and entertaining flight simulations to take flight since the turn 
 of the new millennium.           Xtreme Air Racing's cockpit view lets you get up-close and personal 
 with your competitors.    

 Unlike traditional flight sims, which for the most part deal with the complexities of a quasi-realistic 
 physics model, instrument panel, radio communications setup, and take-off and landing routines, 
 Xtreme Air Racing adds a compelling element of danger: high-speed wing-to-wing competition. In 
 this way, the game feels like an airborne adaptation of Papyrus' NASCAR Racing. And this enjoyable 
 game should prove equally appealing to hard-core simulation aficionados, reflex-crazed air combat 
 fans, and yes, even automobile race junkies.   

  Certainly those who enjoy the nuts and bolts of real aircraft should not take Xtreme Air Racing 
 as lightly as its name might suggest. For starters, the game features virtual representations of 
 many of the most important real-life aircraft and personalities that actually compete every September 
 at Reno. Veteran pilot Skip Holm flies his restored 1944 P51D Mustang, "Dago Red," which is the 
 very same plane that has dominated the unlimited class for the last half-decade. Tom Dwell flies 
 the recently revamped 1953 Hawker Sea Fury "Critical Mass," and Lyle Shelton pilots the multiple 
 championship winner, the 1946 Grumman F8F Bearcat "Rare Bear." Developer Victory Simulations has 
 constructed numerous fictional airplanes to fill out the roster and has even resurrected the F4U 
 Super Corsair of Fighter Rebuilders, which was destroyed at Phoenix in 1994.   

  Not only can you fly all these vintage, tricked-out aircraft, but you can modify them too. Indeed, 
 if you expect to progress beyond the introductory levels, you must learn how to effectively make 
 some adjustments. The Xtreme Air Racing hangar (essentially a racing-game garage) , is a complicated 
 place that lets you exchange a Rolls Royce engine for a Pratt &amp; Whitney R-2800-32W, increase 
 and decrease your propeller diameter or reduction gearing, vary your wing dimensions, and decide 
 on an appropriate fuel and radiator coolant load. You may even want to augment your nitrous oxide 
 supply for that extra boost during longer races.   

  What you do is entirely up to you, but rest assured that each tweak really does make a difference. 
 Of course, the only way you'll know if you've assembled a faster, more agile, and more capable 
 machine is to take it for a test spin. The game really excels when you're in the air, where you'll 
 find yourself coming to grips with its impressively deep flight model amid real-world conditions 
 such as wake turbulence (produced by your competitors) and visual G-force effects such as redouts 
 and blackouts.           The game's aircraft are authentically detailed, painted, and modeled after 
 their real-world counterparts.    

 In fact, simply keeping your craft off the ground, within the ceiling restrictions, and tight to 
 the pylons that define the course is a continuing challenge that's sure to keep you fixed on the 
 screen at all times. Victory Simulations has fashioned a machine that echoes most every trait found 
 in the real world, thereby rewarding careful planning and a deft, subtle touch. If you do happen 
 to venture too wide on a given turn, you certainly can't yank and crank your aircraft back into 
 proper position without also experiencing numerous realistic and oftentimes violent reactions. 
 In short, you will most often feel as if you're flying a real airplane.   

  And then there are your fellow racers, who zip around the courses like a flock of angry bees, bobbing 
 and weaving into better position while doing their best to avoid smacking each other -- or you. Although 
 the game's AI crash-avoidance system is extremely good, the possibility of unexpected and unwanted 
 collisions does exist. And if your faulty driving skills don't get you, your own neglect or forgetfulness 
 might. Your engine temperature may rise, in which case you must trigger your spraybar to cool the 
 radiator. You may find yourself lagging behind and therefore compelled to hit the nitrous -- but 
 not so much as to overheat again. In Xtreme Air Racing, when you're not busy doing something, you're 
 busy pondering your next move.    

 With this sort of edge-of-the-seat action, Victory Simulations could have been forgiven for constructing 
 a limited number of venues. Yet the game offers a variety of locations from around the world, from 
 Reno to a Nordic fjord and several points in between. Each site features several course configurations, 
 including small ovals, figure eights, lengthy endurance layouts, and a bonus or two. Like the aircraft, 
 the majority of circuits remain locked until you've proven you can handle the easier events. Three 
 difficulty levels add even more variety, as do an assortment of specific gameplay options and pilot 
 assists. If you don't want to crash, for example, you can simply switch off collisions. If you'd 
 like a better view of the tiny earthbound course boundaries, you may select one or more floating 
 visual aids. And if you happen to grow weary of the concept, the game also features a short but 
 sweet combat mode wherein you'll scoot about in pursuit of your nemesis and in so doing realize 
 just how complex those flight physics really are.           A squadron of racers soars over a northerly 
 ice floe.    

 Although Xtreme Air Racing is not the prettiest flying game ever made, it is far from unattractive. 
 The actual aircraft really look the part, shaped just like their real-life counterparts and colored 
 and decaled in full racing trim. Flaps and rudders move just as they should, and landing gear will 
 snap off and disappear in the distance if deployed at high speed. The game offers a terrific number 
 of viewer perspectives, most of which may be zoomed in or out. However, the terrain is quite bland. 
 Although oceans and lakes look sufficiently watery, and landmasses look sufficiently hilly, the 
 quantity and quality of detail is lacking. Apart from scatted buildings and trees, land is depicted 
 as vast swatches of uninteresting texture. Moreover, you won't find any precipitation in these 
 perennially clear skies, nor can you fly at night. Then again, the exceedingly close-knit, stock 
 car-like competition of the real-world Reno race dictates that they never be held during severely 
 inclement weather or after dusk.   

  In the cockpit, you can use your hat switch to smoothly turn your virtual head in any direction 
 or to look down to monitor the rather rudimentary but fully operational instrument panel. Pilots 
 are quite visible through their translucent windscreens, and the skies are festooned with clouds, 
 hot-air balloons, pretty lens-flare effects, and, of course, a squadron of energetic aircraft. 
 And if you do manage to smack the deck, Xtreme Air Racing will reward you with one of the most 
 impressive crash sequences of any flight sim. Wings and tails will detach, thick black smoke will 
 permeate the surroundings, and charred fuselages will tumble to a stop. At the culmination of particularly 
 harsh impacts, you'll see numerous chunks of wreckage strewn about the countryside, each section 
 burning and smoking and looking eerily like the results of a real-life disaster.           Another 
 close-up of one of Xtreme Air Racing's stunt planes.    

 Xtreme Air Racing's audio is both adequate and useful. Although the sound of your own engine isn't 
 especially dynamic, your cabin will reverberate with the whistles and swooshes of the buffeting 
 wind, varying in accordance with your current tack and velocity. Your competitors' motors will 
 become louder as they approach and softer as they withdraw. And if you choose to do so, you'll 
 also have two voices in your head while you're flying. The first is that of veteran real-world 
 circuit announcer Gordon Bowman-Jones, who regales you with current standings and even up-to-the-second 
 gap times. Unfortunately, he delivers his limited lines overenthusiastically and with a sense of 
 humor that tends to grow tedious after repeated exposure. The second is that of accomplished pilot 
 R. A. "Bob" Hoover, who, in contrast, calmly and coolly delivers remarkably situation-pertinent 
 advice and assurances.   

  Serious flight and race enthusiasts will find much more wisdom by consulting the enclosed 100-page-plus 
 virtual manual, a wonderful piece of work in which the game's many intricacies are fully explained. 
 You can also find additional, more-detailed information on the game's official Web site.   

  If Xtreme Air Racing has a serious flaw, it's the load time you have to sit through the first 
 time you load up a course. We wound up waiting for a minute or more just for the game to make the 
 transition from its menu interface to the gameplay screen. This delay is trimmed to a substantially 
 more acceptable time frame if you're accessing a course for a second or third time, but that initial 
 holdup may be enough to frustrate even the most patient pilot.   

  Don't be deceived by the game's title. Xtreme Air Racing is an innovative and exciting cross-genre 
 game that should keep computer-game pilots and racers busy for a good long while.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
