-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Yohoho! Puzzle Pirates
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/yohohopuzzlepirates/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A wide variety of derivative, but addicting puzzles.
 A huge online community filled with helpful and pleasant people.
 A good amount of extra activities to take part in outside of pure puzzling.
 Simplistic, but nice Java-based graphical design.
 A well-designed, player-driven economy that makes laborious tasks fun!.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very little in the way of sound.
 The monthly/annual fees for the game are a little prohibitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 344 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Three Rings
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     Dec 8, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you like the idea of competitive and cooperative puzzling online, Puzzle Pirates may be just 
 what you're looking for. 

  Massively multiplayer online puzzle game. Those are the only possible terms you can use to properly 
 describe Yohoho! Puzzle Pirates, one of the weirdest and most original puzzle games we've come 
 across in quite a while. The game's been around for a fairly long time, but it's just now making 
 its way to retail shelves. Imagine a persistent online world where people's little avatars -- essentially 
 Lego people in pirate regalia -- sail the open seas, sword fight with one another, swab the decks, 
 and even get in a few friendly parlor games, all through the magic of simple puzzles derived from 
 some of the best concepts out there, like Tetris and Bejeweled. Now throw in a cutesy art style 
 and a community chock-full of crazy people who want to talk like pirates, and you've got a pretty 
 entertaining experience all around. Of course, the game isn't without its problems, but for big-time 
 puzzle fans who like the idea of competitive and cooperative puzzling online, Puzzle Pirates may 
 be just what you're looking for.  

          Finally, an MMO that speaks to the puzzle-crazy pirate in all of us.     

  The world 
 of Puzzle Pirates is what you'd expect from a pirate-themed game. Clipper ships and war brigs sail 
 the seas, crewed by all manner of scalawags and sailors. Islands populate the landscape, inhabited 
 by numerous seafaring folk. Like most any MMO, the populace of Puzzle Pirates has to earn its keep 
 by performing assorted labor tasks, like being part of the crew on a ship or taking on assorted 
 tasks for businesses while on land. However, you don't run around killing monsters or collecting 
 rare items like you would in most any MMORPG. Instead, you perform your work via puzzles, and each 
 one is uniquely tailored to the task you're charged with.  

  For instance, when on land, you can opt to take a job with an apothecary, a distiller, or a shipwright, 
 among others. If you choose the apothecary, you'll see several orders for potions and concoctions 
 that have been placed by actual players in the community. The puzzle itself revolves around rotating 
 a number of pipes leading from colored jars at the top of the screen to a position where they'll 
 pour out into color-coded vials at the bottom. You can create combos to up your rank, but if you 
 screw up, you'll break your jar. Even though you can just play the puzzle as it is without even 
 worrying about the available orders, you'll earn more money and a higher rank by filling the orders. 
 Every task is just like this, featuring a unique type of puzzle that fits the type of work you're 
 doing, and essentially providing you with a way to perpetuate the economy. You earn money for your 
 work; you help a local business fill its orders; and you help other players get the items they 
 want. A hell of a system, if we do say so ourselves.  

  The real fun begins when you get aboard a ship. You'll first start checking out the bulletin boards 
 around the town that you're in, and you'll see a number of crews looking for help on pillaging 
 missions. These positions start out as temp jobs, but if you work hard enough, you can receive 
 an offer from an officer of the crew to join on full time. Every crew is made up of different types 
 of players, so it's usually a good idea to figure out what a few different crews have to offer 
 before joining one. Like on land, seafaring tasks are made up of various puzzles. Everybody on 
 the ship contributes in one way or another, from working the bilge to navigating the ship. Of course, 
 the whole reason you're out on the water to begin with is to plunder other ships for their booty. 
 You'll run into a lot of other ships while at sea, and when you do, you can attack them, or be 
 attacked. If you do enter into a battle sequence, you'll see the map change to a view of your two 
 ships on a playing field. All members of the crew have to maintain their duties during these battles, 
 and specific players will have to navigate the ship around obstacles while others fire the cannons 
 and try to damage opposing ships.  

  Once one ship has been weakened enough, the other ship can grapple its opponent and attack the 
 crew in a massive sword battle. A sword battle in Puzzle Pirates takes place in a puzzle that looks 
 and operates an awful lot like Super Puzzle Fighter. Colored blocks drop from the top of the window, 
 and by moving these blocks into groups you can create a solid connection of blocks. Sword icons 
 will periodically drop down as well, and you'll need to match them up with colored blocks that 
 correspond with their own color. Doing so will break a block, and each time you do this it will 
 unleash a number of solid, uncolored blocks on your opponent. If you break one of the solidified 
 blocks, it sends a big, honking sword down on your opponent's playing field. There's even more 
 strategy to these big sword brawls, because you can select which opposing player you want to target, 
 and then you and your crewmates can team up on them. There's a lot of strategy here for what is, 
 in essence, a pretty simple puzzle, but that can be said about pretty much all of the puzzles in 
 the game.  

  Though you couldn't exactly call any of the puzzles in Puzzle Pirates difficult, none of them are 
 short on fun. Essentially, pretty much every puzzle concept is taken from one popular puzzle or 
 another. For instance, the bilging puzzle is basically just a differently skinned version of Bejeweled, 
 whereas the carpentry puzzle works like a slightly different version of Tetris, requiring you to 
 place uniquely shaped planks of wood into holes in the hull and eventually repair them. And then, 
 of course, there's the already noted Super Puzzle Fighter-inspired sword-fighting game. The best 
 part about the puzzles, however, is that each and every one has a ranking system, so you'll continue 
 to play and improve your overall ranking on your archipelago and even throughout the world. That's 
 more than enough inspiration to keep playing.  

  Of course, you probably wouldn't even bother with any of this if there weren't any worthwhile things 
 to buy with all this money you're earning. While there are certainly plenty of little things to 
 buy to customize your pirate, like clothing, weapons and what have you, the real reason you should 
 save up your salary is to buy your own ship or your own business. Buying your own ship is pretty 
 much what it sounds like. You're awarded the deed to one of several types of ships, ranging from 
 sloops to war brigs, and then you're the one in charge of that boat. Creating a business essentially 
 opens up a stall within an allotted business area. So, if you create a shipwright business, your 
 stall will go next to the other shipwright businesses on that archipelago. Running your own ship 
 or business can be quite a bit of fun, and hey, you're helping the economy!  

  No online game can survive without a solid and enthusiastic community. In the case of Puzzle Pirates, 
 enthusiasm is one thing this community has no shortage of. After spending quite a bit of time playing, 
 we've come to the conclusion that everyone playing Puzzle Pirates is completely insane, but in 
 a totally endearing way. Essentially, people really seem to get into the whole pirate mentality 
 here. When you first board a ship, it's not uncustomary to have a lot of people type things like 
 "Arrrr!" and "Ahoy! Get to yer station, mate!" There sure is a lot of role-playing going on here, 
 even though it's not an RPG. If that freaks you out, then maybe this isn't the game for you. But, 
 if you can get into the whole pirate thing (or at least get past it) , then you'll find the community 
 of Puzzle Pirates to be quite an entertaining and often helpful bunch.  

  From a technical standpoint, Yohoho! Puzzle Pirates is just about the easiest thing in the world 
 to boot up and play. The game starts up instantly and quits out just as easily. It runs on basically 
 any machine, from a high-end PC to a Mac to even a Linux box. Granted, this is because this is 
 just a Java client that doesn't take up more than a hundred megabytes on your hard drive. Make 
 no mistake; Puzzle Pirates isn't bad looking at all. The puzzles all have a nice look to them, 
 and you'll see an appreciably precious art style while you're wandering around a ship or island. 
 Because of the game's visual limitations, you won't find anything especially impressive. However, 
 the visuals are just fine for what they need to be here. There really isn't much audio either. 
 You'll get some occasional pirate chatter and a few little sea chanteys playing in the background, 
 but that's really it. Though you'd hardly expect a whole lot of audio from a game like this, even 
 what's here isn't really all that great.  

          Were it not for the postpurchase fees, Puzzle Pirates would be the easiest game in the 
 world to recommend. And even with the fees, it's still a pretty easy recommendation.     

  The one and only major thing that might prevent you from picking up Puzzle Pirates is its overly 
 prohibitive price tag. The game itself is only $20, and even though the first month is free, you'll 
 be paying either monthly or yearly fees after that. The monthly fee is $9.95, and the yearly fee 
 is $74.95. While that isn't excessively expensive for an MMO, it is quite expensive for something 
 that feels more like a fun distraction rather than the kind of thing you'd want to sink every waking 
 moment of your life into. The game itself features no shortage of content to keep you playing time 
 and time again, but it's debatable whether that content is really worth the kind of money it's 
 asking for.  

  If you have the disposable income to drop on a game like this, then there's no doubt that you should 
 at least give it a try for the first free month. As puzzle games go, Puzzle Pirates is a winner, 
 and it's not just because of how good its puzzles are by themselves, but also because of how it 
 ties all of its puzzles into the larger gameworld, creating a completely self-perpetuating economy 
 and community purely out of puzzling. It's a bizarre concept that's done very well. And even if 
 you don't want to shell out money on a monthly or yearly basis, the $20 price tag is more than 
 worth it for that first free month.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mavestino
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Now this is not your ordinary mmo as anyone can probably tell right off the bat. The game consists 
 of puzzles; lots of puzzles which the developers fit right into the world of piracy. But of course 
 theres more than that. You can start a business, play cards, enter tournaments, join a crew, buy 
 a home, etc. There are more than enough things to do to keep yourself busy in this game.
  
  When you start off, you are given the option to choose your hairstyle, beard (if male) , skin color, 
 and starting clothes. Unlike most mmo's, there is no armor to be had in this game (none that offer 
 protection at least) and the weapons give no direct bonuses. Clothes, however unecessary, can be 
 purchased from player-owned businesses and worn as a symbol of wealth. So when you have decided, 
 you will be whisked away to a randomly chosen inhabitted island in any of the ocean's archipelagoes. 
 For a price, you can change the way your pirate looks later on.
  
  What you want to do first is learn the tools of the trade, puzzling. There are many categories 
 of puzzles:
  
  1. Piracy
  The piracy puzzles are any of the things you would do aboard a vessel at sea. This could involve 
 pumping the bilge, fixing the ship, or managing the sails. When you start off, that is all you're 
 going to be doing but once you get settled into the game and learn from expert players, you will 
 start loading guns and navigating the ship through sea battles.
  2. Carousing
  These puzzles are done on the mainland. They are the puzzles that you can more easily and enjoy 
 and relax when playing. Most of them, though, are not puzzles at all. The card games include hearts, 
 spades, and texas helm em poker. I've only ever played poker out of those games in real life, so 
 I am unaware if they exist as hearts or spades. Now poker is one of the biggest things to hit puzzle 
 pirates. At one point you may find yourself logging on just to play poker and check your businesses. 
 A lot of poe, pieces of eight, can be earned playing. Two other puzzles, treasure drop and drinking, 
 can be played. The drinking game I personally found myself to be good at, so I liked that one.
 
  3. Labor
  The labor puzzles are what is used to run certain businesses. The shipwright, apothecary, iron 
 monger, and distillery are currently the only ones. However, foraging aboard a ship when docked 
 at an uninhabitted island can also use labor hours to search for goods. This usually yields common 
 fruit, but every now and then you might find yourself lucky enough to spot a treasure chest come 
 up in your puzzle. Labor puzzles are special in a way that you can only play the puzzle 24 times 
 a day. Anything after that will not produce labor, harvest any fruit, or grant you any experience.
 
  
  Once you get 'settled' into the game, after some sea monster hunts & plenty of pillages, you may 
 want to join or even start a crew, however if you want to start your own, I personally reccomend 
 that you join one first to get the feel for it. This act will introduce you into the politics of 
 puzzle pirates. I was lucky enough to get accepted into a crew with some well-known players on 
 the cobalt ocean. This game honestly doesn't have a lot of players, and with the option to change 
 so much of the game, the game sets an equal balance.
  
  After you make your fame in the game, you'll want a nice portrait to accompany your stats. Maybe 
 even a house as a status symbol. Then onto businesses. The thing I like about puzzle pirates' businesses 
 is the immersivness. There is a boss who opens the stall (or building, if you can afford it) , manages 
 what to sell, buys materials, set labor wages, and such. Then if you want, you can select managers 
 you trust to do all these things, in your place. Then on the opposite end, if you find that your 
 labor hours are being wasted, you can find yourself a place of employment.
  
  Homes are one aspect in games that I really don't like. More so in this game. In a lot of rpg's, 
 your home is where you stockpile your trophies and goodies. In puzzle pirates, it is more of just 
 a place to lighten your wallet. A good perk is that you can have your own private inn. You can 
 play all your favorite carousing games with more 'privacy.'
  
  Clothing and trinkets are nice little goodies. You sport them to make yourself stand out from the 
 average players. Other than that, save your poe. You may think you want that maroon, gold outfit 
 but once you get it, you'll be disappointed at how much it made a difference.
  
  For me, in the end, this ended up just being all about one thing. Poker. Everything in puzzle pirates 
 was to play poker. At a certain point, I didn't care that my standing in one skill dropped to something 
 or if I ever got a certain experience rank. All I wanted to do was outplay all the idiots on ypp 
 and burn it on clothes. This game is a 'phase game.' Once you're done with it, you're done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkghostsharp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  First, if you don't like puzzling then it's deffinately not the game for you, like I said, it's 
 a puzzle game so don't expect to be wondering off fighting monsters like in any usual MMORPG. There 
 are some things you could do outside the puzzles, like gambling in a hearts, spades or poker game, 
 governing an island or running your own business but most of these require money which, innevitably, 
 comes from puzzling.
  Considering that it's a java game and that graphics isn't exactly the main objective, it has some, 
 let's say, rather cute art. Sound is virtually non-existent which, at least for me is fine because 
 it let's me listen to my music.
  The community in the game is just great, they're a bunch of helpful, funny and decent people and 
 the OceanMaster (the admins of the game) encourage them to use pirate words and expressions so 
 wherever you go you'll see things like "Ahoy" and "Arrr", so don't freak out, eventually, you'll 
 use them too.
  Making money is difficult at first, since when you start it seems like there's nothing more than 
 puzzling on another's ship to get miserable shares, but when you join a crew and work on your puzzling 
 skills, you'll be invited to better pillages where you gain money easier. Eventually, if you are 
 good enough you'll be granted an Officer position in a crew and thats where the fun begins. You 
 can now run your own pillages and earn more money which allows you to buy better clothes and swords, 
 which makes swordfighting another person easier, and, if you've wagered, win even more money.
 
  Also, you can eventually buy your own ship so that you can sail it, instead of using other's ships. 
 You can also become a royal in your flag (a flag is a bunch of crews that work together) and eventually, 
 govern your own island. You can also choose to run a business and open tailoring stalls or distilleries.
 
  
  What's best is that the game is completely self sufficient, players do everything from ruling islands 
 to declare war on other flags right down to the puzzling so you can help your crewmates in a pillage, 
 everyone with their specific puzzle to make a pillage good
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellgod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  If you like puzzle games, this is the MMO for you! several puzzle games all geared towards pirating. 
 Cool theme, and cool puzzle games. It really is a great game. Sword fighting is puzzle fighter. 
 Sailing is Doctor Mario, and several other great puzzle games. I played this game for about a month. 
 I never ranked up, but I was rich. If you play the game by just playing the normal puzzle games, 
 itll take you forever to get any money. The way to get rich quick, just like in real life is POKER. 
 My cousin and I pooled all the gold we made within a week, and then I went to the tables. Yep, 
 I made over 100Gs in poker within a week. I had it all, I nice white suit, Awesome looking white 
 hat, and I was about to buy my own ship. But then something went terribly wrong. I got pissed off 
 and called someone the N-word using two lower cased Qs instead of Gs. Since this game is geared 
 for kids, none of that is alowed at all. I got banned, and of course I appealed it, but they said 
 no. So do not swear, or you will be banned. I reccomend this game for people who are decent at 
 poker and always wanted to be the rich pirate. its a lot of fun to be a captain i'm guessing, but 
 not much fun if your always playing the same 3 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeAsTnItOuT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is a good game overall. It takes in all kinds of classic puzzle games, tweaks them, and realeases 
 them as part of the game. Eventually though, once you've gotten used to all the puzzling and adventuring, 
 everything gets stale. You find that you have nothing better to spend your poe (game currency) 
 on other than clothing (which do nothing) , portraits (also nothing) , more expensive homes or sword 
 enamles (more nothing) , or furniture. Its really the point that I started buying furniture in the 
 game that I realized that this game is like one of those 'second-life' kind of games. Because there 
 is absolutely no point in buying ingame furniture but with hardly anything else to spend your poe 
 on, you come to the conclusion that you're only playing to furnish a "home" that you really don't 
 even care about. The only thing that kept me playing was the texas hold em release. In my opinion, 
 that was the greatest thing that the boys at three rings did for the game. So I've never played 
 on the dubloon oceans, just on a subscription ocean and the most advice I can give is to play it 
 for a week or two unsubscribed just to see if you like most of the puzzles. Because if you can't 
 get into the puzzles, this game really isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo4444
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Its a lot more addictive than it might look. The game is not a masterpiece but it is a game worth 
 playing. It has a lot of fun puzzles and features for example creating a crew, creating a shop, 
 buying a house and buying furniture for your house. 
  
  Gameplay -9/10
  
  Well puzzles might be frustrating at times because you can never get that ultimate trophy you've 
 always wanted which is given to a player who does terrific at his station for a period of time 
 compared to other players. The Parlor games like hearts, poker, spades, and drinking are very fun (well 
 if you win I mean) . There are also tournaments that can have an unlimited amount of players that 
 can give you chance of winning a good prize. Creating a crew is not something you do right off 
 the bat but it will make you feel great if it goes somewhere. Most of the players are usually cabin 
 boys or pirates, but they work their way up into officers, fleet officers, and if your loyal to 
 your captain you might be able to be a senior officer.
  
  Graphics -8/10
  
  The graphics aren't spectacular but they get the job right.
  
  Sound-7/10 
  
  Not the best 
 you'll hear in a game but it is not as bad as people say it to be. 
  
  Tilt -9/10 
  
  It does have a great tilt but i wouldn't give it a 10.
  
  Value - 9/10 
  
  It really is 
 worth what it is said to be.
  
  This is truly a game worth playing.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reqwez
Rating: 1
Date: May 25, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game ive played. Who plays this othen says "java is my friend" or "yahoho!" thats 
 sick, normal people don't say this. looks like they "forgot the world" and ill have to say "get 
 a life"! playing this game just everything sucks! graphics-4.0, gameplay-4.5, sound-2.0 . there 
 is only 3-6k players playing this game. Also this game works like "cigarette" or "alcohol" people 
 playing this are othen sick or something. Puzzles really sucks! Dont play this game because its 
 too works like "wanna go to casino win some money!" and what then? you got owned by this game! 
 Failed at a life. I hate the graphics and sounds, graphics like failed shading and battles are 
 not animated, just an icon above heads. People are trying to get rating to incredible and when 
 they fail they just get angry and mad for hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The good: Amazing game-play: It's free, a great experience
  The bad: Music might not be enjoyable for everybody
  
  Puzzle Pirates is an online Puzzle game 
 that has caught millions of peoples eyes. There shouldn't be a contest. This has got to be the 
 most amazing online Puzzle game ever made. It's seriously a game you'll want to play for ages.
 
  
  Game-play: 10/10: It's simple to play, you are a pirate who plays puzzle games to win levels. The 
 more games you win, the more prizes and levels you'll raise. It's incredibly fun and worthless 
 to not enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Although the graphics might have some tight squeezes, they're bright, colorful, and amazingly beautiful.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music is good, but some might not might like it.
  
  Camera and Control: 10/10
  
  The tilt is simply amazing. Controlling many games has the ultamite 
 power inside the mouse.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Puzzle Pirates is a game that owns all the others.
  
  Average Score: 9.4/10
  
  Puzzle Pirates 
 will obviously be a puzzle game on your list. This game is what you'll be playing for the ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  such an addictive game, become a captain, battle in atlantis, haul treasure, blockade islands, 
 travel in the seas, sink boats, bunch of puzzles, it looks like a REALLY STUPID AND TERRIBLE GAME 
 but its not, u will love it with time, the server is always with a bunch of players, lots of ocean 
 to pick (the oceans can be described as WoW kingdoms) trade goods, buy furniture for your house, 
 fight skellies and zombies, mine gold, earn trophys, enter tournys, Buy a pet, get a boat, EARN 
 MONEY!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  and the best part:
  ANY COMPUTER CAN RUN IT, DOENT TAKE MUCH DATA ON YOUR HARD DISC, UNLESS U KEEP YOUR GRANDPA PC!
 
  
  The good:
  really addictive puzzles, 2d cute cartoon graphics, nice number of players and a great multiplayer 
 sistem
  
  The bad: 
  the doublon sistem, if u want to go to a no-doubloon ocean you have to pay a monthly fee, which 
 is... a bit expensive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The game itself overall isn't great but you'll enjoy if:
  A) You like gambling.
  B) You like pirate games.
  C) Your bored and have nothing else too do.
  D) Another reason.
 
  
  First of all let me go over the main stuff.
  Graphics: A little good for a online computer game but not great. 
  Sound: Not very - good personally.
 
  Gameplay: I'll go over the steps now.
  
  A) You like gambling:
  Yes this game has a lot of gambling which may not be the best things for kids too grow up with. 
 But some games you can join in tournaments, tables, ect. Some are very interesting and some are card 
 games.
  
  B) You like pirate games:
  Yes this is called Puzzle PIRATES. So yes your a pirate and you pllimage, sail, drink rum, wake up 
 me hearty-yo-ho! You can make a ship if your a paying member otherwise you can join a crew. Join 
 in PUZZLE pirate sword fights which somewhat matches Tetris. You can change them with clothes you 
 can biy.
  
  C) If your board then you'll probably find this game somehow. The game does get very boring after 
 awhile and monthly payers it's not cheap.
  
  D) You may have other reasons. 
  
  Difficulty:
  Strategy: Hard.
  Gameplay: Med - Hard
  Overall Dif: Hard.
  
  Overall thoughts: 
 not that great if your a paying member. I've played this game through out two years and it got 
 too boring after awhile.... 
  Paying a monthly fee isn't that great or worth it. 
  Being a free-trial person is nice for awhile but not too many people are nice.
  No chat protection.
 
  I Really don't suggest this for younger kids. But teens + then go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd96
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game really isn't that good. And for people who really like it yes i have played it and i 
 know what it's like. Basically all you do for years and years is work on a ship by doing the most 
 boring, stupid work ever on someone else's ship. Yeah, being in a crew is awesome. Yeah, playing 
 poker with people is super awesome. Yeah, everything else sucks. Okay, so let's say that a friend 
 gave you a ship or you managed to play for years and get a ship (impossible) . Well, it is still 
 not fun because you can't leave when you are sailing a ship or elese it will be lost in the middle 
 of the ocean, and ship rides take about 30 minutes or more. What's more is that you have to buy 
 items to start a ship ride! And once you get enough money TO play poker, eventually you just lose 
 it all and have to do more boring digital labor. It's a hassle. And usually you will run into some 
 mean guys playing poker and they will cuss or say something ugly to you if you win the hand. Then 
 you say something to defend yourself and they BAN you! NO FRICKIN SECOND CHANCES! Some guy said 
 something inapropriate about my mom so i told him to shut the frick up and i got reported and BANNED! 
 Trust me don't get into this game, eventually it will turn out to be your worst nightmare. Please 
 just listen to my review because all the other people giving it 10s probably haven't played to 
 the game's full extent like i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is hopping up and down sometimes you have thousands of poes and sometime you lose them 
 all in poker or at Brawl. You may be a captain officer or a pirate I dont really care am I Cap'n 
 or Senior officer. This game has Awesome puzzles and fun. Carpenting, blacksmithing, bilging, swpordfighting, 
 Rumble and many more. CAN'T GET ENOUGHT OF THESE INCREDIBLE PUZZLES! you home can be Paradise or 
 then a lonely rusted shack. The best thing in the game is that even while this game is about the 
 cruelty of pirates it has replaced the bloody battles with funny puzzles. In this game it feels 
 so real. like how many other roleplaying games you can be n ship and pillage bilge and carpent 
 and sail? Mabye gunning is useal but the thing is that a player as Guvernor? I havent seen any 
 roleplaying game with stuff like that. And conguer an Island and become its master Get yer own 
 pet dog, elephant or even tiger?? If you see a other roleplaying game with these stuff take contact 
 to me at my e-mail. my adress: eeturasanen@hotmail. com. thank ye for reading and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthMarksman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  In Puzzle Pirates, you are a pirate sailing all seas, pillaging your way to fortune and play other 
 interesting puzzles!
  
  On Puzzle Pirates, you can perform various activities, like distilling, smithing and building ships 
 by solving interesting puzzles.
  There are all kinds of puzzles, from crafting puzzles (Like alchemy, distilling, smithing and shipwright) 
 to puzzles you need to play while pillaging on a ship (Bilging, sailing, gunning, carpenting and 
 much more) .
  
  All these puzzles are masterpieces, and are highly addictive.
  
  The graphics are OK, they aren't really stunning, but they are smooth.
  There isn't a lot of 
 sound, expect for some clicks, 'Yarrrs' and tunes, but it's of great quality.
  However, earning money is pretty hard, and you need 'Doubloons' OR you have to subscribe to buy 
 certain items.
  Doubloons are used if you aren't a subscriber, you can then buy some items with them.
  If you 
 subscribe, you can buy any item with money (Pieces of eight) , without having to pay extra doubloons.
 
  
  The community in this game is friendly, I've never ever seen anyone breaking rules, yet on Puzzle 
 Pirates, and I have been playing for 3 years.
  
  To keep it short, this game is just plain fun, and I'm sure anyone will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcpixie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  At first, you may think, what in the heck is this, but you get sucked in! Set in 2d, I play the 
 online doubloon version, not the subscription version. You can earn poe (pieces of eight) by either 
 joining a crew or volunteering as a jobbing pirate (most people do both) you then battle another 
 vessel, and go a pillaging (or a pilly) . If you win your captain and crew then recieve the booty, 
 which ranges from cannonballs, to pineapples and bananas!! And of course POE.
  You can have great fun buying outfits for your little pirate and talking the pirate chat.. its for 
 over 14's but people from all ages play it, Iwas worried being a bit old for it I thought.. (no 
 I am not THAT old!!) but peopl eup to 45 play it!!
  Also if you swear its put in to pirate talk ... such as Barnaclee, and others that I shall leave 
 u find out yirself!!
  
  My favourite games are Treasure Drop &amp; Spades. You can go the Inn on the Island (if you wish 
 to change Islands you can hop on a free ferry at the dock) and either enter a tournament, or join 
 a table.
  But be warned, certain games are only free on certain days. YOu need to buy a Parlour badge if 
 you wish to play Parlour games constantly, also you can buy a Pirate badge (which means you dont 
 have to start at the rank of Cabin Person, also you can get a labour badge, which entitles you 
 to work at the many stores (tailors, alchemist etc etc) someties POE for doing NOTHING AT ALL!!
 
  
  Its great, I love it and am totally addicted! So will you be!!
  
  P. s
  
  Just remember they are not your friends, they are yir hearties!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FloydGilmour
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  WARNING: Highly Addictive!
  
  Puzzle Pirates is a highly addictive online game for the PC.
  
  As you would expect from a 
 Pirate RPG you and your Mateys will enjoy life sailing the high sea's and pilliging booty from 
 other ships, however this game has a unique gameplay style, everything is done in the style of 
 a puzzle.
  
  To fix holes in your ship you need to do a Carpentry Puzzle, which involves fixing holes out of 
 oddly shaped planks of wood, or to Bilge (pump out excess water) you need to play a game simillar 
 to Bejewled.
  
  This game has everything you would expect from a Puzzle Gaming Site, and yet oddly enough does 
 not lose its flavour as a Pirating game.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, but go perfectly with the style the game is in.
  
  Once you 
 play you will find yourself playing for days just to level up and start going on pilliging trips 
 with your crew, great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  I think Puzzle Pirates is a game that you can either love or hate, there isn't much of an in between.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay aspect of Puzzle Pirates does the job nicely, with only one or two minor glitches. 
 Pretty much everything you do in the game revolves around clicking the mouse - it moves your little 
 pirate character, it opens up various options depending on what you click on and it's the primary 
 function for a lot of the puzzles. One problem I frequently encounter is with clicking the right 
 mouse button, which is basically supposed to center your character and your surroundings with a 
 single click. Unfortunately this doesn't work a lot of the time, and you'll probably find yourself 
 furiously clicking your mouse until something happens. Overall though the gamelay is well thought 
 out.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are very colourful and cartoon-like, which look great. People who prefer 
 graphics over anything else in a game probably won't be satisfied though, but for most the graphics 
 should suffice.
  
  Sound
  
  Easily the weakest part of Puzzle Pirates is the sound and music (or lack thereof) featured. You 
 do hear the sails creaking as you're on a ship as the wind and sea batters it, but it doesn't do 
 anything for the atmosphere of the game. Music, as far as I'm aware is completely non-existent, 
 which is a shame as games like Sid Meier's Pirates features a pretty good audio selection to really 
 make you feel a little more like a pirate.
  
  Value
  
  I read the official GameSpot review just now and noticed that the game supposedly costs $20, which 
 is odd because I downloaded it for free from the official Puzzle Pirates website. However the retail 
 version of the game does come with a months free subscription, but you can play the game for free 
 as well. Subscription costs $10 (or the equivalent in your currency) , but for that you don't get 
 much. If you only play the game as a time filler from time to time I don't suggest subscribing, 
 but if you're a die-hard fan of the game it might be worth it.
  
  Overall, Puzzle Pirates is a game well worth checking out if you like various puzzle, MMO games 
 or just something to do if you have a spare hour to kill here and there. It's free to download 
 so you have nothing to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  As an mmorpg this game is often dismissed easily as its 2d based but its quite an impressive game. 
 The game is subscription or item mall based &amp; the crafting is real time asin it takes 200 in-game 
 man hours to make an uber ship and then you can crew that ship with your mates or randoms invited 
 through the LFG system. Everything is puzzle based and you can man one of several different games 
 on a ship or visit the tavern and play in-game poker or several variations on solitaire. All gambling 
 games bet with in-game currency (translatable from real currency) so there is a new influx of users 
 from the poker community. It is possible to play the game for free if thats a must and they rotate 
 a free game from the pool of paid games so it is possible to experience the entire game over time. 
 There are some limitations - like you cant captain a ship as a free player but then ships cost 
 a lot of money anyway so by the time youve saved up you can justify your commitment to the game. 
 If youre intelligent you can be proficient in every aspect of the game for &lt; $5 per month.
 
  
  They games are very addictive and all follow the distinct style of the yahoo games section (as 
 its produced by them) - Its basically like playing bejewelled with other people and getting xp 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SayoSaka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle Pirates is a game made by Three Rings Design which defies typical Massively Multiplayer 
 Online games in that it doesn't revolve clicking, and then going and getting yourself a sandwich 
 while your alter-ego slays a monster. In a way, it created its own genre as the first Massively 
 Multiplayer Online Puzzle Game. As strange as the genre sounds, it works out surprisingly well, 
 creating a solidly fun game.
  
  Grind:
  Level grinding is Puzzle Pirates, unlike most MMOGs, is nearly non-existant. Players don't have 
 levels, but instead have two ratings for each of the games which they can take part in. The first 
 rating is, basically, how much they've done the puzzle, and that is rated from Novice to Sublime. 
 The other is how good they are at it, which is rated from able to Ultimate.
  Experience has little effect on the playing of the game. Some crews require you to have certain 
 Experience or Rating to be able to get promoted to different ranks and getting the broad rating 
 on puzzles allows one to get new puzzles with the Navy. When you have a higher rating you can get 
 more difficult boards for the puzzles. For instance, a high ranked Gunner has faster moving pieces 
 than a low ranked one.
  Some would say there is a money grind in the game, but even that is rather minor. If you hope to 
 purchase some extremely expensive item, then expect to need to save up, but overall, money is not 
 too hard to come by.
  
  Graphics: The game's low graphics may turn off some gamers as not being good enough. Personally 
 I find them to be quite fitting. They have a nice cartoony charm to them, which rings back to a 
 time when Graphics weren't given the high tilt that they are in many of today's games. Also, due 
 to the simple nature of the game, because it's a collection of Puzzles, complicated graphics would 
 be unfitting. One of the few valid beefs that have come up is your inability to move your camera 
 while you're moving, but that is a minor detail considering you never really have to use the click 
 walking to get places.
  
  Sound: Puzzle Pirates has very little in the way of sound. There is the occassional ocean sound 
 when you're on a boat but there is no music of any sort. They do have sound effects in all the 
 puzzles and while they're good sounds, which depending on the puzzle, can be quite helpful, if 
 you're looking for a game with a totally sweet sound track, or a soundtrack at all, this isn't 
 it.
  
  Community: 9
  The community is somewhere Puzzle Pirates really shines. The people are generally pretty cool. 
 The crew system makes it really easy to find others to play with; Crew members are encouraged to 
 pillage together in order to raise their ratings. Eventually this allows them to create or join 
 a flag, which is a group of Crews. The ultimate goal of a flag is to take part in blockades and 
 control their own island. Crew and flags can be left at any time by those in them, if they feel 
 they'd like to search for something better.
  Any player can create a tournament for their fellow pirates to compete in for various puzzles while 
 on land. And you can throw parties in your house or shop, inviting anyone to come over and chat.
 
  The economy of the game is completely player driven and is actually one of the best economies 
 I've ever seen in an online game. Money is pretty easy to come by, but items deteriorate over time, 
 so you eventually need to buy new ones. Only ships, houses and shops don't deteriorate. Although 
 most of the things you're spending your money on only have an aesthetic value, there is something 
 about standing in your big new painted house wearing matching clothes, surrounded by expensive 
 furniture that definitely makes you feel good about yourself.
  
  Fun: Unless you're not a fan of Puzzle games, Puzzle Pirates can be a load of fun. There are a 
 large variety of different puzzles to try your hand at, most of which resemble super popular puzzle 
 games which are out there, with their own piratey twist. Everything from Tetris to Puzzle Bobble 
 style games are available. Its usually pretty easy to find someone to challenge to a sword fight 
 or rumble. And if you find yourself not in the mood for puzzles, you can go relax in the inn and 
 talk or play Poker, Hearts, or Spades with your fellow pirates.
  
  Overall: Puzzle Pirates is a load of fun. It's great community and awesome economy meaning that, 
 unlike a lot of MMOs, you'll actually want to interact with other players, not just go out on your 
 own and kill stuff for the sake of gather those last few gold to get your uber-weapon. With its 
 emphasis on fun, not leveling, its a good game to play to relax rather that stressing about being 
 the best. For those who're competitive, however, the rating system for individuals, as well as 
 crews and flags, gives plenty to strive for.
  Giving it another step up on most online games, you don't have to pay real money to enjoy the game 
 to fullest. If you play on a doubloon ocean, there is no monthly fee. You can pay real money to 
 get doubloons, but you can also use the doubloon exchange to purchase doubloons off other players; 
 there is nothing that someone who buys doubloons can get that players who don't can't.
  It's definitely worth checking out, at least for a short play, unless you hate puzzle games. The 
 game is free for download at their website and takes up under 100 megs of space on the hardrive. 
 There is also a retail version which can be bought, but the only advantage I've seen to getting 
 it is to gain the coveted Backsword, a pretty nice sword that doesn't deteriorate.
  Regardless, the game is definately worth checking out, if you haven't yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_overdose54
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is the best massive multiplayer out there. You'll play everything in a puzzle, but it never 
 gets boring. Well, you'll play spades, hearts and pokers nomally. You'll feel like a real pirate. 
 If anyone needs me, I'm Dairou, Hunter Ocean, Aimurai Island in the crew Jub Jub Chaos. I believe 
 Runescape has met it's match. My best skill is swordfighting. It was master, but I'm still very 
 highly respected in my crew. I like drinking as well, but I suck at Tresure Drop. You know where 
 I am. Time to shove off me swashbucklers. In the pirate world, that means bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho8x8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  too many puzzles? perhaps take a break with some poker at the inns! so you decide to do this. you 
 go to the inns to play some hearts or treasure drop. soon enough you have to pay to get these! 
 now there is 2 choices to get out of this situation. either the simpliest 1. just pay some money 
 and boom free... games... or 2. go onto a dubloon server and sure the dubloons cost ALOT but still 
 think of it this way. you can play some puzzles (which is considered ENTERTAINMENT) to get stuff 
 thats worth real money! now thats just.. bizzare in a good way... so that covers the too many puzzles 
 and pay to play, oh yeah but there is one more thing for 2 many puzzles, there is also tons of 
 other stuff you can do, go try out so cool clothes, get some stuff for your house, and more! now 
 for bad graphics, there isnt really anything i can say about that but at least they arn't HORRIBLEY 
 bad. plus you'll get used to it, i have. oh and one more thing i find cool about this game is that 
 it has a language filter but it doesnt like **** it out or just not let you type the message. what 
 it does is for instance... hold on lemme just check this... ok like if you say stfu (shut the **** 
 up) it'll come up as pirate language, shut yer trapper or if you say f*** it comes up as scupper 
 :) pretty cool huh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakshow59
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game for the first time, I figured it would help pass time on those rainy, long, 
 drawn-out, boring days. I downloaded it for FREE off the official website. I played on a doubloon 
 ocean *this is completely free and has most of the items and buildings you can find in a subscription 
 ocean* and was easily addicted to the game within a week. Anyway, I've gone through this game and 
 about $40 (for dubs of course :P) during a 8-month period, that's how good the game is. Its a lot 
 better than WOW and Runescape (at least in my opinion) in a lot of ways.
  
  Look for me as Musicfreak on the Sage Ocean ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionbr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Avast ye mate! Highy addictive simple game, whenever you need time to relax, play Y! PP, it's a 
 great game!
  At first sight, the game looks boring, but as soon you start the puzzling you just can't stop playing 
 it. Great tutorials that teach you quite well how to play them. Pillaging is great and teamwork 
 is essential to defeat other ships on battles, but all you need is to puzzle on a station. There 
 are regular events, so whenever you're bored on puzzling, you can join any event, tournament, blockade, 
 etc.
  Another great thing is that the game is run basically by its community. While the developers dedicate 
 their times to improve this great game that it's always having something new on its regular updates. 
 The online help (the YPPedia, a wiki based webseite) , the game economy, most of game events are 
 all player driven, what makes this game experience unique, on this innovative and tottaly different 
 online game. Believe me, there is no other MMOG like Yo-ho-ho Puzzle Pirates, and the low monthly 
 subscription is worth its price.
  Yarr! Grab your sword (or bludgeon) and go pillage the seas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaird
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Date and Time Played: 7:56 AM August 15, 2006
  Game Title / Publisher: Puzzle Pirates Ubisoft
  Year: 2005
  ESRB Rating: T
  Genre: MMOPG
 
  Platform: PC
  1P or multi-player: Multi-player
  Comments and overall opinion of the game and the gameplay: Overall I would say that the game play 
 is very simple and easy to get use to.
  
  Was the game what you thought it was going to be, how did it meet your expectations:
  No, I wasnt 
 sure what to expect when I downloaded Puzzle Pirates but I thought that it would be more childish.
 
  What did this game remind you of (if anything) : N/A
  
  How would you rate the character and the story, and the immersive value of the game (did it draw 
 you in, engage you, and allow you to escape into the world) :
  There is no story, and you are the character so there really is no way to immerse yourself into 
 the game.
  If it is a license - how true to the license (in your opinion) is the game: N/a
  
  What are the game's biggest strengths:
  All free play, do what you want when you want to.
 
  What are the game's biggest weaknesses:
  The biggest weakness is the length of time it takes to find a ship to do combat with.
  Looking 
 at the features listed on the back of the game box, do you think that those features were the games 
 best features? If not what would you have written as the highlighted features:
  
  What changes come to mind that you would want to make (if any) :
  The changes that I would make 
 would be to create more ships so that there is less down time between fights.
  What elements of this game would you say are worth remembering and reusing again in another game/context:
 
  The elements worth keeping are the score updates at every check point and the way everything is 
 a puzzle.
  How are the controls:
  The controls are very simple its all mouse and arrow keys.
  How are the graphics:
  For the 
 most part the graphics are good, but the characters look kind of childish 
  How was the game audio (score, sound effects, voice overs, etc.) :
  The only sound in the game 
 is that of a gong and of a cannon.
  How is the user-interface - menus, controls, etc.:
  The user interface is simple and easy to use.
  Would you recommend the game to others:
  Yes 
 I would recommend Puzzle Pirates to people, espically if you like puzzle games or MMOs.
  Who do you think the target audience was for the game (13 to 18 year old boys, first-person shooter 
 fans, etc.) :
  I believe that Puzzle Pirates is targeted for an audience around 12-13 years of age and is designed 
 for people that like casual gaming, and those that are socializers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damagooon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Excellent game. Definitely one of my favorites. Very easy to play , easy to catch on, and most 
 importantly highly addictive. 
  
  Probably the best thing about this game, is its non-linear direction. There's no 'point count' 
 , your experience is managed in a different way. It all depends on the amount of puzzles you do. 
 Puzzles that are no complicated at all, they are just the puzzles we all know with some few tweaks... 
 oh and piratified too of course. 
  
  This game is definitely not for those who like to play alone. The social aspect in the game is 
 huge. And this is probably why sometimes it gets a bad review, because people tend to play this 
 game like any other, and thats not going to do it. If you play it alone, it honestly will get extremely 
 boring. You MUST meet other people, get a boat, make a crew (or just join one) and start pillaging. 
 Pillaging is probably the basic task in the game. It gives you everything from it. Puzzles (swordfights, 
 bilging, carpentry, gunning, sailing and navigation) , gold (pieces of eight) , commodities (food 
 and minerals) , but most importantly pillaging gives you the best time you could ever have. You 
 get to sail with other people, interact with them , talk in a piratify way (dont even have to try 
 as the filter changes your words into pirate -if you want-) .
  
  Another thing I must point out is that it is free. You dont have to, and if you are good enough 
 , you will never get to use real money as you can gather all the money you need in-game. Fortunately 
 the MAIN ITEMS you must have , are very affordable in-game (swords, bludgeons) . You also have a 
 choice to buy different clothes , items, houses, ships, etc (from the pirate time) and if you dont 
 have enough, or you just dont wanna wait til you make enough, you can easily buy 'doubloons' which 
 is a great system. Each doub is like 20 cents. And they are worth 1000 PoE , which is relatively 
 a lot. However if you dont feel like paying for doubs , you can choose to pay every 4 months or 
 yearly. I believe is around 15 and 40 dollars. 
  
  Personally , I love the whole rank option you have in the crews. Just like in real life the higher 
 your rank , the more people respect you and will follow your orders. So if you love to be a leader 
 and give orders, this game is definitely for you. The captain of the ship has the ultimate power 
 of it and pretty much can do whatever he wants on it. 
  
  I have a great fond with this game, regardless that is on 2D, well its a fake 3D. And probably 
 the sound is not the best. But the gameplay is just amazing, and the amount of fun you will get 
 from this game is just unbelieveable. There's absolutely no person I have met who hasn't enjoyed 
 the whole pirate thing. It is REALLY fun. Not playing this game, would be a HGUE mistake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltmatthew
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for your simple gamer. A challenging puzzle game based in a pirate world. 
 This easy to play game perfectly blends strategy puzzle and RPG together for a worthwhile experience. 
 In this game there are about 10 different types of puzzles in 3 different categories, pirate skills 
 like sailing and navigating a ship in battle. Theres is a carousing skills that are just games 
 like poker and hearts that can be played at inns on the islands. Then theres crafting skills which 
 u can put to good use in stalls on the games many islands. These skills consist of beer distilling, 
 alchemist and shipwright (making ships) . The crafting skills are used at player run shops at different 
 islands that are owned by player run governments. In fact higher level players can make crews of 
 there own by recruiting other players. Then these crews and form flags (like nations) that can 
 ally of war on other flags. these "flags" may declare war on other island owning flags and blockade 
 their island and after a muti ship sea battle using the ships each flag owns the winning flag clams 
 the taken island as there own. In the game there are different ranks. There are ranks for crews 
 which range from jobbing pirate to senior officer. There is also a ranking system for the skills. 
 Once you get to a rank of officer in your crew you can start pillage and go off on ones of your 
 or your crews ships. While on a pillage u may engage other ships and if u successfully board there 
 ships and kill the opposing pirates you may take all the goods and gold from the vessel and put 
 it on your own. All together pirate puzzles is a great mmorpg for you average gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheatemperor02
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  A very good game. The puzzles were some of the best i've ever played. The government in the crews 
 and the flags were very thought out and well put together. It's best to have it as it is an Internet 
 game instead of a disk. There are always new updates. My personal favorite game would have to be 
 swordfighting. If you need any tips on what sword to get e-mail me. CHEATEMPEROR02@NC. RR. COM. If 
 you don't want to e-mail me and you play the game look for Alienemperor. If you have e-mail access 
 and a few bucks a week i would strongly recommend this game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun and addictive game. I found all the puzzles in the game very good and the puzzles 
 alone can keep you coming back to the game again and again. When I found out that the game remains 
 around games like tetris and stuff like that I thought it would just be plain boring. But when 
 I played it I thoroughly enjoyed it. Although I never subscribed to the game even know I was going 
 to, it is still a very fun game that will keep you coming back and playing it again and again. 
 
  
  This game is VERY addictive. Once you start playing time just flys by. I thought I'd warn you as 
 I once stayed on from 6pm till 1am, and I done this quite a lot. I eventually snapped out of it 
 but I do recommend this game to people who love MMORPGs and are looking for a challenge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordcarbo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Puzzle Pirates is a great game. For one, it's unique, and you'll never find a game like it anywhere 
 else. There are no beautifully rendered monsters in 3D. There are no huge fights that pit you sword 
 to sword. It's a whole bunch of puzzles fit into a MMO with a pirate theme, and as crazy as it 
 sounds, it works.
  
  The puzzles take up the main aspect of gameplay. All of them require you to work fast for a better 
 score or to beat the timer. There are three types of puzzles: ones that you do on ships, ones you 
 do in shops, and "parlor games". The way each puzzle works does not have to do with its type (with 
 the exception of parlor games, which are multiplayer) , it just indicates where you can play a puzzle.
 
  
  Once you put countless hours into the game, it can become less off a collection of puzzles and 
 more of a MMO tycoon game. Those shops you worked for will now have people that work for you, and 
 those officers you worked under will welcoming you as one of their own. It's not that you can't 
 still play your favorite puzzle games, it's just that the game becomes much more serious.
  
  One of my favorite aspects, though, is the economy. Never before have I seen such an almost 
 flawless economy on any sort of MMO game. It pretty much feels real. It's quite hard to explain, 
 and you'd have to play it for a while to understand what I'm talking about, too. If there is any 
 flaw in it, it is probably in the fact that it is too real, as in the people getting the most money 
 (the captain or officer of a ship) are more likely to be the ones doing the least bit of work, 
 like some store managers, if you know what I mean. ;)
  
  The graphics are pretty great for a 2D MMORPG. In fact, I was quite impressed on the feel of this 
 game for awhile. It's definately a change from the gorey worlds of most games people play now a 
 day, and if you don't like it at first, I garuntee you'll grow into it.
  
  In terms of sound, this game is really lacking. Usually I just turn it off. There are a bit of 
 pirate sound effects that can add to the atmisphere, but usually I like to consider my time playing 
 this game as a good time to listen to music.
  
  Overall, this is probably the most unique game to come out in years. It's almost like that puzzle 
 game collection you have, but it's more. It's a wonderful experience that veteran gamers would 
 enjoy, and it's a change from the overcomplicated MMO games that most people play with its simple 
 to get into yet highly complex economy. I reccomend this game to anyone who wants a more easy experience 
 in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilromimi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  I just love this game. Its so addictive. U run around a wee ocean fighting other players and making 
 money by playing subgames. You can go to the inn and swordfight, drink, play cards or take part 
 in a tournament for big money. when you have enough money you can buy a ship, hire a crew, start 
 a stall to make more money, buy a house, clothes, furniture its endless. Enery now and then the 
 administrators get involved and set up various activities for the holidays , there are also ongoing 
 competitions goin on outside the game where people can design islands for prizes. Recently at halloween 
 all hats became masks and everyone recieved a trophie if they participated in one on one battles 
 over the holiday. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
