-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: You Are Empty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/youareempty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the music can be effectively creepy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Surreal plot compounded by awful translation from the original Russian.
 Derivative monsters mostly ripped off from other games.
 Slow, boring pace.
 Missions geared around hunts for keys and levers.
 Corrupted textures can make it confusing to navigate levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.5
Critic Score: 4.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 1C
Developer: Digital Spray
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jun 1, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soviet gulags were probably more punishing than You Are Empty, but we're not taking any bets.

  It's hard to imagine how anybody could make the Stalin-era Soviet Union less appealing than it 
 was in reality, but You Are Empty sure does the trick. However, it's not the game's setting in 
 an alt-history 1950's USSR "overrun by mutant communists" that pulls off this nifty trick; it's 
 the gameplay itself. This painful exercise in shooter stupidity from Moscow-based Digital Spray 
 Studios is as pleasant as a gulag getaway, an atrocity that will make buyers wish that their wallets 
 had been empty when they took this package up to the cash register.  

  At first glance, it seems as if the developers are just ripping off the fine folks at Croteam and 
 People Can Fly, who made Serious Sam and Painkiller, respectively. If this game were a Manson cult 
 member, it would have "old-fashioned shooter" carved into its forehead. The concept is certainly 
 dumb enough to fit the bill, with the plot set in a  Happy Days -era Moscow right after Uncle Joe 
 started an experiment that turned everything with a pulse into a mutant. You have to crib the above 
 from the box flap, though, because the game itself doesn't make a lick of sense. Translations from 
 the original Russian are atrocious. Crazed coots who look like they were beamed to Russia from 
 the Ozarks rant and rave insanely ("Here you go! Now! Now! Give me your iron piece!") . Cutscenes 
 are so surreal that they seem like shreds of a fever dream. A soldier gets hit by a truck. Crowds 
 mill about in black-and-white video footage. A cute puppy bashes its head against a pet-store window. 
 A little boy grimaces in pain. Concussed third graders could concoct a more coherent story.  

 
           So, how was this guy mutated? Did the commie plague cause him to grow a really bushy 
 beard and get all ornery?      

  Regardless, as usual with arcade shooters, the premise is just a flimsy excuse to throw outrageous 
 monsters at you. Here you get the usual array of freak-show refugees. Giant hens peck and kick 
 like velociraptors. Bug-eyed harridans swing scythes. Pinheaded lunatics in straitjackets poke 
 away with pointy sticks. Axe-wielding firemen glare with smoke-burned eyes. That sort of thing. 

  But as zany as all of your foes are, there is a lot of monster repetition, and few of the creeps 
 in You Are Empty are the slightest bit original. All of the weirdest creatures have been swiped 
 from other games. Not a level goes by without a couple of "Hey, I remember that guy from Doom/Serious 
 Sam/Painkiller!" moments. Digital Spray has at least been a little creative with its theft, in 
 that it has gone outside the shooter ghetto to steal ideas from the likes of the Silent Hill franchise, 
 but there is still too much of the sincerest form of flattery going on here. Also, a lot of baddies 
 seem to be generic shooter hicks. The scythe-toting women at the collective farm, the jumping galoot 
 in overalls, and the old guy with a grizzly beard, deer-camp hat, and shotgun all look like rejects 
 from Redneck Rampage. Apparently one of the mutation effects turns people into  Hee Haw  extras. 

  A tedious pace is an even bigger problem than photocopied creatures. Although both Serious Sam 
 and Painkiller featured the same sort of surreal spooks, they also had a crazy tempo that kept 
 you running and gunning for your life pretty much all the time. A game such as Serious Sam wasn't 
 great because it made you shoot hillbillies with jack-o'-lanterns for heads; it was great because 
 you were shooting dozens of them at the same time. However, here you just trudge along. You can't 
 run at all, and the walking pace is absurdly slow for such an old-fashioned shooter. Not that you 
 need to pick up your feet very often. Attacks generally feature no more than a handful of enemies, 
 all typically moving as slow as you, which gives you lots of time to shoot, backpedal, and reload. 

  Worse yet, there is no weight to combat, which makes it hard to tell when you're hitting a baddie 
 or when it's hitting you. None of your weapons have any oomph. The Mauser pistol might as well 
 be a pellet gun, and even the shotgun and rail gun have the kick of a pea shooter. Bullets don't 
 slam into enemies as much as they sink into them. Damage that you sustain is equally insubstantial. 
 Mighty blows from the likes of axes and bullets from enemy pistols don't even appear to slow you 
 down, so you need to keep a close eye on your health meter to see if you're actually being hurt 
 during battles. And just to make everything a bit vaguer, enemies can hit you with melee attacks 
 even though you're well out of range. You might be a dozen feet or more away from a miner swinging 
 his pick, yet he can still sometimes smack you in the head with it.  

           Here's one busty gal who won't be saying My face is up here! anytime soon.      

 
  Want more? Okay, but considering that you've already wasted too much of your life reading about 
 You Are Empty, we'll keep this short. Levels are loaded with insipid key hunts and lever pulls. 
 Visuals are all murky grays and blacks, which fits the urban wasteland theme but makes it hard 
 to pick out details such as the aforementioned keys and levers you need to find to open doors. 
 Many textures are totally corrupted, which gives a checkerboard appearance to the sky, many walls, 
 and some doors. Character animations are so awkward and jerky that you find yourself looking for 
 wires. Much of the music isn't half bad if you like B-side Euro techno, although the tunes are 
 nearly ruined by the absurd  ugghs  and  ooghs  uttered by the mutants. There is no multiplayer. 
 And finally, the nihilistic name of the game is never explained.  

  Now move on with your life and try to pretend that games like You Are Empty don't exist.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mickey_mickey48
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:46 am PT
Review:  Ok from nearly three months i bought a new video card for my computer to be able to play the new 
 big games with high graphics and so... the byer gave me this game free with the card so i went 
 home and began to play it i thought it's a good game (as it was the first big game i play) i finished 
 it shortly and for me that was the only bad thing on this game like it was easy and short then 
 after a week i bought some new games the first person shooters from them was Crysis and Bioshock 
 when i played them i discovered that You are empty is extremely bad game comparing to games like 
 Crysis or Bioshock well bad from the graphics, the sounds, and the stupid story well i don't give 
 it 1.5 like gamespot did but i only give it from 4 to 5
  the worst thing here is the sounds omg! they sucks and also the storyline i didn't understand it 
 and the very stupid enemies who can't even attack you 
  
  so if you want to play a very easy and simple game you can play you are empty but becareful you 
 may hate to play any FPS game after playing it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raistlin1977
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the other game i bought when i purchased instinct and i knew ahead of time of their bad 
 reputation. Quite frankly ,im surprised this game scored even lower than instinct as its noticeable 
 that much more went into it. First of all the game 
  is longer, or atleast it seemed that way to me. Also the graphics are more detailed and better textures 
 than instinct. I should mention that both games use starforce so the developers no doubt got a double 
 whammy there. Most people arent going to risk trouble with starforce for two games that got such 
 bad reviews. You are Empty gave me the impression that it had a significantly higher budget.
  
  The environments are superb, ranging from abandoned hospitals to train stations to farms to 
 empty streets and theaters to old factories to high rooftops. Much of the game you will be hearing 
 communist propaganda rambling from intercoms. I found that i could destroy many of the intercoms 
 as they bothered me. This game has much more outdoor environments than instinct and more variations 
 to the environment than instinct. Plenty of variety of scenery here. I have heard the accusation 
 that the game is a bioshock ripoff right down to the wrench you carry but being these two games 
 came out at around the same time i just dont see that but hey if they did thats fine by me. Obviously 
 it doesnt compare in quality to bioshock but that doesnt make it less of a game to me.
  
  There is an interesting variety of enemy to be found in the game ranging from the bizarre to outright 
 laughable. There are different weapons that work better for different enemies and its also important 
 to gauge what best weapon to use to conserve ammo for particular enemies and situations. This is 
 always a thing i like to see in first person shooter games. Weapons are a wrench, mauser, double barrel 
 shotgun, molotov cocktails, PPS drum machine gun, electric gun, nail gun, mosin nagant with bayonet, and 
 mosin nagant with scope. Some of these guns can use ironsights like the mauser, PPS, and nail gun. Secondary 
 functions include bayonet for mosin nagant, two barrels or single slug shot for the double barrel. The 
 double barrel is very satisfying, often launching back the enemy absurd distances often flipping 
 through the air. I also noticed that headshots bring more damage which is nice.
  
  The actual enemy is a combination of mutants, zombies, and russian soldiers. Some im not sure if their 
 simply zombie or mutant. I do know that what you experience is a result of some sort of attempt 
 to create a super race to spread communism throughout the world. You will almost always hear the 
 enemy before you see them in this game. Ive seen zombie nurses who kick and throw acid, powerful 
 zombie/mutants with sledge hammers that often send one several feet in the air, zombies with hot 
 metal ended bars, flying zombie/mutants with welding masks and hot edged metal bars, zombies/mutants 
 with nail guns that throw grenades, mutant/zombie old men who blabber nonsensical drivel and tote 
 shotguns, gask masked mutant/zombie with trenchcoats and mausers, Large rats often in groups of 3 (just 
 like instinct) , zombie/mutant firemen w/axes, bioweapon rottweilers, straight jacketed zombies w edged 
 planks, fat zombie/mutants w/scythes, zombie/mutants with nagants, zombie mutants w/pick axes, firemen 
 with flame throwers, hulking mutants w wife beater shirts, projectile vomit mutant, human russian 
 soldiers with PPS machine guns, zombie females w/sickles, and last but not least giant killer attack 
 chickens (which i wish their was more of in the game) . So as you can see plenty of strange creatures 
 to do battle with.
  
  One of the things youll notice is that besides the russian soldiers you are virtually alone. In 
 fact ,the only human i recall who is not an enemy is some homo you rescue in the theatre (yes a 
 real homo) . This isolation and feeling of desolation is only magnified by the dreary weather, decrepit 
 infranstructure, and communist propaganda posters and music. This could be considered depressing 
 to some but i like these type of games. The story was very confusing for me atleast but the imagery 
 during cutscenes was powerful and kind of trippy too albeit hard to follow. I still dont know what 
 exactly the game is all about, even after beating it. I like how the disturbing nature of the environment 
 and story contrast with the often ridiculous over the top mutants. I do have some complaints such 
 as the fact you cant run (a pain if you are being pursued or need to backtrack for meds, ammo, or 
 whatever) . The corpses disappear rather quickly and like instinct this can be a turnoff. I see little 
 reason they could not have had permanent corpses. Falling or jumping can be a problem as you are 
 hurt far too easy from small heights a young child could manage. Again like instinct NO exploding 
 heads or severed limbs! What a wasted opportunity that would have added more pleasure to the game. The 
 ragdoll effects are great and like i mentioned already its a load of joy to send your enemy flying 
 back on impact of the shotgun. The game runs smooth with my 8800 GT and i average between 60-120 
 FPS. The game is clearly outdated however looks more impressive than instinct. I get the feeling 
 of 2003-2004 type graphics but hey i think they look pretty good. Did i mention the music? Again 
 an industrial/metal/EBM sound like instinct had which i only wish kicked in more often. Sometimes 
 i catch myself and my daughter bobbing our heads to the music some of which i could easily listen 
 to even not playing the game.
  
  Well anyhow again another starforce game with a low rating that most will never play. Im glad i 
 chose to purchase this game and the difficulty on Hard skill level was just right. So if you are 
 one of those people like me who cant get enough horror/scifi type First Person games than you may 
 enjoy this. Just remember not to play expecting bioshock or crysis. I think it carries itself rather 
 well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuclearV2mssile
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Just read above 
  
  i thought LOTD the video game was bad i never would've imagined that there could something WORSE 
 than LOTD
  
  You Are Empty is that game 
  the title is what is says as soon as you finish this game you will feel empty, you will feel angry 
 at yourself for buying this game in the first place (and thank GOD i did not and watched the walkthrough) 
 and angry for the people who made this game.
  
  First thing about this game: the sounds
  i noticed that the FIRST bad guy you encounter has 2 sounds. and that's about it and it's REALLY 
 annoying
  i was expecting for a game that came out 2007 there should be some kind of decent variation of 
 sound effects
  but there isn't
  
  Fear not for this game has A good quality (notice how I capitalized the a) that's right there is 
 A good thing about this game and its the atmosphere, considering how crappy this game is, there 
 is a decent atmosphere in this, worn down buildings with broken down walls for indoors, sort of 
 gets you anxious for a moment. so good atmosphere lets just leave it at that
  
  Second thing: Translation
  That's right this game isn't made in USA but in Russia!
  so there 
 has to be a translation.. it sucks. the translation is sorta broken, i mean its not that you can't 
 understand it AT ALL but you get the point what the message is saying but with mistakes in grammar 
 that would make you laugh.
  
  Third thing: f-ed up black and white cut scenes
  when I saw the intro that was the only thing that made sense to me other than that the cut scenes 
 are SOOO weird and f-ed up it's almost irrelevant to the story
  for example there is a cut scene where there is a real quick picture of some guy in pain and then 
 there is a puppy smashing its head to a glass. WTF? i get the pic of a guy in pain (cause they're 
 turning into mutant and there may be some sort of pain during the process) but i don't get the 
 scene of a puppy smashing its brains out against a glass.
  
  so in the end DON'T F-ING BUY THIS GAME! I BEG OF YOU!!!11!
  (i would actually feel sorry for 
 the people who bought this game and wasted i dunno 30 or 40 dollars for this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Fortunately its on the PC only
  
  Negative
  - Poor visuals and linear level design
  - Story is impossible to follow to its horrible translation
 
  - All the game feels it was released more than a decade ago
  - Gameplay is a core
  - No multiplayer
  
  I can't imagine a worse game than You are Empty. After playing this game 
 for some hours you feel that you are the one empty, and the game with you. If you're a PC gamer 
 I suggest you be careful more than console gamers when coming to rent or buy a game since there 
 are much more PC games and there are that hugh number of games who are really bad. You are Empty 
 is included with these bad games.
  
  You are Empty is mostly bad with its plot. The game is translated by a north European country, 
 Russian according to Gamespot but I don't speak Russian. Anyway another game which its story is 
 impossible to follow but anyway it isn't a fun story. Translation is awful, that's the best way 
 to describe it. Visuals are dark and dull, and minor details are tough to spot or to notice. The 
 game feels dated. It seems to use a decade ago game engine. Combat is a core and it's not engaging 
 at all. AI is bad too and often repetitive. Though it's a bad game, there's still should have been 
 some kind of multiplayer mode. This way it maybe could have got a better score. There are zombie 
 nurses in the game and you don't want to look at them. They're hideous. 
  
  After playing this game for a few hour you will feel empty yourself, you will be sorry for wasting 
 you're time and money will You are Empty. Bad games are released all the time but this is ridiculous, 
 You are Empty is a superb example of how bad a 2007 can get. FPS can get worse than this so be 
 careful. Every game company can deliver a game that is over 4.0 surely, how bad they are. Even 
 though they won't compete with Square Enix or Leve-5 but some effort still could be done to at 
 least deliver some move. Don't they feel ashamed? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stactas
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Good. Do not believe bad votings and reviews. 2 nice evenings i spend with this game and enjoy 
 it. Original monsters (gigantick mutant chickens, mad factory workers with they instruments, zombie 
 nurses, mad knotted patients, soviet soldiers) , funny weapons, post apocalyptic atmosphere (broken 
 buildings, funny posters on the walls, some nice old automobiles, troleybuses) and soviet atributes 
 (even soda automates to made some strenght) . Graphics is dated a little, but no many bugs ar other 
 kind of bad stuff what i have seen in other 1st person shooters from Russia. Music in this game 
 suprising good. Bad. I did not like story and running from doors to doors and back to take a key 
 to open the door where you been 10 minutes ago - no clever puzzles. No bosses. No wish to replay 
 this game. Some similarity with Bioshock game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krensauce
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  One thing I can't understand is why reviewers still claims as a bad thing "Missions geared around 
 hunts for keys and levers". Guess what? All FPS games are like that, and the ones that don't need 
 keys and levers will have a bad note about how "it lacks mind/exploring challenges". Bah...
  
  Anyway, the rest of the review is actually a good picture of the game, but too much pessimistic 
 for me.
  
  The best thing about this game is the environment graphics. All locations looks damn good and are 
 very detailed, and I never saw those "corrupted textures" the reviewer talked about (maybe driver 
 problems) . The characters, on the other hand, are pretty bad. They haven't got bad looking models 
 but they simply don't catch with the realism of the environment, as they really look too "fantasy" 
 and not even mutants to fit well on the background graphics.
  
  The gameplay is really messed up with slow walking speed and "blocky" physics. I said blocky as 
 it seems you're controlling a cube and not an human, as it hits with objects around even if you're 
 far from them. Physics are also totally useless here as you can't grab anything or use any object 
 at your advantage by pushing it, they're simply there to get in your way. You can't even jump right. 
 When you press the key for jump, the character does something that I can't really call a jump, 
 it jumps like a baby and that wouldn't help you escape from monsters and makes jumping totally 
 useless. The damage issue is also a problem, as you can't really understand if you were damaged 
 until you look at your health bar, but you'll get used to it.
  
  Like an icing on the cake, this game don't have a multiplayer mode, although I don't think it would 
 be that good as this game is too slow for online play.
  
  Although this game got those many problems, it's not that bad to play. The wonderful environments 
 and the feeling of loneliness that it gives you, are good enough to keep you entertained. It does 
 really give you the post-disaster feeling, but it fails at being an hit game. It really looks like 
 an unfinished work, but what's finished lets it be an enjoyable experience.
  
  I first seen this game back when Half-Life 2 was in the works, and it looked damn good, but my 
 expectations failed to be fulfilled and it also took too many years to be released. I can understand 
 that the team working on it is not big and they did a good job on some parts of this game, but 
 they could have waited a bit more and then release the real thing... :P
  
  So, if you like singleplayer games more than multiplayer ones and you can find it for cheap, then 
 take a look at it. It's not a milestone but not even trash (1.5 when they gave 9.1 to F. E. A. R.??? 
 That's ridiculous...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HussanAli
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Here are the pros and cons of Game.
  
  Pros
  
  1) Small system requirements
  2) Good game of its genre
  3) Mediocre graphics
  
  Cons
  
  1) No Vista support ( Damn) 
 its released in 2007 2) No weapons in real that will satisfy your hunger.
  3) Poor story line
  4) Exotic places , bad clumsy atmosphere
  5) Similar zombies & enemies 
 will attack you.
  6) Boring gameplay all you have to kill zombies
  7) Lots of Bugs and no patch.
  
  You take control of a player who survived in the city that 
 is wrecked by Soviet union experiments . Now the experiments have proved that peoples are turning 
 into zombies and abnormal man. Its your duty now to prevent the city from ruining. So in simply 
 my saying is that if you are using Vista then never buy this game. The story of game is in real 
 made like scary , but it fails to do so. A lot of website has also very poor thoughts about this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead888
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Despite all the negative reviews ,i must say that i really enjoyed playing this game.
  Ok, the graphics are dated, the sound effects are bad, the character models look awfull but the game 
 does have an Interesting atmosphere , especially if you are a fan of games with a Post Apocalyptic 
 setting. there also some good ambient music in the game.
  another thing that found interesting were the sequences between the levels which are not great 
 looking CG animations but they are somehow artistic and special.
  there are a few interesting weapons in the game but some of them are also useless like the Shotgun 
 for example.
  Overall i must say that if you are into games with a Post Apocalyptic setting you might want to 
 check this game out and as long as you aren't expecting a nextgen game you might not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimowini
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Ohhhhhhhh Myyyyyyyyyyy Gooooooooooooodddd!!!! WTF Where They Thinking? This is the worst game i 
 have ever played. Zombie nurses kickiing you? Big birds trying to eat it you? I prefer to do nothing 
 than playing this game STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME PLEASE for your own safe dont even touch this dont 
 waist your money on this piece of shit i dont know how this can be called a game this is la punishment. 
 I dont recomend this game for any type of gamer believe me. The monsters dont even walk they float 
 or something like that. its kind unfininished. Burn this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 7
  Sounds 7
  Value 6
  Tilt 9
  
  The Good
  * Shameless game play (no common sense  its a good thing)
  * Interesting level 
 designs (farmyards, sprawling cities, rooftops exploration and that grand tower) 
  * Musical Scores
  * The Broiler Chicken and the Zeppelin
  
  The Bad
  * Incomplete (noticeable 
 bugs)
  * Poor collision detection
  * Weak weapons damage
  * Pace (a little slow)
  
  I don't know if it's just me however I got this recent fascination about dodgy Eastern Block games. 
 I really shouldn't say dodgy as I feel it's more of a lack of cash flow than being dodgy. Nevertheless, 
 some of these games are pretty much 'out of this world' as their imagination is something I had 
 to admire.
  
  This is the main purpose for me to play 'You are Empty'. Even the title speaks for itself as the 
 publishers 1C Company (one of the largest independent Russian software developers and publishers) 
 have made some other really cool unbiased games (e. g. Silent Storm, Soldiers: Heroes of World War 
 II and IL-2 Sturmovik to name a few) . And when I say unbiased I mean unbiased. No holding back 
 here when it comes to practically ridiculing their past (i. e. Cold War Communism) to the fullest 
 extend. I need to take my hat off to them as there is absolutely no shame nor fear when describing 
 their troublesome past.
  
  You are Empty reflects the ideal 'Power of Communism' to the next level. The story takes off as 
 an alternate Soviet history by the end of the 1950s. The leaders in science and technology, R&D 
 are in the process of creating the perfect people for the perfect society (similar to Hitler's 
 idea for Germany) . Well the 'hero', you, got yourself knocked over by a car and managed to escape 
 the catastrophic experiment gone wrong as you discover that the once big city is now a mess-pot 
 of lunatics among the rubble.
  
  The entire game play feels eccentric. Never before I have seen such depressing environs that actually 
 made me feel good. Detailed landscapes of this once great city is now littered with busted cars, 
 trams, dead trees, peeling walls and whatever else and in the centre of all this is the anonymous 
 tower with a great star on top of it. This creates a sense of atmospheric mystery as you trod your 
 way towards discovering the ultimate truth. Clues lie about in the forms of letters and notepad 
 scribbles and the astonishingly displayed cut scenes slowly reveals the story. Just think of Unreal 
 when you first view the planet meets with the desolation of Half Life and you'll get the idea.
 
  
  The graphics is a little outdated yet not enough to cringe in fear. Some of the features do look 
 pleasing enough as many-a-times I caught myself just reading the propaganda posters littered about 
 (and some are quite intriguing to say the least) . Of course if you look carefully enough you can 
 even spot the 'You Are Empty' cover slapped on among these propaganda posters (nice touch) . The 
 display of your health bar to the countryside of this once great city to that eerie Zeppelin to 
 the grand 'Star Tower' (and that was a sight to admire) are well designed. I feel that because 
 of the extensive details of the environments makes the graphics better than they actually appear.
 
  
  Never have I encountered such a weird array of creatures. This will make David Lynch stand proud 
 as you will encounter some of the strangest foes around. Think of being attacked by a 'Lenin Komsomol 
 Hen' (a giant broiler chicken) or the Fireman who lights fires or the bazaar folded propeller welders 
 et al. Try thinking of being 'saved' by the huge crotch Ballet-Dancer or being given instructions 
 by the crossed-eye farmer named Kulibin. As I stated, there is no holding back from these Russians. 
 The AI on the other hand are bordering on brain-dead. Rarely do they dodge or take cover however 
 I bet you won't feel like yourself after what these guys just experienced.
  
  The musical scores are haunting with the occasional 'industrial' beat. Such a great blend that 
 I originally thought will not suit to this game however I shouldn't doubt these Russians. There 
 are scattered about lone radios blaring the proud anthem of Mother Russia that will make you stand 
 and sing along to the chorus. The sounds themselves are however a mixed bag. Most of them don't 
 produce that 'oomph' (like the shotgun sounds) however I will guarantee that you will chuckle at 
 the sounds of your foes tumbling down as it's pretty dynamic. The voice acting is quite poor as 
 they tend to be out of sync with poor english. However this made the game more enjoyable than a 
 turn-off.
  
  This game however is far from perfect. There are bugs splashing about (like monsters peering through 
 walls) and the collision detection is not quite there (like walking through metal chains) . Normally 
 I would end the game in disgust however because the game's overall bazaar nature I played until 
 the end (twice) . However this is not to say the bugs will be tolerated (and rightfully not) but 
 I think the developers are the victims of over-production (3+ years) .
  
  You Are Empty can take between 10-20 hours (depending if you decided to go 'sight-seeing' like 
 me) . Another words, the length is pretty average as far as FPS goes and it does sports that easy, 
 medium and hard difficulty levels. Overall the game is really not difficult to play as mentioned 
 above, the AI are quite stupid. There is no multiplayer to speak off (can I hear 'Capture the Zeppelin'?) 
 however grabbing the game for $5 you can't go wrong.
  
  You may think that You Are Empty is a chromosome short of a picnic basket. That's not entirely 
 true. A hysterical blend of 1984 meets David lynch is probably best describe the game. I'm going 
 to admit that I probably do not have the best taste in PC gaming however I really don't care. If 
 I enjoy it, I will say so. I enjoy the bazaar, the weird and the unusual. Heck, that's one of the 
 reasons why PC gaming is great. It's great because it's a reality that you'll never experience 
 and I'll tell ya that You Are Empty is a game that you'll never experience again (for the good 
 or bad?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dav30
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  game produced and developed by a 14 year old in 1995 using the engine and colour pallette of Quake, 
 but not as colourful. This in the same year and from the same country that produced S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 If I wanted mindless cookie cutter zombies to attack me everytime I picked up something, I'd go 
 shoplifting at Kmart. Makes me nostalgic for a time when I didn't have a computer. Considering 
 all of the bench marks that have been set in this genre since 1992; with all of the FPS releases 
 in that period, to see a game like this developed at this time - makes you wonder if some people 
 aren't still living behind a heavily censored iron curtain that's stuck in 1995. I've seen more 
 substance and body at a teeth scraping. Nice box art though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of shooters, some were fun and some not so much, but none of them was as repetitive 
 and linear as You Are Empty . As the name may suggest, You Are Empty is, well, empty; at least 
 of anything fun or innovative.
  
  The game starts you off in an abandon hospital; having just woken up from a coma, you slowly but 
 surly make you way around the place, trying to figure what happened to everyone, when you realize 
 the hospital is not so abandon as you thought.
  From this moment on, the game stays exactly the same, up until the very end. You shoot your way 
 through the same enemies over and over again, in environments that dont seem to change much, with 
 weapons you could find in just any old shooter game from the 90s.
  Ill admit the first few levels are a bit fun, and sometimes even scary, but the excitement quickly 
 dies out, and apathy takes its place. The gameplay is of any other shooter, just walk in a pretty 
 much straight line and shoot any unlucky mutant that happens to cross your path, and there are 
 a lot of unlucky mutants. The games story unfolds, as you progress through the game, in short 
 cut-scenes between the levels. These cut-scene are perhaps the best part of You Are Empty, probably 
 because of they really seem to fit the era and the setting of the game. Lets talk graphics. You 
 Are Empty looks decent enough to pass as a recent low budget game, and the physics work pretty 
 well (not a lot of destructive environments, but awesome rag-doll effect) . The only problem is 
 that the games engine seems to be a little underpowered for the game itself. In the highest settings, 
 the game slows down in big open spaces or when the action gets a little intense. I know what youre 
 thinking, maybe its just a problem with my PC, but I doubt that nVidias 8800 GTS video-card cant 
 handle the low quality of the games graphics.
  Another thing that bothered me is the fact the every type of enemy looks exactly the same, like 
 they came off a production line. Its like youre fighting the same five guys over and over again, 
 and when the same type of enemy appears in large groups, its just plain lame.
  
  The one positive thing in You Are Empty is the background music. I did like most of the in-game 
 soundtrack and I found myself, from time to time, sitting and listening to the music (when no one 
 was shooting at me) .
  The voice dubbing was the exact opposite; instead on the original Russian voices, every character 
 you talk to (all the three of them) talks in a funny British accent, which sounds a bit out of 
 place in Moscow of the 1950s. None of the voices match the lips of the characters, and the dialog 
 itself is dry and emotionless.
  
  If you are looking for an old-school shooter, with a nice little story as a side-dish, dont waste 
 your time playing You Are Empty; all youll get is a boring, linear experience and an empty feeling 
 deep inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets say this game has been forgotten. A few years back I wanted to play this game absolutely. 
 Now that I installed the game my expectations raised higher than before. A new Doom game with an 
 extremely great scenery? At last a game not in space with creepy things in it? It has to be!
  After a hour I got to the point of deep disappointment. The scenery is really not that bad, it's 
 even made like it suppose to be in linear 3D shooting games.
  One path for stupid game play. Even Serious Sam should now his way out. After every corner the 
 same boring enemies and if you look around you can detect some nasty bugs.
  I wonder when game developers are going to realize that 3D shooters are getting really boring if 
 you don't get some interesting story line and some good level design. As Half-Life2 was a rather 
 good example of moderate technology this games really gives you the old 90' vibe. I should install 
 Blood or Duke Nukem 3D, they're still more interesting. Where are the good times of great 3D shooters 
 with some bad-ass humor combined with crazy things? Damn stupid developers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Story: Soviet Russia. Crazy People. Kill Them. Thrown into story. Survive.
  
  Graphics: 2005-ish. Average FPS Graphics.
  
  Audio: Horrible Voiceovers. People screaming and 
 groans.
  
  Missions: Get key. Kill people. Open door. Get health and ammo. Kill People. Repeat.
  
  Controls: 
 Common FPS controls, nothing special.
  
  Features: You can drink a lot of health potions?
  
  A. I.: Run towards you and attack or stay 
 back and shoot. Almost dead A. I. Loading Times: Frequent and too long of loading times for how 
 big the levels are.
  
  Multiplayer: None. If there was MP I wouldn't want to try it.
  
  Requirements: Below Average PC.
  
  Weapons: Different Pistol, Mauser, ST44, shotgun, wrench, 
 etc.
  
  The Good: Creepy setting.
  
  The Bad: This game.
  
  The Ugly: Almost every enemy in the game.
  
  Replay Ability: Low to None.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: Don't even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMega187
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Opposed to many review I actually found this game to be fun and at some times pretty intense. However 
 while playing I may have been under the influence but that makes a minor difference. The game has 
 decent graphics but nothing ground breaking. The monsters or mutated people do become repetitive. 
 Seriously how many firemen with flame throwers does the grain silo have?
  Giant chickens are fun to blow away with a double barrel shotgun but when you get rushed by 10 
 of them it can get really hectic. There are a few minor glitches in the game however they arent 
 enough to hinder the experience of the game. This game is fun for the most part but can become 
 tediously repetitive. but if you like blowing away giant chickens and women carrying sickles you 
 might want to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necorium
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is ok. The physics and environments are really good (for the most part) .. the enemy models 
 are very cartoony tho and don't fit in with the environments. I'm just playing it so i can finish 
 it now and uninstall. The movies inbetween walking very slowly and shooting inaccurate guns are 
 terrible, something a first year design student would come up with. This game really had a lot 
 of potential and the engine seems good (when its not crashing) but some one really porked this 
 up. The translation into english is laughable. I see there is a sound improvement patch but i won't 
 even waste my time with it. This game is SLOW. Very SLOW. From walking SLOW to levels loading SLOW 
 to characters talking SLOW.. and the actions pretty slow too. All that said - it is playable. Its 
 ok. So if you want a mindless shooter go for it but just know that its not going to fulfill anything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbranko
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  True... the character AI is not impressive ... character detail is low and overall the game graphics 
 seem outdated. But on the other side the game is very atmospheric and lots of attention was given 
 to level design and textures. Weapons are not bad either... nothing stunning but you avarage variety... 
 the russian nail gun is awsome. It is so nice to see how movable object including your enemies 
 (their corpses too) respond to being hit... nice hollywood like stunt action :-)
  
  Anyways it's not as bad as some folks are trying to make it look. It's not groundbraking either. 
 If you would like to try an old fashioned atmospheric horror shooter give this game a try. I would 
 like to see an add on soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duff_1
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is not only terrible to play, but just as bad to listen to as well. If you really truly 
 hate someone, you will get this game and sleep well at night knowing that you have ruined another 
 human beings life. I would rather sit and watch pant dry than have the option of playing this game. 
 Words cannot describe the disappointment i feel. These people are trying to rip off pain killer 
 (great game) and do a worse than poor job. THIS GAME SUCKS REAL BAD!!! Any one who willingly lets 
 a friend or loved one play this game under the believe that it might ever even give the slightest 
 factor of enjoyment should be punished fully and harshly by the full extent of law. total disappointment 
 to not only FPS but to overall video games and how far technology has evolved since pong, which 
 is a better game by the way. All in all, no person should ever be faced with the horrible task 
 of playing this game for anymore than 5 minutes because doing so can cause permanent personality 
 damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasgill
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet.
  
  The game is predictable, uninspired and incredibly dull. Loading the game/Introductions
  The 
 game menu loads up... it's visually attractive and quick... nice. The first cinematic introduces 
 you to communist Russia with some fantastic comic/newspaper style visuals. I was impressed with 
 the intro and questioned the overall aim of the game... perhaps it wasn't going to be the mindless 
 zombie-kill i thought it may be...
  
  I was wrong... so wrong.
  
  Storyline
  After playing the game for 3 hours or so.... there is no apparent story other than i am playing 
 as a soldier/officer who was hit by a car and awakes in a mental hospital... where all the patients 
 are now zombies/infected. You can take a stab at the rest of the storyline.... as it's pretty terrible. 
 How you got to the hospital... and why... is apparently not important. Your first storyline task 
 is obvisouly to escape the hospital and get away... simple enough... and yes... it really is simple... You 
 finally escape with a car and begin driving.. somewhere. The camera provides an interesting view 
 behind the dashboard and you think to yourself... cool... where will i be driving to... out of the 
 city... perhaps to the country... another city?.... home??!! I'm afraid they are al wrong... before 
 you have time to even contemplate where you are driving to... BANG! He drives straight into a farm/factory, 
 completely squared-off... parks... then gets out with his guns... This really gives you an insight 
 into the number of braincells this guy has... (and it was going so well when you were in control)
 
  Enemies
  The enemies are repetitive, identical and incredibly dull. The AI is so bad that the enemies simply 
 run towards you, you matter what obstacle is in their way. Enemies run in circles a numerous occasions. 
 The zombie nurses look rediculous, and are highly amusing... perhaps for 3 occasions. The appearance 
 of 7 foot mutant chickens really tops it off.... simply dire.
  
  Levels
  Levels are linear and repetitive. Lighting/shadows etc add little to the environment. The game 
 could have been much more immersive if the lights had been dimmed significantly. The horror-esque 
 nature of the game is marred by poor textures such as the bright white 36DD nurses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darius_Bd
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  At first I got attracted to this game by its depressive dark russian's atmosphere, a nice ambient 
 for a FPS with some promising plot. Then a polished menu welcomed me, and my hopes were growing. 
 I wanted some of the feeling that STALKER had, something dark, mysterious and decadent. The first 
 cinematic was amazing... like a stylized comic giving some of the industrial and sad ambient, and 
 very bizarre... like showing you a world without rules. But then, the cinematic is over, the load 
 screen appears and seems that you are in an hospital crowed with people that went insane. How you 
 ended there? what happened to the mad people? Why that zombie nurse is like the iron maiden's eddie 
 and trows kicks as a primary attack? You don't know. There you are with a wrench and you know that 
 you gotta kill everything because it's an FPS. So ok, you kill you kill you kill, you try to find 
 if is there some meaning and everything, but the name of the game is self-explanatory. Is empty. 
 There's no sense at all. Bang bang, headshot them, is the only nice thing, to see them stopped 
 by the bullet's force. Then, a fireman appears, insane of course, then a guy from a mine, then 
 a guy from a rave party with a pistol... what the heck?? Is like a mad resident evil with no Umbrella 
 whatsoever [to explain it all] . Then you find some keys, you get into a car and you leave this... 
 I don't know... is a city or is a sanatorium?? There seems to be no scale in the maps. But then 
 you turn around, you see all the buildings and you feel so like in Russia. It has that feel. But... 
 you try to understand, how the hell the atmosphere is so nice, yet the game is so ridiculous! So 
 you leave, another loading screen and you say to yourself ok, maybe that was a kind of a weird 
 intro . But no, in the next level you drive to some buildings in a farm and you stop and it's as 
 senseless as before. Why did you take that road to get there? And why you stopped? No idea... your 
 character doesn't question ANYTHING just goes shooting everything... then some giant chickens with 
 steroids shows up and you kill them by two long distance headshots... everything seems so easy, 
 and there's a lot of healing... yet is so boring, not a challenge at all, plain, bizarre, senseless, 
 with a nice world setup. Boring... SO DARN BORING!! So, I don't know... truly, it would be nice 
 if the developers could have hired some writers to give a story to the game. But at least they 
 did it right with the title. When you click in to exit to windows button you feel like that... 
 Empty. [And bored, fo course] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brebualin
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Not much to say about it , it has it's good and bad parts but most irritating is the mirror like 
 shape and textures of the monsters .It is very annoying when attacked by a monster to see behind 
 him his exact mirror copy. This is the worst graphical issue for me. Plus some of the textures tend 
 to fly (chairs, weapons etc) . The A. I is not great but does the job in killing you , probably to 
 good in some areas of the game and not so good in others. This are the minuses in the game , as 
 far as I can tell.
  
  Plus is for the good world graphics though, reminds me of the abandoned city in Half Life 2 :) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a6n0rma1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  In an era where all that matters is just the technical aspect of the engine (in terms of supporting 
 trillions of vertices onscreen or 1gb textures) this game has a very old and outdated engine. The 
 developpers obviously tried to include HDR and shader effects but the final result was very unstable. 
 You can enable HDR effects and shader effects on the game .cfg files found on the My Games folder 
 of your documents folder but the game will become choppy and/or unstable. Techicalities apart the 
 scenario of the game is very good. The story is really nice if not a little over the top. The best 
 thing i noticed were all the intermission videos which are made in a very comic style! They are 
 the best ever to be featured in an FPS -pure work of art. In the art and ambience department considering 
 the limitations of the engine the setting is really convincing with great propaganda posters hanging 
 on the walls and many derelict buildings and factories. Audio-wise the game just hits the spot... industrial 
 ambience, squeaky sound effects, water drops and the like make all this eerie atmosphere come to 
 life. The music is at a very good level also with hard guitar riffs to aid you when the action 
 starts. All in all a very good game that tries to be different -and sometimes succeeds- from what 
 has come to be all the rage the latest years on FPS games. No team-based action here -at last- 
 you are alone against hordes of monsters and mutated humans. No fancy UBER-hitech weapons either, 
 the whole game has a retro 50-ish kind of look. At last a game that sports a very well written 
 story. Great minus on the whole immersion experience is the really poorly made voice-overs for 
 the english version of the game, they really make you wanna laugh even if the characters seem to 
 say the most important things.
  
  CONCLUSION
  If you don't mind the outdated graphics engine -which doesn't look at all bad- and if you don't 
 mind some less than b-movie voice acting, this game is for you. It has very nice atmosphere, you'll 
 get a good scare and the story unfolds in a very stylish way with the intermidiate videos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Ok. I never heard of this game but I got it and tried it and what a disappointment. First of all 
 the game just began with no explanation of what was happening but I figured out I was in a pshycic 
 hospital where everyone but me gone nuts. I fought my way through the first level without even 
 hearing a sound from my character - thought he'd been bitten a few times.
  
  A few elements were good, like the You can't run mode. You just walk through everything, which 
 is good because you're carrying alot of weapons and who would run with that? Well, that's one good 
 thing they manage to do good.
  
  I played about 5-6 levels and finally I met a man who spoke to me and gave me a key, just a second 
 before he was turning into something that I didn't get the chance to see. Hey, that even rhymed. 
 Which isn't something you can say about this game, perhaps the gunshots at best.
  
  However, the game's story is so flat you'll just walk towards something that won't ever happen. 
 You'll be disappointed, even though the elements of a shooter were simply OK, not an awful bugged 
 game but simple an EMPTY game with nothing to deliver.
  
  I remember a few things that upset me. You start out with a wrench and if you hit the opponents 
 with it twice, they die. But if you take your gun and fire them in their head or close they might 
 be harder to kill and no matter where I hit them with the wrench they'd die in about 2-3 hits. 
 I like to think the gun as more effective but it didn't give that impression AT ALL.
  
  Grapichs were simple and nothing to be annoyed about, it served the game well and it wasn't the 
 best around but it wasn't awful either.
  
  When I see the score below that the game will get I don't think it deserves such a low score but 
 still the gameplay wasn't much, and the sound were just dull and lifeless, I don't think you'd 
 get much out of this game a second time around and the tilt wasn't even there. So?
  
  I hope you read the full review before you judged the score. However I might be overreacting. But 
 I still believe that if the sound sounds good, but doesn't do anything special, no voice acting 
 or nothing to be fully intrigued about then it won't get a high score. But if it&uml; s full of 
 variation and good actors and everything with good quality it will get a hgiher score. But the 
 game got some small ambitios sound here and there but nothing spectacular and the voice acting 
 must be limited and the rest is probably sound of screaming Zombies?
  
  However, you'll be greatly disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I give a lot of credit to the Russian/Ukrainian folks that made a game like STALKER- good stuff 
 after like 5 years. Unfortunately I did not feel the same about You are empty. I was hoping the 
 game will be an atmospheric just like STALKER and intense like Painkiller. This game is far from 
 that!!
  
  You are not really sure what is happening in the game and after 30 min of playing you stop caring. 
 All you have to do is to shoot in the moving targets, which is cool with me as long as you get 
 some satisfaction out of it. ( u feel nothing ) The models and enemies look kind of cool when they 
 do not move but when they do they look really clumsy. The animation is just ok thats it!!! There 
 are plenty of enemy characters in the game but once again it is just another skin. There is no 
 AI in the game, the enemies just walk into you or stand and shoot you. That makes the game very 
 very again very boring!! The game has some details and that is what makes it attractive. The level 
 design is cool reminds me of a Painkiller. Soviet and communistic flyers are on the walls and streets 
 and buildings kind of look like they are from the mother Russias soviet period. But it is all 
 for show. Graphix are average and if you take away the details the world is ugly!
  
  There is nothing in this game that motivates you to beat the game and want to move to the next 
 level since it is all the same, very repetitive. Weapons are all right, nothing too crazy. Sound 
 is a disaster!!! It is badthere is a sound patch that for some reason would not install properly 
 on my PC. I mean all the enemies make this one stupid sound. BAD.
  
  I am not even talking about musicturn it off right away!! or be annoyed by it!
  
  Ambient 
 sounds are ok there are like 4 of them in the whole game. They are supposed to make u feel a lil 
 creped out. All together this is a bellow average game that does not have much substance in it.
 
  
  This game was good on the paper when they were designing and planning it but unfortunately it did 
 not work well in life. Just like the whole communism idea.
  
  If you want to play the game, borrow it I would not suggest payin 30 bills for it!
  I really 
 hope that Cryostasis by 1C is going to be better than this game.
  
  Thanx for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjackstc
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is nothing when it's compared to F. E. A. R or Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  Although i'm very easy when rate games, i'm still not interested in You Are Empty. Actually, You 
 Are Empty is just a copy version of Condemned: Criminal Origins; your character goes around and 
 kills some kinds of vampires. However, the graphic of You Are Empty is much much worse than F. E. A. R 
 and Condemned even using the highest config. There is no interesting and attractive effects at 
 all. Sound of the original game is so bad, but then it has a sound patch. I've not installed the 
 sound patch yet so i don't know how it is. If you played F. E. A. R and/or Condemned, you will be 
 bored by this game. Yeah, it's really boring games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imthelumberjack
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  A lumberjack no BS review.
  
  Gameplay/General: You are a no named character that wakes up to find the area you live in has been 
 over run with weird mutants. Mutants range from blow torch wielding helicopter men to deformed 
 nurses with double D breasts. The guns have a reasonable sense of power to them and enemies usually 
 die in a satisfying manner limped over railings or dangling from roofs. When I first played this 
 game I was thinking that it was going to be an FPS spoof. I was sorely wrong as it tries to take 
 itself very seriously which you can tell right off the bat it is not going to succeed. Cutscenes 
 are nicely stylized and are actually fairly good and present the story in a fun and unique way. 
 Unfortunately it seems the game and cutscenes follow completely different styles and stories. Graphics: 
 The graphics are very reminiscent of Painkiller with low poly characters but highly detailed world 
 textures. This gives a nice look to the game a reasonable amount of the time. You will quickly 
 notice though that the game offers no dynamic lighting what so ever and that every shadow and highlight 
 in the game in the game is baked in. This leads to some areas of the game that look like they were 
 taking directly from the Quake II engine. Another noticeable graphical issue is the horrible use 
 of bullet decals. There are only a handful of decals and they are often shared between unrelated 
 objects in the game. An example of this would be the damage decal used for concrete can also be 
 found on curtains and car tires. Character animations are very rigid and often jerky especially 
 the two or three npc's in the game. ( the first one you meet will give you a mighty good laugh 
 as his eyes constantly twitch and his body contorts in strange ways)
  
  Sound:
  
  Bad... I think that pretty much sums it up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
