-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: You Don't Know Jack
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/youdontknowjack/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 320 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bandai
Developer: Jellyvision
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date:     Sep 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Questions test both classical book-smarts and pop-culture awareness, forcing you to combine these 
 opposing forces and choose a correct answer. 

 From Berkeley Systems, the people that brought you flying toaster screen-savers, comes one of the 
 most approachable games ever. Although this game was released in 1995, it's still my favorite and 
 most-often played disc. What is most immediately noticeable about 'Jack is its frenetic pacing. 
 Much faster and far wittier than television game shows, this game's charm is its simplicity. Instead 
 of concentrating on grinding out the prettiest pixels or the smoothest scrolling, the creators 
 of 'Jack focused on the fundamental building block of good writing. And it paid off, in a BIG way. 

 While it's akin to TV quiz shows like the ever-popular Jeopardy, YDKJ's clever twist on that genre 
 is its unholy marriage between the likes of Shakespeare and the Sweathogs, Goethe and Gidget, Newton's 
 laws and Fig Newtons. Questions test both classical book-smarts and pop-culture awareness, forcing 
 you to combine these opposing forces and choose a correct answer.  

 Most startling and rewarding about YDKJ is the sense of realism it creates through its sardonic 
 host, who is never seen but always heard. Two parts Dennis Miller and one part Dennis the Menace, 
 this guy has a line for every situation, and he almost never repeats himself. For instance, if 
 you enter your contestant name as "John," he'll sarcastically reply, "Your parents sure were creative." 
 Little surprises like this, and I won't spoil any more of them, along with a huge stockpile of 
 questions gives this game plenty of longevity. Only after playing it over a hundred times did I 
 notice any repetition -- but fear not, Jack-o-philes, an expansion pack of 400 add-on questions is 
 now available.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: syk_gutt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Although this game is over 10 years old, this game doesn't seem to lose any of it's quality as 
 gaming has progressed.
  
  You Don't Know Jack takes on the layout of a television game show, and you play as a contestant. 
 You're greeted with an On the Air, Stand By sign on a white backdrop, with the crew of the show 
 talking in the background. They then give you the choice of playing alone, or with 2 or 3 players. 
 After this, you enter your name (I've found that if you don't enter your name, the announcer just 
 names you, usually something like Pus ) . Then you decide if you want to play a 7 question tournament 
 game, or a full 21 question game.
  
  Every time I have started the game, the script is different. I've never seen the same thing repeated, 
 and it's always filled with witty remarks and raunchy humor. I'd say the best thing about this 
 game is the voice acting. There is a huge script, and I've laughed out loud numerous times each 
 time I play the game. They don't bother being politically correct or nice, which is what I love 
 about the humor.
  
  Next, you see a blue screen with three categories to choose from. The category names are sometimes 
 pretty damn funny as well. I haven't seen the same category twice any time I have played, so there 
 are plenty in the database. After you choose one of the categories, you're told how much the question 
 is worth. If it is worth $1,000, and you get the question wrong, you lose $1,000, so you have to 
 choose the answer wisely. The questions are usually pretty tough, and they're really east to get 
 wrong because sometimes they are strangely worded. If I didn't know the question, I just waited 
 it out, and I could always learn some interesting bit of trivia from it.
  
  Occasionally you will get a type of question called a Gibberish Question . These were hard for 
 me at first, but after a couple of them, you get the hang of it. What they do is take a famous 
 phrase or saying, and come up with something that rhymes with it. They only show you what rhymes 
 with it, and as each second passes the question loses a bit of it's money worth. You have to buzz 
 in and guess what phrase rhymes with the one they have provided. The last round, called Jack Attack 
 , is more of a matching game. A category is on the screen, and words fly around, and you have to 
 match the word with the category. This game is great to play with other people. It's probably one 
 of the most fun party games I own. I'd have to say the highlight of it is the multiplayer, where 
 you can screw your opponent by making them answer a question.
  
  The only complaint I have is the apparent lack of a high score board. It would be nice to have 
 one of those, they always make competition just that much better.
  
  All in all, though the game is old, it is a great game to have when friends are over. Anyone can 
 enjoy it, gamer or not. If you have a sense of humor, and a broad knowledge of trivia, this game 
 is perfect for you. I even loved it when I was a little kid, though I didn't know what the questions 
 were talking about. I just thought it was funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  YDKJ is a great trivia series, which also included a gameshow that did not go to well . . . but 
 had the right idea. The game test your knowledge of both pop culture and book smarts to see who 
 is overall the most intelligent. Of course you can play the game by yourself to test your own knowledge 
 and prove that you have nobody to play the game with, but that is your perrogative.
  
  The host is a little sassy, a little funny, but all sorts of sarcastic. Answer a question right 
 and he will make fun of you. Answer one wrong and he will make you feel stupid. It is fun for everyone.
 
  
  I suggest this and any of the other games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  You Don't Know Jack is trivia gameplay at its finest, and this is the Sierra title that started 
 the madcap series. Granted, most of the questions (and humor) is dated, since it's been over a 
 decade since this title was released, but some people are hanging on to the first edition of Trivial 
 Pursuit, so why not play a classic software title every now and then? If you've never heard of 
 YDKJ, these games may be a little harder to come by nowadays, but some of the titles are worth 
 picking up on eBay if you can find them for under $10.
  
  Since this is the first game in the series, it's definitely missing all the bells and whistles 
 of the later versions, but this is the raw template the others are based on. Forget about flashy 
 graphics and insane backgrounds; YDKJ is beautiful in its simplicity. There's a huge assortment 
 of questions to go through in this game from a wide variety of topics, so you'll never have the 
 same game experience. Each time you start it up, the host will have his own assortment of witty 
 comments and cutting remarks, and the ending credits have mockery commercials playing in the background, 
 which also change every time. At some point in the game, you'll run across a bonus type game called 
 the Gibberish Question, which is a crazy phrase that sounds like a real phrase, if you can untangle 
 it in time. At the end of the game you'll fall victim to the Jack Attack, which is a fast-paced 
 matching game where you have to choose the right pair of phrases based on a clue.
  
  This is a pretty basic game, and almost extinct in the shelves, but here's my breakdown anyway:
 
  
  Gameplay - Nothing could be simpler! Each player (there can be up to three) is assigned a button 
 to buzz in answers to the questions. Choose from the four options, occassionally there's typing 
 involved, and boom, you've got yourself a game! YDKJ is designed to feel like a gameshow, and they 
 definitely pull this effect off very well. 
  
  Graphics - Nothing flashy, but as I said before, it's beautiful in its simplicity. You can't look 
 like crap if you don't have anything to look at.
  
  Sound - Solid. The voice acting is superb, as it should be, because that is what the game is relying 
 on.
  
  Value - The questions are a little dated nowadays, and you may not get the humor at times, but 
 the mass amount of questions will keep you playing this over and over again. Bottom line: This 
 is a good game to pop in and play if you've got a buddy or two over that have a hankering for good 
 trivia. 
  
  Tilt - Lots of fun. Not much more I can say about it than this. Watch this one skew the rating 
 scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnShadow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Irreverrant, foul-mouthed, and filled with jokes about lab rats! (Okay, maybe there aren't jokes 
 about lab rats in the game, but it's funny nonetheless!)
  
  In the game, you are now a lowly game show contestant, and your host is a guy named Cookie. The 
 questions (with the exception of the Gibberish Questions and the Jack Attack, of course) are basically 
 the same in form: four answers to choose from; screws in multiplayer, to "Screw" the opponent, 
 and make him/her answer the question; and wisecracks in any question. Gibberish Questions are another 
 story. There is a nonsense phrase, such as "Hip, Trip, Kip you I sue.", and you have to find out 
 what it rhymes with. The answer to the example is "Skip, Skip, Skip to my lou." The Jack Attack 
 is either the 7th or 21st question of the game and is the last chance to catch up with any players 
 before the game ends. To get a Jack Attack, press your buzzer when you match the word in white 
 and the smaller, red word. But that's not all! The match has to work with the clue at the beginning 
 of the Attack! For example, if the word in white was "Monster", and the clue was the second parts 
 of songs' names, then you would wait for "Mash" and hit the buzzer when it came up, and you would 
 earn two grand. If you hit it on "Pokey", however, you would lose two grand.
  
  There are also two rounds (three if you count the Jack Attack) in each game. In round one, the 
 values of questions would be $1000 for easy questions, $2000 for intermediate questions, $3000 
 for advanced questions, and a starting value of $5000 for Gibberish Questions. In round two, all 
 the values are doubled!
  
  The real fun is when you have friends or family over to play this party game! At the start of the 
 two rounds, you each earn one screw, to "Screw" your competiton by forcing them to answer a question 
 that either you or he/she do not know. But if they answer correctly, then you lose the monetary 
 value of the question! There is a catch, however! The screws only work in regular questions, kept 
 the same through all the games, so if you buzz in on a Gibberish Question, hoping to get some poor 
 sap to answer it, it cannot, should not, and will not work!
  
  Well, that's it! If you need more explanation on how to play the game, or you actually don't want 
 to listen to my ranting, play the game and you'll find out almost immediately! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to say way, way back when I was a kid I had a crappy Pentium 1. 100 MHz, with maybe 32 mb 
 RAM. Yehaw. That sucker could only play a few games and when I found them my parents had to approve 
 them. 
  
  Then came You Dont Know Jack. For the first time a multi-player party, trivia game had arrived 
 on the PC scene and what do you know? It had attitude. The game was totally sarcastic to its users 
 and for me that was A-Ok.
  
  The games modes supported up to 3 players and a few different game modes like a 7-question fast 
 game and a full 21-question game. The game was situated as a real TV trivia show complete with 
 behind-the-scenes crew and problems.
  
  Questions were posed and players rang in using the J, K, or L keys. Several types of questions 
 were asked from the multiple-choice, to the Gibberish Question, to the hilarious Celebrity Question. 
 Celebrity questions posed recorded telephone calls to celebrities asking questions of the local 
 players. The game was simple, funny, and the questions reached out to the 30-something audience 
 at the time.
  
  Specs were easy on the system and used on CD-ROM to store the video and audio clips. I got many 
 years of enjoyment out of this game. I didnt play much of the successors but it was worth it to 
 play this one. Do yourself a favor and give it a spin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tHeHaUnTeD
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2003 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the one that started it all!! It has been updated a number of times since 1995 in various 
 versions, but it cannot be beaten by it's own updates, no matter how many times they try to improve 
 on it. I LOVE this game for a quick entertaining comedic fix and I am still playing it on and off 
 almost a decade after its release! I have the 400 Question add-on pack as well, so it does help 
 to expand the number of questions by quite bit. One of the main reasons the original really sets 
 it apart from the others, I guess, is Nate Shapiro... the MC of the game. The combination of his 
 humor and sarcasm along with his delivery of the questions and comments are unbeatable! He is a 
 big part of what makes this game so much fun to play, even 8 years later. I have played a few of 
 the other versions and have been very disappointed in their MC's. Nate IS the man! Don't hesitate... find 
 this game if you can and have a blast!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
