-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Yu-Gi-Oh! Power of Chaos - Yugi the Destiny
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/yugiohpowerofchaos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 5.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 421 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Card Battle
Date:     Jan 12, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beyond dueling with the AI, there isn't anything else to Power of Chaos -- no story mode, no multiplayer, 
 nothing. 

  Yu-Gi-Oh! Power of Chaos - Yugi the Destiny, Konami's latest title to bear the license of Kazuki 
 Takahashi's popular anime, is little more than a bare-bones digital version of the collectible 
 card game upon which the franchise is founded. For Yu-Gi-Oh! fans, the meager options make it less 
 attractive than one of Konami's dozen or so other, more fully featured Yu-Gi-Oh! games, and to 
 players who don't already have an investment in the series, it has about as much to offer as a 
 game of solitaire.  

          Power of Chaos is a pretty dry translation of the Duel Monsters collectible card game. 
     

  The card game itself is virtually identical to the one seen in the Yu-Gi-Oh! cartoon and the real-world 
 Yu-Gi-Oh! collectible card game, so fans should be instantly familiar with how to play. First-timers, 
 of course, will have a slightly steeper learning curve to deal with, especially if they're not 
 already knowledgeable about the basics of collectible card games. Most of the basics are elementary 
 enough that you'll likely you'll likely catch on with a bit of trial and error, though the game 
 features a serviceable tutorial mode, and the manual that comes with the game is dense with specific 
 information about the subtler nuances of the Duel Monsters game.  

  Basically, you start off with a more or less random deck of cards consisting of monster cards, 
 spell cards, trap cards, and special summon cards. The monster cards can be used to attack your 
 opponent's monster cards or, if your opponent has no monster cards in play, to attack him or her 
 directly, with the ultimate goal of taking all your opponent's hit points before he or she can 
 do the same to you. Spell and trap cards serve a variety of different offensive and defensive purposes, 
 such as upping the statistics of your monster cards, destroying one of your opponent's cards, counteracting 
 your opponent's move, or fusing two monsters into a third, more powerful monster. Most monsters 
 can be brought directly into play from your hand, though certain monsters require a summon card 
 to be played before they can be brought into action.  

  Winning duels will net you new cards, and you can go into the game's deck construction mode to 
 manage what cards you have that you want to use in your active playing deck. To the end of re-creating 
 the collectible card game, Power of Chaos is quite successful. The problem is that, beyond dueling 
 with the AI, there isn't anything else to Power of Chaos -- no story mode, no multiplayer, nothing. 
 If you consider the standards for PC collectible card games that have been set by the likes of 
 Magic: The Gathering Online, having a stripped-down duel mode shoulder the entire weight of the 
 game simply is not enough.  

          It does a little to spice up the proceedings, but the game still isn't much to look at. 
     

  Watching a collectible card game unfold is pretty dull, but to its credit, Power of Chaos takes 
 several steps to try to liven up the proceedings. The board you play on is embossed with the gold, 
 black, and red color scheme that the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise seems so deeply fond of, and all of the 
 card art is rendered in really high resolutions. The most thoughtful touch to the visuals in Power 
 of Chaos is the anime-style reactions you'll get from Yugi when you make specific moves -- part of 
 the screen will reveal a close-up of his surprised face, accompanied by a little audio sting and 
 some voice describing the significance of the move. The game features a little voice acting for 
 Yugi himself, all of which is appropriately over the top, though there are a few phrases that end 
 up repeating a bit too often. The music in Power of Chaos is tense and dramatic, adding some much-needed 
 excitement to the somewhat sterile proceedings of a card game, though the variety of the music 
 is around nil -- you end up hearing the same few music tracks over and over again.  

  The Yu-Gi-Oh! market is, for all intents and purposes, saturated. Power of Chaos may be the first 
 in the series to arrive on the PC, but it arrives on the market long after several better Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 games have been released on other platforms. When you consider that these superior titles were 
 released on the Game Boy Advance, it looks particularly bad for Power of Chaos. But even on the 
 PC, Wizards of the Coast's Magic: The Gathering Online offers a much more accomplished collectible 
 card game experience, actually allowing you to collect and trade cards and battle against other 
 human opponents. If you're a dyed-in-the-wool Yu-Gi-Oh! fan and the PC is your only gaming platform, 
 you might be able to rationalize purchasing Power of Chaos. But, if you do not meet these fairly 
 specific criteria, you have no need for this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: samboyd93
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:21 am PT
Review:  Konami's Yu-Gi-Oh: Power of Chaos, released in 2003, gives the player the opportunity to test their 
 strength against Yugi. Though It only has two of the three aspects which make a good game (gameplay, 
 graphics and story) , it's disuse of a storyline works perfectly. It makes it unique and in my 
 opinion that counts the most.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you start with an exact replica of Yugi's deck and the decision to 
 give him a single duel or battle him three times in a match duel. Having the same deck as Yugi, 
 you have the advantage of knowing what cards he could potentially be holding in his hand, what 
 trap cards could be lain down and what moves may be made and it's up to you whether or not you 
 use this to your advantage. One thing I noticed was that the voices on the characters were in fact 
 the original actors, greatly improving the games value and making a more realistic experience. 
 
  
  Once you've defeated Yugi you will be given three cards selected at random so eventually your deck 
 will be made completely different then his hence making every battle against him different. Though 
 this game isn't for players looking for a deep storyline and hours on end of relentless gaming, 
 it makes a good solid game for somebody who has half-an-hour to kill and a cuppa by their side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh! Power of Chaos - Yugi the Destiny is a good game for the fans of the card game, but for 
 the experienced gamers it is definately too short.
  
  The game is played just with the rules of the official card game, so the old players won't have 
 any problem playing, while the tutorial heps the new comers, too.
  
  Luckily, winning duels against Yugi, the only enemy you can play against, can award you powerful 
 or less powerful cards to add in your deck. Match duels (three consecutive duels) , can award you 
 three card at once.
  
  The bad news is that, as I said before the only player to oppose is Yugi, the protagonist of the 
 TV series. And I would be really grateful if there was just a story mode or a multiplayer game (which 
 I think would be superb if existed) .
  
  At least there is a good music soundtrack and Yugi talks a bit when your or his move is significant. 
 But later it gets a bit boring.
  
  If you're a dyed-in-the-wool Yu-Gi-Oh! fan and the PC is your only gaming platform, you might be 
 able to rationalize purchasing Power of Chaos. But, if you do not meet these fairly specific criteria, 
 you have no need for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ_Foucault
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Whereas there are several other Yu-Gi-Oh! games out there with MUCH more quality and content, this 
 game does not fall short.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  The graphics are quite simple, just like any other PC adaptation of a Trading Card Game. The cards 
 are high resolution, something that Yu-Gi-Oh! fans will love, for the other versions of the game 
 (e. g. Game Boy Color & Advance) have low-res versions of the cards.
  
  Sound 5/10
  The music is vapid. The voices are redundant and they get annoying after a while.
  
  Playability 
 8/10
  The options are scarce, at most, allow me to restate this one... there are NO options.
  There 
 are two game modes: Single Game in which you will have a 1 on 1 duel with Yugi and if you beat 
 him, he gives you a card. Tournament Mode is not much of a tournament; you will duel Yugi three 
 times, the player with the most wins (2 out of 3) earns 3 cards. The game is frustratingly difficult 
 at first, but, since the rules are simple, and as you acquire more cards, the game becomes easier. 
 The bad point is that there are over 150 cards to collect and, you only get 3 in tournament mode, 
 and sometimes these cards are repeated, so, managing to get the whole collections is not challenging 
 nor interesting. It is boring and difficult.
  
  Conclusion 7.5/10
  If you are new to Yu-Gi-Oh! world and can't afford a real deck of cards. Get this game, WITH the 
 other expansions, so you can get the most out of it.
  
  If you are an experienced Yu-Gi-Oh! player, look for something more challenging and with more options, 
 this will get boring after the first three matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cquesnel
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Depending on what you want from the game, you'll hate it's low grade graphics and static game play, 
 or you'll enjoy learning how the actual duel process goes. My son was five years old when we got 
 this, he is still learning the strategy of the game and enjoys playing it now and then.
  
  If you know how to play the card game already, then you'll just be flexing your muscles against 
 the AI. If you don't know, you should read the rules to the card game so Destiny makes more sense.
 
  
  In either a single or a best of three duel, you'll see how Spell and Trap cards work, how they 
 aid an attack or thwart one. You'll see standard warriors, special effect cards that provide special 
 abilites. You'll see how a tribute summon works, and you'll often see how the Trap Hole trap card 
 or Maneater Bug monster works soon thereafter... :-)
  
  The gameplay is easy to pick up, the strategy is not much more effort. Generally speaking, putting 
 out your best monsters early is the surest way to get them destroyed, locked down, or stolen and 
 used against you. We have the most success playing a turn or two in defense mode and slowly step 
 up the offensive. Count on Yugi using Monster Reborn and Change of Heart cards almost every game. 
 As you collect cards to make your deck stronger, so does he.
  
  I enjoy it more when my kids are asking questions about strategy; when I'm playing solo trying 
 collect all 155 cards, I honestly start to fall asleep after a duel or two. I've actually lost 
 duels via misplay or failure to play a card in a critical situation because I was going numb. Oh 
 well, the association to Yugi is what the kids enjoy most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revengeman2560
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Okay, now let me tell you that this game is just down right deplorable, Yugi has the most annoying 
 voice ever, and he never shut's up. It will take a SERIOUS Yugioh fan to love this game. for one 
 it's too easy, once you get all the cards that is. another the music is the worst thing ever in 
 the history of video game music. The cards they start you out with are weak, and make it very hard 
 to win against yugi's Fine Tuned deck But like I said, If your an avid yugioh fan, you MIGHT enjoy 
 this game. parents I suggest you do NOT buy your kids this game It'll make little kids cry, and 
 big ones will destroy it. At all costs AVOID this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Althalus89
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  He's decks are like a Deck a rockie would use. There are no real combos he uses against you when 
 you play, he simply attack and attack until he is defeated or you are. Very few Spell and- Trap 
 Cards. His deck i basically filled with weak monsters to tribute for Dark Magician and Summoned 
 Skull.
  Also he's Exodia Deck is like a cheat Deck because when your exacly one turn from defeating him 
 he suddenly draws Exodia and you lose.
  You don't win many good cards either, alot of tem are weak normal monsters under 1000 Atk, BUT 
 there are some good things about it to like winning all Exodia pieces, Dark Magician, Blue-Eyes 
 and Raigeki for example. These cards are really good later if you buy Kaiba the Revenge and Joey 
 the Passion since then you have already got great strategies and powerful monsters to build good 
 Decks with and since the other 2 games have better cards you can acually create good Decks in Joey 
 the Passion if you succeed in winning all cards here. It simply good to have the cards from this 
 game because you might use them in the other ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Okay, I don't want to get into a big rant, but this really bit my dust. It is a game that is a 
 little hard to get some fun out of, but it is acually an ok game. but it is just a bit repitive 
 if you can only duel ONE GUY OVER AND OVER AGAIN. I mean man, you duel one duelist and after that 
 there is nothing else you do. The gameplay is a bit shamalty the graphics are alright, the sound 
 bores me, but the value of this game isn't too high. I just have too say get a different game if 
 you want a better Yu-GI-OH! experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Mate1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is Just right for kids who likes Yu-Gi-Oh but me i think it is normal it is easy to play 
 and sometimes when your bored you can play it just for fun i will give it 6,7 rating. The learning 
 curve is 15 minutes. The time spent is 50 hours. The difficulty is Just Right I have not complete 
 it but i am trying to do that I like I like I like I like I like I like it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  From my title of the review, you can probably guess that this game is pretty repetitive, but more 
 about that later. Another Yu-Gi-Oh game, this time on the PC, a simulated version of the real card 
 game, no changes in gameplay what so ever. And if you've never played it before, there are some 
 handy tutorials with it also. The graphics are 2D all of the time. The cards, fields, point ratings 
 even the special effects, are all in glorious (or not so) 2D. The gamepaly, as said, has been untouched 
 by the developers. There are a few cards to collect, but only about two starter deck's worth (60-100 
 cards) rather than the glorious 800+. Another bad problem is that you can only play yugi, this 
 gets boaring fast as he never changes his tactics or gets new cards. With a lack of multiplayer/online 
 as well as any decent graphics, it gets dull fast. The musics repeating throughout every single 
 duel you play out and is also getting on your nerves before you know it. This game is probably 
 more for beginners rather than hardcore veterans, so if you've never played the card game before 
 and want to learn quick, get this, but only if your not a great master already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodWerewolf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  As a Yu-Gi-Oh! and Magic fan, I can say that I was slightly dissappointed by the way this game 
 plays.
  
  The first time you fight Yugi in this game, it seems as though you'll never win because your deck 
 is not too powerful but after a few times, you will win, maybe without a single point lost. Once 
 you have his strategy down, you'll be hard to beat. Just watch out when he starts holding onto 
 cards.
  
  In total, you will uncover 155 diffrent cards from the Legend of the Blue-Eyes boosters and Yugi's 
 starter deck. There is a tutorial but it only teaches you the board. There's not much else because 
 you can't unlock combo-able Trap and Magic cards yet.
  
  Yugi's voice is accuratly portrayed by his English anime actor, but he pops up what seems like 
 too often to say "Good move." or something else.
  
  The dueling is often fun but sometimes very cheap when you progress into the game. And unlocking 
 cards after 66% gets very aggravating.
  
  Overall, if you like Yu-Gi-Oh!, then buy this game along with Kaiba: The Revenge and Joey: The 
 Passion. It may have a few flaws such as no changes in Yugi's deck or a small number of cards to 
 build a deck around, but it still plays very well and can teach you all the rules, without you 
 having to spend hundreds of dollars for boosters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Do you like the card game? Then you'll love this game. 
  
  The cards look exactly like the real deal, and even the wording on all the cards are the same as 
 the ones on the real cards. The game play is quick from the PC side so there is no waiting around 
 for your turn to come up.
  
  You basically have to duel Yugi to win new cards. There are about 150 cards to unlock. There is 
 a bit of a waist as well like you can unlock the same card a few times. You aren't allowed to have 
 more than 3 of one card in your deck. And some of the cards you may only have 1 in your deck, like 
 change of heart. So you could possibly sit with 3 Change of heart cards that you have unlocked 
 and you may only use one at a time. This makes unlocking a bit more difficult.
  
  Yugi gives comments for almost every move you make. This is a treat at first but after a few duels 
 it can get a bit much.
  
  Yugi is no push over and can sometimes make your life hell. All and all he is a great opponent 
 with just the right type of cards so you could beat him if you know what you are doing, but he 
 will kick your ass the first chance he gets. He is not afraid of giving life points and monsters 
 up to try and win a duel. Sometimes this goes in your favor and sometimes not.
  
  The one big problem I have with the game is that there are not enough keyboard shortcuts. There 
 is also a lot of clicking involver, especially when you have a Trap card face down. This could 
 have been made easier with the use of Keyboard shortcuts.
  
  I'd say the game is good. Obviously better for fans of the Card game. Note: Not the TV series, 
 THE CARD GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehad
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  this game suck a lot it's a game that no one should get cause it's suck anyway don't get it please 
 cause it's suck don't get it it's have sucking graphic sucking sound sucking gameplay and don't 
 play it I promise you it's suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm fan of the cartoon Series of Yu-gi-oh, ok I'm almost 24 now but were all kids at heart right?
 
  
  This game is a decent enough and just as many have already said this game would be best suited 
 in the Game drop down menu in the all programs section on Windows. 
  
  The Game dual monsters is a interesting battle/game. I'm hoping one day they will bring out a virtual 
 3d version of the Cartoon, or perhaps recreate Dual-kingdom, or Pegasis Tournment onto the PC and 
 other Portables. Seeing the Monsters from your cards come to life. 
  
  Seeing some of the special effects from COD 2 , I know something of such could happen. For some 
 reason my copy of the game has developed a strange bug. On my main computer when it comes to seleting 
 heads n tails it freezes, while on my other computers and laptop the game totally crashes when 
 you do the advance stuff like playing field cards or adding buffs. 
  
  So I've been restricted into playing very simple duels all the time which isn't to say it's not 
 good fun. I've got my 3 dark magican girl cards and the game provides a good tutoring game for 
 beginners. 
  
  I do however feel this game was designed just for that, a Learning tool for new fans and players 
 of the game to learn faster. So they would be more keen and eager to join the Yu-gi-oh online, 
 which you have to pay for to play. Which is almost exactly the same as this game. Minus the p2p 
 thing.
  
  This games Multiplayer is the online version. Which can be found on game spot.
  
  Others would say this game is for Fans of the show and game. Which I would agree. However I 
 wouldn't limit that to mean just them either.
  
  This game is sutible for all those who are interesting in the game dual monster and wish to learn 
 a little more about it. 
  
  Speaking as some one who came from the age of collectable card stats games, (Where you and some 
 else had a card and you have to see if your stat was higher than the one your opponant had in his 
 hand, )
  
  Being unbyist here Dual monsters really is a interesting game once you get to know it a little 
 bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tegrategra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  A NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ 
 FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH 
 JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG 
 JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO 
 PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ 
 J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH 
 JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG 
 JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH 
 JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J 
 JJA NICE GAME TO PLAY GGFHGFH JHGFHJGJ JHGJHG JGHJG JHGHJG JHGHJG JHGH JHG JH JH JH JH JEF JFD 
 DFJ FJ FJ J J J JJ J J JJ J J JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rushingdevil
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  i really like it nice game how can i download this game i really want to play this game let me 
 download it. wala na ako masabi amfness tasdad sdadasd asdasd adsad asdasd d sdadas dasdas dasd 
 adasd asd asd asd a das da sda sdasdasd 2w3e ad asda dasdjasdja; sda das dash das das dhasdhasd 
 aknda sdad asdhasd asd asd ad as djais djash dadasdashdas diash dais dasd haisdh ais daois dasdhasdh 
 a a asdais das dsnda ndaksldhaisdja isdaid hadhajsdnajksnd ndasdjsaidj nasdnaskdn sandkalsjd alksd 
 as djaisjdasijd asdi jaisd jasidja sdnad saldjasld nasdnaskd nasd naoisdhaidn asndas das dnaiosd 
 aosdnaos ndas dna dnaoisndao ndaos dnasoid nasndao sndaoidnaiosdnaisodnaosda sdas dnasdnao sdnasd 
 naosnda d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_ministry
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  The good thing about the game is : tactics are more important than the strength of your cards , 
 a good tactical deck can easily beat a strong - ugly deck
  and if you have the 2 other versions (joey the passion & kaiba the revenge) , when you install 
 them , all of the cards in yugi the destiny will appear in the new game ,which is pretty interesting
 
  the graphic is just like the anime , no videos , cutscence.. just pictures.... and the voice acting 
 is not good either , making it a little boring sometimes
  but if you're a die hard fan of the anime or manga , just try it out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_the_one
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 13, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was on special offer at my local store - and yes, it's given me a 
 few hours entertainment, but it won't entertain you for long. 
  If you collect the cards, 3 promo cards come with it, which aren't bad, so that might be a plus 
 factor in your decision. 
  However, other than that, the game is, well, frankly boring. There is no story. There are no different 
 opponents. There is hardly anything. Yes, the graphics of the cards ingame are just like the art 
 on the actual cards themselves, right down to the card number;
  
  e. g. LOB-007
  
  And the music does become tense when you go below a 3000 LP difference, but that's the only plus 
 points of this game. If you collect the cards, and find it on special offer, get it, otherwise 
 don't bother when there are far better Yu-Gi-Oh games on other platforms.
  
  JT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpommier
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2003 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know what the reviewer's hang-up with this game is. It's a CCG, not the latest shooter 
 with Trilinear Filter, and Pixel Shaders! It plays a very intelligent game of Yu-Gi-Oh. I'm not 
 really a big fan of Yu-Gi-Oh but I appreciate the simplicity and deep strategy involved in these 
 types of games. I've played Astral Tournament & Hamurabi, a free card game based on SPQR. This 
 game easily ranks as top dog among this type on the PC, I haven't played MTG so take that for what 
 you will.
  
  The presentation and graphics are top notch, and the AI is very capable. My only gripes are that 
 the computer starts out with all of the Exodia cards, I also suspect it of, let's put this nicely, 
 "KNOWING", a bit too much :) . Yugi also gets a little repetative. My biggest gripe is the lack 
 of an Undo command and mulitplayer. More cards would be great too.
  
  But c'mon, it's a $30 game and it will give you weeks of entertainment! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
