-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zax: The Alien Hunter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/zaxthealienhunter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Reflexive Ent.
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 9, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zax succeeds admirably with its simple aims. It handles one vital game design element extremely 
 well: pacing. 

 The shadow of Diablo looms large over the gaming landscape. Thanks to the phenomenal success of 
 Blizzard's action-RPG franchise, more than a few games have borne its influence. Nox, Revenant, 
 Darkstone, and Throne of Darkness, to name a few, seem to have borrowed from Diablo's isometric 
 action-gaming formula, with its hordes of enemies and hypnotic mouse-clicking. Zax: The Alien Hunter, 
 an action-adventure game from the aptly named Reflexive Entertainment, isn't shy about its influences. 
 The developer trumpets Zax as a combination of Diablo and id's Quake, though Zax has little in 
 common with the latter besides lots of shooting. Zax takes the basic action-packed gameplay of 
 Diablo, puts it in a science-fiction setting, and comes up with a derivative but entertaining game. 
           You'll help Zax navigate a primitive planet overrun by evil robots.    

  Zax features a rather flimsy story, but it still provides a sturdy enough framework to hang the 
 game's action on. The eponymous hero is out scouring the galaxy for profits when he's forced to 
 crash-land on a remote planet. There he meets the primitive korbo, a dinosaur-headed agrarian species 
 that lives in fear of an angry god, OM. OM, you learn, is really a powerful robot with a short 
 temper and a legion of robotic minions. When Zax meets up with the korbo, he naturally discovers 
 his do-gooder side and takes up the fight to liberate them from OM. It's a clich-ridden plot 
 that sounds a lot like one of the episodes from the original Star Trek TV series. The bland and 
 sometimes childish dialogue doesn't help the story, and the attempts to make Zax sound like a cross 
 between Han Solo and Duke Nukem usually fall flat, too. Lame one-liners like "I'm the man!" just 
 don't cut it, though Zax will utter a few funny retorts from time to time.   

  Like the story, Zax's gameplay is simple, if not simplistic: You run around and kill stuff. And 
 then run around and kill more stuff. It's a classic gaming formula that can come across as vapid 
 and boring or refreshingly fun. Thanks to Zax's excellent pacing and rewarding action, it's usually 
 the latter here. You'll make your way through 2D prerendered landscapes, exploring lush jungles, 
 alien temples, and innumerable twisting tunnel complexes. Along the way, you'll engage in a never-ending 
 series of key hunts and lever-pulling exercises, with the occasional boss battle thrown in for 
 good measure. Despite their different particulars, the level designs and goals feel very repetitive: 
 You'll free yet another hapless korbo prisoner, switch on the power for some doohickey, or find 
 more artifact pieces for some forgettable reason. That sort of repetition rarely becomes the problem 
 it would be in other games: The level goals and layouts are really just there to funnel more monsters 
 your way, arcade style. There's just enough diversity to hold your interest and keep the action 
 flowing.           The game's tight pacing keeps the action interesting.    

  During your adventures, you'll face a range of death-dealing robots and native animals, like grunting 
 warthog-like creatures that charge out of the underbrush at you. Similar to the classic arcade 
 game Gauntlet, many of the robots continually spawn from monster generator pads until you destroy 
 a nearby control panel. To fight the game's menaces, you'll employ weapons such as a modified laser 
 welder, an automatic pistol, a sentry gun, a grenade launcher, and a missile launcher. Many of 
 the weapons are superfluous since you can easily play through the game using just a handful of 
 them. Weapon choice is more of a personal preference than anything. When using your guns, you'll 
 find that the controls can feel a bit awkward at first but work very well with practice. You move 
 Zax with the keyboard and move his targeting cursor independently with the mouse. The cursor doesn't 
 show the exact spot where a weapon will hit, but rather the direction in which it will fire. These 
 controls make Zax feel a bit like another '80s arcade classic, Robotron: 2084.    

 You'll learn about your weapons from Zelon, the female-voiced computer on Zax's ship. Zelon, affectionately 
 known as Babe, relays story-based mission objectives, advice, and explanations. Babe might seem 
 a bit too talkative for your taste, though. Her dialogue box will appear so frequently during a 
 few of the early levels as to be distracting, sometimes even popping up during the middle of firefights 
 thanks to scripted events.           There may not be much variety, but it's fun anyway.    

  Scripted events can interfere with gameplay in other ways too. You might run across a robot and 
 find that you can't shoot at him until he's uttered a bit of dialogue first. That sort of awkwardness 
 isn't uncommon in Zax. When OM was programming his robotic henchmen, he apparently forgot to finish 
 their artificial intelligence. Despite a nearby battle, enemies seem to react only if you walk 
 right next to them or activate hidden triggers in certain areas of the maps. Happily, believability 
 isn't really important in an arcade-style action game like this. To compete against brighter opponents, 
 you can play Zax online in three multiplayer modes: salvage king, deathmatch, and capture the flag. 
 Trying to access multiplayer through a firewall can result in system lockups, though. In fact, 
 a number of bugs, like one that drops you to the Windows desktop when you try to restart a mission, 
 mar the game.   

  As you tackle Zax's hundred or so relatively small maps, you'll grab a variety of power-ups, often 
 found hidden in ceramic pots or bamboo boxes that litter the landscape. Ore and crystals can be 
 taken back to Zax's stranded ship, where they're transmuted into weapons and other gadgets by a 
 materials generator. A native fruit can heal Zax's wounds. Floating spheres of energy left by destroyed 
 robots recharge Zax's shields and some of his guns. More notable than the items you do find are 
 the ones you won't: Other than an alien gun, there aren't any random items that boost your powers 
 or abilities. Access to new weapons at your ship only seems to progress on a hidden timetable. 
 Also, there are no character classes to choose and no skills to build up; you just play as the 
 default character. While Zax does offer three difficulty levels, the single-player game is only 
 around eight to 12 hours long. So, without those other features, replay value suffers. That's a 
 lesson that Reflexive apparently didn't learn from Diablo.           Zax has some good-looking 
 graphics, to boot.    

  Zax's visuals could certainly give the Diablo series a run for its money, though. The beautiful 
 graphics show just how much life is left in 2D gaming: While the landscapes and creatures aren't 
 particularly imaginative, they're crisp and colorful, and they show a really fine attention to 
 detail. You can almost feel the dirt and jagged rocks near Zax's ship or the thatched roofs of 
 a korbo village. Weapons, teleporters, and other high-tech gadgetry give off sparking and sparkling 
 light shows. The designers rely on the game's isometric perspective for some cheap tricks, though, 
 hiding robots and sentry turrets where you literally can't see them until it's too late. Vivid 
 sound effects complement the vibrant visuals well. Other than the classy Zelon, the voice-overs 
 and ambient elevator music are forgettable, though.   

  On paper, Zax: The Alien Hunter sounds like another Diablo wannabe, and in some ways it is. Other 
 than really fine 2D graphics and lots of action, it theoretically doesn't have too much going for 
 it: The story is weak, there's no real character building, you'll encounter few particularly interesting 
 monsters or weapons, and you won't find much replay value. But in practice, Zax succeeds admirably 
 with its simple aims. It handles one vital game design element extremely well: pacing. The speed 
 of the battles, the intervals between enemy encounters, the time it takes to solve puzzles, and 
 the balance between exploring and fighting are all deftly handled. If only more games could succeed 
 as well in that regard. Ultimately, Zax is simple and repetitive in the same way that simple and 
 repetitive arcade games of the past offered action-packed, addictive entertainment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vmcvkycb
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played that yet, then try dark saviour, it just uses the mouse to control zax and 
 is just improved graphics. To me, this was made for windows 98 as it doesn't look so great when 
 any menus pop up, and especially when in the same year S. W. I. N. E. was released with ausome graphics, 
 sounds gameplay and entertainment factor. The sounds can be a bit retro like in places, of which 
 is not to my liking. The gameplay is really what gets the marks for me, as it kept me playing for 
 half an hour, unexpected when you first start playing it (I just lost it when there were no aliens 
 in sight.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optophobic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 11, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Zax isn't a great game, it isn't even really a good game. It could've been an okay game, but really 
 it wasn't much of a game at all.
  
  I don't think I paid money for this game, and it was worth every penny. Being a free game it was 
 fun to run around and shoot things and die and come back to life and shoot things some more and 
 die some more. It is a fairly mindless action game with properties that are mildly RPG-ish, but 
 I would'nt be comfortable ever say that. You just get to upgrade your armory.
  
  The settings and characters and creatures for this incredibly cheap game are actually decent and 
 aren't horrible. I could actually stand to look at them and I could tell what was what generally. 
 Being able to distinguish shapes is a good thing in a game. I've played games that aren't that 
 way. But I don't really want to mention Halo. Oh, did I say that outloud!
  
  Anyways, if you see this video game for two or three bucks somewhere and you have two or three 
 bucks to blow and you want a mindless distraction for an hour or two go ahead and pick this up 
 and play. If this game had come out ten years ago, it would've been amazing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
