-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zeus: Master of Olympus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/zeusmasterofolympus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 949 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 22, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zeus is a major improvement for Impressions' line of city-building games, and it's a significant 
 advancement for city-building games in general. 

 Zeus: Master of Olympus follows in the same tradition as Impressions' other real-time city-building 
 games, including Pharaoh and the Caesar series. These games combine the urban-management elements 
 of Maxis' SimCity along with the colonial and imperial objectives of Blue Byte's Settlers games. 
 Yet although Zeus is similar to its predecessors, it offers numerous enhancements and improvements 
 that make it a much better game. These include features and options reminiscent of Ensemble's Age 
 of Empires real-time strategy games as well as MicroProse's classic Civilization series. As a result, 
 Zeus plays like a best-of-all-worlds combination of some of the greatest strategy games ever.  

  As the title implies, Zeus is set in ancient Greece. However, the setting doesn't have too much 
 of an impact on gameplay. For the most part, Zeus plays exactly like Caesar and Pharaoh. The only 
 surface differences are the products your people produce and the food your people eat. Just as 
 in the previous games, your goal is to manage every aspect of an ancient city. From agriculture 
 and housing to employment and military, everything is under your control. You must make sure that 
 you have enough jobs for your people and enough people for your jobs. You also need enough food 
 to feed your people and enough profit from exporting goods to cover the high cost of importing 
 the goods you aren't able to produce. It's a high-wire act and becomes even trickier as your city 
 grows in size.   

  As you get into the game, you'll notice there are actually some key differences in the way that 
 Zeus plays compared with its predecessors. Impressions has made some significant changes to the 
 mission structure so that - while the basic gameplay is still the same - it's now much more fun 
 to play. A typical campaign, called an "adventure," works as follows. You begin with a tract of 
 empty land. You build your city from scratch, as you aim for some preset, easily achievable goals. 
 Once your city is functioning smoothly, the mission ends. The next mission will put you in charge 
 of the same city, but your goals will be a bit more complex. Usually, these will involve having 
 to attract a legendary hero, like Hercules or Perseus, to your city to perform some task. Once 
 that's done, it's on to the next mission. Eventually, you'll choose a site to colonize and begin 
 again from scratch. Then it's back to the parent city, this time with all the benefits of having 
 a colony, including increased trade and a yearly tribute of money or goods. By this time, some 
 of your neighboring countries will probably have been offended or will have become jealous, and 
 so it'll be time to start invading or defending. The final mission will end with your having to 
 accomplish some larger goals that ensure that your city is thriving and free from rivals.   

  While some of these ideas were implemented in Cleopatra, the expansion to Pharaoh, they are fully 
 realized in Zeus. Specifically, your city remains exactly as you left it from mission to mission. 
 Adventures range from five to eight missions and typically take quite a while to finish. There 
 are seven in all, and they get increasingly difficult. Moreover, they each focus on one particular 
 aspect of Greek history or mythology; one will have you aiding Jason through his tasks, while another 
 is about the Trojan War. The only problem with the adventures is that the integration of the mythology 
 occasionally seems like an afterthought. For instance, in an episode called Hercules' Labors, Hercules 
 himself only plays a small role. But overall, the mission design is first-rate.    

 Inevitably, your city will need sanctuaries devoted to various gods. This aspect will also be familiar 
 to those who played Cleopatra, but as with the mission design, it's a more developed part of the 
 game in Zeus. Each city has a different selection of sanctuaries available, and these tend to work 
 like the advances in Civilization, in that building a sanctuary in your city will have a profound 
 and distinct effect. For instance, a sanctuary to Athena will cause your olive growers and oil 
 producers to work more efficiently, and the goddess herself will also fight alongside your soldiers 
 if your city is invaded. A sanctuary to Hermes will cause your workers to move goods faster, and 
 he'll occasionally fulfill an outstanding request for goods from another city so you don't have 
 to deplete your reserves. Each major Greek god is represented, from Aphrodite to Zeus, and each 
 respective sanctuary has its own specific benefit. Some sanctuaries are much more useful than others, 
 but for the most part this is balanced by their cost.   

  The only problematic area of Zeus is the combat, which is held over from Pharaoh and the Caesar 
 series. Zeus attempts to alleviate the problems of its predecessors' combat system by including 
 the option to let combat be handled automatically. Unfortunately, this only works occasionally, 
 and it'll often place your troops about as far from the center of combat as you could possibly 
 want them. Choosing to manually control your troops is not much better. To select a troop, you 
 must click on the bottom of the standard representing him. Just clicking in the right place can 
 take a few tries, and the interface for troop control is also fairly cumbersome. Combat is easiest 
 when you have a few heroes or war-oriented gods protecting your city, as they can usually stop 
 any enemy invasion with little trouble.   

  One interesting addition to the combat system is that your troops are now actually civilians from 
 your city. This has a dramatic effect, because when you are at war, all other industry suffers. 
 Sending troops abroad can cripple your city if your military is too large.   

  Yet the problems with combat are rarely an issue because combat is such a small aspect of the game. 
 Impressions has added a much more satisfying diplomacy model to Zeus, and the ability to conquer 
 and colonize other cities makes the economic aspect more satisfying. Even the interface has been 
 improved - it's now much easier to find the information you need. Yet while Impressions made the 
 game easier to play than its predecessors, it's still complex and challenging.   

  City-building games are always about setting things up and watching them work, and it's a testament 
 to Zeus' graphics that just watching the hustle and bustle of your city is so much fun. Everything, 
 from the dockworkers unloading fishing boats to olive-oil vendors juggling their wares, is rendered 
 with a great attention to detail. The vibrant colors help the city look alive, and the ambient 
 sound effects, from the subtle music to the sounds coming from your individual buildings, are all 
 top-notch. The game even has a good sense of humor. You'll notice plenty of funny little details, 
 which help make the game even more entertaining.   

  Zeus is a major improvement for Impressions' line of city-building games, and it's a significant 
 advancement for city-building games in general. The new mission design seems like a simple enough 
 idea, but it adds a great deal of depth and longevity to the game, and significantly improves the 
 way the campaign plays. Zeus even offers three modes of play without the mission-specific goals 
 - one focusing on economics, one on military, and also an open-play sandbox mode that lets you 
 do whatever you want. Together, all these features mean that Zeus should provide you with many 
 hours of highly enjoyable gameplay.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Zeus! . . . I dont know where to begin . . but addictive is the right word . . . being familiar 
 with the Greek mythology there hasn't been a time I was tired of this game. Finishing all the campaign 
 scenarios, spent several months playing freeplay (sandbox games) . From every detail of graphics 
 to the melodious background music, everything sucks you in. The visuals and audio interfaces are 
 crisp clear and ready to entertain you to this day! which is why I wont mind playing another expansion 
 pack.
  
  The game is quite complex to start with. With help from a gamer friend I learned the game quite 
 easily . . once into the game I could not get away . . . the statistics and maintenance of the 
 cities are always charming. earning currency is never a problem which is why you can focus on city 
 building and other charms of the game. making military force is quite technical, this is perhaps 
 the only game where making a big military without ever fighting is really fun. The gods add special 
 bonuses and the heroes add strength to the military . . after all this is also a gr8 game just 
 to break your old records of population and military . . best part is . . making a fully active 
 city is never more fun.
  
  I will not recommend this game to all gamers . . . only the ones with taste for addiction
  
 
  -----------
  SDI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Zeus is another city-building game from Impressions games, and in the entire city-building genre 
 from what I've seen, its definitely one of the biggest leaps forward the genre has ever taken.
 
  
  Zeus is set in Ancient Greece and focuses on Greek myths. The game is split into several campaigns 
 that each takes place during a certain myth. For example, in one, your building a city for Hercules, 
 while in another, your the founder of Thebes and must endure all of its troubles. The city-building 
 itself is very similar to Impressions previous games, Caesar 3 and Pharaoh. But Zeus makes many 
 improvements to this already very effective formula.
  
  The primary additions is a revamped system regarding the gods. When your building your city, the 
 greek gods will occasionally come down to visit you, and plead for you to build a temple to them. 
 So if you do build a temple to them, then you will get many benefits. This system is much more 
 robust and appreciable than the previous game's god systems for one other reason however:
  
  Unlike the previous games, you need not keep track of the Greek gods happiness! Their attitude 
 towards you is preset in every campaign, and cannot be changed. Those gods may even eventually 
 attack your city, and cause some serious damage. But an epic clash can occur if you have a friendly 
 god in your city! Of course, whether or not this helps will heavily depend upon who's the unfriendly 
 god, and who's on your side... You'll also have to worry about monsters however, which you'll have 
 to summon heroes to fight. Heroes do require quite a bit of effort to summon however.
  
  But this is really the only real change Zeus makes to the formula. So why is Zeus so much better 
 than Caesar 3 or Pharaoh? Simply put- its more focused than those games were. You get to focus 
 on one city much more often in Zeus, as the game almost never moves you from city to city, forcing 
 you to start from scratch. The only times this occurs are when you go to build a colony, but that's 
 generally only on mission long, and then back to your starting city. This allows you to keep playing 
 with the city you'll come to adore. The actual art of maintaining your city is also more streamlined 
 and simpler in Zeus, making the game that much more enjoyable as you can simply watch your city 
 thrive quite easily. Even the game's lousy combat is handled- for there is a button that allows 
 the game to handle these fights for you. The only gripe against that however, is the fact that 
 it doesn't always work- so you'll sometimes have to control your armies anyway. But this is a minor 
 issue, since the combat is poor, but at least its quick most of the time.
  
  Graphically, Zeus has some rather simple 2D graphics, but they still catch the Greek times effectively 
 enough. The character sprites are simplistic, with the exception of heroes and gods which look 
 fantastic. The animation of the game's sprites is excellent all around. Sound wise, the game has 
 some great voice acting, along with music that fits the theme just fine.
  
  In the end, Zeus simply stremlines the whole experience, and this happens to be just what the series 
 needed. As a result, Zeus is one of the best city-builders out there, and you'd be doing yourself 
 a disservice not to experience it.
  
  Pros: Stremlined city-building makes for easier to build cities. Great new system dealing with 
 the gods. Campaigns don't throw you around nearly as much as the previous city-builders (Caesar 
 and Pharaoh) did, allowing for more attatchment to your city, and less repetitivness.
  
  Cons: Combat auto feature isn't 100% reliable with its positioning of your troops.
  
  Recommendable 
 for: Anyone who is into city-builders. And even some who aren't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_fan42
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Zeus Master of Olympus is a great city building game that is good for beginners and experts alike. 
 You can do lots of different things in this game throughout its many different styles of games. 
 You can do open sandbox, which basically lets you build to your heart's content, then there is 
 open military where you try to have the best military, and open economy which again you must have 
 a thriving economy. There is also a story mode which has a bunch of quests you must do that are 
 interwoven. There is lots to do in this game for instance your people make up the town and do jobs 
 according to what is needed. If you have lots of places looking for workers than build more houses, 
 but build too many and you will have high unemployment, which cause unrest. The best part of this 
 game is it has tons of familiar hereos like Hercules, Jason, Achilles. Also has lots of monsters 
 like the Hydra, Cerberus, Medusa. Also it has tons of gods to build temples to and when you attract 
 them to your city they all have a unique way to help your city thrive. All in all great game with 
 lots to offer, definetly a buried treasure in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invadernick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  i got this game when i was 10 and enjoyed it alot and i'm still enjoying it. it's really great 
 as you can adjust the difficulty and a thriving city can be real eye candy the gameplay is simple 
 just clicking would do but planning ahead is a must since you need space for fountains and gardens. 
 The only bad parts would be how the game can really be annoying when the temples and hero hall 
 qualifications can take really long and you really got to see through the project in case something 
 goes wrong like resources not being delivered to the scene an stuff like that. the other bad thing 
 is the fighting scenes with the monsters i thought it would be really good but it totally sucked. 
 the music is good too it fits the theme well. overall you will feel a sense of satisfaction when 
 you build a thriving city with no problems at all and after you conquered all the lands it can 
 get boring but just start a new game and try new things this really is a great game i had it for 
 5 years and still enjoying it!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memberino
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game pales in comparison to Pharaoh and ROTMK in my opinion.
  The main problem was the adventure idea. With the other games, the player progressed through history 
 but in Zeus, you played different adventures that were not linked to each other at all. You also 
 got all the city improvements (of which there were few) far too early. Part of the fun is progressing 
 through all the missions and gaining new access to technologies as time advanced. This aspect was 
 absent in Zeus. You finished an adventure with all city improvements and then began the next with 
 hardly any! Pointless!
  
  The historical scope was also poor and the world map that was supposedly of the pan-hellenic world 
 but only showed Greece and Turkey. Didn't Alexander the Great conquer as far as India!?
  
  There were a few improvements over Pharaoh such as the ability to conquer cities but the idea of 
 colonies was sadly under-developed.
  
  Overall, this game may provide a few hours entertainment as once you've finished the first few 
 hours, you'll realise that you have experienced all the game has to offer. Back to ROTMK then. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahaug
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  This is a highly addicting game. I first played this at my friends house and and went out and bought 
 the game. I like it because you can play it over and over again it is like a snowflake, no two 
 cities are identical. The only drawback for me is that your army is limited to a set number of 
 troops. This game is a must for anyone that is a fan of the city builders. Another good quality 
 of the game is the ease in which you can learn. Once you have a couple of games under your belt 
 you can refine your style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santa155
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  It's the type of game, that a lot of people want, but can't be bothered to look for. I've been 
 playing this game since it came out, and I'm still not bored of it.
  For a game, that came out quite a bit later that I would have expected, is still a shining star 
 today.
  There are so many different types of ways to build a city, build your industry, economy, etc.
 
  What bugs me sometimes though, is that you have to go out of your way, to order (for instance: 
 Sculptures, to get a hero to come to your city) Which costs a fortune.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarky3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Zeus is a real under-looked classic. The gameplay is your standard city building premise - you 
 take on the role of a governor in ancient Greece, and you must lead your city from a few rickety 
 shacks to the pride of the Aegean. You do this by building a strong economy, keeping your citizens 
 happy, founding colonies and conquering enemy cities, and maintaining favor with/protecting yourself 
 from the gods. The game is divided up into a number of different adventures, each focusing on a 
 different city, with significant events from history and Greek mythology forming the backdrop for 
 the narrative. Each adventure is further divided into several scenarios, and to advance you have 
 to meet each scenario's requirements... for example, get a certain amount of people living in your 
 city, worship a certain god, convince a hero to come to your city and slay an attacking monster, 
 etc. 
  
  Zeus succeeds for a number of reasons. For one thing, the control and game mechanics are just perfect... 
 after the Caesar and Pharoah games, Sierra had really honed their craft, and this game ended up 
 a perfect balance of both detail and control. The storylines are also great, with each adventure 
 being individually satisfying. The best part of the game, however, is that it is just plain fun 
 and addicting. Every year or two since I first played it, I've had a hankering to go back and play 
 it again. My only complaint, is that the game isn't too challenging. Even on the highest difficulty 
 level I manage to cruise through the game with ease. It just shows how fun the game is, though, 
 that I still manage to enjoy it so much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to be said about strategy games, on one hand they can keep you engrossed for hours 
 but then on the other hand they may get boring quite soon. Thankfully Masters of Olympus (or Zeus 
 as I will call it for the sake of this review) by Impression Games falls into the earlier category 
 and with a bit of hard work and perhaps a little luck along the way, you will soon find yourself 
 stood along side the big guy himself upon Mt. Olympus.
  
  You begin your adventure by taking your small fledgling city and being tasked to turn it into the 
 greatest city of Greece. Along the way you will encounter gods, heroes, mythological beasts and 
 maybe even a neighbouring city that plans on invading you. Masters of Olympus is a city management 
 game and it puts you right in the hot seat. Never will there be a time when your sat around twiddling 
 your thumbs, as every aspect of the city is managed by you, food, hygiene, safety, unrest, maintenance, 
 resources and more, you will be kept very busy.
  
  There are a variety of different game modes for you to choose from including a series of campaigns 
 which vary in size from between five and eight missions. Each campaign has a mythological feel 
 to it, as you might expect, and from the very first mission you really do feel like youre managing 
 a city in ancient Greece. As well as the campaigns theres also a few sand box modes to play through 
 when you feel like some open ended fun, they can also be used to test strategies and also do some 
 practice should it be required.
  
  Resources are very important in Zeus and come in a large variety of shapes and sizes. Firstly you 
 have you industry resources, such as grapes and olives, which can be turned into wine and olive 
 oil respectively. Then youll have your food, which has a lot of varieties too. Fishing Wharfs 
 are one food option you might want to invest in, as they send boats out onto the open waters to 
 track down any fish that may be lurking near by. Should your fledgling city begin to grow you may 
 decide its time to offer your people a new type of food, perhaps dairy, which can be acquired 
 by building a lot of carding sheds and goats. There are plenty more food options to choose from 
 as well, including wheat and sea urchins. 
  
  All resources are just as important as each other and a lot of them have more than one use, meaning 
 its a fine line between providing for your citizens and watching them all leave due to the lack 
 of one resource youve forgot to build. Should you not have the means to acquire some resources, 
 perhaps theres no water nearby so you cant fish. There is always the option to trade. By building 
 trading posts you will be able to buy and sell resources to the other cities that are friendly 
 towards you. Over time as you grow more cities will lean towards you and as a result more trading 
 posts become available. Should you wish to buy and sell resources its easily done by clicking 
 on the trading post and detailing how much of the resource you desire. Then a travelling merchant 
 will pass through gathering any resources youre selling and dropping off any youre buying.
  
  The resource system is a little complicated at first, if for no other reason other than the 
 fact there are so many resources to choose from. But as you play the game you soon get used to 
 what gets turned into what and then it all becomes a lot easier to manage. 
  
  Sanctuaries are your way of making friends with the gods and by building a sanctuary to your chosen 
 god youll then be graced by that god from time to time. Which can come in handy during those attacks 
 by those multi headed Hydra. If having a god walking your streets wasnt enough youll be pleased 
 to hear that in exchange for the odd prayer, they also grant you little rewards. These rewards 
 differ from god to god, but can range from anything from sacred olive trees of Athena, which produce 
 extra olives for you. If olives really arent your thing, then perhaps the power of Ares can tempt 
 you, who, should he answer your prayers will accompany you on your next military invasion on a 
 distant ally. Quite a large number of gods are there to choose from including the more well known, 
 such as Zeus and Hades.
  
  From time to time youll find yourself on the wrong end of an attack by a mythological beast such 
 as the Hydra or Minard, and what way to defeat such a creature? In the way only the ancient Greeks 
 know, by calling a hero. Similar to the way you can build sanctuaries for gods, a heros hall works 
 the same way but on a slightly smaller scale. Upon building your heros hall you will be given 
 a series of requirements and once filled your chosen hero will grace your city and protect it from 
 harm. Requirements differ from hero to hero but they run along the lines of having enough of a 
 certain resource in stock, and having a high enough culture or appeal near the vicinity of the 
 hall. Heroes come in all shapes and sizes but youll have no trouble recognising them, especially 
 the likes of Jason, Odysseus and Hercules.
  
  There is a small military side of the game and while you can build defensive structures such as 
 walls and towers, as well as train armies (which happens automatically via building a palace) , 
 its nothing major and will not distract you to much from the city management side of things. Thats 
 not to say you wont need any military options, because odds are you will. From time to time a 
 neighbouring city might decide its had enough of you and has chosen to invade. If being invaded 
 by another city wasnt enough, sometimes you may find yourself on the wrong end of a god attack. 
 From time to time a god who doesnt like you very much will appear and cause havoc in your city. 
 
  
  In the event of a god attack the only thing that can save you is another god, which if youve been 
 building your sanctuaries shouldnt be a problem. The option is also there for you to invade and 
 conquer should you wish and while you dont actually see the battle taking place you do watch your 
 army leave and return from combat, which adds a nice touch. The military system isnt as deep as 
 some might like but thats not really the main aim for the game and I think the developers chose 
 the right option by giving the military side of things as small a part as they did.
  
  Just like the ancient Greeks, theres one thing your people will crave, culture, which can be acquired 
 in many ways. Areas with a lot of theatres, gymnasiums, drama schools and podiums will be high 
 in culture, and its this culture that becomes very important as your city grows. Culture is needed 
 by your houses in order for them to expand even further, thus allowing more people to live in your 
 city without the need for taking up precious building space with more houses. Culture will also 
 be needed to build the upper class style of houses, which can not even be built and the appeal 
 of the neighbourhood is to the wealthier citizens likening.
  
  Decorating your city will also become an important task and there are plenty of options for you 
 to take. Parks, flower gardens, hedge mazes, gazebos and fish ponds are all at your disposal, not 
 to mention the traditional Greek columns. By decorating your city you raise its appeal which in 
 turn will make more people move in, and keep the already settled residents happier at their new 
 surroundings.
  
  The sound is well rounded on all levels and offers a lot in terms of musical tracks and sound affects. 
 The musical tracks fit the game perfectly and there are a number of tracks to listen to while youre 
 playing. The sound affects are the best aspect of audio within the game, and despite having all 
 the usual such as sheeps baaing and the sound of clank, clank near construction sites; the best 
 sound affects come from your residents. Upon clicking on residents youll be given a short piece 
 of audio of them, in which they can describe your city, themselves and pretty much anything else. 
 There are quite a lot of them on offer and there are also large selections of them that are quite 
 humorous, which adds a nice touch to the game.
  
  Graphics are smooth and make the game very easy to sit and play for hours on end. Theres a lot 
 of colour in your city which adds a great affect as it really makes it come alive, it also stops 
 you staring at the same boring block of houses all the time. Every unit and building has well made 
 graphics behind it, especially the buildings which look very impressive. I cant find a fault with 
 the graphics and despite the game being around now for a year or two they can in my eyes still 
 cut it with todays games of the same genre.
  
  Impression Games really have made a solid game in Masters of Olympus  Zeus and you may well find 
 yourself suffering from lack of sleep as the desire to succeed takes over you. The game is addictive, 
 fun and offers something for everyone. My only major gripe is that there is no multiplayer option 
 available, something which would have been nice. There are plenty of missions available to you 
 in the six campaigns, all of which are available from the start, but a nice addition would have 
 been a selection of single missions to partake on when youve completed the campaigns. The replay 
 value is ok and you will find yourself playing on one of the three sandbox levels for a while. 
 By the time youve finished all six campaigns youll be quite the master at the game and sandbox, 
 despite the fun side of it wont keep you entertained for that great a time. The game has weaknesses 
 but its strengths far outweigh these, I do recommend this game if youre into the city management 
 genre and even if youre not, it will be worth picking up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Willhelm
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first city building games i every bought (after pharaoh) and i really liked 
 it. although there are no ground breaking graphics or flashy effects it's very good at doing what 
 it is meant to let you do, build a city, army and temples to greek gods. Im not sure about its 
 historical accuracy and some of the sidequests are a bit iffy but its all there. I played this 
 game for about 2 years on and off and still play it today. Although i payed full price for it when 
 it was released it is now a bargain at around 5-10 (and is probably about $10) . I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes city builders, history or anyone looking for a solid PC game that 
 doesnt need a fancy graphics card and doesnt take up all your harddrive space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  It is better than caesar three and pharaoh and cleopatra . When I say better i mean that it is 
 better in the graphics area . I think that caesar three was the best . As i can remember , it did 
 not have as an option a tab where you could choose your most appropriate level of difficulty , 
 so I tried for weeks to pass a mission . As a plus , Zeus and poseidon have a really interesting 
 and challenging tutorial ( you can learn everything from it) . 
  For example I learned how to use the road blocks , I do not know if they worked the same in pharaoh 
 and cleopatra ( I can not remember if Caesar 3 had them ) . 
  As a minus - Zeus and Poseidon - are not as difficult , but it takes you a while to get over an 
 episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Another city-building strategy title from Sierra based on Greek Mythology that's worth its weight 
 in gold. Zeus offers hours and hours of entertainment. As you begin the game you are Democrates, 
 a future legendary god-like city builder, but you need to start somewhere. As in all city builders 
 you need to manage your population, income, food supply, sanitation, industry, and militia, stay 
 friendly with neighboring cities or battle them and be sure you are strong enough to do so, and 
 of course, appease and please the Gods. Disaster can strike your city very quickly in the form 
 of bad crops, bad trade choices or worse the wrath of an angry God. Start out small and level up 
 to new cities and advancements in technology. Devote your cities worship to one God in particular 
 with large temples and multiple sanctuaries but remember to pay homage to the others with at least 
 a small statue each. If you think your city looks gaudy with too many statues and plazas, it's 
 not, build more. Keep trade routes open with worthy cities and be sure to educate and entertain 
 your people. 
  
  Zeus is a slightly more appealing city builder than others as Greek Mythology is better known and 
 familiar. Overall this only comes in second to Age of Mythology in my view for best City-building 
 strategy game. Clearly it's an excellent title. 
  
  Gameplay  10 (Typical God's eye view) 
  Graphics  9 (Very well done) 
  Sound  9 (Excellent 
 bustling city sound effects once you get going) 
  Playability  10 (There are no limits on play at all) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Welcome to the world of another city building game. Zeus was made shortly after Pharaoh, 
 and is identical in gameplay.. almost. Zeus, as the name implies, takes place in Ancient Greece, 
 as opposed to Rome or Egypt with the earlier games in the series. As always, your goal is to create 
 your mighty empire and have your city prospor. I had to rate this game slightly higher then Pharaoh, 
 for reasons ill get into shortly.
  
  Gameplay: As i said, the gameplay ia almost identical to Pharaoh. You are given a large plot of 
 land in the middle of Ancient Greece, and it is your job to build up a large city and control your 
 empire. You can complete the games missions, or play a "sandbox" game ( I. E. Just build up your 
 city with no fuss ) . As for the differances, they are few, yet fun. In Pharaoh, if there were no 
 areas of housing close to a workplace, it wont get the labor it needs to run. ( I. E. If you build 
 a fishing wharf, and have no homes close enough nearby, the wharf will run poorly, if at all ) . 
 In Zeus, that problem has been eliminated, the populous will walk however far they need to, to 
 find a job, and they dont complain a bout it. The other major differance is the Olympian Games. 
 In Pharaoh, we had entertainers, such as jugglers, musicians and dancers, but in Zeus, there are 
 wrestlers, actors, etc. The good thing about this is, every year or so, all of the actors and wrestlers 
 etc, in your city, leave, and head off to the games to compete. If they win, your city gaines prestiege. 
 The only bad point is that with so many people leaving your city, and then returning later, it 
 can cause a large unemployment/not enough workplace problem, but that is one of the things we must 
 deal with as a Caesar. One last good thing added, is that the Greek gods can walk thru your city 
 as 100 foot tall etherial giants, and help you out if you build temples in there name, which is 
 kinda coo.
  
  Story: Again, there isnt much story aside from the face that you must build up your mighty kingdom 
 from an empty field.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are fairly good for this game. Everything looks very realistic 
 Greek-wise. The details that were put into the buildings are very good, more so then what was done 
 for Pharaoh at some points.. As for the sounds, I would say that i had to prefer Pharaoh's music 
 and sounds, but Zeus didnt do a bad job on them for itself..
  
  Replayability: This game has definate replayability. You need to play this game over to perfect 
 that great empire.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i give Zeus: Master of Olympus, an 8.3 out of 10. This is defnately 
 a great addition to the city building series, especially with its addon expansion pack "Poseidon" 
 ( Note: Base game rated.) I urge everyone who loves this types of Simulation games to try this 
 one at least once. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
