-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zoo Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/zootycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.0, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,222 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Blue Fang Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 17, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zoo Tycoon is a mostly enjoyable strategy game that's suitable for all ages, and it's a game that 
 parents can play with their children. 

 If you've been to a computer game store recently, you may have noticed a trend: There are a surprising 
 number of new PC games with the word "tycoon" in their titles. Then again, one of the most consistently 
 successful PC games in the last two years has been the strategy management game RollerCoaster Tycoon -- which 
 might explain all the other "tycoon" games. The latest of these is Microsoft's Zoo Tycoon, which 
 lets you build a zoo full of animal exhibits, then invite lots of paying guests who'll visit, buy 
 snacks and drinks, and generally support the zoo as a business. And while it may not be the next 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon, Zoo Tycoon is a mostly enjoyable strategy game that's suitable for all ages, 
 and it's a game that parents can play with their children.           Use the right terrain to make 
 your animals happy.    

  Zoo Tycoon's basic premise is simple: You start with what's more or less an empty lot, then build 
 several exhibits to house animals. The game features about 40 different animals out of the box, 
 and Microsoft will make more available for download on its Web site in the future. The best way 
 to make these exhibits is to customize them around the preferences of each animal, so that each 
 will be as happy as possible. For instance, lions prefer savanna terrain, so your best bet for 
 a lion exhibit is a savanna prairie filled with high grass.   

  The game features handy hints and status menus that let you determine exactly what will make your 
 animals happy. When you've built your exhibits, you can start bringing in guests who pay admission 
 fees and generally prefer watching happy, healthy, well-fed animals. You also build snack and drink 
 stands for your guests and hire staff members who tend to the animals, act as tour guides, or maintain 
 the grounds. And you can spend extra cash on research, which will eventually let you purchase new 
 items for your exhibits, improve your staff's abilities, make new animals available for adoption, 
 and buy more advanced buildings and structures, such as the reptile house or petting zoo.      
      Sometimes you can't see the moose for the trees.    

  Accomplishing these goals in Zoo Tycoon is relatively easy to do overall, despite the game's few 
 but sometimes irritating visual flaws. The game lets you build a small or large exhibit with different 
 terrain types and fence it in quickly and easily. Unfortunately, you can sometimes make small mistakes, 
 since the game doesn't let you get a very close look at your zoo -- Zoo Tycoon only features two 
 "zoom" perspectives, a far-out view and a really far-out view. You might have similar problems 
 when you're building an exhibit for an animal that likes lots of foliage, since large trees can 
 obscure your view of the exhibit, despite the fact that the game also lets you rotate your view. 
 You'll want to place heavy foliage along the edges of your exhibit rather than right in the middle, 
 so that both you and your zoo's guests can see clearly into your exhibit, but unfortunately, doing 
 this for animals that can climb (like chimpanzees and apes) may let them escape. What's more, your 
 animals will eventually trample the terrain in their exhibits, which decreases their overall happiness. 
 You can fix this by replacing the terrain, but actually finding it in the game's far-out view, 
 especially through trees, can sometimes be more difficult than it should be.    

 These visual flaws aside, Zoo Tycoon doesn't look or sound especially impressive overall, though 
 both its graphics and sound are consistent and effective. Zoo Tycoon doesn't look like a high-tech 
 graphical marvel, but it's not supposed to, especially considering its low system requirements. 
 The game's zoomed-out perspectives don't let you take a close look at your guests, your animals, 
 or your structures, so your zoo's guests are usually pretty tiny, and your animals won't be much 
 larger. Though the game also lets you purchase some interesting advanced structures, like a tea 
 garden or a "wacky" animal playhouse, Zoo Tycoon's zoomed-out perspective won't let you get a good 
 look at what goes on in any of these structures, You'll still get a good idea of what each one 
 does, though, and you'll come to appreciate the difference that each one makes as you continue 
 to expand your zoo. The game features sparse sound effects, like animal noises and the sounds of 
 milling crowds, as well as very sparse music. None of the game's sound is particularly remarkable, 
 but all of it is certainly appropriate.           You don't need to manage every single guest. 
    

  Otherwise, Zoo Tycoon is a deliberately paced building and management simulator that's rather straightforward 
 and not terribly demanding, at least once you've got your zoo going. The game uses zoomed-out perspectives 
 and offers large open lots to develop because you're generally supposed to build large zoos, and 
 managing these zoos isn't difficult. Though it would've been better to have more hotkey shortcuts 
 in the game, you can use the game's point-and-click icon-based interface to monitor your zoo well 
 enough. In fact, you can check the status of every individual guest, employee, and animal in the 
 zoo, but you generally won't need to, as long as you provide enough concessions stands and restrooms 
 for your guests, enough maintenance workers to service your zoo, and enough active zookeepers for 
 your animals.   

  The game itself is extremely open-ended. For instance, Zoo Tycoon features a number of regular 
 scenarios of increasing difficulty. Playing through the easier levels unlocks more challenging 
 levels that put you on a tighter budget and a shorter schedule -- you might have less time or less 
 money to complete certain objectives. But the game also features a "freeform" building mode that 
 lets you choose from one of 28 empty lots and build the sort of zoo you want with as little or 
 as much starting money as you want. Unfortunately, if you're expecting a lot of activity -- or interactivity -- from 
 your zoo, you may be disappointed.           Freeform games let you start from scratch.    

  Once your exhibits are up and running, there's not much to do other than make sure your animals 
 remain healthy and well-fed and that their exhibits remain in good shape. But managing your zoo 
 with Zoo Tycoon's easy-to-use interface and keeping everyone happy -- your animals, your guests, 
 and all your employees -- can be satisfying, especially if you have a gigantic zoo with lots of exhibits 
 and huge crowds of visitors. And the game's freeform scenarios are perfect for parents and children 
 who want to spend a quiet afternoon together, building their own zoo from scratch, or even for 
 someone who's looking for something that's more slow-paced and leisurely than another frantic shooter 
 or real-time strategy game.   

  It's true that Zoo Tycoon doesn't offer the same kind of enjoyment that RollerCoaster Tycoon does -- rather 
 than building exciting and fantastic roller coasters to entertain your guests, you build relatively 
 static exhibits of animals that you must feed and maintain. However, caring for a zoo full of your 
 own miniature animals has its own charm, and despite its visual flaws and less-than-spectacular 
 sound, Zoo Tycoon conveys this charm well.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is a business-building game, focusing on building and maintaining a zoo. In the beginning, 
 you start with an empty lot and a certain amount of money, which you use to build your zoo. You 
 will have to build exhibits and place animals, and other buildings like parks, drink stands and 
 etc.
  
  It is noticeable, that your animals will be happy only when you place them into the right environment 
 to live in, for example you cannot place a polar bear in a savannah, or a lion along with penguins. 
 Of course you can place different animals in the same cage, but this will result to a good feast 
 for the lions or tigers.
  
  The game provides special menus and statistics which will help you understand what is missing from 
 your zoo, or what your animals would like. So, when your zoo is ready, guests will come to visit 
 it, paying not only entrance fee, but also spending their money to buy hot dogs, cool drinks or 
 souvenirs. To grow up your bussiness, you will have to hire staff who will work as visitors guides, 
 cleaners or scientist researching on the animals and their behaviour.
  
  Earning money will allow you to bring in more animals, better facilities and new things for the 
 visitors to do and see. There are certain zoos you play in, which play the role of scenarios, a 
 typical mode in tycoon games. These scenarios have a progressive difficulty, which is not visible 
 at all. To be honest, the fact that difficult scenarios won't give you much time or money is not 
 enough to make a scenario tough, at least for the keen players. Success in these scenarios is not 
 something that will take time, as they are quite easy to accomplish. But sometimes some things 
 are really simple to achieve, making some of the scenarios too easy and boring. But apart from 
 the scenarios, you can play in a free mode, which is the real fun of the game.
  
  Of course, sometime in the game, some animals may escape their exhibits, by climbing trees and 
 jumping out, or by breaking the fences which hold them. In that case, you are able to call an emergency 
 in the zoo and bring in specialists to get them back. Though it is not necessary by the time the 
 escaping animal cannot harm your guests.
  
  The game is detailed enough so you can check out the status not only of your animals, but also 
 the status of your hired staff and of the visitors. Nevertheless, it is not necessary, except from 
 the happiness of the staff and most important, the animals.
  
  The visuals of the game are both responding and effective, but otherwise they have not something 
 amazing to show. And the sound is also good, taking into consideration that your animals and visitors 
 wil respond you if you are about to check their status. On the one hand, the game is not visually 
 good, but on the other hand, there is no such necessity. It is still great fun. But it is a real 
 pity that the camera can't zoom close enough to see the environment from a first-person view, or 
 at least from a close-up. And the sound may be not stunning, still it is exactly what the game 
 needs.
  
  Zoo Tycoon is a game which you will enjoy very much, on condition that you have a bussiness mind. 
 But even if you haven't, Zoo Tycoon is a perfect game for little children, or for those who feel 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesy_potatoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  zoo tycoon is a Superb family fun game. The zoo is a real fun place to be and making your own is 
 even better. there a wide variety of different animals making your zoo limits as far as you can 
 imagine. all the terrains built in terrains are great and have a lot of space. there are many ways 
 to design your zoo with different kinds of paths benches lights tables and scenery making your 
 zoo more personal than you can think of. the graphics are simple pixie sprites but have amazing 
 animations. the bigger your zoo get it may get a little slow but it is amazing it only slows down 
 1 or 2 frames. the AI can really get annoying like when guest are really hungry and they cant find 
 a food stand that is only steps away. the animals are easy to take care of but the money conflict 
 can really get in the way of making your zoo the only way you can enjoy this game is if you use 
 cheats. the only difficulties matter in the starting money which is a little helpful but in a time 
 the money conflict will come your way because of the lacking AI
  it dose have some ups and downs but despite the downs the limits to making your personal zoo are 
 as far as you think about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 8/10
  
  This game does have amazing graphics altough it could have been a bit better but it still is great 
 for a tycoon game. Detailing is near perfect.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  A good gameplay and alot of lil things to add to the animals cages as well. Fun with alot of facts 
 to see and to learn your mistakes from actually a solid gameplay.
  
  Sounds/music 7.5/10
  
  The animal sounds are routined but still is pretty cool altough all of the animals make some 
 noice at some point of the time. No music.
  
  Animals 8/10
  
  Well there are alot of different animals and alot of variety of old age animals as well which gets 
 never boring because you can never fit all of the animals into one zoo.
  The way the animals move and look is good with some detailing but not alot. Still looks good.
 
  
  OVERALL 8/10
  
  This is a great game for any Tycoon gamer because there is alot to do and the game has good game 
 as far as Tycoon games go. Its worth the play and it grows on you after a while, Try it out you will 
 be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  In our lifes we alway want to have a roller coaster park, or a zoo, well atari makes it thruth. 
 This game is for me too much because its my first ga of i play rpg, and i really have a fun time 
 with this... In another point, when we have the first impression of the game, we say: "oh yeah 
 that's gonna to be good" but then we can do 20 more things you can also change the ambien of the 
 cells ofd the animals for them are happy, and that it's a bad point of the game, for the happy 
 and sadness of the animals like the another predessesors, but another, its awesome...
  
  Gameplay: it's alway the same with this gamesyou haqve to control everything.. if you not, "say 
 hi to chaos" and another bad thing its the fact of the mouse, if you dobt care of him, it hides 
 behind a three!!.
  
  Graphics: then its another shame about it because it haves some bad graphics, not too bad, just 
 fair...
  
  Sound: its not the best part of the game, but it haves his own, and its really wack with the fx 
 and all that... ok.. Enjoy it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to find decent sims nowadays, so when I feel like having some actual fun with a simulator, 
 I turn to Zoo Tycoon. The graphics may not be the best and the sound effects aren't great, but 
 designing your zoo and taking care of your animals can be great fun.
  
  This is a game for all ages. For a time we even had our dad obsessed with it, and he made an awesome 
 zoo. Unlike the Sims, this game gives you great customization options. For animals, you've got 
 everything from monkeys to white tigers! For fences, you've got everything from iron to wood, and 
 you've also got ton's of restaurants and rides.
  
  Something that adds a lot of fun to the game is that you don't just take care of the animals, but 
 the guests too. If guests are unhappy with the zoo, then they'll leave. You've gotta keep them 
 happy by buying restaurants and rides. Another cool thing is that you can name your animals, guests 
 and zoo keepers.
  
  It's not a game without it's flaws however. The sound effects can be pretty lame, and the graphics 
 aren't the best that I've seen. Sometimes keeping your zoo going can be frusturating, and tutorials 
 aren't very fun. 
  
  Pros: Lot's of animals, restaurants etc. It can keep you entertained for a while. You can name 
 guests, animals, zoo keepers and even your zoo. Great music. Easy to learn.
  
  Cons: It can be frusturating to keep your zoo going. Sound effects and graphics aren't the best.
 
  
  Above all, the style is pretty cool and there are some cool features. Zoo Tycoon is a fun game, 
 and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  When RollerCoaster Tycoon was released, no one thought a little game made almost entirely by a 
 solitary Scotsman would go on to be one of the best-selling PC games for the next two years. Never 
 one to miss an opportunity to make money, Microsoft went looking for its own tycoon game, and found 
 one from developer Blue Fang.
  
  Unfortunately, theres a lot more to creating a compelling management sim than taking a family 
 experience and slapping the word Tycoon on it. Nothing proves this point more than Zoo Tycoon, 
 a flat and predictable game thats never more than slightly amusing.
  
  Its RollerCoaster influences are never far from the screen thanks to the familiar interface, little 
 giggling visitors, and pastel color palette. The central problem with Zoo Tycoon, though, is its 
 real dearth of creativity: you cant display much ingenuity as a player, and the developers have 
 shown little themselves. The main task in the game is keeping your animals happy by following the 
 instructions of the zookeepers right down to the literal ground. The zookeeper will tell you if 
 the cheetah, for example, needs a little more dirt, a little more water, and a little less grass. 
 As a player, thats exactly what you do: simply follow instructions.
  
  Beyond the individual animal exhibits, the rest of the park is completely pre-fab. From the tiny 
 ice-cream stands to the enormous petting zoos, these buildings are already constructed, needing 
 only to be clicked on and placed. You can set the general size of the pens and the layout of the 
 walkways, and tweak the landscape a bit, but for the most part, the game has a cookie-cutter feel. 
 The result of all the pre-fabrication is that almost all your parks look the same, with little 
 opportunity to add any personal touch.
  
  Zoo Tycoon has only 13 scenarios to complement the standard free-build mode. The tutorials and 
 the beginning challenges gently ease you into the game, but once you reach the intermediate and 
 advanced scenarios, some frustrations appear. For one, the game strangely allows you to construct 
 your zoo in pause mode. This means that time-sensitive challenges are robbed of their urgency because 
 you can build your zoo exactly the way you want it (cash permitting) , and then turn on the clock. 
 Even worse, you have no way to speed up time, so if you accomplish a scenarios goals before the 
 proscribed time limit, youll have to spend the remaining time just performing occasional upkeep, 
 waiting for the clock to run out.
  
  Graphically, Zoo Tycoon is not without its charms. Seeing those cute little people overpay for 
 their salty snacks while gazing at the lions is sorta fun. Everything is quite small, however, 
 so picking up some of the cutesy creatures to examine them is an exercise in pixel hunting. Fortunately, 
 you can turn off the foliage so you can see your park a little more clearly, but on the flip side, 
 the game seriously chugs when you have a lot of little people onscreen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoho402
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly for all ages. On certain web-sights you can create zoo tycoon items. If 
 you have the expansion packs it is even more fun since you would get even more items. The sound 
 is great but the music is ok. The animal sounds are very good. I don't think the graphics are that 
 good. The thing I don't like is that you can't close your zoo but you can in zoo tycoon 2.
  I think the game is very easy and It will grow on you. The limited money you have is the problem. 
 In zoo tycoon 2 you have unlimited money. You should try this game before zoo tycoon 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Even though i've played ZT2.... ZT still has the biggest place in my heart..... joke hehe but its 
 a classic game which will not be overtaken easily. Microsoft's first approach towards a zoo simulation 
 game was a major sucess and no surprises why. ZT is a spectacualr mix of many differnt animals, 
 from sea creatures to dinosaurs. Feed, clean and watch your animals reproduce in a realistic fashion.
 
  
  The scenarios are very challenging and keep one occupied. Even I havn't managed to complete all 
 of them as its hard to keep your stuipid guest happy!!!
  
  Music= good...
  Graphics= great...
  Animal selection= good...
  
  You can also murder your guests :)
  And 
 other animals...
  
  The only things that i found annoying were:
  The guests.... never 100% happy
  The animals don't really interact that much...
  
  On the 
 whole though, this game is a ... yep, a classic... and I play it alot still ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon... Ah! the game where u spend hours in front of ur PC attending to the whimper of every 
 animal and guest in ur zoo.
  
  GRAPHIC:
  
  Don't expect anything big here. It's just acceptable. There is this slight 3D touch to it, especially 
 comparing it with RCT, but not very convincing. Nevertheless, you won't be bugged by it.
  
  SOUND:
  
  There's nothing notable that I would call a background music, but the in-game sounds 
 like the rumble of the crowd, the flushing of the toilets, the cry of the animals and so on are 
 okay.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The basic gameplay is very simple. All you have to do is build and manage a zoo on the plot of 
 land given to you and at the same time complete the given objectives too. The concepts are plain 
 simple and logical, but it is the planning where you have to pay much heed. You'll always find 
 that money is a constrain. You must spend it wisely or you'll find your zoo out of money and then 
 that's the end of that scenario (Well, not exactly, but quite. You'll find out for yourself when 
 u play it.) And you must also be careful to monitor both your animals and the guests from time 
 to time. If you are not careful enough you'll find yourself in trouble at end and you will be unable 
 to complete your objectives within the stipulated time.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  It's a good game and will be on the want list of most fans of this genre. But for the others, I 
 wonder if they will like it. Most probably not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iheartwillow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun! There is so much to do, how can you get bored?!
  
  You have a chance to include the animals you want and design it how you see fit. There are many 
 scenarios to choose from, from a simple garden to the arctic and volcanoes.
  
  A lot of the animals reproduce very rapidly. Like the chimps and lions, for example. So it gets 
 annoying when a message keeps popping up saying that the animals are unhappy. Also, when there 
 are a lot of animals like that, there is a lot of trampled terrain, which makes the animals unhappy 
 as well. Sometimes it's very hard to find the trampled terrain, which can be a little annoying.
 
  
  Overall, this game is fun for the whole family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imaxination80
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is the umpteenth tycoon game made. This time, you run a zoo, but with the two expansion 
 packs, Marine Mania and Dinosaur Digs , you run your own park, because you can add stuff like swimming 
 lakes, scenery, and marine shows and other stuff. You start off with any any park or any amount 
 of cash, challenge yourself by bringing it to the lowest level, or have easy going fun with $500,000. 
 Zoo Tycoon offers several types of animals. But you need to keep them happy so they entertain the 
 often picky guests. You need to get a good fence for it so it can't escape, and you need to give 
 it the right terrain and foliage and shelters. You also need to hire zookeepers to feed them and 
 clean the waste in their exhibit. Sometimes an animal may mess up the fence, so hire a maintainance 
 worker to fix them, or pick up too much litter when you don't have enough trash cans. Hiring a 
 tour guide should entertain your guests. But if you feel that isn't enough, the two expansion packs 
 have double-offer. Marine Mania will turn your park into a Sea-World style park. You can adopt 
 several sea creatures. You must buy tank fencing, and once you make a perfect exhibit, it fills 
 with water, and you decide to either elevate it or lower it. To keep these animals happy, give 
 them sea foliage, hire Marine Specialists to feed them stuff like fish/krill and all that. Also 
 get a tank filter to clean it too.
  
  And Dinosuar Digs has a good offering too. Revive the beasts of the prehistoric ages. For these 
 bad boys, you need to use reinforced fences, some need electric fences. You have several dinosaurs 
 to choose from. They appears as eggs first, and you scientests to care for them, ever since you 
 first get them. Running the zoo is very fun, but can get overwhelming if several are not happy. 
 The guests are often very picky, more picky than the animals. I also noticed that some animals 
 remain angry, even when you fix their exhibits. When an animal escapes, it's funny and frustrating 
 at the same time. Watch your picky guests run as an animal run around the park, just don't let 
 the dinosaurs out, whatever you do. This may lower the reputation of your park.
  
  The gameplay is simulation of course, and the graphics are kind of good. The animals and foliage 
 look nice, and some details fly over the park, like a Microsoft plane, Santa and his reindeer, 
 and witches and other stuff. The game is overall fun for all ages, and I highly reccomend it. Zoo 
 Tycoon is a fun experience that lasts forever with all the possibilties that you are offered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  You get to build and manage your own zoo with up to 70 + animals. You also get to choose from all 
 sorts of buildings and adjusts the prices which is lots of fun. And its hard to get a great zoo 
 beacuse the fences get weak and the animals break out and you need the zoo keepers to put them 
 asleep. Another cool feature is that you get to name the guests and even name the animals and all 
 the stores.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Play station one graphics at the best. The animal animations are rough, but some of them are smooth 
 and well done. The buildings look OK along with the animals. The graphics for this game is nothing 
 new.
  
  SOUND:
  This is where it falls, very little sound, hearing nothing but animals which make nothing but the 
 same noise, the sound is very disappointing here.
  
  VALUE:
  Building the zoo of your dreams is loads of fun and sometimes hard, putting a Zebra with a Tiger 
 makes things fun but also makes the guests very angry with you. Some high value in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is your average Tycoon game.
  But it is really really fun!
  Managing your own zoo has never been this fun, and there are lots of other rip-offs (EXAMPLE-Zoo 
 Empire) , but don't fret, Zoo Tycoon (and its fellow expansions) is the REAL FUN thing.
  Another similar game to this Rollercoaster Tycoon 3, a highly reccomended game by me.
  By the 
 way, here is a VERY good cheat that makes the game even more fun, heres the money cheat. Hold down 
 Shift + 4 before you make ANY fences or exihbits and you'll make craploads of money!!! Yay!!! WARNING: 
 If you do use this when you have exhibits, it'll rust all fences and dirty the tanks up, just a 
 heads up for people who DON'T LISTEN!!! :)
  Don't say I didn't warn you!!!
  
  SUM IT UP SENTENCE: Zoo Tycoon is very fun, especially if you love Tycoon games, like me for example!
 
  
  Your serial reviewing friend,
  ~Ryan~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotire
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  I think this games is an amazing game. its something i play if i just want to relax you know. I 
 also want to note that the ideas used in this game are mind blasting. The gameplay on this game 
 is mostly simulation and thier is also a freeplay mode for people who dont want to be challenged 
 (guilty) . Another good detail is that thier are expansion packs for it. If your mind is crossed 
 between this and something else the first thing you wanna buy is this. Sounds could be a little 
 better but no biggy the gameplay will create a addiction vortex and suck you right in this is the 
 one to look for!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxter342
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I liked the difference in this tycoon that you can raise animals and breed them and stuff like 
 that. The first time I played this game I spent like 5 hours on it. This game is fun but you run 
 out of money too fast. Then you can't buy animals and everything starts dieing then you hasve to 
 start a new park all over. I think the graphics were pretty bad in the game they should have made 
 them a little better. I hope in the future Zoo tycoon that we can do more stuff and we will be 
 able to make money faster. One of the things that was suprising about the game was that there was 
 a big selection of animals there was even extinct creatures and miths like Big foot and a yetti. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is severely underated. This is one of the best and most addicitive PC games I 
 have ever played. 
  
  One of the best points about this game is that you actually build enclosures for your animals. 
 You have to customize their lock-ups and cages so that the animal is happy. If you don't, the animal 
 could be unhappy and get sick.
  
  There are so many animals in this game and they breed as quickly as bunnies too. Taking care of 
 them is pretty fun and this game will catch your full attention once your zoo is filled with different 
 species. Sometimes too many babies are born and you have too seel them or build new cages.
  
  The expansion packs bring more fun as they bring different species. Just like in roller coaster 
 tycoon, you can set up shows, food stands, etc...
  
  There are also many easter eggs and secrets that make the game that more fun.
  
  The Good: 
 Many animals, more with the expansion packs. you actually build the zoo unlike in Seaworld Tycoon
 
  
  The Bad: Gets repetitive
  
  The Ugly: Teh animals that are ugly lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is pretty enjoyable when you learn how to play it.
  Having your own zoo with magnificent creatures.
  I think it's a dream for many people to run 
 their own zoo and show off what creatures they have.
  
  It's a game where you have to use the brain and think before you create something new like: "How 
 much money do I have? Can I make that little park for people to eat and do their things in the 
 restrooms? or should I wait?"
  
  And have the ability to get animals from all over the globe is pretty fun to me: From Asia, Africa, 
 America, Europe, Australia, North and South Pole.
  
  Everything from a small anteater to the gigantic african elephant, or to more funkey animals like 
 the big cats; Leopard, Tiger, Panter, Lions and Cheetahs "sadly they don't have the cougar or the 
 Jaguar there"
  
  This is a game for thoes who loves to create stuff and for thoes who loves animals of all kinds 
 "ok I'm not much for bugs and spiders but I do love animals"
  
  I have yet to try out the other extentions to the game: Marine Mania and Dino Digi"
  
  Let 
 your imagination be your guide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a one of a kind and although others have come out with games close to this on they 
 just don't stand up with Zoo Tycoon. You get to build your zoo, pick and take care of your animals 
 and hire staff so you can run a zoo and try to get the best ratings. The graphics on this game 
 are pretty good and the sounds are good. I have spent hours on this game because the game play 
 is almost endless. If you try this game I am sure you will just love it! Fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is pretty enjoyable when you learn how to play it.
  I think it's a dream for many people to run their own zoo and show off what creatures they have.
 
  
  And have the ability to get animals from all over the globe is pretty fun to me: From Asia, Africa, 
 America, Europe, Australia, North and South Pole.
  
  Everything from a small anteater to the gigantic african elephant, or to more funkey animals like 
 the big cats; Leopard, Tiger, Panter, Lions and Cheetahs.
  
  This is a game for thoes who loves to create stuff and for thoes who loves animals of all kinds 
 "ok I'm not much for bugs and spiders but I do love animals"
  
  If you have the expansions (Marine Mania and Dinosaur Digs) the game be amazing! You can build 
 a tank for shows with orca's or dolphins, you can have some sharks in other tanks, you can have 
 a Tiranossaur, a Velociraptor... The dinossaurs birth of an egg and they have been very big!
  
  You can do everything you want, including get some cash in seconds, but just with cheats. But 
 with cheats the game loses interest and it mean to be a waste of time. So build your zoo and... Let 
 your imagination be your guide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farmerboy_NFAN
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I made a zoo but the animals keep begging for food and are blind. If you lay down food they still 
 say they are hungry. You can make shops like restaurants, ice-cream stands, gifts shops drink stands, 
 pony rides and even aminal theathers. You can do research for more animals and shops. Hire zookeepers 
 for your animals and guides for the visitors. There are lots of animals you can choose from like 
 elephants, all kind of wild cats like cheeta's, monkeys and giraffes. I use the money cheat for 
 more money. If I don't do that I run out of money. Sometimes I get a donation. good game for 5 
 bucks get it out of the budget container. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickster05
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  When first starting this glorious game one can realize the initial effort the developers put into 
 the game for novices. Tutorials bring the game within grasp, allowing one to fully utilize the 
 functions that make this game so exceptional and addictive. Designing and maintaining a zoo, in 
 this game, is challenging yet surprisingly rewarding. Upgrading and researching for new animal 
 environments keep the game exciting. This is a must for those interested in animals and those who 
 love the business side of maintaining and structuring a successful company. Ages across the board 
 will definitely enjoy the game. Simply put, it is a great game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Queen_Umeko
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is pretty enjoyable when you learn how to play it.
  Having your own zoo with magnificent creatures.
  I think it's a dream for many people to run 
 their own zoo and show off what creatures they have.
  
  It's a game where you have to use the brain and think before you create something new like: "How 
 much money do I have? Can I make that little park for people to eat and do their things in the 
 restrooms? or should I wait?" 
  
  And have the ability to get animals from all over the globe is pretty fun to me: From Asia, Africa, 
 America, Europe, Australia, North and South Pole.
  
  Everything from a small anteater to the gigantic african elephant, or to more funkey animals like 
 the big cats; Leopard, Tiger, Panter, Lions and Cheetahs "sadly they don't have the cougar or the 
 Jaguar there"
  
  This is a game for thoes who loves to create stuff and for thoes who loves animals of all kinds 
 "ok I'm not much for bugs and spiders but I do love animals"
  
  I have yet to try out the other extentions to the game: Marine Mania and Dino Digi"
  
  Let 
 your imagination be your guide
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  amm that game is nice.....
  but after a wile you gett board....
  because its always the same, like all the tycoon games
  you start and its looks cool and you have 
 lots of animals
  and you doing the cages and all... but after that the animals 
  all the time sad and you need to take care of them
  and then the costumers are sad and they are 
 levaing and you need to do more 
  food shop and toilets and then you ran out of place... or its to far and then no one going ther.
 
  and thats when it gett boring and you dont want to play this game anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outyonugget
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a unique one. I like this game because you control what happens in this game. 
 You can let your animals out of the cage to attack people, or charge them a lot to get in, or put 
 diffrent kinds of animals into cages to watch them fight. This game take a while to unlock all 
 the buildings and animals, you constantly have to keep satisfying guests and animals. Note ( If 
 your animals are unhappy you cannot place any more animals until their standards are met) . A cheat 
 that will help you in this game is ( HOLD CONTROL AND THEN PRESS AND HOLD 4 FOR MONEY) . Do this 
 at the start of your game so your exhibit fences won't rust. all and all this game is a great computer 
 game and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cItYoFtHeDaMnEd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is a good stategy. In the game you manage your own zoo, taking care of animals and their 
 enviroments, while keeping the paying costumers happy. Overall its a good game. I love the whole 
 tycoon series, so i took well to this game. It does get boring but its a fun game for a while. 
 The bad part is, in most parts, the animals are pissing all over themselves expecting to be happy, 
 sometimes i kill them off by putting a dinosar in the habitat to eat them while they r still laive 
 :) . Good game for little munchkins who like fuzzy bears and chickens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is a good and fun game but it is not the greatest. There is a lot of different views and reactions 
 to this game. This is what I think of the game. The game play is fun and interesting and very well 
 set up. It is cool because you can have special animals like the Yeti which is a cool addition 
 to the game. The graphics are pretty good but they could have been better. The sound is the lowest 
 point about this game. The sounds of the animals are not mastered well enough. But once again it 
 is not the worst sound a computer game has had. I like this game but before you buy it you should 
 play it first because you may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 13, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game I imagined it would be somewhat similar to rollercoaster tycoon with its 
 simplistic gameplay, but I soon found out that I had made a bad guess. The zoo making part is very 
 fun. When i say this I mean making the cages and paths are beautiful scenery for your guests to 
 walk through and admire. That's the fun part. The animals that you put in the cages are what make 
 this game very hard/frustrating. It is very difficult to make your animals happy. They always demand 
 a certain amount of sand/water/dirt/grass/savanah grass/salt water/trees/rocks/etc/etc. If you 
 understand what i mean this is very very very frustrating. You always have to build a rock, click 
 on the animal to see if you put enough rocks in the cage, then repeat until the animal is happy. 
 I found this very boring and I quickly quit playing the game. 
  I will admit that the graphics are sharp and the sounds are sharp also. You can also pick from 
 a wide variety of animals, but i ended up killing them all from being frustrated. You can set a 
 penguin in the lions den and the lions will kill it, its amusing for 3 minutes. I reccommend you 
 rent this baby before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwilleranfan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 10, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  I bought my copy of Zoo Tycoon in Holland (interesting story, but that is for another time) . It 
 ran, as it should, on the temporary laptop I was using at the time. It was quite amusing and immersive 
 for the fist 10 hours, and then became slightly repetitive. I not occasionally pick it up and play 
 it when i forget about the different aspects. It has lost it's value though.
  
  Maybe it never occured to me that Zoo Tycoon is more for kids. Maybe i wias young and naieve. Maybe 
 it was too well advertised, but who knows. I guess my review just keeps sliding downhill from here.
 
  
  Maybe someday the Tycoon's will come out with a killer game. I guess I'll just have to wait until 
 then *sigh, and Roller Coaster Tycoon looked promising*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually very fun. It explains to you how to play the game, so you aren't clueless 
 when you first play. There are many different animals you can put in your zoo including zebras, 
 giraffes, penguins, lions etc. You control exactly which animals to put in your zoo. You even make 
 their exhibits. You even decide which food stands to put in your zoo. This game will keep you entertained 
 for hours, and it will last a long time. But then when you are tired making your zoo, and you are 
 losing thousands of dollars, you can always block your entrance to the zoo, open up all your animals' 
 cages and let all hell brake loose. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
