-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zork Grand Inquisitor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/zorkgrandinquisitor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grand Inquisitor is the best graphical Zork yet, and one of the most consistently entertaining adventures 
 of the year. 

 In the first of many clever references to its predecessors in the Zork series, Grand Inquisitor 
 opens with a bald foppish dictator banning the use of magic throughout the Great Underground Empire. 
 For gamers who plodded through the rather tedious Return to Zork and oddly humorless Zork Nemesis, 
 the plot device is an obvious metaphor for what has happened to the longest-running series (20 
 years!) in computer gaming. Zork's signature wit and absurdity seemed to have been lost in the 
 jump from text to graphic adventuring. Well, the magic may be gone from the land, but it has not 
 vanished from the game. Grand Inquisitor is the best graphical Zork yet, and one of the most consistently 
 entertaining adventures of the year.  

 Of course, your job is to usurp the technocratic Grand Inquisitor and his repressive anti-magic 
 policies. After a brief visit to Port Foozle, you locate the GUE (Great Underground Empire) and 
 spend much of the game hunting down the three lost artifacts (the Coconut of Quendor, the Skull 
 of Yoruk, and the Cube of Foundation) that will restore magic to Zork. All that remains of last 
 year's Nemesis title is the basic gaming interface. Full motion video sequences punctuate your 
 movement among static, prettily drawn settings. The "Z-Vision" device is here again, letting you 
 spin 360 degrees in place at various locations for a more involving view of the terrain. Very handy 
 menus of usable objects and magic spells appear at the top of the screen, and a good inventory 
 screen lets you examine and combine the many found objects and learned spells along the way.   
 

 While the basic item-gathering and puzzle-solving of Grand Inquisitor is far from innovative, the 
 triumph of the game is its seamless, witty execution. Enemies of the Inquisitor are "totemized," 
 squished and consigned to spend eternity in steel reinforced hockey pucks. One such resistor, a 
 wiseass Dungeon Master, is sealed within a lantern and accompanies you through much of the journey. 
 He blurts asides to most of your unsuccessful actions: "Ooh! That's gotta hurt." And these snide 
 characterizations form the real charm of the game. A two-headed Cerebus blocks you at Hell's door, 
 mocking your standard attempts to get by. "Go ahead, dig into the old inventory. Something's gotta 
 work!" A pair of talking torches, one grumpy and the other neurotic, refuses to be picked up or 
 to work properly in certain situations. Thankfully, and unlike most "humorous" computer adventures, 
 the scripting is genuinely funny and well acted. The old television actors' homes got emptied out 
 for this one, but to very good effect. Dirk Benedict (A-Team, Battlestar Galactica) plays a TV 
 action hero whose brio gets him into scrapes with the Inquisitor, which we follow in cutscenes 
 throughout. Michael McKean of SNL, Spinal Tap, and Laverne and Shirley (Lenny) plays the DM with 
 just the right amount of irony. Squiggy (David Lander) does a short cameo as the voice of a torch 
 as well. Real old-timers like Marty Ingels and Rip Taylor take their comic turns as well in a nicely 
 cast, well-written game that keeps the puzzle-solving light and fun.  

 The puzzles themselves are familiar Zorkisms. How do you retrieve the Coconut of Quendor from the 
 soft palate of that sleeping dragon with some combination of inflatable toys, a gold tooth, and 
 a bicycle pump? What exactly is the use of a magic spell that makes the color purple invisible? 
 Of course, you will need to figure out how to make the Totemizer machine work in your favor and 
 decipher a cryptic map of prison cells in order to free poor Dirk Benedict - the usual reverse 
 engineering tasks of the computer adventurer. They are not tiresome or gratuitous, however. Grand 
 Inquisitor succeeds in keeping the obstacles solvable and sensible (in a Zorky kind of way) within 
 the fictional world.   

 The weaknesses are few and forgivable. The game world feels too small and short-lived. Much of the 
 hunting and gathering involves fewer than a dozen major areas, like the GUE University, the Dungeon 
 Master's house, and the Monastery. Brief hops into Hades and Port Foozle are fun too, but I wished 
 for greater vistas to explore. It all ends in about 15 hours of playtime. And the only irritating 
 part of the gameplay comes from the Z-Vision spinning panorama. The cursor changes to a directional 
 pointer when you face a new open area to explore, but some of these places are so close together 
 that you can overlook an essential little niche too easily. You should scan the entire screen carefully 
 and look for changes in the cursor that indicate smaller nooks or different viewing angles on the 
 same scene. Finally, there is a beta version of a linked, two-player mode, via Net or modem. The 
 second player is purported to take a kibitzing role, merely pointing to areas or items that the 
 main adventurer might try. While I got the Java-based add-on to connect easily enough to the Net, 
 there wasn't a playmate to be found there, and probably for good reason. Just on the face of it, 
 this feels like a silly stab at the mutliplayer craze.   

 Compact and unspectacular as it is, Zork: Grand Inquisitor is a model of adventure gaming as good 
 entertainment. Many of the genre's conventions (FMV, item hunting, absurdist humor) get polished 
 to a high sheen here. It is funny and reflexive without being geeky or pointlessly ironic. The 
 third-string actors exploit their comic trademarks to good effect. Real attention is paid to the 
 pacing of the whole affair, so there are no overly quiet dead zones of tedious activity. And the 
 puzzles are fun to solve rather than gratuitous brain-teasing exercises.   

 All in all, you are made to feel a part of a playful jaunt through a silly world. Truly, the lads 
 and lasses at Activision have succeeded in restoring the magic to Zork, and in doing so have provided 
 us with a good baseline for measuring competent design in the genre.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is just hilarious! The story is as follows : the Grand Inquisitor has banished magic 
 throughout Port Foozle and anyone disobeying his orders is going to be ... totemized . Your mission 
 is to change the Inquisitor's plans and restore magic to the land.
  
  The graphics are a combination of prerendered, beautifully coloured backgrounds, that allow 360 
 degree movement ( only in horizontal direction and not vertically) , great full motion videos with 
 real characters ( actors ) and animated ones and even action videos similar to the ones found in 
 the Myst series. The game has a great atmosphere and really memorable and original characters ( 
 a harmless huge dragon, a dungeon master who was imprisoned in a lantern by the Inquisitor, a smoking 
 and drinking door - security system that's very amusing to watch and so many more... ) . .
  
  Both the real-time acting and the voice acting are great with many jokes and humorous moments 
 ( the script is ingenious in this one) . The sound effects are also immersive and the music accompanying 
 the videos is great ( although there is no noticeable music during game play) .
  
  The game play is as usual inventory-based. Finding items, using them, combining them... A nice 
 addition is the spell book. You'll gather a dozen of spells during your adventure ( their sound 
 effects are mesmerizing) that you'll have to use in many different circumstances and this makes 
 the game more fun and challenging to play. Another thing that i liked in Zork is that you can use 
 your map into one of the teleporters ( there's one in each main area of the game ) and transfer 
 yourself wherever you want ( you don't have to spend hours walking from one area to another one) . 
 There are also puzzles that you will have to solve, most of them are excellent, just a couple of 
 them aren't that well implemented though. Moreover I got stuck 3-4 times since the game is very 
 open-ended ( although it starts and ends in a more linear way) and i had to backtrack, search and 
 experiment for a few hours ( there was always sth that i had missed) . Since you can also die ( 
 in many different laughable ways) my advice is to save as often as you can. .
  
  My main complaint with the title is related to its short lifespan. It won't take more than 20-25 
 hours for you to finish it -supposing that you won't get stuck in a puzzle for hours and hours- 
 and then that's it. There's nothing more for you to do in this one. However it's a great adventure 
 experience as long as it lasts, full of nice humour and funny moments, that is wholeheartedly recommended 
 to any adventure fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjenk69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Zork: GI returns from the dark corners of Zork: Nemesis to the humorous adventure for which the 
 series is known. Classic Zork icons are present in SVGA glory, and the FMV sequences are as usual 
 quirky and do a good job of advancing the storyline.
  
  The graphics are acceptable, the sounds and music are appropriate, and the storyline is a classic 
 Zork tale.
  
  The cast includes Tim Curry and Micheal McKean, who do an excellent job overall through their scenes. 
 Mckean provides constant chatter as the trapped Dungeon Master, and Curry is his evil nemesis the 
 Grand Inquisitor. Good cast choices make an adventure game, and these really work well together.
 
  
  Locations are always varied in Zork games, and this one is no exception. From Zork University to 
 the Gates of Hell, you will travel to some interesting locales. Even classics such as the Flood 
 Control Dam #3 make an appearance.
  
  Overall a must own for any Zork fan, or anyone craving a good adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaacmartinblin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, I did... Its just that after an incredible game like Zork Nemesis, 
 I guess that I was a little let down by what this game had to offer. Then again, people who used 
 to play the much older Zork games seem to have enjoyed this more light-hearted and humour filled 
 game. I happen to enjoy a more dark and foreboding atmosphere, an element which this game obviously 
 did not have.
  
  To begin, I guess that I should summarize the game's strongpoints, since it was, in fact, an enjoyable 
 game to play. The story is good and the different locales are fun to explore (the essential in 
 any adventure game) . The little lantern side-kick, though sometimes annoying, does add to the overall 
 quality of the game. 
  
  The puzzles in this game were very good quality and usually could be solved intuitively given the 
 artifacts and information in the game. I have actually come to expect such intricate and involved 
 gameplay from the Zork franchise and its a pity that there haven't been any more.
  
  The real drawback to this game is that the story and characters failed to fully immerse me in the 
 gaming experience. It took only about 10 hours to complete and at the end, I couldn't help think 
 that the story and different places were not as layered with detail and information as they could 
 have been. Thinking back on the story, I cannot recall the soundtrack, certain characters or other 
 things which indicate a truly superb game. 
  
  This review should not take away from the fact that ZGI is an excellent game in its own right, 
 and that it will provide many hours of entertainment. I wish they would develop another Zork game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game came with the gateway computer my mom purchased back in 1998. Once in a while the game 
 stumped me with its scenarios, so I had to look at the walkthrough the game had. The story sucked 
 me in and the game never got old. The game has funny moments with Michael McKean's Dungeon Master 
 Character. Also this game would be great for children if they would want something harder and challenging 
 then Blues Clues or homework from school. I wish the story was longer, but I suppose I can look 
 for the other Zork games. Finally it was nice to have a game like this to get away from the violent 
 shoot'em up and blow them up games. Plus I only really had to use the mouse so I ended up having 
 a hand free for eating, drinking, and other stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  By entering the world of Zork, Grand Inquisitor, you will find a vast world of magical creatures 
 and humorous characters. Activision has helped redefine the series of the Zork games, originally 
 text adventures by taking over Infocom.
  
  You play as a vacuum cleaner seller thrown into the world of Zork, near Port Foozle. There, you 
 will learn about the downfall of magic by the inquisition from a soul trapped in a lantern. Naturally, 
 you will have to save magic before its complete disappearance...
  
  The graphics of the game are fantastic and the music will rapidly make you feel the magical atmosphere 
 of Zork. The panoramic view is a nice innovation and also helps to complete the feeling of immersion.
 
  
  In overall, I would recommend this game to anyone who likes adventures similar to Myst, without 
 the difficulty but with a amusing touch of humor. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
