-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/50centbloodonthesand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brash, cocky attitude.
 Fast-paced action.
 Engaging scoring system.
 Great soundtrack of 50 Cent and G-Unit songs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Action becomes repetitive.
 Levels blur together.
 Cover mechanic is too sticky.
 Very cluttered HUD.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 333 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Swordfish Studios
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Over-the-top thug swagger and solid gameplay help 50 Cent's new game crack the Top 40. 

  It should come as no surprise to anyone that they made another 50 Cent game. Despite its chilly 
 critical reception, 2005's 50 Cent: Bulletproof sold remarkably well. What is likely to surprise 
 many people is that the new game, 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand, is actually quite good. The fast-paced 
 gameplay, tight controls, and arcade-style scoring system form a solid base for the simplistic 
 yet fun action. Layered on top of this foundation is a heaping helping of 50 Cent and G-Unit flavor; 
 vulgar dialogue, ridiculous one-liners, and a whole lot of licensed music give Blood on the Sand 
 the bravado it needs to stay entertaining when the action begins to wear thin. Neither the action 
 nor the attitude are particularly inspired, but together they are enough to make this an enjoyable 
 ride.  

           Sometimes the "Kill" at the top of the screen feels more like a command than a tally. 

  The premise and story serve as little more than a backdrop here, but that's just fine. 50 Cent 
 and G-Unit play a concert and get stiffed by the promoter. Hoping to avoid Fiddy's wrath, the promoter 
 offers them a BeDazzled skull. Everyone's happy until the crew is ambushed and the skull is stolen. 
 It is then that you commence shooting anything that moves. 50 and his chosen G-Unit companion (Tony 
 Yayo, Lloyd Banks, or DJ Whoo Kid) traverse a war-torn urban Middle Eastern landscape, slaying 
 countless goons while pursuing one criminal figure after another. Though there are a few vehicle 
 segments to vary things up, most of the locales kind of blur together in a blend of gunfire and 
 earth tones. Regardless, they are impressively detailed and do a solid job of setting the stage 
 for the explosive action.  

  50 Cent: Blood on the Sand is a third-person shooter, so you'll be running and gunning with your 
 overly muscled character in full view. The only differences between characters are aesthetic; both 
 50 Cent and his G-Unit sidekick run at a good clip and can dive in any direction. They can also 
 snap into cover with the press of a button, but this mechanic is a bit too sticky to be convenient. 
 Fortunately, you'll rarely have to use it. Your character is very durable, and when things do get 
 hairy, you can take advantage of the gangsta fire mode (read: bullet time) that makes it easy to 
 lay out a squad of enemies in seconds.  

  The action is smooth and the controls are responsive, but it begins to feel repetitive after a 
 while. There are a few bells and whistles to spice things up, such as counterkills, which are brutal 
 quick-time melee attacks in which your character pummels, perforates, or otherwise brutalizes an 
 enemy. However, the big incentive to keep playing is the scoring system. Every enemy that you kill 
 earns you points, and killing them in quick succession will get a multiplier going. Additionally, 
 you earn bonuses for the manner in which you dispatch your foes; scoring a headshot or taunting 
 your enemies after you kill them will further boost your score. Even if you're not the kind of 
 gamer who normally strives for high scores, Blood on the Sand's scoring system has a way of sucking 
 you in. Your multiplier and kill bonuses are displayed prominently onscreen, and this visual reinforcement 
 spurs you onward, motivating you to kill your enemies harder, better, faster, stronger.  

           I let my watch talk fo' meh.      

  To further quicken the pace, timed scenarios appear 
 on the screen occasionally and challenge you to accomplish certain objectives within a certain 
 time period. Target enemies are outlined in red, so you'll always know who they are, and completing 
 scenarios will earn you souped-up rounds for your pistol and extra grenades. Red danger arrows 
 also appear to steer you toward the action by indicating where your enemies are about to come from. 
 When there is a lull in the action, you can busy yourself with hunting down collectibles that will 
 boost your score significantly (five posters and five targets in each mission) . There are also 
 loot crates that earn you cash to spend on new guns, counterkills, and taunts. Between your score, 
 timed scenario announcements, your health meter, the gangsta fire bar, danger arrows, your cash 
 total, and your kill multiplier, the heads-up display can get very crowded. It manages not to intrude 
 on the action overmuch, but it can be distracting, especially in this day and age when the minimalist 
 HUD reigns supreme.  

  Nevertheless, this bustling HUD somehow fits well into the blustering swagger of 50 Cent: Blood 
 on the Sand. The game is saturated with overblown gangster bravado, and it matches the over-the-top 
 action perfectly. From the cutscenes in which 50 Cent vows to kill almost everyone he meets to 
 the vulgar (and often amusing) banter between characters, it just doesn't quit. The only place 
 vulgarity is omitted is in the unlockable music videos, which are incongruously censored. Fortunately, 
 the music tracks are not. As you progress and unlock new songs, you can tweak your playlist in 
 the pause menu. 50 Cent and G-Unit songs make a great backdrop for the action and really tie the 
 whole package together.  

  Blood on the Sand is better enjoyed with a friend, and the well-implemented drop-in/drop-out Cooperative 
 mode is a solid addition. It's easy to let people join your game, and just as easy to keep them 
 out or boot them should they become a nuisance. Whether you play solo or cooperative, you'll get 
 a solid 10+ hours out of the campaign, in addition to any high-score runs that you attempt for 
 the sake of making the online leaderboards. The run-and-gun gameplay isn't particularly inspired, 
 but the scoring system adds enough to keep you engaged. The pervasive attitude is so excessive 
 that it borders on parody, but when underlaid with a robust offering of authentic songs, it works 
 surprisingly well. This isn't the best action game you'll play this year, but that doesn't mean 
 you won't have a damn fun time playing it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay 50 cent, if your so good, Go fight over there, And second this game is 50cent trying to look 
 better than what he does now which is a loser. This game has Ups and downs i mean Bulletproof was 
 better than this and it voted worse i MEAN c'mon. This is Okay repeats ir self to much if you want 
 a good shooter by Wanted weapons of fate and games equal to that value this is a pointless game 
 good for achievements fun co-op for a laugh but you die hardly ever and when you do i seem to get 
 into the habit of dying loads because i try Less if i die once i do worse and worse. This game 
 wants you to carry on playing because its a Okay story but if it was Blood on the sand, But a random 
 guy on a mission who isnt rich and not as rude who swears F**k this and F**k that, 50cent is a 
 miss unlessyou can buy it cheap, :/
  Please dont bad comment me like, you hate me because i say this.
  BUT ITS A RUBBISH GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Let's start Mr. Cent out with a 10.
  
  Subtract two points for a terrible storyline. The storyline for this game is absurd, predictable 
 and over the top (in a bad way) . Basically 50cent (how do I abbreviate that? Someone please help) 
 and his G-Unit crew just got done performing somewhere in the Middle East, and the venue owner 
 can't pay 50 and crew. So after some rough talk and smack down laying by "fitty," the owner gives 
 him a diamond-encrusted skull for compensation. Seconds later your posse is ambushed as a group 
 of generic Middle Eastern thugs steal the skull. Thus begins 50's quest for vengeance. On a side 
 note, how did 50 end up in the Middle East?
  
  Subtract another point for horrific voice acting. Between the generic sounding baddies, and the 
 terrible voice acting of 50 and fellow G-Unit members, the only reason to even keep the volume 
 on is for the soundtrack. Which leads me to
  
  Add 1 point for an amazing soundtrack. 50 and the entire crew provide a bevy of greatest hits, 
 which can be crafted into a playlist of your liking for your playthrough.
  
  Subtract .5 of a point for a HUD that is muddier than 10-page essay covered in baby vomit. You 
 know your HUD is a mess when the player CAN'T FIND THEIR OWN HEALTHBAR! In an era of gaming were 
 minimal HUD is preferred; there is no excuse for such a poor display.
  
  Subtract 1.5 points for fm quality sound. Guns that sound like a cross between fireworks and laser 
 beams combined with explosions that sound like they are occurring in a tin can make the sound in 
 this game less than desirable. Any action game should have a spectacular boom, and this game lacks 
 that boom.
  
  Add .5 for sub par graphics. 50 and his G-Unit crew look amazing, but dull, listless backgrounds, 
 strikingly similar looking baddies, and cut scenes that you can only see with brightness at its 
 max keep this game from reaching its full potential.
  
  Add 1 point for game mechanics. 50 Cent: BotS plays into the over-the-top storyline by giving you 
 over-the-top action, with firefights around every corner and some great ways to maim, murder, or 
 blow up your foes. The use of a Gears of War-esque cover system is a nice touch, as is "Gangsta 
 Time," the bling-ed up version of bullet time. Throw in some gritty and violent contextual close 
 combat sequences, and you've got a recipe for great action, although it does have a tendency to 
 grow stale from time to time.
  
  50 Cent: Blood in the Sand is not the next great shooter, yet it is nowhere near the worst. This 
 game oozes charisma and bravado and players will have a great time taking the fight to the streets.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  After performing a sold-out concert in a fictional war-torn country, 50 Cent and the G-Unit are 
 robbed of their cash and paid in kind with a priceless diamond encrusted skull, which is subsequently 
 stolen by the local crime-lord's gang. 
  
  Determined to collect his payment and enact revenge on the gangsters foolish enough to disrespect 
 him, 50 Cent sets out to get rich or die trying. 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand features intense third-person 
 action/shooter gameplay, an intuitive cover system, 
  
  drop in and drop out online multiplayer co-op, merciless melee counter-kills and a soundtrack that 
 combines 50 Cent's greatest hits with 18 exclusive new tracks.
  
  50 Cent: Blood on the Sand puts players in control of their own virtual action film by blending 
 visuals from the Unreal 3 game engine technology with an over-the-top story and voiceover work 
 by 50 Cent and the G-Unit's Tony Yayo, Lloyd Banks, and DJ Whoo Kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  x=7.5... this game is trully amazing... i LOVED army of 2... but this game was a dumbed down version 
 of it... and more unrealistic... with the 2 shot shotgun shells to kill someone to the round on 
 an uzi to kill someone... i question if this game was worked on enough... if the game felt like 
 i expected it to, it would have been AWESOME (by that, i mean better cover system and being knocked 
 down if shot by a high powered/caliber weapon (seriously, 200 caliber turret or 44. shepard vs. 
 fiddy.... eh, fiddy will still be knocked down.) . Otherwise, this game has okay graphics, a very 
 unnecesary beat down system, wich still makes the game feel somewhat better, and, of course, the 
 dumbest "gangsta" talk ever, made me "rofl" all day long, but, this game has a horrible ending 
 and the stupidest plot ever. eh, it'l keep you busy. i'd suggest buying it (just buy your own soundtrack 
 if you don't like some of the most explict songs ever) . peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marblesetter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Solid game play, Gears of war and Army of two all over it, But more fun. Definatly a sleeper hit 
 of the year. Was not quite sure about this game but once i started playing could not put it down, 
 and i am sure you will feel the same way. 3 words "go get it" and have fun. Replay value is high 
 for this and i recomend playing through a chapter on normal and then playing it on Hard again just 
 to get more out of it and get the achievements which are not that hard to get.
  
  A must have title. and with all the shooter games out right now this one is by far in my opinion 
 one of the best so far. and if you are a third person shooter fan like me then you will enjoy this.
 
  
  and if i might quote Tom Orry of Video gamer then this will pretty much sum it up.
  
  "When you think of 50 Cent you probably have quite a few things running through your mind, but 
 we highly doubt you picture him as a shotgun carrying, grenade belt wearing action hero. This is 
 the Fiddy you play in THQ and Swordfish's 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand, a quite ridiculous third-person 
 shooter that takes inspiration from Gears of War and SEGA's run and gun gem The Club, creating 
 something of an unexpected pleasure in the process. Be prepared to wipe the dreadful Bulletproof 
 from your memory because this is how rapper/action game crossovers should be done." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  My latest rental and probably one of the shortest games recently is 50 Cent Blood in the sand. 
 Total of 9 chapters, 7 taking up about a hour each and a couple vehicle levels which blow by pretty 
 quick. (I read somewhere he was shot 9 times and that is why there are 9 chapters, really?) Anyway, 
 I always heard that the original one Bulletproof was one of the worst games out there but most 
 reviews I saw said this sequel was a fairly fun game.
  
  I have to agree this was a fun game and it looked pretty good. It plays like part Army of Two and 
 The Club. You probably would get the most fun out of this playing co-op as one of 50's G-unit members. 
 The scoring scenarios was fun and pushed you to do certain things in gameplay like shoot 3 thugs 
 before 20 seconds is up or get to some defined area before the clock ran out. This added to your 
 point total as well as finding hidden posters, cash and targets. Some scenarios will even give 
 you explosive rounds which were some of the most fun in the game.
  
  I had some success at finishing the scenarios, finding the posters but absolutely no luck at finding 
 the hidden targets. Some you just have to be looking the right way or angle to see the yellow and 
 black target. Although I never really got a super high score at the end of the levels it was fun 
 and gave a arcade type feel to the game. 
  
  As for the bad it was pretty quick and only kept me busy a couple days, also I think I am completely 
 burned out on listening to rap music. I don't listen to much rap if any but I think I reached my 
 threshold of pain, but to others who are 50 cent fans this new music would be a plus. 
  
  Also the G-unit member your are paired with gets annoying saying fiddy this and fiddy that, should 
 have checked the options on that to turn it off. I know 50 cent was probably more involved with 
 this game but is this how he wants himself portrayed? I know he has to keep up his gangsta cred 
 but he really comes off as a jerk that keeps saying where's mah money!
  
  Definite rental but don't buy this. But one theoretical question Why did this not come out at 
 $50? Sheesh 50 cent, $50 price point that could have been huge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advocacy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Before you consider trying this game, do your best to forget the travesty that was 50 Cent: Bulletproof, 
 probably one of the worst PS2 games ever made. Forgotten it already? Good, because 50 Cent: Blood 
 on the Sand is a vast improvement over that game. It is an ambitious third-person shooter with 
 the controls of Gears of War and the arcade vibe of the underappreciated The Club, with a dash 
 of Army of Two co-op mechanics.
  
  First of all, the story is totally ludicrous. You play titular rapper 50 Cent, accompanied by one 
 of his entourage from G-unit, as they travel across an unnamed Middle Eastern country in search 
 of a diamond-encrusted skull which was to be given to Fiddy as payment for a sold out concert.
 
  
  Thankfully, gamers don't need to over-analyze the intricacies of this plot to appreciate the game. 
 The cutscenes however are good a laugh, if only to hear the hammy dialogue between typical two-dimensional 
 underworld types. But forget about all that: it's a 50 Cent game people! This is all about shooting 
 and attitude, and these are two areas wherein 50 Cent: Blood in the Sand excells.
  
  The controls are tight and responsive; anyone used to the current slew of third-person action games 
 will feel right at home here. While there is a cover system similar to Gears of War, the game really 
 encourages you to step out of cover and chain together as many kills as you can to gain combo points. 
 These points can be used to get better weapons, quick-time melee attacks called counter-kills, 
 and verbal taunts. There are also posters and targets for players to uncover in the map areas, 
 and these will give even more points.
  
  The co-op system is also very well implemented. When you start a game, you can set up a session 
 so that anyone can join you as long as you are online, or you can restrict it only to friends or 
 to people whom you have invited. It's a very good system, and that only hitch is that if your partner 
 quits on you in the middle of a session, you will have to restart to your last saved checkpoint. 
 Sadly however, the developers must have gotten lazy and forgotten to put an off-line split-screen 
 co-op mode, and so gamers who hope to play this game with their friends at home won't be able to 
 do so.
  
  Despite being a vast improvement over it's predecessor, the second 50 Cent game could still use 
 some improvement. There is no deathmatch mode for this game, nor is there any Horde mode type of 
 gameplay. It would've been really cool if they implemented their scoring system and had a Horde 
 mode setting where two players compete to get the most kills and score in a competitive arena. 
 Also, the game has very little replay value after you finish it once, making it more of a rental 
 for most non-hardcore Fiddy fans. And don't expect any grand boss fights either - you fight a helicopter 
 boss three times through the course of this game, and that's about it.
  
  The graphics are adequate - not as good as Gears of War 2, however, but easy on the eyes nonetheless. 
 The sounds are an acquired taste, as rap enthusiasts can play customized 50 Cent tunes, while others 
 can turn the volume low and listen to Air Supply. After a while though, the music grows on you 
 and puts you in a killing mood to pop the cap in some nameless fool's head.
  
  I really liked 50 Cents: BOTS for being pure, mindless fun. But after I finished it, I feel that 
 future iterations of the series should address the issues of offline split-screen gameplay, more 
 game mode variety, and and replayability to ensure that the game becomes even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  good : solid gameplay mechanics, highly replayable due to its arcade nature. hilarious at times.
 
  
  bad : Extremely annoying G-unit members, especially Dj Whoo Kid, plus they are extremely ugly, 
 and very unfit for the given situation, due to their odd clothing choices ( bright colored shirts, 
 no body armor, unlike fifty ) . They almost looks like papa 50's groupies, begging for his golden 
 and so mighty attention. Some animations quirks.
  
  
  
  
  50 cent's very first attempt at video gaming wasnt very well recieved. It wasn't a terribly bad 
 game, but it was far from being a good one too. While it had some nice touches, like tons of weapon 
 scabbards and cool finishers, the game should have been a straight-to-bargain bin one.
  
  Mister cent returns to us three years later with his new title, blood on the sand. At first, when 
 I saw the screenshots of this game, I thought it was going to be pathetic. Well, thats because 
 most of the early screens were pathetic. Oddly enough, the game itself turned out to be good.
 
  
  Blood on the sand embraces what is is; an arcade shooter. There is no realism, 50 can soak up hundreds 
 of bullets before dying and enemies keeps swarming from all sides. If you can managed to see that 
 this is a game that doesnt try to be a gears of war and that there is no tactic involved whatsoever, 
 you'll enjoy yourself.
  
  See, this game throws you against waves and waves of enemies coming from all sides. You rack combos, 
 points for taunting a fallen enemy or popping a guy in the head or with less traditonal methods. 
 The point of the missions is simple : get to the end and rack as much points as you can, and to 
 get the golden badges, it can be quite tricky.
  
  The game's graphics, while very solid, uses the same ( and lame ) unreal engine 3. Wich means loads 
 of texture popping, blurry distant environements and such. I've encounted some odd bugs, like pinkish 
 and green squares on some surfaces instead of the actual texture ( wich occured in L4D too ) that 
 may need you to install the game. Most of the time, after the reload of the level, the bugs would 
 disapear. 
  
  The animations are a mixed bag. Some of them are quite great, like fifty's way of vaulting himself 
 over obstacles ( unlike AAA games like Gears of War 2 where the vaulting animation is quite jerky 
 ) while some of them are just passable ( when fifty lifts up a buddy to higher ground for instance, 
 and puts his hand on an invisible ledge ) . When fifty throws a grenade its downright laughable, 
 and will make you not want to use that fonction again, out of shame. See, you can even throw a 
 grenade while zooming and shooting with a gun. How many arms do you have, mister cent?
  
  The cover system works fine when you understand how it works. See, you can't flatten your back 
 against any wall and walk. You'll only be able to take cover on corners, so you can pop out and 
 shoot. Oddly enough, you cannot blindfire a grenade, forcing you to aim and then throw it, wich 
 is not very logic in any given situations.
  
  The music is a hit or miss. You don't like rap? Turn it off. The guns have a good ammount of oomph 
 to them and the explosions sounds convincing, even if they look weak.
  
  The game isnt very long, but its highly replayable due to its arcade nature. You'll do the same 
 thing from point A to Z, and if its your cup of tea, you'll find this game to be surprisingly good. 
 If you can get over that its a 50 cent game, you'll be quite amused by it. Buy or rent? Definitly 
 a rent, and definitly a buy at 29.99, but its not worth the actual 59.99 price tag. Wait for a 
 price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  I bought 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand the day it was released. And I must say that it was a solid 
 purchase. 
  
  From the moment I opened the package and slipped the disc into my Xbox 360, I was drawn into the 
 action. Simply put, I just could not stop playing, not even for dinner. 
  
  The game does have a built in map, via an on screen pointer system that is very efficient and trustworthy. 
 In other words, I found it very hard to get lost in this game. 
  
  The only thing I did not like about this game is the almost excessive use of language. I would 
 have preferred if THQ had included a features where I could censor the langauage, but since this 
 was not an option, I was forced to play the game with my head phones on whenever my 7-year old 
 was around. 
  
  But with great graphics, sound effects, and new hard hitting tracks from 50 Cent and his G Unit, 
 as well as straight on solid controls, this game has been much improved over it's "Bulletproof" 
 predecessor. 
  
  All-in-all, this game was a MUST buy, and a solid addition to my Xbox collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightWis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  i hate this game. this is the worst game after too humman. (i ve write a good review about too humman 
 cos that game seems diffrent than the others at the very beginning of the game)
  this game is abot killing and killing. destruction and everything familiar. but after 10 - 15 minutes. you 
 will realise this game is nothing more than every other games. this game doesnt have anything special.
 
  Killing, collecting, buying, and err... nothing more i guess. im nearly 18 years old and im playing 
 games since im 4 years old (1995-96 mortal kombat trilogy) i have finished every game i touched (except 
 too humman, ironman and some other bad stuff) . and i have played every good game and some bad games. and 
 im never gonna finish this game, ive never gonna touch that game again. shellshock 2 is better than 
 this game (i have finished shellshock 2 nearly a week ago) .
  DONT BUY TS GAME OR DONT RENT T. F U SEE THS GAME RUN AWAY RUN FAST AS YOU 
 CAN.
  youcant find anything good at this game. also your sidekick is useless and needless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Being that the first one wasn't well received by critics the game sold very well. So why not release 
 a second game. I believe this should've been the game that Fifty should've release in the first 
 place. When I heard about the second game having a cover system and heard about using the Unreal 
 Engine 3 I was on board.
  
  First I want to start by saying that this game has nothing to do with the first. It's a completely 
 fresh start and you don't need to play the first game to play this one then again who plays a 50 
 cent game for the story. The game starts you off at a concert and the person that hired you to 
 perform doesn't have the money he promised for your services so instead he offers you a diamond 
 incrusted skull which on your way out of the concert gets stole so you're now after the person 
 who stole your skull and you want it back. 
  
  The game mechanics are much better from the first game there's a cover system and there's also 
 a kills meter very similar to The Club game made by Sega. When you ranked up kills you're reward 
 with extra explosives and rage meter that lets you go on a rampage on your enemies in slow motion. 
 I've had a lot of fun playing this game. The levels are layout in a way that most of your enemies 
 are gather around explosive barrels which is always fun to see them fly off. 
  
  The graphics are also pretty good for a 50 cent game. I mean how can it not look good when it's 
 using the UE3. The environments also look great; I've had moments that I just wanted to stop, look 
 around, and admire the scenery like I did when I play games like Gears of War and Uncharted. I 
 never thought I would be doing this in a 50 Cent game.
  
  The game also has online Co op which allows you to play with friends which is great. This gives 
 you a chance to have fun with someone other than your AI partner. I would recommend this game to 
 anybody that's a fan of shooters and blowing up stuff. If you're a fan of games like Uncharted, 
 Gears of War, and Army of Two than you'll definitely want to check it this game. If you're a fan 
 of 50 you'll definitely going to like the game regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good considering how the first game was weak.
  This game i have not finished it yet but ive played through a couple levels and its actually pretty 
 good. I mean its no gta 4 or anything but it still packs a solid punch. I think that they could have 
 done a little better as far as gameplay its a very fast paced game. It feels like your constantly 
 moving at fast speed and it gives it a action packed experience i really like this game because 
 its everything a arcade type shooter should be this is how The Club should have been. To me it deserves 
 better than a 7.0 it should at least get a 8.0.
  But im not giving it any higher score than that because it could have been done a little bit better 
 but all in all its still a pretty good game im gonna give it a 8.0, And if you like a fast pace 
 shooter then you need to get this game because it still delivers quite a good punch. It also has 
 great sound tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyConstantin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  I think I'm one of the biggest 50 Cent fans out there, but I've got to recognize, 50 Cent: Bulletproof 
 wasn't a very good game. After Bulletproof, 50 Cent came with his G-Unit Edition for Sony's PSP. 
 That game was allright, but it still had a long way to go. And now, with the realese of 50's Blood 
 On The Sand, I think he finally gets it, because the game is good, suprinsingly good.
  
  Blood On The Sand starts in a country like Iraq or Iran, or something like that, with G-Unit performing 
 at a concert. After the concert, 50 wants to get paid, but the dude hosting the concert haven't 
 got no money. So he decides to give 50 a Diamond Skull Head. (Yes, I know it's a bit over the top)
 
  While 50 is trying to get the f*ck out of there, his skull head got stolen. And that only means 
 one thing: let the massacre begin.
  
  Yes, killing, murder and revenge, that's what BotS is all about. And you wont have to do it allone: you 
 will get support from Yayo, Banks or Whoo Kidd.
  And if your buddy's got this game too, you can do the missions co-op.
  But what I really love 
 about this game, is the gameplay. It's feels just perfect.
  It's like a mix between Cod: WaW And Gow. It's really great and most of all, fast.
  
  The missions 
 are allright but nothing is really a suprise, except the driving mission and the chopper mission, 
 those two are really outstanding.
  
  50 Cent: Bots is a great game and a must have for every G Unit fan, and even if you aren't in the 
 whole 50 scene, this is a fun game to spent your time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Being that the first one wasn't well received by critics the game sold very well. So why not release 
 a second game. I believe this should've been the game that Fifty should've release in the first 
 place. When I heard about the second game having a cover system and heard about using the Unreal 
 Engine 3 I was on board.
  
  First I want to start by saying that this game has nothing to do with the first. It's a completely 
 fresh start and you don't need to play the first game to play this one then again who plays a 50 
 cent game for the story. The game starts you off at a concert and the person that hired you to 
 perform doesn't have the money he promised for your services so instead he offers you a diamond 
 incrusted skull which on your way out of the concert gets stole so you're now after the person 
 who stole your skull and you want it back. 
  
  The game mechanics are much better from the first game there's a cover system and there's also 
 a kills meter very similar to The Club game made by Sega. When you ranked up kills you're reward 
 with extra explosives and rage meter that lets you go on a rampage on your enemies in slow motion. 
 I've had a lot of fun playing this game. The levels are layout in a way that most of your enemies 
 are gather around explosive barrels which is always fun to see them fly off. 
  
  The graphics are also pretty good for a 50 cent game. I mean how can it not look good when it's 
 using the UE3. The environments also look great; I've had moments that I just wanted to stop, look 
 around, and admire the scenery like I did when I play games like Gears of War and Uncharted. I 
 never thought I would be doing this in a 50 Cent game.
  
  The game also has online Co op which allows you to play with friends which is great. This gives 
 you a chance to have fun with someone other than your AI partner. I would recommend this game to 
 anybody that's a fan of shooters and blowing up stuff. If you're a fan of games like Uncharted, 
 Gears of War, and Army of Two than you'll definitely want to check it this game. If you're a fan 
 of 50 you'll definitely going to like the game regardless. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
