-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: AC/DC Live: Rock Band Track Pack
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/acdcliverockbandtrackpack/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get 18 AC/DC classics.
 Can export songs to Rock Band/Rock Band 2 for free.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lackluster generic visuals.
 No online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 197 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The AC/DC Live: Rock Band Track Pack is a short but sweet experience that leaves you feeling like 
 you didn't get a Whole Lotta Rosie. 

  Rock groups don't get much bigger than AC/DC. The Australian hard-rock act has churned out 17 studio 
 albums over 30 years, including one of the highest-selling albums of all time,  Back in Black . 
 With that kind of success, it's a no-brainer that Harmonix signed the Thunder From Down Under for 
 an exclusive game all to themselves, following the inclusion of "Let There Be Rock" in Rock Band 
 2. However, though the songs on AC/DC Live sound and feel amazing to play, with only 18 songs (the 
 setlist from the band's famous Live at Donington DVD) , no special features, and fewer modes than 
 either Rock Band or Rock Band 2, this game feels very much like a dirty deed done dirt cheap.  
 

           Angus' new suit proved less popular than his classic schoolboy uniform.      

  Despite bearing the name and soundtrack of AC/DC's feted Donington Park gig, the game provides 
 no visual indications that it has anything to do with either the band or the venue. While you're 
 playing, the screen is simply graced with generic Rock Band band members playing a generic stage. 
 Since there are no Brian Johnson, Angus Young, or Malcolm Young character models to be seen, the 
 only indicator youre playing an AC/DC game is the band's iconic sound.  

  However, you do get some bang for your buck. The game sells for a budget price of 24.99 in the 
 UK, or $29.92 exclusively at Wal-Mart in the US, and the tracklist should keep any AC/DC fan happy. 
 It comes as no surprise that the audio quality is again top-notch, with the game receiving a remastered 
 overhaul of the Live in Donington concert. Rock Band doesn't get much better than being able to 
 rock out to classics such as "You Shook Me All Night Long," "Back in Black," "Thunderstruck," "Highway 
 to Hell," and "For Those About to Rock (We Salute You) ." Regardless of whether you're assigned 
 to lead guitar, vocals, drums, or bass, the result should be a wide grin on your face. The highlight 
 for many fans will no doubt be playing some classic guitar riffs as Angus, although if you're up 
 for some screaming, Brian Johnson's vocal part is also a pleasurable -- albeit raspy -- experience. 
 Brilliant beats and self-indulgent drum fills make fan-favourite tracks like "T. N. T." and "Thunderstruck" 
 must-plays and provide a truly visceral drumming experience.  

  Unfortunately, you can't play Malcolm Young's rhythm-guitar parts, which is a disappointment considering 
 how instrumental he is to the band. Instead, as with Rock Band itself, you'll have to settle for 
 bass if you're not on lead, vocals, or drums. Because it's based on a live performance, AC/DC Live 
 also has some of the most ridiculously long ending bonuses seen, most noticeably in "Let There 
 Be Rock." There's the chance to rack up some serious points (and some aching muscles) in the dying 
 moments of a song. AC/DC Live doesnt feature its own dedicated World Tour or online modes, but 
 by redeeming a free one-time code printed on the back of the manual you can export and use all 
 18 tracks in your Rock Band or Rock Band 2 career and multiplayer modes just as you do current 
 DLC.  

           AC/DC Live has a solid line-up which any fan will get a kick out of playing.      

 
  AC/DC Live's lower price and the ability to export songs to other Rock Band games makes up in 
 part for the lack of content and shorter experience. However, it still feels like this game has 
 squandered an opportunity to capitalise on the rich history that an iconic band such as AC/DC has, 
 as well as the specific content offered by the AC/DC Live branding, given the amount of material 
 on the attendant DVD. If you're a fan, you'll certainly get some thrills out of it, but it's not 
 the definitive experience that it could have been, and casual fans of AC/DC and Rock Band will 
 find that their money may be better spent elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  AC/DC Live Rock Band Track Pack: An 18-track edition of Rock Band based on the Live at Donington 
 album. 
  
  Story : In the beginning back in 1955, man didn't know about a rock 'n roll or any of that jive 
 for that matter. The white man had the schmaltz and the black man had the blues; no one knew what 
 they were going to do but Tchaikovsky had the news! He said "Let there be sound" and there was 
 sound. He then proclaimed "Let there be light" and there was indeed light. "Let there be drums" 
 he screams, and thus there was drums. He demanded that perhaps "Let there be guitar", which led 
 to there being guitar. And then he shouted "Let there be Rock!"
  
  Tchaiskovsky passed away in November of 1893, further adding to the strangeness of the song. 
 
  
  The game part of the AC/DC track pack is a very bare-bones package. All of the menus and visual 
 content come straight out of the Rock Band 1 disc. There's no World Tour option (thankfully) , no 
 online play, no "No Fail mode" (unthankfully) , only one virtual stage to play on (The Russian arena, 
 of all venues) and you can't create virtual bandmates, let alone even choose them. The game randomly 
 selects virtual performers to display on stage, and it seemed strange for me to see the afro-toting 
 disco singer take the place of Brian Johnson. 
  
  The most glaring disappointment for me when it came to the AC/DC Rock Band pack was the decided 
 lack of AC/DC. The songs are there, Angus Young is on the cover of the box as he's just about to 
 rock and subsequently salute those about to do the same, and the title screen is consisted of a 
 glowing AC/DC logo, but that's about the extent of it. You don't see any virtual band members playing, 
 let alone photos of the band, or bios, or videos, or anything else in relation to AC/DC. Even the 
 instruction manual bears little mention of AC/DC. When you finish the solo tour, the game congratulates 
 you on playing alongside AC/DC, which seemed a bit short-sighted; the hotel clerk who renigns an 
 entire floor for the band and their groupies had more of a time rocking out with AC/DC than I did 
 playing this game.
  
  Playing this game, however, I didn't know if I should make the statement that Harmonix is better 
 at music games than Neversoft is with Guitar Hero, or if perhaps AC/DC is just a better band than 
 Aerosmith, because where the latter band's game became repetitive from playing the same simple 
 style of songs repeatedly, this track pack seems to stay fresh and fun from start to finish. All 
 of the songs are fan-favorites, and almost all of them have a mean average of 2.5 guitar solos, 
 high-pitched vocal clips and a Big Rock Finish. The end to Let There Be Rock is particularly long 
 and grueling, worth a whopping 50,000 points by itself when I was playing guitar. Being that all 
 of the songs are based on the live show, you get a couple of lengthy songs (Jailbreak for example) 
 with simmered down moments for the crowd to go wild and gamers who play music games to live out 
 their rock star dreams getting plenty of chances to soak in their glory, while kid sisters can 
 roll their eyes behind their heads with confusion as to what the big deal is.
  
  There's only 18 songs, and you'll have played them all in about 90 minutes. The best part of the 
 AC/DC track pack is not having to play it; the back of the manual has a code that lets you download 
 the songs onto your hard drive for use with a real Rock Band game. The code is a one-time use deal, 
 and while I understand wanting to combat the used game market or not wanting gamers to share codes 
 with their friends, bad things can happen to prone Xbox 360 hard drives. And this is a code to 
 download off of a Harmonix server (slowly, I might add) as opposed to ripping the data from the 
 game disc, which begs the question of "why did I even buy the disc in the first place?" 
  
  There's no logical way to sum up this review other than in the most uninspired video game review 
 line possible; "if you like Rock Band and AC/DC, you should get AC/DC Rock Band!" It's just that 
 the game part of this game is pointless. Putting these songs on your hard drive will make your 
 Rock Band 2 experience infinitely more enjoyable and Australian. It's just that I wish I could've 
 just downloaded this pack off the internet instead of having to spend a bit more money and time 
 going to a store and buying a physical copy of a game I'm never going to play again. The DVD and 
 case that hold this game feel like a waste of natural resources. 
  
  3  stars
  
  Which is apparently AC/DC's fault too, on insisting that their content be released in an album-like 
 form instead of on the internet as individual songs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yman173
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  As an AC/DC fan my whole life, I jumped at the chance to play their music in a rhythm game like 
 this. And, while its not a bad game, it is a little expensive for what it offers.
  
  There's literally dozens of songs that could have been used for a track pack like this. The library 
 of hits from AC/DC's past is certainly vast enough. So I was a little disappointed by the inclusion 
 of only 18 tracks. Classics like "Its A Long Way To The Top (If You Wanna Rock & Roll) " & "Who 
 Made Who", as well as cuts from their more recent albums "Stiff Upper Lip" & "Black Ice" are sorely 
 missed. Whats more, because these are all live recordings from a 1991 concert, Brian Johnson does 
 all the vocal work. It would have been much better to hear the studio versions of the older Bon 
 Scott songs.
  
  However, Harmonix does deliver on the tracks that are provided. All of the songs have been remastered, 
 and I have to admit the live versions of some of them are very cool. You really get the feeling 
 youre playing along as Angus while he runs around the stage in his schoolboy outfit during multiple 
 ad-libbed solos. The endings can be a little overdone, causing a sore hand if youre trying to rack-up 
 points, but with AC/DC you wouldnt expect anything less.
  
  The game itself feels like a stripped-down version of Rock Band 1. There's no customization of 
 your band members or earning of money toward unlocking new modes. The only real good thing I got 
 out of playing this as a stand-alone game was adding to my Xbox achievement points. The real value 
 here is the ability to export these songs to Rock Band 1 or 2 for play in those games, which you 
 can do for free.
  
  Please take note, however, that the redemption code to export these tracks can only be used once. 
 Ive seen this game on Gamestop's shelves used, and if you buy a used copy you wont be able to export 
 the songs to your own hard drive. Which means you'll be stuck playing this as a stand-alone game. 
 As much as I love AC/DC, even I got tired of playing the same 18 tracks after a few hours, so you 
 really arent getting much value with a used copy of this.
  
  At a $29.92 price point, I think Harmonix kind of pushed it. This would have been a better value 
 at $19.99, since most players are just going to export the tracks to RB anyhow. Still, its a great 
 experience if youre an AC/DC fan and worth it to play as Angus (finally!) . Just as GH: Aerosmith 
 & Metallica, though, if youre not a big fan of the band you may want to take a pass on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes1709
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The game if you can call it that is ok but there are many problems with it one of the biggest things 
 that made me mad was that the game has like 300 achievement points thats mostly the biggest problem 
 with the game but the other thing it it is short and not worth 30 bucks at wal-mart the good thing 
 about it is you can download it to rock band 2 which is good but still not worth 30 bucks i think 
 they would have been better off putting the tracks on xbox live for like 1200 points or less if 
 you really like acdc get it and add it to your rock band 2 tracks then go to gamestop and trade 
 it in but its only worth like 6 bucks in store credit so dont be to disappointed. aleast they give 
 you that much this is the same for the other track pack you can buy but i dont know how much it 
 is worth but with that one you can just download the songs you want alot cheaper the picking up 
 the pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  Seriously...
  I love Ac/Dc with my whole heart and im going to see them when they come to sweden. but... this 
 game aren't so great that i tought it would be. First of all is the amount of songs. Just 18 songs! 
 for crying out loud! i now it is from live in donnington and so on. can't they just have putted 
 on some extra songs from other bands or some thing else. 
  
  I't is like the wii version and ps2 version of rock band. No character creation...
  thats no 
 problem but they should have done caracters from ac/dc or have putted the live consert of the songs 
 in the backround or something. 
  
  otherwise is it no problem with the game you will get all the songs in quickplay directly. thats 
 good for all lazy people (like me) so we can just play the songs directly when we gets the game. 
 
  
  
  thanks for me// bob XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  AC/DC is perfect for rockband. There awsome. And they put the biggest hits on it. First off the game 
 is kind of exspensive thats why i got this for Christmas, but it's great. Very challenging, Expert 
 drums on fire your guns is hard. your banging the yellow note the whole song very fast. i got past 
 it but 3 stars. Then thunderstruck is awsome song, but on expert guitar it took me a while to get 
 5 stars. It's awesome game, and very underated, but it is kind of exspensive. I play this game every 
 2 days as of right now. Just because there one of my all time favorites just like disturbed and 
 metellica. They put the best songs, the best band-overall to make a great game. if you don't play 
 it every day, this game will last a little while. haven't beat it on expert drums yet, only guitar, close 
 to beating it on expert drums though. If you like AC/DC get this game, if you don't forget it. They 
 put the best songs, the best band, to overall-make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game for a little while but I got tired of it. The reason I became tired 
 of it isn't because I played it everyday for hours upon hours and have simply become bored of it, 
 no.
  
  It's because the songs are done live. Yes, that simple little mistake is what messed the gameplay 
 up.
  
  During concerts there are long instrumental sequences. In this case, Angus, is playing his guitar 
 and you're just strumming the same thing over and over and over for at least 2-3 minutes straight 
 and it becomes very boring.
  
  The songs do not sound the same because, as stated above, they are performed live. Songs just don't 
 sound the same when they are live.
  
  Furthermore, the game's buttons were computer-generated and so many times during the songs there 
 are times when you're expecting to push a different button or go to another solo, etc, but rather 
 you're still pushing the same buttons ---not always in the correct timing either ---and you're thrown 
 off track and you mess up.
  
  The gaming experience would of have been totally different if the songs were the originals. I would 
 not have purchased this game is I knew how terrible the gameplay would be.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is a bare bones Rock Band experience, assuming you play it as a stand alone product. The real 
 strength in this release is importing the songs in RB or RB2. You are essentially paying $30+ on 
 an 18 song package, similar to the Rock Band Track Pack expansions. However, unlike the Rock Band 
 Track Packs, you cannot download any of these tracks from the RB Music Store - you have to go to 
 Walmart and buy the actual disk.
  
  I would go as far to say that if you don't have a hard drive and RB or RB2, I would not recommend 
 purchasing this "game". I didn't even play the "game" on the disk itself, I immediately exported 
 the tracks, ejected the disk, loaded up RB2, and played them from there. Sadly, I'm not sure if 
 any Battle of the Bands or Challenges use this track pack, so you won't be getting any customized 
 AC/DC experience from inside of RB2. Like all of your exported songs, your new AC/DC songs will 
 just show up as tracks that you can choose to play for your regular game modes.
  
  I have the same complaints as other reviewers regarding some of the song selection and inflated 
 lengths. The minute long song enders are brutal on your arms, and they just sound like noise after 
 the first 30 seconds or so. Several long pauses in the middle of the songs break up the pacing 
 quite a bit, but it does give you more of a live concert, ad libbed experience.
  
  There's a great selection of classic AC/DC songs and some stinkers. Fortunately, like any exported 
 song, you can delete the stinkers as you won't have to play them as Random tracks in RB2. However, 
 I am unsure if your export code is "one shot only" - meaning if you delete the stinkers, you may 
 not be able to re-export them later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerCCXXII
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I must say I was very pleased with my wife when she got my this game (ROCKBAND Add-on) as an early 
 birthday present! As a kid growing up in the 80's my Dad always jammed to AC/DC so needless to 
 say I was turned onto them at a young age. Too now being able to jam out to 18 of the best AC/DC 
 songs is something I've waited for since Rockband 2's single AC/DC song. I even have my Dad (who 
 thinks video games are a waste of time) coming over to drink some beers and jam out to some AC/DC. 
 It plays smoothly on the XBOX360 and it has it's own achievements to unlock... like playing an 
 18 song set.... HOLY CRAP!!! I say if you have some buddies over you should try and attempt that 
 feat, just switch off on each song. This Track Pack is awesome and I can't wait to see what else 
 they'll be coming out with later this year and early next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdna514
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Besides being at the mercy of the HORRIBLE customer service at my local Wal-Mart (nothing out of 
 the norm for this store anyway) , the songs are freaking awesome!! The game was a great idea, I 
 love the live feel of the tracks, and the BIG ROCK ENDINGS KICK BUTT!!
  
  As a stand-alone game, it is built from the rock band 1 engine, so my Ion kit wasn't in its full 
 glory. I really didn't care about the achievement points, so I ripped 'em to my HD and popped in 
 my RB2.
  
  All of the songs, though a tad repetitive on the drums from song to song, are challenging on Hard-Expert 
 levels on all instruments. The vocals are pretty unique and close to impossible, not many people 
 can pull it off so far at my house. 
  
  The song cuts are great, the tracks feel more like a live concert, and again, almost every song 
 is a big rock ending (some going more than a minute long!) .
  
  $40 is to some players more well spent on the marketplace on other songs, but to the AC/DC and 
 Hard/Classic Rock lover, you will have TONS of fun with all of the songs on the track-list. If 
 you love AC/DC this is your overdose.
  
  Though I would love to give this a 10, as a Free-Standing game, It's just not worth the money if 
 you have graduated to Rock Band 2, except for ripping the tracks and trading it to gamestop, or 
 getting the 250 achievement. points. It will feel clunky, and those drummers who have cymbals will 
 just have 5 pads again. There is only 1 stage, you think that if this was special, someone would 
 have designed an AC/DC stage you know? Throw in a statue of Angus a-la their tour after "Stiff 
 Upper Lip". 
  
  Overpriced for the track-pack that just went to the HD anyway, but its all worth it for all the 
 BIG ROCK ENDINGS!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgpicker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I can't really explain how awesome it is to play these songs on rock band, i have had so much fun 
 playing it. I have played guitar all the way through on hard in one sitting, half way through drums, 
 and I played all the way through with 3 other friends and it is great. I am just wondering why 
 it got so many bad reviews, it was advertised as a track pack, I know that they were a little pricey 
 but in my opinion well worth the $40. I didn't even know that it was a stand-alone game, it was 
 kinda disapointing not being able to try to create Angus, as well as other memebers of the band 
 but I have yet to move the songs over to Rock Band. I think that this game deserves at least and 
 8 if not more. If you have listened to AC/DC Live before you will notice that they did an excellent 
 job remastering the tracks. I admit at some points Brian Johnson is a little difficult to understand 
 but I got over it really quickly. If you have heard of AC/DC or you are a die hard fan like me 
 you will not be let down because you will get to hear more of this bands awesome music. FOR THOSE 
 ABOUT TO ROCK... WE SALUTE YOU... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_GUNN_man
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  It has many good tracks, too bad they are live. Brian Johnson's voice sounds like garbage. The 
 biggest problem I have is that there are too many long breaks during many songs. There is no need 
 to drag a 3 minute song out to 6 or 7 minutes by adding long breaks in the song where there is 
 just a basic beat and some mumbling in the microphone. This is why I say halftime shows in the 
 middle of songs. There is also way to many big ending parts, one lasted well over a minute. It 
 is a sad attempt to make the game longer since it only has 18 songs. Only 250 achievement points 
 kinda sucks. You can export the songs to Rockband 2 with the code on the back of the booklet, however, 
 if you want to get achievements from the game you need to play the disc. If you redeem the code 
 you could sell the disc and keep the exported songs. The problem would be for the new owner of 
 the disc, they could only play the disc. They couldn't export the songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This Game gives me mixed emotions. Here are the Pros and Cons
  
  Pros-
  18 New songs from ACDC.
  Easy Achievements
  
  Cons-
  Guitar on Expert career is way to 
 hard for some people.
  Way to expensive for only 18 songs.
  Only 250 achievement points for the price of a retail game?
  All songs are live and singing is 
 quite hard on expert.
  
  If your looking for a rock band game that your almost good at on expert, and slightly okay. Just 
 go to the hard career, the song Thunderstruck is pretty hard for the FIRST SONG. But the song after 
 Jailbreak is pretty impossible. Like seriously. But drum carrer is fine and same with bass. And 
 the achievements are easy because you can do most on hard and medium difficulty, except the specific 
 Expert Achievements. If you got 40 on nothing to spend, buy this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacer69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  YES, but it would of been better if all the tracks weren't live. Brian Johnson voice during some 
 of the songs couldn't be heard clearly. Maybe because he drank a few bottles of oil before they 
 went live. God how I wish Bon Scott never died from alcohol overdose. But the game is an awesome 
 collection of AC/DC tracks but a few short of being a great list of tracks. Missing are Rocker, 
 Ride On, Squealer, Problem Child, What Do You Do For Money, Have a Drink On Me, Big Balls, Girls 
 Got Rhythm, Walk All Over You, Touch to Much, Love at First Feel, Shot Down in Flames, If You Want 
 Blood, and Rock & Roll Ain't Noise Pollution. Maybe these tracks will come out threw some download 
 tracks or maybe another AC/DC track pack that isn't LIVE. The game itself is just like Rock Band 
 one with some nice achievements. The tracks can be ported to Rock Band 2 track list, but I haven't 
 attempted to load them up yet. Still playing as an individual game at the moment. Well worth the 
 $39.99 even if the vocals are weak at times in my opinion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
