-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/acecombat6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent flight model and smooth controls make flying simple and fun.
 Exciting action surrounds you with huge explosions, radio chatter, and squadrons of enemy fighters.
 Looks amazing, yet still maintains an even frame rate.
 You can experience the excitement online with a number of great multiplayer modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 First half of the campaign is a little bland.
 Not as many aircraft or missions as prior installments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,040 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Flight Action
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Slick gameplay and gorgeous visuals are among Ace Combat 6's many strengths. 

  In Fires of Liberation, the decorated Ace Combat series roars into the current generation. The 
 scope has expanded to include fantastic online play, and the game has found the perfect balance 
 between a speedy, steady frame rate and quality graphics. The overall experience is innately rewarding, 
 and it ramps up the challenge throughout the course of the campaign and finishes on a thrilling 
 high note that may very well inspire you to replay the final mission (and others, too) over and 
 over again. Ace Combat 6 doesn't always sustain this momentum, and you may actually find the early 
 missions a bit tedious. But if you stick with it, it pays off in grand fashion.  

           The landscapes are absolutely stunning.      

  There's a fairly complex web of personal 
 stories that take place between your single-player missions. The breathtaking cutscenes follow 
 a heartbroken mother, a stoic enemy pilot, and other characters on their journeys of discovery 
 and redemption. The story feels somewhat disconnected from the gameplay, given that the scenes 
 don't directly relate to what you're doing in the fiery skies. The bad lip synching (the English 
 dialogue is obviously dubbed over animations meant for Japanese speech) certainly doesn't help 
 the immersion, nor does some of the bland delivery from the voice actors. Yet for all its disconnected 
 personal drama, it gives you a sense of the stakes at hand better than a more sweeping, political 
 narrative would.  

  This is a key point because you aren't fighting on familiar turf. Like in previous installments, 
 Ace Combat 6 takes place in a fictional world, although aside from geography and nomenclature, 
 it might as well be our own. The Emmerian good guys seemingly represent the Western world, complete 
 with green-lawned suburban homes, whereas the enemy hails from USSR-inspired Estovakia (a comparison 
 that is cemented in every time you hear an Emmerian refer to the residents at "Stovies") . Don't 
 assume that the obvious real-world connection means that this story is the typical Cold War yarn 
 of shining good versus stark raving evil, though. This is a tale that really does have two sides. 

  In contrast to the moving intermissions, battles are fast and furious, and even if you're a novice, 
 it won't take you long to light up the heavens with your dogfighting prowess. Flying in Ace Combat 
 6 is a delight. This isn't a realistic flight sim -- you won't even be forced to take off and land 
 on your own if you don't want to. Instead, you can simply enjoy the fun, fluid flight model. Your 
 speed is controlled by the triggers, you yaw with the bumpers, and your flight path is controlled 
 by the left analog stick. If you're intimidated by flying games, there is a novice control option, 
 but we encourage you to stick with the default control scheme. It's easy to use and gives you more 
 precise control over your fighter. If you're a veteran and really want to feel like a top gun, 
 you can grab the $150 package that includes flight sticks. The sticks work just fine and give you 
 that great in-the-cockpit feel. But if you don't have the cash or are simply cautious about using 
 a yoke and a joystick, don't worry: Your controller will get the job done serviceably.  

  There is a good number of real aircraft to choose from, such as the F-22 Raptor and the Tornado, 
 though there aren't nearly as many as in previous installments. Their basic controls are all the 
 same, but the subtleties among them can have profound effects in the battle zone. Before you enter 
 a mission, you're briefed on the multiple operations within it, and you can usually choose from 
 a number of starting positions. When choosing aircraft, you need to take into account whether you 
 need to focus on air-to-ground weaponry over air-to-air, whether you need speed over firepower, 
 and whether your preferred plane supports the most helpful special weapon. You can feel these differences 
 at work in every aspect of flight and combat. For example, executing a high-G turn in slower aircraft 
 may cause you to stall more easily, and piloting a quick fighter may make it tougher to destroy 
 multiple ground targets in succession. You'll want to retry missions with different aircraft once 
 you've unlocked them, just to see how those differences play out in the field.  

           Each mission features multiple operations, so expect things to get a little chaotic.  
     

  The missions themselves are quite exciting, though you may not get this impression from the first 
 5 or 6 of them, because the difficulty level slowly rises for the first few hours. In fact, until 
 you reach the later stages of the game, crashing is your most serious threat. The early slow going 
 is actually a little frustrating; it feels as if you are going from target to target without much 
 sense of urgency or danger. Nevertheless, you'll be glad for the early stages afterward, considering 
 that the later missions present you with persistent enemies that force you to constantly evade 
 their missiles while destroying SAM installations, fighters, missile boats, power grids, and plenty 
 more.  

  It sounds like chaos, and it can feel a little overwhelming at times. But even when the stakes 
 are high, the game never works against you, and it always gives you the tools you need to succeed. 
 One of the most helpful of those tools is your special weapon, which you choose before the mission 
 starts. Depending on your mass-destruction instrument of choice, you might be able to take down 
 multiple enemy aircraft at once, blanket the ground with a barrage of rockets, or throw missiles 
 out of your tail. Not only can these weapons be crucial in your fight to survive, but they're also 
 another reason to replay missions, just to see how a different choice might affect the tide of 
 war.     

   

  Another helpful tool is your wingman, who will provide support or attack an enemy target if you 
 want him to. He's a pretty smart cookie, and he manages to draw enemy fire when necessary (way 
 to take one for the team, Shamrock!) , and shows a good amount of prowess in bringing down the foes 
 you specify. And when you have shot down enough bad guys, you can even order an allied attack or 
 allied cover, which brings every friendly jet to your aid. Allied attacks are awesome to watch 
 because your computer-controlled buddies will zoom to your side, setting the landscape on fire 
 and bringing with them a barrage of radio chatter.  

           XMA4 missiles help make short work of your opponents.      

  The chatter does a good 
 job of setting just the right tone for the game. The radio is constantly abuzz with status updates, 
 shouts of encouragement, warnings of incoming missiles, and the occasional humorous aside. Most 
 of the lines are delivered with the kind of excitement and urgency you would expect from men fighting 
 for the future of their country, though some dialogue -- particularly that of your commanding officer -- is 
 flat and uninspiring in its delivery. It's all accompanied by a rousing symphonic soundtrack that 
 would be perfectly at home in a stirring war epic. Of particular note is the main theme, first 
 played by a lone French horn, and then expanded in full orchestral splendor. And to round it out 
 are some truly incredible sound effects that fill your ears with constant explosions, machine-gun 
 fire, and the whooshes of air rushing past your aircraft.  

  The great sound design is accompanied by equally fantastic visual effects. The explosions are some 
 of the best we've seen, particularly when there are cruise missiles in play. They are accompanied 
 by soft billows of white and gray smoke that spread realistically through the sky. You'll play 
 in a variety of environments, above cities and mountains, and through canyons and above the sea. 
 They all look amazing, at least from afar. Of particular note is the unbelievable draw distance, 
 which displays distant objects in more detail than you might expect. The one drab notch on an otherwise 
 pristine visual presentation are the ground-texture maps, which look fine from afar, but are blurry 
 and a little unsightly if you get too close. But you'll rarely have the time to notice because 
 you'll be constantly in motion. And it all runs great, at a consistently smooth frame rate that 
 never falters, even when there are a ton of enemies and explosions onscreen.  

  Of course, much of this is standard for the series, so if you've played any of the previous games, 
 you know some of what to expect. In fact, you may be disappointed that the single-player campaign 
 isn't as lengthy as the one in Ace Combat 5. However, the addition of some great multiplayer features 
 makes it easy to forgive, especially because the online experience is a good deal of fun. The online 
 menus sort of stink, particularly because unlike in the single-player mode, you can't view the 
 available aircraft when making a selection. However, there are a number of great ways to play online. 
 You can participate in free-for-all and team battles for up to 16 players, both ranked and unranked, 
 and choose from a variety of aircraft without having to unlock them in the campaign. These battles 
 are as fun and exciting as you would expect, given that the game is at its best when you have to 
 be on the defensive.  

           Replays are a great ego boost, thanks to the awesome cinematic camera views.      

 
  You and three others can also take part in stand-alone co-op missions, and as with most action 
 games, it's even more fun to attack your goals with gusto when a friend is along for the ride. 
 However, our favorite online mode is siege battle. In this mode, two teams take turns attacking 
 and defending an entire region of targets, and the team that scores the most points is the winner. 
 Dealing with both your real-life opponents and a bunch of antiair weaponry (those flak guns are 
 nuisances indeed) at the same time is nerve-wracking and exciting, and there's really nothing quite 
 like it.  

  Aside from online play, Ace Combat 6 doesn't break any real new ground for the series. In fact, 
 some cool past features, such as AC5's radioed yes/no questions, are nowhere to be found. Yet Ace 
 Combat 6 makes up for it by providing the most immersive experience yet in an arcade flight combat 
 game, thanks to smooth, gorgeous visuals and polished gameplay. And you'll want to play again and 
 again: There are medals to earn, aircraft and special weapons to purchase with the points you receive 
 during missions, and a good selection of Xbox Live achievement points to earn that are spread out 
 evenly among the campaign and multiplayer modes. You can also save replays of your matches, and 
 the cinematic camera views make them a pleasure to watch. Whether you're an Ace Combat veteran 
 or a series newcomer, you won't be disappointed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (148 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofmadness43
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot different than the other Ace Combat games in the series. The graphics are amazing, 
 the planes are awesome, and the deep storyline and controls are great. you can have the controls 
 set to "novice" for those who aren't used to the game, but once you get your wings, you can go 
 normal and fly like a true pilot.
  The planes are good too, each one are from different countries, you can also get new paint jobs 
 for them either in-game, online, or from enemy Aces located in the game. The only drawback is the 
 lack of ace pilots, the only main aces are the Strigon team, and other aces appear when you play 
 on hard more or higher. 
  The game is great but it could use some more Ace squadrons like in Zero. Above all, this is a good 
 game that most Ace Combat fans will enjoy very much. Though the next Ace Combat game should have 
 more aces and more missions, maybe even add a campaign mode to allow players to play as other countries. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenh6696
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  good grafics, good sound, 
 sometimes hard to control. New sensation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: etmaul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I was very pleased with the latest installment of the Ace Combat series. The graphics were phenomenal 
 and the gameplay was solid. Honestly, I expected nothing less than perfection because the Ace Combat 
 series has really gotten better with every game. I was very surprised when NAMCO decided to bring 
 this to the 360, but I was definitely okay with it.
  
  The aspect of the game that stood out the most for me were the epic battles. In the previous games, 
 you were tethered to one objective, or you could go to another objective but not like in this game. 
 In the later levels, you have 5 objectives to try and complete, whether it's air support or ground 
 support, they really push you to the limit.
  
  If you've played some of the Ace Combat games before, you will no doubt be familiar with the amount 
 of weapons you can carry, but you will have to re-arm at some points. There are even levels where 
 you must re-take air fields so you can land and re-arm there, very cool in my opinion. I think 
 I even refueled in the air during one mission!
  
  All in all, if I had to gig the game on one aspect, I'd have to say the story was a bit lacking. 
 I'm still under the impression that Ace Combat 5: The Unsung War had the greatest story, so I wish 
 we had a story like that one in this game, but I digress.
  
  Thus, this game is fantastic. If you like air combat games, this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigasmanic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game! It takes time to master the controls, but it's really fun. Unfortunately, 
 it could have used a few more levels, with a little less difficulty. (I have been shot down God 
 knows how many times, on normal)
  
  For a flying game, this is a very realistic flying experience. Although it has unlimited gun ammo, 
 and an extremely large payload (I. E. you usually have 160-170 regular missiles) it still takes 
 alot of skill to shoot down enemies, especially the aces.
  
  The story could have used more, but it really doesn't need a story, the gameplay itself and the 
 mission briefing really covers the necessary points of the game.
  
  The "Ace-Edge" flying stick is a nice addition, but it is not necessary. I feel it is alot easier 
 to control the aircraft with it, but not all people like shoving $150 into it.
  
  Overall, if you like flying, this is definitely a game you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sol_Invictus-80
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  Now this was really a delusion. Arcade flying combat simulators are not plenty on the x360, and 
 the ones we have are not outstanding. This one received a very high score, so I tried it. What 
 a terrible mistake...
  
  * Graphics: yeah, yeah, it's very good. Plane models are A+. And, movements are smooth. And, details 
 are fine. And, who cares? All the rest is plain crap.
  
  * Gameplay: muahah @ whoever calls it "slick", "smooth", and good in general. Here is the gameplay 
 of this game, you just have to remember a few rules: a) throttle up up up to reach target, b) throttle 
 down down down when you are close to it, to have faster turning and gaining advantage, c) watch 
 out, doing b) too much leads to stall, d) fire missile or just spray cannons and pray.
  The above is horribly annoying as it soon becomes insanely repetitive. Keeping the missile foresight 
 in line using the xbox controller is one of the most effective ways to waste your time, as it's 
 simply impossible at closing distance, and so damn easy at long distances that you'll ask yourself 
 if you are playing or watching a video. 
  All the above is valid for air targets only, ground stuff is very easy to hit and the only problem 
 is avoiding to crash. But then again, no one wants to use ground-attack planes as in almost every 
 mission your wingmen will show their retardness and be unable to defend you from air attacks, so 
 you'd better take care of that yourself.
  
  * Story: ridiculos. Some kind of trashy manga-style abortion which manages to mix up: european 
 medieval knights, castles, boring-like-hell drama-love story, modern air combat and an ultrafake 
 parallel reality of the real world. I suppose calling the evil guys "Estovakians" instead of "Russians" 
 saves a lot of embarassing moments, but that's really the apotheosis of trash. 
  A good part of the game Missions are plain unispired, lack a good degree of sense, they are all 
 are repetitive and tend to be regular in their mediocrity. The last mission is broken, as the final 
 boss is, in the best manga style, almost unbeatable - not in the challenging, but in the frustrating 
 way of the word: immense health, missiles 99% don't hit him, he has way more speed/agility/weapons 
 than you, so you just need to devote A LOT of time trying desperate tactics based mostly on luck 
 rather than skill, and just pray to hit him.
  Targeting systems deserves a particular de-merit note: first it's very confusing, when you get 
 used to it it turns out to be simply badly made. You'll never find that SAM which is targeting 
 you unless it's a mission target (and it won't...) , nor any other threat unrelated to objectives, 
 unless you look really close to the screen, find it with your eyes and manually target it. What 
 a crappy design.
  
  All in all, this game is pure trash save for the graphics. Just forget to play a good modern air 
 combat simulation, you'll find yourself in some sort of fairy-tale story with planes, boring, repetitive 
 and frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amurothebrave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say I was hyped that Ace Combat 6 was coming..... even though at the time of its release 
 I didn't own an xbox...... until now.
  
  
  Graphics: OMG finally a game with photo realistic graphics and missle trails!..... Perfect! 
  
 
  
  Sound: This is where I go nuts. The dialogue and characters in cutscenes are cheesy as a bad dubbed 
 anime episode of your favorite show. Seriously If I hear Dance with an Angel one more time.......
 
  
  
  Difficulty: Hard..... I don't care if you disagree with me on this. There are certain parts of the 
 game that will make you frustrated up beyond all repair aka FUBAR. Namely the parts with the superweapons 
 (the fight against the CFA 44 was really really annoying) but it's a staple in all AC games having 
 a "death star" weapon of an antagonist nation.
  
  Controls: same old same old..... but with more realism when it comes to pulling up.....
  
  Gameplay: 
 Imagine a map in AC 3, 4, 5, Z, and X and times that by 5........ thats how big the stages are in 
 6..... and boy is it massive.... you actually pick operations and if you succeed in one you can use 
 allied support to attack targets.... which is good since its about time that the AI did some work 
 instead of a godlike ace aka the player.
  
  Story: Cheesy (see sound) but does have references to AC world events such as the giant asteroid 
 and Estovakia's "Stonehenge" weapon it produced.... which coincidently is south of the Ragriz Straigts 
 where the Sand Island squad of AC5 took out a super sub........
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Ace Combat 6 I started off playing the campaign. The Story line, may I say SUCKS 
 but no worry. The amazing game play sure makes up for the lack of a decent story! As you progress 
 through the Story you unlock a bunch of different Planes and weapons to buy with in-Game money. 
 I personally love any air force and anything to do with Planes so I know what I like to use and 
 Its fun to customize them with weapons. On line game play is a totally different thing to do. When 
 you select quick match the game immediately brings you in to a game in which you basically kill 
 your enemies using different techniques. If that isn't enough for you than you can pick a mission 
 you have already played and you can randomly fly around And Crash from a 40000 ft nose dive! Who 
 doesn't want to do that! The bottom line is that you will have a bunch of fun with this game that 
 will last you a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafanman89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Penny for penny this game was worth every cent. There isnt much to complain about considering Ace 
 Combat 6 Fires of Liberation is no doubt the best flight simulator for the 360. Even though its 
 not much better than Ace Combat 5 for PS2 Ace Combat 5 did'nt need much in the first place to make 
 it better. Dogfights in this masterpeice videogame can only be described as epic. Real war scenarios 
 take place at mach speed in this truly visionary game. Whether you rent this game for five nights, 
 or you shell out fifty plus bones for this game, every penny will be put to good use. Nothing comes 
 close to Ace Combat 6 Fires of Liberation when it comes to blasting ground units to Hell or firing 
 missiles at 6:00 targets. So hop in the cockpit turn all thrusters on and prepare for hair-raising 
 battle in this magnificant jet simulator of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukaga
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  It's been said that the game has fine graphics sound and overall presentation and they are correct 
 and do not bear repeating. The story is silly as noted and it is disappointing how much weaponry 
 you carry in this game. I knew all of this coming in. What I didn't know was that both sides in 
 this war fly the same planes! I mean what the hell were they thinking. Clearly, the Estovakians 
 should have been exclusively flying MiGs and SU planes but for some reason everyone has a bizarro 
 mix of NATO and WP planes in their lineup. It simply does not make any sense and ruins any suspension 
 of disbelief that I might of had. Think Namco, just think! A future AC7 should clearly be NATO 
 vs WP planes, no mixing. It does not feel right to be shooting down F-16s while flying one. Hire 
 some English writers guys, names like Gracemeria make no sense. You wouldn't see American developers 
 coming up with fake Japanese sounding words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsdan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  OK, so I've played this game, and others like it, quite a lot. I'm by no means an expert on the 
 genre, but I like to think I know what I'm talking about. AC6 delivers a very strong game, with 
 few exceptions. The musical score, sound effects & gameplay make for a great & exciting game. But 
 the let downs really hurt this game. The voice acting is abysmal, at best, the cutscenes lack emotion 
 & the game's ending really left me disappointed. Those who've played will, I hope, no what I mean. 
 After going through quite a few missions and finishing one, I was happy that that was it and I'd 
 completed the game. When out of nowhere comes more to do, but how strange is it that a game I've 
 really enjoyed left me annoyed that there was more??
  
  Overall a strong flight sim, try not to worry to much about all the other stuff, just enjoy the 
 missions, the well portrayed planet & a great musical score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subw00fer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I was trying to find a game that would be almost a perfect flight simulator... Ace Combat 6 isn't 
 that bad but I must admit that I've found deceiving the fact that the weapons load on a given airplane 
 was often 10x-20x more than what it should have been. Unlimited gun ammo? What is that? Only a 
 B-52 can carry the quantity of ammunition you will find on board a F-22 in Ace Combat 6. In that 
 regard, I'm annoyed. Yeah, it would be even tougher if I had to go back to base to reload after 
 emptying my missiles and rockets. But that's what I was doing when I was playing Gunship on my 
 Commodore 64, 24 years ago. When all my Hellfire were launched, and the Sidewinders and the 1200 
 30 mm chain-gun cannon rounds, I would go back to base, refill the pods and go back on the battlefield. 
 Makes everything more realistic. Graphics are great, scenery, landscape...
  
  Other than that, why are the enemies not visible when we replay a recorded flight?.. Annoying too... 
 If you can get this title below $30, it's worth it. I wish there was two modes: arcade and real 
 life. Then, everyone could be happy. I guess! I don't know of any combat flight sim on the Xbox 
 360 that is better than this. On the PC, there is Falcon 4: Allied Force, that is much more realistic. 
 I will probably have to get that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashfan10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  The game at first glance looks amazing. The graphics are incredible and the frame rate is perfect. 
 It has a pretty decent story and an ok variety of planes to choose from. Opening up the story you 
 only have one plane and then earn points in missions by destroying enemies to unlock other planes 
 and their special weapons. The story is a little short and gets to be a bit challenging in the 
 second half. Mission 9 and 13 in particular are very hard. It can be very frustrating after countless 
 times of being shot down, one might be discouraged from finishing the game. But if you keep at 
 it, you can get through it. Overall it has a lot of replay value and able to play online. Those 
 familiar with other ace combat games will not be disappointed by this installment, and I cannot 
 wait for the next one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I waited a year to play this game, because there was no way I was spending $60 for this very arcading 
 game. I booted the game up and get what I think must be the most cheesing and awful storyline and 
 dialog I have ever seen in a Xbox 360 game. The voice over is so ridiculous that I couldn't stand 
 it, I eventually just turned the silly music and dialog off, yes it's that bad.
  The missions are very generic and canned, and there are only 16 or so in the game. The graphics 
 are very, very well done, with the modeling of the planes done about as good as I've seen on in 
 flight game (I'm sure not calling this a flight sim) . The in mission sounds are good but very repetitive 
 but works for what this game is. The jets in the game are fun but all fly the same, doesn't matter 
 if you get an A-10 or F/A-18, you pretty much flying the same jet. The only thing that really matters 
 is the load out for the missions. You get a LOT of missiles or bombs, more than you think you will 
 ever need, WRONG! When this aracadish style game start throwing waves after waves of enemies at 
 you, you will find out why your jet is equipment with over a hundred missiles. 
  Though the game is a hell of a lot of fun, don't mistake this arcade game for more than just a 
 "fire your missiles as fast as you can" style game, with a very weak and disconnected storyline 
 that has ZERO to do with the fighting going on. If you're looking for a few hours of button mashing 
 and not anything that resemble a real flight sim, you should be good to go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRebel5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation is a great game. It is set in a standard fictional world as and 
 opens off with you losing your country to the bad guys. You will spend the entirety of the game 
 playing as "Talisman" attempting to get your country back. Hence the name "Fires of Liberation." 
 The story line is not terribly deep but just interesting enough to keep you entertained. If you 
 are just playing the game to kill as many enemies as possible then you are in luck because you 
 can just skip right over the well made cut scenes. 
  The actual combat in the game is incredibly well done and is simply a lot of fun. The controls 
 are easy enough to learn to the point where you will be able to get by on the lower difficulties 
 however, true mastery of the controls will take some time as will getting past the tougher missions. 
 As you destroy more enemies and complete missions you will earn credits that allow you to unlock 
 more planes and weapons for those planes. There are twenty something planes with and all of them 
 have three unique paint jobs as well as at least three special weapons so unlocking them all will 
 take quite some time. This combined with how much fun completing the levels is gives the game great 
 replay value.
  Like all games, this one also has some flaws. Ace Combat 6's main problem is plane to plane combat. 
 While shooting down regular planes gives just the right amount of challenge, shooting down the 
 enemy aces can become frustrating. The mul-ti player is just as frustrating at times as combating 
 enemy aces, and provides no real appeal to the player.
  Even though the game has no real mul-ti player mode and can become extremely frustrating at times 
 it is still a great game that you will find yourself playing over and over again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Many 360 first time titles failed in the footsteps of their near perfect predecessors on PS2 and 
 XBOX. Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation Soars to new heights to meet and maybe exceed gamer expectations. 
 
  
  'Ace combat 5: The Unsung War' (PS2) was the first in the series I played and I absolutely loved 
 it. So naturally I could not wait for 'Ace combat 6: Fires of Liberation' (360) to come out. 
 
  
  Opening intro scene didn't get me as pumped up as it did in Ace Combat 5, but it was still very 
 well done and the graphics looked stunning.
  
  The GUI and menu music to start things off are very solid. Makes you believe you are preparing 
 for wartime. 
  
  I liked how the levels varied in time and operation objectives. Some levels I breezed right through, 
 and some I had to try a few times. I had some trouble fighting 
  
  The graphics and visuals throughout the game were amazing. The story played out very well and had 
 some twists in it that I didn't expect which made it that much more enjoyable. The levels were 
 quite vast and allowed for you to fight in many different environments and weather types. Plane 
 selection was pretty substantial, and being able to D/L more advanced planes than what you are 
 allowed during mission time in the game made it easier to cope with mission difficulty. The Strigon 
 team and their planes are pretty elite and boast as formidable adversaries. I haven't played much 
 of the online part of this game, but I plan to because what I have tried is pretty sweet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XF22Raptor22X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 was the second game i got for my 360. and it is worth all 65 bucks i payed for it. 
 It starts off as you being scrambled after an unknown country attacks you capital and you are forced 
 to retreat, from there on you liberate parts of you country one mile at a time. you play as Talissman 
 or Garunda 1 and your wingman Garunda 2 with several other Friendly aircraft. The Visuals in this 
 game are amazing either it be to enemy fighters seeing huge aeriel battles miles away to small 
 objects on the ground it's all there. The AI is fantastic Enemy planes will deploy countermeasures 
 while desperately trying to evade you missiles. Sound is also very good and so is weapon selection. 
 One of the Few negatives about the game is that there aren't nearly as many planes to choose from 
 as previous games. And the Cut scenes don't really match up with your missions so to sum it all 
 up
  
  good:
  Awesome Visuals
  Good sound
  good weapon selection
  great aircraft models
  large aeriel battles that take lots of skill and time to beat
  bad:
 
  small selection of planes
  Cut scenes don't match the missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I seriously have no experience with air-fighting sims... until I got Ace Combat 6. From the moment 
 you jump in the cockpit and shoot baddies down, you'll feel like you're flying an actual fighter 
 jet.
  
  Let me lay down the basics: The story takes place in an alternate modern warfare-like world with 
 two kingdoms battling for air supremacy in an uprising war. YOU are the ace pilot in the Emmerian 
 Air Force and your objective is to retake your capital city from the dictating Estovakian Empire.
 
  
  I could get into detail with the story, but I don't wanna spoil anything.
  
  Your character, "Garuda 1" (his military call sign, not his real name) , never talks, which has 
 been seen in most war games (for example, your character from the Call of Duty series) .
  
  After you accomplish each mission, you are presented with a cut scene relating to the story and 
 what's going on around the world with each mission you beat.
  
  You are also allowed to buy new planes and unique weapons, which some can target up to 6 targets 
 on land, air, and even sea! You can even customize your wingmate, "Garuda 2" with the same materials 
 you have, provided that you've bought the weapons and aircraft.
  
  The game is pretty difficult, especially during dogfights and when you are faced with the enemies' 
 
  aces. 
  
  And believe me; the game starts out slow at first, but it becomes INCREASINGLY challenging and 
 hard, despite what difficulty level you select.
  
  The game length will keep you going and guessing until it's finally over.
  
  The controls can 
 be "iffy" at first, but once you get the hang of it, it's just plain fun to kill any guys that 
 stand (or fly) in your way.
  
  Remember when I said that dogfights can be challenging? They can, but they also can be a thorn 
 in your side. Most fights, can last to 30 to 45 minutes in one battle.
  
  Yeah, it can be stressing sometimes, but keep staying alive and you'll survive.
  
  The visuals 
 are awesome to look at and the detail of the planes are life-like. Unfortunately, half the time 
 you'll be looking at your radar to see if there are any missiles on your tail, while the annoying 
 "MISSILE WARNING" sound wails in your plane. So, you won't be looking at the landscape for long!
 
  
  In conclusion, this game is good and has some up and downs in most of the battles you'll be taking.
 
  
  Either way, this game is pretty sweet so give it a try! Whether you're a veteran Ace Combat player 
 or a newcomer, you'll be quite pleased.
  
  And remember, the next time you see a missing incoming: "TAKE EVASIVE ACTION!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a superb allround game: outstanding graphics, good game control, great sound effects, good 
 bgm and decent voice acting (except for the movie clips in between missions) . The plot is interesting 
 too and makes you feel patriotic to your side with the good bgm. There is also a good range of 
 planes to choose from. I'm not sure how accurate their settings are though - the F15 seemed too 
 powerful for the game. The downloadable skins look cool - but I haven't tried playing against others 
 online.
  
  The downside to this game is that it is way too short. Sure you can repeat it on tougher modes 
 but it gets monotonous as the number of missions are too few.
  
  I'd suggest renting this game because you can finish it a couple of times over within a couple 
 of weeks.
  
  If I could suggest anything about this game, both sides of the factions should've been playable! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Cipher
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what Namco was thinking when making this game. Ace Combat 6 Fires Of Liberation has 
 its downs AND downs. First lets talk about the cons: The storyline sucks, it doesnt really affect 
 much in the gameplay, though maybe a little. Basically four characters narrorate their perspective 
 about the war and they stare up in space and talk about how the war effects them. The dialogue 
 sucks as well. Estovakia, the enemy fictional country you get to face in the game. While your country 
 you are supposed to protect is Emmeria. The game has 15 long and some boring campaign missions 
 and 15 aircraft with your choice of special weapons. I believe that Namco could of added additional 
 missions to make the story longer and could of added aswell more aircrafts too. But thats a good 
 thing they didnt because the game would of been alot more boring. Although they at least finally 
 added the online feature. The online isnt that great either, their is no ranking system and it 
 doesnt even tell you how many planes you shot down. Overall this game will dissapoint you. Just 
 skip this game and dont play it. I use to be a fan of the Ace Combat Series but I lost ALOT of 
 interest with this one . THE ONLY GOOD THING ABOUT THIS GAME IS THE GRAPHICS. I hate to say it 
 guys but its unfortunately the truth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Combat series set the standard for action flying games on the PSOne and PS2 and now on 
 the XBOX360 AC6 looks better than ever. Unfortunately the series has made little or no significant 
 changes since AC4. The same old planes and the same old mission types are getting a little stale 
 at this point, no matter how amazing the graphical improvements are. The only new control addition 
 to AC6 is the ability to do High-G turns. The roster of planes in AC6 is less than AC5 and includes 
 the same old line-up. The series has always ridden the line between reality and fantasy with the 
 inclusion of non real world technology (usually employed by the enemy) but curiously the series 
 is slow to add original planes to the play list including one or two unlockable planes per game. 
 AC6 gives us only one of these "superplanes" and gives it to us only after finishing the Hard difficulty. 
 The superplanes of the past are what draw me to the series and the lack of more original plane 
 designs (or at least the inclusion of superplanes from past games) is confusing. The content available 
 for purchase on xboxlive consists of skins for existing aircraft which merely change the stats 
 and weapon load. They could have at least added additional aircraft not found in the game. Although 
 this is a GREAT looking game and fun to play, the same old planes and level variety are really 
 getting old. I hope the developers branch out a little in the next AC in both original plane designs 
 and level diversity. I'd even be happy with a current gen remake of AC3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Ace Combat VI: Fires of Liberation
  
  Review 140
  
  Released: October 23, 2007
  Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
  Developer: Namco Bandai 
 Games
  Game Genre: Flight
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Mild Language, Violence
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
 
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (9/10)
  Fires of Liberation takes place in a fictional land called Gracemeria. This country even has its 
 own culture that is thrown into the storyline and the characters are shown both in the sky and 
 on the ground.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  The game can take a while to get used to if you have not played a flight sim before. There are 
 some very complicated controls.
  
  Every plane is real and there are many to choose from, after some have been unlocked. Other planes 
 are available via downloadable content as well.
  
  Basically, there are 15 stages in the game and in each stage, there are a few objectives to complete 
 before the real objective takes place. Objectives may be assisting ground troops by taking out 
 artillery, taking out electronic assistance, or launching an offensive against the enemy navy.
 
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Wow. There are so many things on the screen, and each of them looks flawless. Yet, even with all 
 of this, there is not a bit of lag.
  
  Durability (8/10)
  There are only 15 missions, yet each one has the possibility of taking up to 45 minutes to an hour.
 
  
  Overall Score (8.7/10)
  Rounded Score (8.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Play this game, even if you do not like flight sims, just for the last mission. Trust me. It is 
 phenomenal. You'll feel like Luke Skywalker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickLovin22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is kinda fun online but the directions can get unclear and it is hard right from the 
 get go. i always say you should rent a game before you buy it if you have never played it yourself. 
 and if you have never played these games before you better be a good gamer and deticated to start 
 now. the game does not have the best graphics and is hard to hit your targets. but the controls 
 are fairly simple and if you get the hand of everything else, you should have fun. especially online. if 
 you have anymore questions just message me. ill get back to you eventually. one more thing, i have 
 not beaten the game so it might get better at the end. the story line is kinda dumb. but i had 
 a hard time getting past the first mission. it took me about a week. and if you practice you should 
 get better and the view of the ocean and landscape is really nice for a video game dispite the 
 9/10 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epsilon101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Meh. Of course, I'm an Ace Combat fan. So I went out, and bought this game new, for the awesome 
 price of 67. something CDN $. Was it worth it ? Not really. The cinematic, especially at the start, 
 are quite gripping, But you don't feel really involved in the story. Fires Of Liberation is a great 
 game on it's own, and I really liked how the battles got huge pretty fast. Watching 40 + airplanes 
 launching missiles all over the place is quite enthralling. But, the nothing-special-here missions 
 are a bit boring. It's fun to have area of operations, giving you more liberty at playing the game, 
 but ultimately you just switch between anti-air, anti-ground, and anti-naval. During the whopping 
 14 missions of the game that's pretty much all you'll do. Of course their are some pretty neat 
 fights, but not enough. The ability to call reinforcements on your targets (more like an Alpha 
 Strike if you ask me) is nice, but doesn't always works. Sometimes you'll have to use another charge 
 (you fill a gauge divided in five charges, or strikes, by racking kills) just to get your allies 
 on target. A cool feature, that could have been better implemented. I believe Ace Combat 5: The 
 Unsung War was better, but Fires Of Liberation is worth getting. Maybe not for 70 bucks though 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BUD007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  If your into flight combat games, this a good one to pick up. Its pretty fun and it does have its 
 frustrating moments but its a good game. It has a good story line to that revolves around different 
 characters which is a wife of one of your countries fighter pilots as well as a girlfriend of one 
 of the enemy pilots, a little girl, a general or colonel or whatever of the enemies military and 
 your character as well as the rest of your team trying to liberate your country from the invaders. 
 It has a good selection of jets that you can purchase. Your jets have three weapons, your machine 
 gun, missiles, and special weapons such as EMP's, cluster missiles and so on. You can also get 
 different paint jobs for your jets. This game is worth it if you enjoy flight combat games. Its 
 fun flying around and shooting down other jets or blowing up ground targets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidum-jurgin
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  seems a new game for multirole fighters began lasing out in the gaming industry today so here is 
 it the ace combat this game makes you like a pilot while navigating the terrain, area , dealing 
 the enemies and playing missions like you're in real front line and in like in many wars we have 
 seen in t. v with also terrains in real graphics with tanks ,bunkers, surface to air missiles flying 
 around and ocean of bullets coming on you so then its a challenge for us how to deal with it .so 
 also more new aircraft's, missions to flew in more enemies to deal with it also its like stimulator 
 that makes you in the real combat in the front lines sure that you , love it and flying out like 
 in the war supporting the ground forces, air to air and air to ground battle seems also a tool how 
 you fly a fighter jet and handling them and als you can see their capabilities and descriptions 
 in the game like the same description on the actual jet fighters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 669594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat is one of those games that deliver what they should: Intense Action, lengthy missions, 
 lots of planes, lots of explosions......
  
  Pros:
  -Immersive Gameplay makes playing the game real easy even for novice players
  -Decent singleplayer 
 with some intense and huge living battlefield.
  -Wide variety of crafts and weapons.
  -Nice Multiplayer and sweet DLC.
  -Amazing Graphics, great-looking explosions and particle effects 
 coupled with crisp texture, manages to run on a steady framerate.
  - Great Sound Effects and chatter help the immersive ambiance.
  
  Cons:
  -Slightly repetitive 
 mission structure.
  -More multiplayer modes would have been welcome.
  -Up-Close graphics are bland with blurry textures and average ground units 
  modelling.
  -Lip-synch 
 in cutscenes is terrible as it fits the Japanese voices far better 
  compared to the english.
  -Story is sort of shalow and you do not care about the characters too 
 much.
  -Those not interested in online will not get big mileage with the game.
  
  Ace Combat 6 is without doubt the best flight game on the 360 and one of the best in history. Buy 
 It ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Ace Combat series, and when it went 360, I went and got one just 
 for this game. While I was still impressed with the game play and the graphics, stuff is still 
 missing from the game such as afflicted flight when damaged, which I was hoping would be present 
 in this game, but sadly it is not.
  
  The storyline and the voice acting was highly unimpressive, and undershoots Ace Combat 5 by a long 
 shot. It takes away from the game in a sense. However, the game play for those who want an arcade 
 flight game is phenomenal as always, and finally they managed to make a difficulty level in which 
 you can be shot down several times throughout the course of a campaign. I love this game, but it 
 just needs a few things (which other games of this category lack as well) to make it complete.
 
  
  Another marvelous Ace Combat game. What can I say? The only game to make me go 360... Definitely 
 a game with a lot of replay potential and nice downloadable content from Xbox LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven_DMC
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me first off state that I love the Ace Combat series and have been a fan since Ace 2. I even 
 have the special edition of Ace 5 that had the flight stick.
  
  And for all intents and purposes, I love this game. The graphics are beautiful. The controls are 
 spot on. And typically, this is where I'd say, don't bother with the review, just go buy this game 
 right now.
  
  But I can't. Why? D. L. C. That's right, whereas most DLC gives you incentive to purchase a game, 
 with AC6, it's actually a liability. It seems only Bill Gates will have the ability to play the 
 "full" Ace 6 game, since you'll pay more than triple the cost of the game for DLC that's out, with 
 more being released every few weeks.
  
  If not for the fact you have to pay for things that should've been in the game, I would've easily 
 given this game a 9.0. It wouldn't be so bad if it weren't so overpriced. I mean, they are charging 
 for difficulty levels even. 
  
  I was so excited about the co-op. Then I realized you only get 2 missions. Yes, you can BUY more. 
 But only two out of the box.
  
  Then we have a zillion different plane downloads, all of which used to be free in previous installments, 
 now gets a tag of up to $5.00 per aircraft. Though I must mention that each time new craft are 
 released, they always have one (crappy) free one in the bunch. 
  
  All in all, I want to love this game. But given how boring online is and how much they want you 
 to bend over and grab your ankles with the DLC, I really have to recommend you spend your money 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  For those of you who simply want good game play from a flight simulator, this will be fine. For 
 those who want anything else such as engaging story, good characters, sufficient voice acting, 
 and revolutionary features, then this game is far from being close to good. 
  In Ace Combat: Fires of Liberation is just about as lame as it sounds really. I think the name 
 of the game speaks for itself. In this game you are Garuda 1, a pilot in the fictional Emmerian 
 airforce who has to dogfight and battle the invading Estovakians. Yes, those names are real and 
 they are as annoying to read as they are in the game. Anyway, this is basically an America vs Russia 
 game that the producers didn't want to admit. While the game-play is alright, dodging and zipping 
 around stunning environments, gunning down enemy planes and bombing air-craft batteries, outside 
 of that the game is immensely annoying. The voice acting of every single character in the game 
 is appalling which doesn't help the fact that the characters are bad to start off with. Bad characters, 
 bad voice acting, and completely abysmal storyline makes everything in between levels potentially 
 worth a whole new "SKIP SKIP" button. Everything outside the cock-pit is simply bad, no question 
 about it. 
  The game-play is mildly redeeming, however there are some major flaws which might annoy people 
 seeking more depth to their flight. Firstly, in combat there is no way to fire a flare or any weapon 
 of any sort to distract enemy rockets. This means that the majority of most levels is spent twisting 
 and turning, dodging rockets when a more realistic game would have a flare option for the most 
 dire of circumstances. The environments are big, and look good from 30, 000 ft up. Get up close 
 however, and it looks bad. The buildings are blocky, blury and have no texture. For those of you 
 who like to fly low, zooming through valleys and dodging through buildings and extremely low altitudes 
 (like myself) i can say it isn't rewarding. Most vehicles are only recognisable up close by a small 
 stick sticking out of the top which i suppose could be identified as a barrel of some kind. Buildings 
 don't explode with much enthusiasm when you lay in a massive bomb strike. That said, downing enemy 
 planes is tricky, but rewarding. The explosion witnessed after a smoke trailing rocket strikes 
 the underbelly is truly entertaining almost every time. Unfortunately, every time is very often 
 and the 1 hour long levels require a lot of repetition and ammo refills. It sort of ruins the fun 
 when you have to do it so often. 
  Multiplayer is much the same as the single player really, only the AI is replaced with players. 
 It still doesn't look that good, however it is slightly more rewarding taking down an opponent 
 since you know he did his level best to avoid it. 
  That said, Ace Combat: Fires of Liberation will only please hardcore flight simulator fans who 
 have no real care for depth in their games. If you want some depth to gaming, don't buy this game. 
 If you want to see what its like, just borrow it off a friend or rent it. Not really worth paying 
 good money for. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarmer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation is the latest in the Ace Combat series, made by Namco. An arcade 
 like flight simulator, it has realistic elements (Such as real planes) as well as using artistic 
 license to improve gameplay (Such as 250 multipurpose, homing missiles) and on this path it does 
 very well. 
  
  Story: The game is set in a fictional universe with a war between two countries, Emmeria and Estovakia. 
 You follow a unnamed pilot on the Emmerian side of the conflict though 15 varied missions. During 
 the missions you will earn money that you can spend on new planes, better weapons or alternate 
 colour schemes. The story in itself is quite weak, but it sets up some nice missions, which on 
 the whole are quite good. Most missions also give you a choice on which operations to take, opening 
 up multiple paths to completing the level. This means they have quite good replayability, which 
 is good if you want to collect some of the achievements, as they can require multiple playthroughs. 
 The computer controlled opponents are often very easy and passive, so most players will easily 
 be able to survive against multiple opponents, even on higher difficulties. You will also have 
 control of a computer controlled wingman who can be ordered to target enemies of your choice, and 
 the ability to call for allied support when you helped enough of your allies too.
  
  Gameplay: The actually feel of the planes are all different, but they are all very forgiving, so 
 if you've every played a flying game before you should be fine. As mentioned before all have a 
 huge amount of ammo, which helps to keep the game going at a decent pace. As well as these missiles 
 you also have specials which you select before you fly which have a variety of effects, such as 
 long range missiles for air-to-air, anti ship missiles or bombs. Not every plane has access to 
 each special so there is an element of strategy. Sadly one place where the game could be better 
 is the availability of more aircraft (Only 15) which would make it a lot better.
  
  Graphics: I barely need to say much about this as they all look amazing, from the planes themselves 
 to the smoke trails from the missiles. Amazingly there doesn't seem to be a drop in framerates 
 even when there are 40+ planes in the sky.
  
  Sound: The music for this game is quite good and adds a really nice touch to the game. The explosions 
 and gunfire are all good and all, plus the voice acting in the game is actually isn't to bad either 
 and adds to the game nicely.
  
  Online multiplayer: This is where the game falls a little short. Often the teams can be very unbalanced 
 and it can be very hard to find games. Also there are no ranking system or playlists and the online 
 leaderboard is broken, which make the experience feel very incomplete.
  
  Overall: This game is definitely a good game with a few flaws. The online play lets it down a lot 
 and a few more aircraft would have been appreciated, though the graphics are great and the sound 
 is nice. Quite fun to play too.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ES-Cobra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  After beating Ace Combat 5 all those years ago on the PS2 i was left wanting more. Well the day 
 finally came and Ace Combat 6 was released.
  
  Ace Combat 6 is a fast paced flight simulator. The gameplay is quit simple but is still fun. The 
 game is more on the Arcade style of flight simulators then say a traditional flight simulator like 
 Over G. If you have ever played any other flight simulator like Over G the controls should be second 
 nature to you. The online play can be fun especially if you have a friend that can act as your 
 wing man can you say TOP GUN FANTASY come true. This game is also supported with all types of downloadable 
 items ranging from New planes, New levels, and New difficulty levels.
  
  The only problem i have with the game is the stroyline and getting a match online. The storyline 
 is ok but after playing ace combat 5 i was expecting alot more in the stroyline of ace combat 6. 
 Internet matches can be a problem sometimes as well. The Ace Combat 6 community seems all to be 
 on at one time or nobody on at all.
  
  All in all i would pick this game up if you have played and liked any pass Ace Combat games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Ace combat is the best series of games so far, and Ace combat six the best game ever made. Amazing 
 Graphics, great sensation of true flying, incredible missiles and weapons, a good story . A fan 
 of ace combat like me can only say this is almost PERFERCT !! And I say almost because I feel the 
 game is short to fullfill the expectatives of the fans. When I just bought it I play for six hours 
 and I was past the half of the game, for all the time waiting, changing consoles and everything 
 the game could have been a little bit longer, maybe 200 hours?  the only thing that keeps us alive 
 is playing online and buying more missions and aircrafts.
  After beating the game 10 times and playing online all afternoons for six months all that remain 
 is waiting for the Ace Combat 7 to start a new fun season in my life please give us sign of life 
 HURRY!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstevo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  If you like flight sims then this is your scene, if you don't, it's still very much a game which 
 grabs your attention by the horns with both hands. Firstly, you can set the controls from realistic 
 to arcade so don't worry if you haven't played a flight sim. The Head-Up display is realistic to, 
 which again you can also customize for your own preference. If you're anything like me then you'll 
 want to play it as realistic as possible, something which I like to call 'FEALISTIC'! The graphics 
 are smooth and flow really well with no slow-down and with practise you can pull off some spectaculer 
 flying. The only downside I think is the cut scenes between missions, they're just to long. The 
 games is made by Japanese company Namco and we all know how the Japanese like their storylines 
 (Metal Gear Solid springs to mind!) . The story is probably a very good story but it just seems 
 to drag on a little, and all you want to do is fly a plane, dogfight and see how close to the floor 
 you get without crashing at full throttle!! All-in-all though, a very good game indeed and I am 
 happy to have added it to my collection and recommend that Gamers everywhere do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat. When an individual utters this name, many think the same thing:
  
  Planes. Epic plane battles throughout the skies of various fictional nations featuring the latest 
 and greatest planes available today (and some that are not!) . Ace Combat 6 certainly does not deviate 
 from this idea and, in fact, capitalizes on it.
  
  Simply watching the opening video gives players a glimpse into what this game really is all about. 
 Scenes of destruction, loss, and heroism under fire litter the three minute long video. Yet, it 
 does not do justice to the actual campaign. The story begins with you playing the part of Garuda 
 1, an elite pilot in the Emmerian air force that is tasked with fending off the invading Estovokian 
 army and recapturing your home land. Various plot twists and interesting characters add to the 
 intrigue of this game, along with scenes in between each mission that provide every emotion, from 
 the humorous, to the heroic, to the down right emotional. That acting could be better, but for 
 the most part, it fits nicely into the overall storyline. Now, some missions in the course of the 
 campaign seem very long and drawn out, constantly having the player do a multitude of tasks. The 
 AI allies seem to be incapable of fending off any enemy for any length of time, as one will often 
 here "This non-descriptive squad needs assistance" from your AWAC supervisor.
  
  However, the campaign develops and ends very nicely, giving players that warm, fuzzy feeling. The 
 music for the game also has a superb feel, with powerful violins and brass rocking the most intense 
 moments while a sweet chorus and woodwind melodies accentuate the times of utmost desperation. 
 One word:
  
  Phenomenal. Namco sculpted the environments beautifully and the aircraft have never looked better. 
 Try playing Ace Combat 6 in full HD.
  
  :O
  
  The multiplayer aspect certainly adds to the games longevity, as players can team up and tackle 
 several co-operative missions or do a variety of adversarial battles. The higher difficulties of 
 the campaign mode even offer the opportunity to take down "Aces" which give players the option 
 to purchase that specific Ace's custom skin for that plane. Neat stuff!
  
  So, besides the few boring campaign missions, the lack-luster AI allies, and the somewhat mediocre 
 acting, this game has everything gunning for it. If you love the Air Force, have a passion for 
 aircraft, or just love to fly, this is definitely for you!
  
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  i have never liked or played any arcade or simulation flying games, coz i always found all f them 
 not interesting, but this is one game i loved, every aspect of it is so good.... visually stunning- 
 the graphics are superb, game play is so damn good and controls of the planes have been made so 
 easy to use yet not leaving the fun of flying a real one.. great and an impressive storyline to 
 add to the other beauties of this instant classic, the story somehow manages to keep you gripped 
 to your seat, even for players who are new to playing flying games and bought this one for the 
 hype of the graphics you are gonna find it an absolute must in your xbox 360 collection and will 
 love playing every aspect of it and will find the learning curve for such a difficult game made 
 so easy by the developers. every part of the game-training missions, storyline, garage, buy or 
 sell fighter planes, graphics (mentioning again coz its a marvel ) , weapons, game play, in short 
 one hell of a game..!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  
  [The Good]
  
  - Presentation   Looks amazing, one of the best 
 looking games on the 360 for sure. Fireworks really neat addition.
  
  - Planes   Very good selection of the best planes around and they look great too. The only thing 
 here is they don't feel that different when flying them except maybe for the A-10 and F-117 which 
 are noticeably slower.
  
  - Atmosphere   Except for the weak lame story, when in flight the communications and overall action 
 is quite entertaining.
  
  - Gameplay   Although not realistic, it's easy to pick up and play and the control scheme makes 
 sense however It does lack depth.
  
  
  [The Bad]
  
  - Realism   Unlimited weapons, no 
 chaff/flare, enemies have some planes that make impossible aerodynamic flight paths. You can outrun 
 missiles which is nuts. Crazy flying aircraft carrier, UFO drones, crazy big-bertha mega-gun !
 
  
  - Mission Chaos   Thousands of enemies, hundreds of planes and unclear mission objectives. Out 
 of nowhere, part of the mission fails. Missiles from a thousand directions so the missile alert 
 is on 90% of the time.
  
  - Story   Quite possibly the worst story in a while with pathetic lines and hearing "flying like 
 angels" 10,000 times. Needs total overhaul. Again, add some realism to it, the planes you're given 
 are real so why not make it all tie together.
  
  - Online   Tried battle match and it was similar to an FPS in a single small sized room, imagine 
 that, you shoot someone or you're down in less than a second.
  
  - Font   What's with Japanese games and Times New Roman?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloboy10
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This is super awesome mega game it can be annoying being shot down but its still so awesome. The 
 only proper flight simulation ever made. The graphics are perfect but when you go near the ground 
 the ground looks terrible but then again its still good the game is just awesome. Its show the most 
 famous jet fighters ever its strange you start off quite good then you get stuck on a level then 
 you get really far then you get stuck again. Its cool when you can make your own cool plane stunts 
 and blow the enemies planes into bits in a massive explosion but i hate the drone plane when they 
 make huge explosions that's what slows you down when trying to complete the game. This game is really 
 irritating sometimes like the lock on alarm when the beeping noise comes on and the lock on for 
 missiles is very slow and the enemies planes go into circles so you can't lock on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indecipherable
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I' ve really been looking forward to playing this game, since the last flight game I've played 
 was F22-Raptor a few years ago. And let me tell you, I was by no means disappointed!! AC6 really 
 is an addictive and highly enjoyable game.
  
  Story: Even though the story wasn't greatly told, the game got me convinced that I'm an ace pilot 
 fighting for his country. This was done by means of rather frequent cutscenes, showing how the 
 war affected a number of people and examining its consequences from various viewpoints. The voice 
 acting wasn't all that convincing, but cutscenes are way better than simply dry briefings.
  
  Graphics: The first thing you notice in a game is its graphics and trust me, this game really 
 delivers in this field. Each of the many original aircraft at your disposal is beautifully designed, 
 has a number of movable parts and behaves convincingly in combat. The skies are set ablaze by the 
 numerous friends and foes battling it out at any given moment, with the missile trails being visible 
 long after the missiles have been fired and the explosions of those unfortunate enough to be on 
 their path. However, even with all this air traffic, the frame rate never once falters.
  
  Sound: The sound is one of those things that never takes centre-stage, but can either nicely compliment 
 or ruin the game. In AC6's case, it's definitely the former. Each mission has its own unique soundtrack, 
 which starts with mild tunes at the start of the battle and flourishes when the battle begins, 
 providing a sense of urgency and excitement. The sounds of missiles flying, guns firing and things 
 blowing up are also vey satisfying. Constant radio chatter, with friends and foes commenting on 
 various things or warning you of danger completes the experience.
  
  Gameplay: Another area at which the game performs almost flawlessly. The controls are rather easy 
 and quickly become like second nature, although you might want to take the tutorials first. Each 
 aircraft behaves very differently in combat, from fast and mobile fighters to slower, destructive 
 bombers. Each plane also sports different special weapons, suitable for different uses and is a 
 point to consider when choosing which of them you want to use for each mission.
  
  Overall, this a great action-flying game and my only minor complaint is that I'd like just a bit 
 more realism, so as to really feel what it means to be a true pilot. However, at anything the game 
 attempts, it performs more than adequately and is easily recommendable for anyone who likes action, 
 flying, both, or simply wants to have fun!! Engage!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  I have never played an Ace Combat game before Fires of Liberation, so I'm not sure about the history 
 of this franchise. What I do know is that Ace Combat 6 is fun!
  
  The game is near photo realistic in its graphical presentation, although ground texture do leave 
 much to be desired if you get low enough and are moving slow enough to closely examine them. The 
 aircraft are modeled accurately, and look like the real thing.
  
  The game is not a flight simulation, as the most realistic part of its flight model is the fact 
 that you blow up when you fly into the ground or other objects. All of the planes vary in performance, 
 and have different roles. A-10's are slow and armored and carry mostly ground attack weapons, where 
 as f-14s are fast and are fitted with Air to Air weaponry. Other planes such as the f-16 and f-18 
 are more balanced between the two roles. All the planes can perform turns, roles, and climbs defy 
 physics and pilot endurance.
  
  Despite an unrealistic flight engine, the game is fun, there are allot of targets to fight in a 
 given mission, and you find yourself needing to climb and dive and turn to doge the bevy of missiles 
 after your plane. The type of plane you choose & its weapon load-out makes a difference in how 
 you approach a mission.
  
  The Cut scenes in this game are probably the worst part of the game, they use the analogy of "dancing 
 with the Angles" way too much. which is made even more annoying by the poor voice performances 
 and lip syncing in the cut scenes.
  
  I would recommend Ace Combat 6 to anyone looking for a new action game for their Xbox 360. Its 
 controls are simple enough that anyone can play the game, and it has plenty of action and explosions 
 to keep the most avid of first person shooter fans occupied for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flying_Ace
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  I'll be to the point here. I bought this game the very day it arrived at Gamestop. Okay, I take 
 that back. I had paid for it entirely (flightstick bundle of course) weeks before it came out. 
 Since then I have enjoyed shooting down countless enemy fliers.
  
  Now for the actual review.
  
  Graphics: Wow! This game looks incredible! Now that I've gotten 
 my initial excitement out of the way... This game looks, as I said before, incredible. The plane 
 details are amazing, the ground (from high above) looks quite lovely, and the explosions are better 
 than ever. Now for the gripe. As good as the graphics look from higher up, they could have at least 
 made the ground textures look better from lower altitude. And the water, as nice as it looked, 
 could have at least had some movement. As powerful as the Xbox 360 is, it would have been nice 
 to see that little bit of movement. Also, where are the people? No matter where you are there are 
 never any people moving around on the ground. Honestly, if the people who did Battle Stations Midway 
 could put sailors on the decks of those ships, then it wouldn't have really been hard for Namco 
 Bandai to put a few people on the ground.
  
  Sound: I have few complaints about the sound really. I can't even complain about the radio chatter. 
 The only real complaint that I have is the terrible voice acting (mostly in the cut-scenes) . But 
 I can get past that.
  
  Gameplay: This game plays very well. I'd say that this is really the best playing game in the series. 
 It runs quite smoothly and transitions nicely from one thing to the next. The only fault I have 
 is the thing about not crashing and dying when you hit the ground on the lower difficulty level. 
 But I can get past that too.
  
  Story: This is where the game hurts. The story is quite awful. I won't say that it doesn't have 
 a story, just a really bad one. You're a pilot who rushes up to defend his homeland in the first 
 mission and after you lose it you go through the steps of reclaiming it. This is a decent core 
 to a story actually, a bit clich, but it would do as a beginning to the actual story. So tell 
 me why did they only do that for the story? Well, in the end you reclaim your capital city (Yay!) 
 only to find it in danger from an enemy super-weapon. So you come off of an aerial patrol above 
 the capital city Gracemeria and go straight to the final fight. I guess that an extra mission, 
 or two, of your group actually trying to get to the weapon (which happens to be quite far into 
 the enemy nation) would be a bit too much to ask for. I just have one question for Namco Bandai. 
 Why would you, after the epic story of Ace Combat 5, do this to us?
  
  A. I.: The A. I. in this game is actually pretty decent. Unlike before with enemies these will attack 
 you. Still though, there are some things that I feel I should mention. The characters that fight 
 with you are pretty dumb. Not completely dumb, but kinda. They do as they're told, which is nice, 
 but at other times they're half the map away when you need them. Your wingman in this is pretty 
 good. He'll get the job done and not try to show you up, like Pixy in Ace Combat Zero. The enemy 
 pilots though will make such stupid choices when you're locking on though that it's like they're 
 saying "Please shoot me down. I don't want to live anymore." At least it gets better on the most 
 difficult levels. But by no means is it easy. The enemies will also, from time to time, come to 
 back each other up. It doesn't happen too often up through normal difficulty, but as you go to 
 more difficult levels then they'll help each other more often.
  
  Multiplayer: Finally, I can show off my prowess to the rest of the world! Ha ha ha!!! Oh? What? 
 I can't? I don't have Xbox Live Gold? Grrr. Only one modem in the house and no wifi. This sucks. 
 Have fun till I, eventually, get there guys.
  
  Overall: This game, with its faults, is among my favorites that I have on 360 currently. I don't 
 see that changing any time soon. Some things would have been nice if they were done differently 
 or at all. But I'm not the developer, oh no, I'm the gamer. I play what they put out. Sometimes 
 it's a turd. Sometimes it's gold. And sometimes it's a golden turd. I'm thankful that this is, 
 overall, golden. A little stain here and there, but nothing that would ruin the game completely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operating
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  You never know what to expect from these games, wait, what am I talking about?! You can ALWAYS 
 expect amazing visuals, a great storyline, and the Best in Avionic Destruction, in any videogame.... ever. 
 Not all will agree with me when I say that this is probably the best installment in the Ace Combat 
 series, but, I think it is. There are a few suprises hidden in the game, along with decent online 
 multiplayer and co-op. There are dozens of downloadable skins for the planes, including past paint 
 schems such as the famous "razgriz" from AC5, and Scarface from AC2. The controls are very good 
 on the controller, but, to get the "realistic" feel, you'd have to go and buy the joystick made 
 espcially for AC6. Although the landscapes ingame aren't all THAT great, the planes and everything 
 else definately make up for it. Beautifully renderd planes, awesome visual effects, and a great 
 (but old) targeting system make Ace Combat 6, just one more reason to get a 360, and to invest 
 in the Air Force! Haha, just kidding about the Air Force thing, but seriously, Ace Combat 6 is 
 an amazing game, and it deserves your undevided attention immediately. Your missing outon one of 
 the best games EVER for the XBox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hizam_samsudin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat never stops to surprise gamers in combat flight sims with dazzling cockpit view and 
 electrifying action surrounds, this game will not let you down. I played all of the series in ace 
 combat both in PS and PS2, but this time they really put everything together in this masterpiece 
 and make it more fascinating to play. With more beautiful graphic like in Ace Combat 4 and brainy 
 wingman like Ace Combat 5 and Zero, this series sure put Ace Combat 6 to another difference level 
 of flight sim.
  
  But not everything in life is prefect; there are some levels in this game where the enemies seem 
 to be improbable to defeat especially when fighting with the bosses and the drones. They seem to 
 be able to turn, evade and maneuver in unrealistic way in difference speed without getting stall. 
 (You can notice this when dogfight with them closely) It's very nerve-racking to get them down but 
 with more than 250 missiles at your disposal, one of them can lucky.
  
  One more shortcoming of Ace Combat 6 is the good-looking cinematic scenes seem not to be related 
 to player directly. The storyline is just like in Ace Combat 4 where at the end of the game we 
 will know that we make a different to somebody life indirectly by winning the war. I think players 
 would prefer a cinematic scene that related to the sorties like in Ace Combat 5 which I think make 
 the player be part of the storyline in the entire game. But Ace Combat 6 make up this drawback 
 by setting an interesting radio chats of all squadrons in the battle fields that make each sortie 
 lively.
  
  Overall Ace Combat 6 is a highly enjoyable, well-executed flight sim that perfectly blends the 
 action and presentation. High recommended. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 gets you right into the action just as soon as you start the game. It took me only 
 a couple minutes to figure out how to get good at it, which is great especially for novices which 
 may take about 10 minutes to get used to. But beware that each mission will usually get harder 
 and will offer a challenge. 
  
  The graphics are great. The planes look great, sky looks great, the cockpit looks great, but the 
 ground looks like crap unfortuanatly. For those who play flight simulator and other games involving 
 flight then you should know that in every one of those games to my knoledge looks like crap on 
 the ground. Right before I was about to play the game for the first time I was hoping the ground 
 would look at least decent considering the game is on the Xbox 360. But the water looks great! 
 
  
  Flying is a joy and it just gets more fun in Ace Combat 6. You get to choose from a variety of 
 different war aircrafts that all have their own abilities. Each one of them that you fly, you always 
 get the great sense of speed whether you're nosediving at 1700 mph or traveling in a slow moving 
 aircraft at 250 mph. 
  
  The single player campagn is great and will start to get especially chalenging during the later 
 area of the game. The multiplayer is always good but maybe as good as the single player. But just 
 be aware that I've only played the Xbox Live vesus mode for about an hour total. 
  
  I reccomend this game to anyone interested in flying or someone who likes constant action which 
 Ace Combat 6 offers. 6 is definetily the best in the Ace Combat series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TabsTravels
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest installment of the Ace Combat series by Namco. The best Ace Combat out right 
 now in terms of graphics, gameplay, and online availability. Ace Combat may have all that great 
 stuff but it has a very weak storyline, so if your a fan of stories instead of actual gameplay 
 you may want to rethink buying this game. 
  
  The game is centered around a nameless pilot and his career through this war between Emmeria and 
 Estovokia. You start out with a weak jet and slowly start building up your arsenal of new jets 
 as the game progresses. towards the end of the game you will have the upper hand verse your opponent's 
 with all the new aircrafts you have at your disposal. 
  
  The new feature of the game is the ability to call in allied support. First to unlock allied support 
 you have to bail your allies out of whatever mission they are doing. As soon as their mission is 
 done they will start to follow you around, and you can dispatch them to either attack enemies you're 
 facing or have them cover your six. All in all its a nice new addition that adds the help when 
 you need it but manages not to get in the way while you're dogfighting. 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound effects in this game are great and putting you in the mood and making you feel as if 
 you are actually there dogfighting for your life and to save your country that is counting almost 
 completely on you.
  
  Music was there but I don't remember it a whole lot (I'm not good at noticing it) But when I did 
 managed to notice it, it was quite nice. They set the mood right for whatever mission you're on 
 and for what emotion you should be feeling in the game.
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are some of the best i've seen around for a flight arcade simulator. The jets look 
 real and move fins and flaps depending and what you're doing behind the cockpit, some even have 
 cargo bays that open up when you launch missiles. With all its good looks it still manages to hold 
 up the great fps numbers any action has to have. I've seen more than 50 enemies on screen at one 
 time with no sacrifice to my frames but sold me on its graphics right there. The ground terrain 
 could still use some more work to make it photo realistic, but they have plenty more installments 
 to get that done.
  
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game play is where it's at in this one. The satisfaction you get from winning a dog fight and 
 watching the resulting explosion is significant for the majority of the game. However later when 
 you get the pimp jets it losses some of its greatness, especially when your knocking down jets 
 10 at a time, and wiping out half the battlefield in a few minutes. If you like flying and feeling 
 immortal you will love this game after you get the best jets. But leading up to that you have fun 
 and addictive gameplay that will keep you coming back tell you get those said jets.
  
  9/10
  
  Story
  
  The story in this game minimal and confusing. My first play through I 
 did'nt quite know what was going, it was'nt tell the second time through that I knew who each character 
 was and how they related to the story... and even which side of the war they were on. The story 
 jumps from Emmerian family effected by the war, to Estovokians humanity and how they are unsettled 
 but obligated to continue with their missions. The idea behind the story is great but in actual 
 execution it falls a bit short. There is some additional information on the story in the assault 
 record that you collect throughout the game. 
  
  Stories to me are the biggest thing behind game so if a game falls short on its story it will receive 
 a big hit on its overall rating.
  
  7/10
  
  Replay
  
  How many times you come back to this game after you beat it is all up to you. They paved the way 
 for you to keep playing the game more and more after your first play through with expert mode that 
 unlocks after you beat the game once, then there is ace mode after you beat the game on expert 
 mode, and after that is ace of aces mode after you beat the game on ace mode. To keep you coming 
 back even more are the achievements inside the game and metal system they have working that rewards 
 you for doing all the operations inside each missions, shooting down all the named ace pilots, 
 getting a certain number of kills with guns only, never being hit through the entire games and 
 getting Super on all your missions through the different difficulty settings. What ever you want 
 to do there is a ton of extras here that should keep you coming back for quite a while.
  
  However online falls short, its very limited. I would have liked to see a working campaign co-op 
 mode or something like that. Instead you get two missions you get to do co-op that are easy and 
 have no story attached to them. Online battle modes (pvp) are fun but at times the skill level 
 between players are too much making you wish there was a handicap or a leveling system that would 
 only but you verse people of the same skill level. As far as I'm concerned the online was a failure 
 but it was a necessary step in the right direction and again they have plenty more games to make 
 in this series to make up for it.
  
  Overall
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  At first, thanks to the hype, I thought I'd be blowin away. Unfortunately as the old saying goes 
 "you cant always get what you want". Lets start with the graphics, Impressive plane models look 
 about as lifelike as next gen gets.
  sound, one of the best AC music soundtracks yet, with each mission having its own theme that fits 
 well with each backdrop. The jet sounds are again as real as it gets. The radio chatter is also 
 alittle more helpful this time around and less bothersome, they even somehow found a way to make 
 the missle alarm chirping alittle less annoying. The controls are smooth and responsive, which in 
 my mind is the first thing you wanna have nailed down if your making a flight sim. i only got about 
 4hours altogether of online play but that which i did see was amazing and fast paced.
  The biggest let down of this title was the far too short and if memory serves me properly the shortest 
 campagin in the series. of which the first half is very bland and makes little sense, and the last 
 half is alittle unfulfilling.
  In the end I'd advise a rent of this one if you want a fun flight sim with in my opinion the best 
 story of the series pick up Ace Combat 5 The unsung war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  I avoided this one initially as I had images of a prettied up version of the old PS2 games.... pretty, 
 fun for a while but shallow and eventually unsatisfying.
  
  Oh boy was I wrong.
  
  A pilot mate of mine tipped me off. He'd been teaming up with mates and spending hours just doing 
 formnation flying training in the game..... no shooting, just flying! And they all kept coming back 
 for more!
  
  Something was up.
  
  So I got a copy, and within an hour I was hooked. The offline campaign is superbly realised, varied 
 and damned exciting once you hit the epic later battles. I was lost for hours in this world, it 
 is so beautifully rendered.... you WISH you were there.
  
  Then I dragged it online. Quicka nd easy t oget into I was dogfighting within minutes, yanking 
 the head view around trying t osee where that damn radar lock was coming from, burning down out 
 of the clouds into a valley floor chase with 2 other jets. And learning the hard way that an F15 
 just doesn't like negative G inverted climbs. Oops.
  
  I cannot recommend this enough as there is precious little else like it on 360 or Live.
  
  
 It sounds cheese, but if you ever watched Top Gun and wished you could.... this is as near to it 
 whilst still actually being fun. Plus crashing doesn't cost millions.
  
  Go get it, you will not be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HCMF-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Ace combat is like a life long friend. No matter where you go you always keep in touch. You know 
 the friend that no matter what he won't change much, and you know exactly what you are going to 
 get. When you get together you like to remember the old times, and try to make new memories. This 
 old friend is a welcomed addition to the series  although it doesn't break any new ground it does 
 refine the game play and the overall experience we have come to know...
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the best the series has seen to date, and look amazing. Well, amazing 
 until you fly close to the ground. The buildings, trees, and landscape look great from 500 feet, 
 but the second you sloop down or get caught in a stall you notice that the terrain looks like the 
 geometry was pulled from a ps1 game. Now this is not to say that the graphics are bad, as they 
 do a great job overall, but when you get up close - not so much. The planes all are molded to perfection 
 and even the cockpit views are spot on. The smoke trails and clouds have never, ever looked this 
 good in a flight game. At times there are so many smoke trails and explosions in the sky's  this 
 adds to the overall emersion of the game, and make you feel like you are indeed in a desperate 
 war.
  
  Sound: Spot on. Except for the horrid cut scenes. The sound draws you in and lets you have that 
 emersion that is needed in a flight sim. Bullets sound like bullets, near misses sound amazing, 
 things go boom - the sound is perfect.
  
  Game Play: This is where the game shines. If you get the flight sticks (highly recommend) the game 
 feels right. You will be drawn in. All the planes handle differently from one another, and each 
 plane will give you a different experience all together. The game, however, is not hard. In fact 
 it is quite easy, except for 2 missions; you will more than likely blaze right through the entire 
 game. The game does offer quite a bit of replay-abilty by means of different planes, and by unlocking 
 harder difficulties. 
  
  Everything Else: If you have played any of the previous installments you know that the story and 
 cut scenes are laughable at best. Just skip them. (This is one of those games that if you turn 
 the background music off, the cut scenes go silent) The menus are nice, and all the different game 
 modes that one would expect are here. Unlocking the achievements will take time, and although difficult 
 they are not impossible to get. The multiplayer is good, and the dog fights can be a blast  just 
 make sure you have a good connection.
  
  Over all the game is just fun. If you have played any of the series then, you will feel right at 
 home. If you have never played an Ace Combat game they you are in for a treat. My only wish is 
 that there were more planes. 
  
  Note: If you don't buy the flight sticks drop the score down a full point, as the flight sticks 
 make the game  that add to the overall experience so much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: premolight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game really surprised me in terms of pure awesomeness. I rented the game to see if i liked 
 it and i loved the game so much i bought it the next day. There is no blood or swearing so i have 
 no idea why this is rated "T". The game is an alternate reality game where both sides use the same 
 planes. It is kind of an anime game which i am personally noy a big fan of but the game pulls it 
 off well. in every mission you decide if you want a sleek quick F-16 to destroy all your enemies 
 or if you want an A-10 Thunderbolt A. K. A The Warthog. Or you can pick anything in between. The 
 game has amazing graphics which make youy feel like you are actually flying the plane. You can 
 buy special weapons like missles, unguided bombs, and fuel air bombs which are almost unfair if 
 you ask me. the only problem i have with the game is that you have an unrealistic amount of missles. 
 You have like 200 missles in a plane 30 feet long and with a 30 foot wingspan so maybe it could 
 hold 8 missles at best. The overall gameplay and intricate story make it a good buy, I will be 
 playing for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3R0B4NG
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I dont want to talk about the Game itself much, it is a very nice game and the best Jet Game you 
 can get for the 360 now ( Blazing Angels 1 is ok, BA2 is a cheap rip off of part 1 and i dont even 
 want to talk about Over-G Fighters *buah*) .
  
  Just for info: I never played Ace Combat before part 6 because i was PC only until the 360, so 
 i have no History with that Game.
  
  AC6 isn't too realistic and it isn't too arcade, the only thing i wished for was more/better dogfighting 
 and less rocket spamming.... and just maybe a more detailed damage modell for the Jets and not 
 just a percentagebar.
  
  Now for something that really REALLY pi***es me off!
  The Download Content on Xbox Live!
  WTF is Namco thinkin? 
  Well i would await new planes for 
 the game like new Cars at Forza 2 and new Multiplayer Levels. 
  But what do they sell... well its a texture for the existing 3D modells with a simple config modification 
 like more speed, another Rocket count and less Armor.
  
  Well ok i would have liked realy new planes in there but they gone for skins... ok i wouldnt do 
 that, or not only skins but ok i can live with that.
  Some of them have Anime Girls on it, i realy dont know whats it about this Anime Hype i hate those 
 ugly japanese comic stuff but ok there is a fanbase but still WHY do they have to put those things 
 on PLANES???
  I mean why not Captain Picard, Metallica, Michael Schumacher or Cartman?
  It's just WRONG! IT'S WRONG!
  
  And finaly the price of those Skins...
  
  There are at 
 least until now:
  
  1) 4 or 5 Free planes (actually if you download one of that planes you download the complete Pack, 
 you just can use that one Plane but you are able to see the other ones online... so there is no 
 getting arround seeing that ugly Idolmaster Anime Skins from time to time!)
  
  2) 24 single Planes you have to pay for, each between 200 - 400 M$ Points... for all together you 
 would have to pay 6000 M$ Points !!!
  
  3) Razgriz Set 01 + 02 that are 7 Planes -  additional 700 M$ Points
  (and there still is one 
 Razgriz F14-D that isn't in this pack for 200 M$ Points so for the complete Razgris Set would be 
 900M$ Points)
  
  That's a total of 6700 M$ Points !!!
  
  (That is more than the DVD had cost me!... and until now we only have a bunch of new Skins with 
 some config change)
  
  4) 5 Multiplayer Maps (2 of them are for Coop) ... actually i cant see the price of them because 
 i only have Silver right now... but i dont think that they are for free either.
  
  5) The first 2 Singleplayer Missions for the hardest Gamedifficulty "Ace of Aces".
  I dont know 
 why they even put this 2 downloads online, because you can get there for free by just playing the 
 game yourself so i'm not gonna count that stuff but that would be another 650 M$ Points...
  
  
  So we have a total of 6700 Points for 35 so called "Planes" and need a Gold Membership 
 to even be able to download the 5 Multiplayer Maps.
  
  Ah and by the way i am in Germany and we didn't get the Flightstick Bundle! Much Thanx for that 
 too!
  
  Still, i have much love for the Game itself and i am not even using the online part, but that Download 
 Content Policy, i will not spend one Euro on that stuff until it has a fair price and comes in 
 a complete package! (and i still want to have that Flightstick -.- ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  i started playing ace combat on my ps2 years ago with a little game called ace combat 4. this game 
 is a must for anyone with a ps2. if you are lucky enough to have a xbox 360 then get ace combat 
 6 because it is fantastic. the first mission is pretty simple. you fly around and defend your base 
 from enemy bombers. but the thing about it is, the view from above!! it is detailed, and truly 
 amazing. you can fly around for hours and see lots of cool scenery! then on the second mission 
 you get to take off from an air-strip! it is really cool. turn on full thrust and pull back on 
 the stick and you are airborne! what could be better than that. and after every mission you can 
 view a replay. which is really great. the first 2 missions are basically about trying to find the 
 bombers (marked in red on your map) and taking them down. once you have killed them all (and there 
 are about 10-15 bombers) then you have finished the mission. it is not easy because they have escorts. 
 or enemy fighter planes that will try and kill you. when they have you on their radar you get a 
 warning and another warning when they have missile lock. but you have friends too. your wing man 
 will help you any way he can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game and really enjoyed it. here is a brief list of pros and cons.
  
  PROS. 
  
  1. visuals. the graohics are completely amazing. the ability to track your missiles 
 is really cool.
  
  2. controls. when i first got it it took a while to get used to. but for a 800-1000 mph machine 
 it was pretty easy to control. the controls werent complicated or over..."stretched" like some 
 other games I've played. 
  
  3. originality. i dont think ive played any flight combat game quite as good. if i did i dont remember. 
 but how many modern ones r there? ther mostly WWII or somethin.
  
  CONS.
  
  1. The Stoviet Union is invading Emmeria. how cheezy.
  
  2. speed. no matter how fast you go 
 it seems the sccreen moves at the same pace. has anyone else noticed this?
  
  yea thats about it. if you think im crazy or agree juss lemme know. this is a good overall game 
 though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyeyescarr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is very good. could have been alot better but i aint complaining. The graphics are amazing 
 and its fun as heck flying around dropping bombs on stuff but it does get alittle boring after 
 awhile. The selection of planes is very good. not to many not to few. They have some really new 
 cool planes to. Story is pretty good again could have been better but the controls were really 
 nice. dog fighting was well ok i guess i mean I hit a few planes with missles that didnt bring 
 them down which was alittle wierd but shoot who knows. I personally didnt see any major glitches 
 but flying around trying to dodge missles and bullets its hard to watch out for glitches. That 
 one really cool thing about this game there is alot of action its not just flying around and stuff 
 you are almost constitally getting shot at so its a great action game. No complaints from me on 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I have been an avid fan of the Ace Combat series for a long time. This iteration is no different 
 in terms of quality.
  The story is pitting one country against another in a fictional world. As always the story is well 
 told and you can get into the drama of the Ace Combat world.
  The graphics are just beutiful. Planes are shown in excellent detail and the enviroment looks like 
 you were really flying by above 20,000 feet. The console is nice. The character models are also 
 good for the series even though we only se them in cutscenes
  The gameplay feels like it always does. All of the ships have a distinct feel and you really can 
 tell when your jet is getting old compared to your opponents. New squad commands actually go beyond 
 the yes or no answer and you can use your allies to help you tackle tough foes. This is a real 
 treat because you feel like you not the only one shooting down noobs in the mission. This is the 
 first time for online in the series, but it doesn't seem like it is catching on. The simulation 
 of flying in multi player is done by holding down the accelarator and hoping that a quick manuever 
 missle hits. It doesn't hold up to the multi player of great online flying games such as crimson 
 skies.
  The sound is on the level that you would expect from the series. Included is great music and the 
 sounds of your alarms, guns, explosions, and missles.
  For fans of the series i suggest you go out and get this right now. Those who never liked it, there 
 probably isn't enough new stuff to get you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I have never played an Ace Combat game before Fires of Liberation, so I'm not sure about the history 
 of this franchise. What I do know is that Ace Combat 6 is fun! 
  
  The game is near photo realistic in its graphical presentation, although ground texture do leave 
 much to be desired if you get low enough and are moving slow enough to closely examine them. The 
 aircraft are modeled accurately, and look like the real thing.
  
  The game is not a flight simulation, as the most realistic part of its flight model is the fact 
 that you blow up when you fly into the ground or other objects. All of the planes vary in performance, 
 and have different roles. A-10's are slow and armored and carry mostly ground attack weapons, where 
 as f-14s are fast and are fitted with Air to Air weaponry. Other planes such as the f-16 and f-18 
 are more balanced between the two roles. All the planes can perform turns, roles, and climbs defy 
 physics and pilot endurance. 
  
  Despite an unrealistic flight engine, the game is fun, there are allot of targets to fight in a 
 given mission, and you find yourself needing to climb and dive and turn to doge the bevy of missiles 
 after your plane. The type of plane you choose & its weapon load-out makes a difference in how 
 you approach a mission. 
  
  The Cut scenes in this game are probably the worst part of the game, they use the analogy of "dancing 
 with the Angles" way too much. which is made even more annoying by the poor voice performances 
 and lip syncing in the cut scenes.
  
  I would recommend Ace Combat 6 to anyone looking for a new action game for their Xbox 360. Its 
 controls are simple enough that anyone can play the game, and it has plenty of action and explosions 
 to keep the most avid of first person shooter fans occupied for a good while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanjohnlesnau
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games that allow players to take control of an aircraft and take to the sky, 
 but after playing Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation, many gamers will learn why there are so few 
 games of this type. There is lack of storyline and there are even more confusing controls to learn.
 
  
  Players are called to duty to stop a threat to the country. That is about the extent of the storyline. 
 There isn't a whole lot for players to experience other 
  than the game.
  
  Of course, the graphics are great in the game; however, graphics don't always make the game. There 
 are many realistic scenes that will make the gamers feel as though they are actually in the cockpit 
 of the planes of the game. Players will have a large playing area in order to try and take control 
 of the skies. The problem is the lack of being able to take control of the skies once flying.
 
  
  This game is not for the average gamer because of the fact that they would not be able to pick 
 up the controller and begin playing. Instead, this game is made for those who have been playing 
 flight simulation games for quite some time. While playing it will be obvious that there is a lot 
 more needed to play this game than just a controller, but instead a lot of time and patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  In typical Ace Combat fashion, this title continues to push the envelop of visual realism in flight 
 simulators.
  
  If you have enjoyed previous Ace Combat games you will not be disappointed by Fires of Liberation. 
 If you haven't ever played an Ace Combat this one is certainly a great place to enter the series.
 
  
  While gameplay is solid as usual and missions vary in style and objective, one can't help but focus 
 on the absolutely stunning visuals.
  
  Ace Combat has always been known for great realism in its aircraft, but in this iteration the developer 
 really put the focus on making the landscapes come to life. I have yet to play a console flight 
 sim that provides such an immersive experience as Ace Combat.
  
  On the other hand, (also typical of the series) the story is a cheesy mess of melodramatic fluff. 
 You'd be better off skipping each cutscene and focusing on the gameplay.
  
  My only real complaint is that level difficulty is inconsistent. One mission will be moderately 
 easy followed immediately by one that is near impossible. Then you're back to easy again. I believe 
 this is due to the fact that Wingman support is utterly useless, which makes any level with a lot 
 of enemy planes that much more challenging.
  
  In one particularly frustrating mission your comrades continually chime in over the radio to let 
 you know that one or more of a dozen enemy fighters has a missile lock on you but they neither 
 attempt to take out your pursuers (cover command) nor attack the target objective (attack my target 
 command) whilst you shake the bogies off your six. There may be "friendly" planes occupying the 
 sky with you but for all intents and purposes they are just spectators. As a side note, the lack 
 of worth of your wingman is evidenced by an achievement you can earn for his taking out a mere 
 ten enemy targets by your command, meanwhile you might eliminate 40-50 targets in a single level.
 
  
  In the end, Ace Combat 6 is good for several hours of single player fun, not to mention multiplayer 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrayzedd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Having played the previous ace combats, it is no doubt that Fires of Liberation is the best ace 
 combat installment i have ever played.... well.. in terms of graphics (lol) . In terms of story and 
 level of difficulty however, the credit goes to Unsung War. 
  
  The storyline is not as dramatic. In Unsung War, you have colourful characters like Kei Nagase, 
 HeartBreaker, Swordsman etc and you can even reply what they say by selecting the Yes and No options. 
 Unfortunately, that feature doesn't exist in Fires of Liberation, which makes you feel like an 
 anti social ace pilot. It's not a total loss however, coz Fires of Liberation has added new features, 
 such as the allied attack and allied cover. Think that as umm.. a super weapon that you can be unleashed 
 when the power meter has been filled to a certain amount. 
  
  In terms of difficulty, i think it's the easiest AC ever. I played the hard mode and it is safe 
 to say that for a casual gamer like me, one week is enough to finish the game... maybe less. Fires 
 of Liberation seems to pamper the players by giving them Checkpoints, the one feature that doesn't 
 exist in the previous installments. In a way, checkpoints are good, for it encourages players to 
 keep on playing even after meeting so many deaths. One significant trademark of ACs are the tunnel 
 missions, where you are required to dive into tunnels or caves and shoot the targets at your leisure. 
 Fires of Liberations still maintains the tunnel mission, but with easier difficulty. In the final 
 for example, all you have to do is go straight into the cannon in high speed ( to avoid the guns) 
 and shoot the target, and you're done. No annoying obstacles, really.
  
  The good thing about ACs is that it keeps unlocking things as you play, even when you finish the 
 game. AC freaks (like me) will surely play again and again especially when you got your hands on 
 the Nosferatu aircraft. 
  
  The graphics are undoubtedly superb. 
  
  Eventhough Fires of Liberation has some downs, it is still a great game. The engaging battles with 
 radio chatters makes the battle zone a good place to be. Can't wait for the next installment.
 
  
  CHOP CHOP AC7!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game might be the best in the Ace Combat series. It has a great balance of everything. When 
 in combat its feels as if your actually in the cockpit fighting. The atmosphere of the game was 
 fantastic, just like your in the clouds. The scenes in the game are great, there are some many 
 things to do at once you never get bored. At times I felt like calling out call signs and pretending 
 I was Tom Cruise from Top Gun. The one thing I felt that was hard, was being in dogfights. I was 
 almost always confused and couldn't find my enemy. Also the story line was a bit blane. There wasn't 
 as many planes or as many weapon choices like in previous games. But this game was fantastic. I 
 loved it, I couldn't put the controller down till I finally beat it. The replay value of this game 
 is pretty high, once you beat it on one level on to the next, its really not a waste of money. 
 This game is truely a masterpiece of sim flight games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper0324
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  After beating AC6, my reaction is kind of mixed. Eventhough overall I love this game, but I don't 
 get impressed by it as other AC's in the series did to me before.
  
  First, in term of graphic, AC6 absolutely no doubt gets a 10/10, the planes and scenery are so 
 beautiful, so beaware of getting carried away by enjoy the beautiful view. One of the night mission 
 specially gives one of the most beautiful battlefield in the whole AC series. (I have played Aircombat 
 22, AC2,3,4,5,0, and 6) The missile tracer and explosion effect are really enjoyable as well.
 
  
  Sound wise the radio chat is much more serious and professional this time. There are much less 
 random humor chat going on in AC6, whether this is a pro or con will be up to you. The music is 
 again amazing, it gets both amazing electrical and orchestral pieces. Sound effect such as engine 
 roar and explosion are all up to AC series expectation and are absolutely amazing (get a decent 
 subwoofer to enjoy it!)
  
  Gameplay there are both pros and cons. FIrst, to me 90% of the missions feel the same, just bomb 
 the hell out of everything on the map. The addition of Operations doesnt really change the game 
 play, just it divides up each big missions into several small missions. And the addition of checkpoint 
 after the completion of each operation can be a good news to many people. Personally I like more 
 variety of missions they used to have in AC5 and Zero, but again it is up to the people playing 
 it, because I know a lot of people absolutely hate those mission that you have to escort something, 
 or have to fly between radars, so if you like those mission that you can bomb a lot of stuff, you 
 will probably like AC6 much more than any others in the series.
  
  The addition of high-G turn is really cool, but not really that much difference in term of game 
 play. Basically your plane can make tighter turn by trading off a lot airspeed quickly (never try 
 to pull high G turn at low attitude unless you remember to check your airspeed all the time) , but 
 you can't really do crazy maneuvers such as Cobra. Your plane can turn tighter, period. 
  
  One of the best addition for AC6 is probably the Allies Support, and it is really useful. It is 
 really good to know that your allies are finally really doing something for you. The look of Allies 
 Support is plain awsome, especially when you are in a good position to see zillions of missiles 
 fire at your target.
  
  Story is really nothing that special for AC6, to me it is actually kind of boring... However, what 
 kind of story you can expect from an arcade flying game anyways? In my second play through of the 
 campaign mode, I skip all the cut scenes. (Unlike in AC5 and ACZ I did not skip any single cut 
 scene in all my play throughs.) Also in AC6 the story does not glorify you as much as AC series 
 did before, it makes you more feel like you are part of the whole airforce and not just a one man 
 army.
  
  Difficulty wise it is pretty much the same as before. There are much more targets in a mission 
 and many more enemy will be shooting at you at a time, this somewhat makes the game a bit harder. 
 However, in AC6 all the planes carry more missiles, plus you can call in Allies Support, which is 
 kinda over powered, so the difficulty kind of balance out. Ground target are as easy to kill as 
 before, while the enemy planes are a little bit better at dodging missiles and will require a good 
 firing angle to shoot them down. Overall my conclusion to difficulty is: if insisting not using 
 Allies Support it will be harder than other AC in the series, otherwise it is pretty much the same.
 
  
  The enemy super weapons and Aces are not very interesting. Aiagon and its sister ships are pretty 
 much another enemy base, just they are flying in the air, nothing special at all. Strigons teams... well 
 they are not bad, just the battle scale are so huge in AC6 and a lot of time Strigon's got shot 
 down by Allies Support without you notice it... so personally I don't feel their presence very significant. 
 The Strigon 1 fight is not that fun and becomes quite frustrating with all the UAVs flying around.
 
  
  Overall, AC6 is a good game and lives up its name. If people just want to fly some amazingly beautiful 
 plane and shoot a lot of stuff, they will absolutely love AC6. However, if you are expecting a 
 lot of variety in the missions and want a some what good story, you will be a little bit disappointed. 
 Anyways, after all those talk, it is a great game and one of the must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  If you played Ace Combat 5 and 4 then you will instantly be comfortable with this new edition to 
 the Ace Combat series. Although it is very much like the previous games, there are a couple new 
 features but there's most visibly a change in the graphics. The graphics have always been good 
 for these games but they are even better now. The single player campaign is pretty much the same 
 idea, except with a different enemy. Many planes that were on previous Ace Combats found there 
 way again on this new one. One new special plane was added though. I have never been a big fan 
 of the multiplayer and this game didn't change my liking for it. The basic idea in multiplayer 
 is shoot down the other players. There are however achievement within the game. The downside of 
 that is they don't count towards your Xbox Live achievements. None of them do. Overall I think 
 this was a fun game, but it is still not a game that lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrawnkkar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I love Ace Combat. Lets get that on the table. Because I have some issues with this game, and I 
 feel like covering those first, so I want you to know that its not a total blow out.
  
  My first, and biggest complaint about the game is simple.
  
  PLANES DON'T FLY UNDER THE F*CKING 
 GROUND!!!
  
  This was my biggest gripe in Ace Combat 5. Seriously? The last mission involves me flying a super 
 sonic jet AT super sonic speeds down a couple hundred mile tunnel??? isn't this why they made HELICOPTERS?? 
 Well, this issue is right back in Ace Combat 6. 
  
  Not even too far into the game you are tasked with flying threw a SERIES of tunnels. Seriously, 
 what the f*ck?
  
  The story as usual is deeply involving; if maybe a little ham fisted. The graphics are amazing 
 while flying, however in the cut scenes they aren't especially amazing, but not bad either. 
  
  Though that brings me to a certain gripe. The lip syncing is god awful. Like, Early 80's Godzilla 
 movie bad. There are moments when one word is uttered and the lips go on and on. 
  
  All that aside, the game is very good, and if you love Ace Combat this game follows that suit well. 
 Great graphics on the whole, the story is solid and engaging and some of the battles are truly 
 epic.
  
  I highly recommend this game to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  I'm a newcomer to the Ace Combat franchise, so this was my first taste of the series' interesting 
 take on the flight sim genre.
  
  The gameplay is varied and provides a challenge with each new mission, varying the play style just 
 enough to keep you hooked. The plane handling is very different in each plane, and you'll really 
 notice going from an F-22 to a Stealth Bomber. The controls are well implemented and suit the 360's 
 controller perfectly. After an hour or so of playtime, you'll find yourself pulling off seemingly 
 impossible maneuvers with relative ease. The missions are well designed, and earlier missions ease 
 you into the game well.
  
  The graphics are varying. The plane models are excellent, with each different type having its own 
 distinct reflection mapping and authentic panel placement. the models each come with three different 
 colour schemes, unlocked via completing storyline and special objectives. The environments look 
 fantastic from a distance, but upon closer inspection are quite dull. However, this doesn't present 
 much of a problem, as most of the time you'll be too high or too fast to notice.
  
  The sound is good, with each jet sounding unique and explosions sending a resounding BOOM! through 
 your subwoofer. The soundtrack suits the game, but isn't exactly a stand out feature, being fairly 
 generic for this genre of game.
  
  The game is a well polished, well designed, good looking flight sim, which wipes the floor with 
 other games of it's genre on 360. Well worth a purchase if you like flight games, or just good 
 games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  A week or so ago I bought Turok, but I didn't like it enough (check my review about Turok) so I 
 went back to the store to get another game . Because of all shooter games (Halo, CoD, Perfect Dark, 
 GoW) I played recently I was looking for something else. First I was thinking about getting Burnout 
 Paridise, but I already got Forza 2 and I'm not really into racing. Then I thought about Ace Combat 
 Six, I read some positive reviews about it, so I got it.
  
  And then, I threw the disc into my Xbox drive. After a intro movie with terrible voice acting I 
 got into the air. And I love it, mainly because this game is not a flight sim, but more a flight-action 
 game. The controls are easy and everybody can control the plain and do some cool moves. Of course 
 I crashed a couple of times while trying to get as close to the ground as possible, but that's 
 my own stupidity.
  
  I really suggest that you go trough the tutorials, while the first ones tell you nothing special, 
 later tutorials (which are unlocked by completing the first view missions) give you some good tips.
 
  
  The game itself plays arcade style; you got unlimited machinegun ammo and 100+ missles and unlimited 
 fuel. So don't expect to much sim in it.
  
  You're country (which is a fictional country, read somewhere that this has to do with the licensed 
 planes in it) is attacked by a neighbor and you and the rest of the military get pushed back to 
 an Island. From their you start the retake of you home country. This will happen in 10+ missions 
 where you assist the rest of the army from the air. 
  
  There are a lot of planes (like F16, Mirage 2000) and they're all licensed. Of course most planes 
 are locked until you reach certain objectives.
  
  The graphics look great. I personally would have like to see more smoke and fires on the ground, 
 but how it is isn't bad at all. Also some moving civilian vehicles would be cool or people on the 
 street. But this is probaly useless because of the speed of the aircrafts. One thing with this 
 game which is a bit of a disappointment is the sense of speed. You don't have it unless you're 
 flying in rain or close to the ground (which both give an amazing sense of speed) . The should have 
 added some graphical wind effects.
  
  The cut scenes show some people on the ground and how they get trough the war. The voice acting 
 is terrible, but the first time you watch the movies they give you a bit more a feeling of fighting 
 a real war. One story is about a mother looking for her daughter. Her husband was a fighter pilot 
 and used to call the planes 'his angels.' Another story is about an Estovakian (that's the enemy) 
 ex-pilot who now interrogates prisoners.
  
  The missions are not to hard and you'll probably only be killed because you crash. That's my problem 
 (and my own fault) with Ace Combat six. Sometimes I make a looping without realizing that what 
 goes up also come down and then: 'boom', dead..
  The missions consist of some ground targets and some enemy planes which of course are targets. 
 Dogfighting van be really cool, especially when you get behind an enemy plane and chase it. I recommend 
 using one of both cockpit views
  
  The game also features multi-player which I couldn't test because I couldn't find any games. This 
 might have to do with my own router settings though. But from the reviews I read and how the single 
 player game play is, I can only conclude that dogfighting real people is great fun.
  
  To summarize, the voice acting sucks, the graphics are great and the game play is fun. I love this 
 game.
  
  I would like to close this with the words of the little lost girl from the cut scenes:
  
  'Go 
 dance with angels mister.'
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlantisasv
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I'll make no excuses in saying that I have been a fan of Ace Combat since the 4th game of the series 
 - Ace Combat 04: Distant Thunder (Shattered Skies) . It's a difficult attraction to describe, but 
 perhaps the straw which broke the camel's back and made this particular gamer see the light came 
 with the purchase of a game known to almost all fighter-buffs as Falcon 4.0: Allied Force.
  
  Indeed, for those Flight Sim fans out there, perhaps the most remarkable feature of Allied 
 Force was not so much the game itself, but the fact it came with what can only be described as 
 an abridged F-16 Flight Operations Manual that could very well have been written and edited by 
 General Dynamics themselves. 
  
  While some people enjoy this aspect of "depth" in their flight sims, it most certainly is not for 
 everyone, and when you strip away the layers that make flight sims 'enjoyable', the core of the 
 game invariably boils down to the sympathy one feels for that little dog in Charlie Brown who sits 
 atop his Dog Kennel, imagining himself embroiled in glorious combat against the Ace of all Aces, 
 the Baron Manfred von Richthofen. (Curse you, Red Baron!)
  
  At one point or another, every boy has probably wanted to fly a jet fighter at the speed of sound 
 - blissfully ignorant of just how difficult that task actually is, and indeed, when you find out 
 the truth of this complexity, the love affair seems to be destroyed faster than an AMRAAM shreds 
 the tail of a Mig-21. At this point, you learn whether or not you have the chops to make that leap 
 of time and dedication which is required to get the most out of such sims.
  
  For my part, if I'm going to read through a 400-page manual to learn how to fly an F-16 and then 
 practice to the point of boredom in learning how not to get shot down, I'd rather join the Air 
 Force and do it for real. And so, the flight sim genre remains a 'specialist' minority in the grand 
 scheme of a gaming arena dominated by the First Person Shooter and Real Time Strategy.
  
  Perhaps happily then, Ace Combat embodies the 'romance' that comes with the imagined "Aces" of 
 our childhood - the sky is filled with missiles, explosions, tracer fire and frantic radio calls, 
 and you're in the middle of it, sticking it to the best with a simple, easy to grasp set of controls 
 that give you all the best aspects of aerial combat, with none of the 'trimmings' that mark a more 
 'sophisticated' simulator. But make no mistake; just because the concept comes across as simple, 
 does not mean you won't be hard pressed to win the day.
  
  Before I cover them, it's worth pointing out that graphics are a secondary consideration. While 
 appreciated for what they are, it's good to remember that they are only one part of a much larger 
 package. There's a reason that games like Starcraft and Half-Life have remained firmly in the minds 
 of RTS and FPS fans, and for those that aren't quite getting the gist of this, here's a hint - 
 it wasn't (and isn't) because they had wonderful graphics. It might seem obvious, but the cutting-edge 
 of graphics technology today will seem painfully primitive in ten years time...
  
  So, this said, the first thing people will notice when they fire up Fires of Liberation is that 
 everything is unquestionably gorgeous; planes are faithfully and lovingly replicated in 3D and 
 almost every facet of their details can be resolved by the eye. Dynamic lighting, volumetric clouds, 
 awesome sound and and a thoroughly enjoyable musical score are but a few of the more noticeable 
 facets of the game that anchor its slick presentation, and there won't be a moment where you're 
 not totally enthralled by the scope of it as you notice an aerial battle tracing ribbons through 
 the sky... and it's still over fifty miles away on the horizon. It's a truly impressive sight to 
 behold, and now that that's over with, we'll not mention it again.
  
  But Ace Combat has survived to its 7th incarnation (the 6th console game actually being a prequel 
 in the form of Ace Combat Zero) largely due to the execution of its gameplay. The die-hard tragics 
 of aerial combat will scoff and condescend to see a missile payload that extends in to the hundreds 
 on some aircraft, but this is quickly forgotten when you realise that you may very well need every 
 single one of these weapons to get the job done. It is not uncommon to down dozens of enemies in 
 a single sorite, some of which require several hits to deal with. When all is said and done; you 
 don't give this 'liberal' use of ammunition a second thought as you commit yourself to the task 
 at hand. These can be many and varied; from simple bomber intercepts to dispatching large fleets 
 of warships and, without saying too much, conducting Death Star-style, death-defying assaults on 
 enemy 'missile bases' that defy any plausible logic in their scale. (You won't mind either, as 
 these kinds of missions are often the highlights of the game.)
  
  Another aspect of the charm of Ace Combat is its setting in an entirely fictional world. Dedicated 
 fans of the series will already have a feel for this alternate-Earth thanks largely to the previous 
 three games of the series, which explained much of the geography and politics of the three major 
 continents. Ace Combat brings another continent to the series' history in the form of Anea, which 
 is home of the protagonist's nation of Emmeria, and the neighbouring, invading nation of Estovakia. 
 Despite these fictional nations being the center of the entire series, you still find yourself 
 flying in the cockpits of familiar aircraft from the base-line F-16 Fighting Falcon (or "Viper") 
 to Russian-made Sukhois, French-built Rafales and the high-end F-22 Raptors. (Which, along with 
 their near-equivalent SU-47 dominate online matches)
  
  Why is this so appealing? Because for once, it's nice to jump in to a world where it seems like 
 a genuine effort to tell a story, rather than wave the flag of the United States in overly-patriotic 
 (and to anyone not living in the Land of the Free; annoying) overtones. At the same time, this 
 attempt to tell a story can at times come across with more ham than even the most tacky midday 
 TV drama. Somewhere between the original Japanese script and the English translation, they forgot 
 to factor in how annoying some of the dialogue and voice acting would become. By the time you're 
 done playing through the 15-mission campaign, you will be thoroughly sick of having to cringe at 
 the sound of "Go Dance with the Angels" every time some cocky Emmerian pilot utters it.
  
  But it's a minor shortcoming in an otherwise trademark Ace Combat narrative. Fans of the series 
 will appreciate this and try to take it on its merits, while newcomers will likely ignore it entirely 
 while they focus on destroying as many Migs and F-15s that they can lay their eyes on.
  
  Ace Combat 6 offers the shortest campaign in the series to date, and it might have been nice to 
 see a lengthier single player experience, but despite this there is no lack of replayability;
 
  Once you've finished the campaign on the game's "Normal" or "Hard" difficulty, it will unlock 
 the ability to replay it with all the aircraft you have earned on progressively higher levels of 
 difficulty, first with "Expert" and then finally "Ace" modes. Gamers who enjoy unlocking their 
 achievements will also find a veritable wealth of medals and awards to work towards, from simple 
 tasks such as completing the game in one type of aircraft through to the more difficult epics of 
 finishing the campaign using only their machine guns, or finishing it under a certain (ridiculously 
 short) time limit.
  
  For those brave enough, and not content with the singleplayer component, XBox Live is where Ace 
 Combat 6 really shines. A long-awaited addition to the game's arsenal, Fires of Liberation is the 
 series' first foray in to competitive, online play against as many as 15 other people in any one 
 of several different game modes on a wide variety of maps. Even those buddying veterans who think 
 they could not possibly be any more "elite" than they were when they finished the game on Ace difficulty, 
 while simultaneously getting the "Sharpshooter" and "Legendary Ace" medals will find this almost 
 an entirely different game.
  
  Needless to say that human pilots are considerably tougher opponents to tackle than the AI. Sometimes, 
 you will meet the Japanese die-hards who will teach you the definitive meaning of "Air Supremacy", 
 and other times you'll face newcomers who have trouble telling the difference between Sky and Ground. 
 Ocassionally, you may even be met online by the announcement that a "Decorated Ace" will be joining 
 the battle - notifying you that there is a player in the top 100 of the leaderboards participating 
 in that particular match. Sometimes these pilots really are the "Right Stuff", and will take the 
 combined efforts of two or more pilots to bring to heel. Other times, you may wonder how they ever 
 got the title as you bring them down time after time in a plane that is sometimes several tiers 
 below their own.
  
  There is no shortage of downloadable content in the XBL marketplace either, offering many different 
 variations of the game's aircraft with sometimes drastically different statistics to their base-line 
 counterparts. In some cases, these new variants are representation of previous 'heroes' and 'villains' 
 from the previous games. Fans will appreciate the ability to download and fly in the famous Yellow 
 13-styled Sukhoi, or the equally infamous red-winged F-15 Eagle of Solo-Wing Pixy. Sometimes, these 
 aircraft possess impressive attributes that will let them soak up a higher amount of damage, or 
 make an unbelievably tight turn in front of your eyes before delivering a salvo of missiles directly 
 in to your face. You'll never see it coming, and even if you don't want to spend the Microsoft 
 Points downloading these aircraft, you will quickly learn to recognise them online and treat them 
 with a healthy degree of respect.
  
  Whether an Ace Combat veteran who bought an Xbox 360 specifically for this game, or a rookie looking 
 for something new, Ace Combat 6 is an excellent game that, while not without its faults, will keep 
 you enterained for hours at a stretch.
  
  Good hunting, and watch your six.
  
  (Writer's online ID: "Koppenflak". Preferred aircraft; Su-33 "Yellow" Squadron) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reavesb
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This was the first Ace of Combat I've purchased and played. I found the play of the game and the 
 graphics about the best I've seen. However, the story line is also the worst I've seen. 
  
  Lets start with the good: The graphics and feel of the game is amazing. You can push your limits 
 as far as you'd like. Barnstorming bridges and flying through tunnels. Or you can take a more reserved 
 approach and enjoy the game just as equally. The music score is also pretty impressive. I enoyed 
 how smoothly and easily the planes handled. Controls were not overly complicated. The selection 
 of planes were quite good, but there really was little difference in how they handled (other than 
 speed and turning radious) .
  
  The Bad: The story line killed me. They've taken a combat game and made it as politically correct 
 as possible. Probably because some of the sponsors who are the same corporations that manufacture 
 the planes we're flying (Grummen, Lockheed, etc) don't want to offend any particular government. 
 
  
  The transition from a fast-paced dog fight to the cheesy, lame, liberal storyline is painful. Fortunately 
 you can skip over most of these segments. Another annoying part is you wingman and AWAC Commander. 
 They too have some droll and overly politically correct comments repeated through the game. It 
 does become a little to obvious and over done.
  
  All in all the game play is very good if you can live with the overly politically correct concepts 
 employed throughout the game. Please put your trays and seats into the full upright positions and 
 enjoy your flight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat has been going for some time now, since as early as the PS1. For those who don't know, 
 Ace Combat is all about fast-paced, action-packed arcade flying. I can imagine so many people reading 
 this immediately beginning to overlook this game purely because I included the word "flying" in 
 the previous sentence - but don't be so disheartened yet because Ace Combat is, and always has 
 been, a flying game that almost anyone can play; don't be expecting Microsoft Flight Simulator 
 in any shape or form with this game (you can even set the controls to bank and yaw and pull up 
 with just a touch of the left stick, making a perfect turn every time) .
  
  The latest instalment, Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation offers more of the same action that has 
 been available since the beginning of the series with very little major changes. But is that really 
 so bad? In a lot of cases I would argue that it is, especially looking at all the clones that are 
 on the market now-a-days (Need for Speed ring a bell?) but with Ace Combat I couldn't care less. 
 I can't put my finger on exactly why I feel this way, maybe I'm just a fan boy, but the more likely 
 reason is that I believe the many very minor changes in the gameplay have altered the game enough 
 to make it feel slightly new and refreshing. 
  
  Basically, the new game is very similar to the previous games in that it features a terrible storyline 
 about some fictional world in which two fictional countries (one of which is the indisputable evil 
 country and, as a result, is full of scary men with Russian accents that make the use of some sort 
 of "doom-weapon") have a war utilising entirely licensed real-world military aircraft. Also alike 
 to the previous games is the terrible voice acting coupled with an even worse script that just 
 makes you realise that Japan really hasn't been involved in a war in a considerable amount of time; 
 they really have no idea how it works. Good on them though, as that's far better than being a nation 
 that enjoys beginning wars with developing countries, usually full of communists, and then trampling 
 all over them and running out declaring victory. I do pity these script writers however; it really 
 is cute how seriously they take their stories of love and war where as I only watch the cut-scenes 
 to laugh at it all. Having said all this, the script nor the voice acting really lets the game 
 down at all because only an idiot would buy an Ace Combat game expecting a Hollywood script with 
 Hollywood actors to go along with it that makes aerial combat feel so real, deep and involving 
 that it makes Saving Private Ryan look like a slapstick comedy.
  
  The new features/changes I mentioned are very minor and perhaps only a die-hard Ace Combat fan 
 will notice them. One of them is the return of the ability to choose different special weapons 
 for each of the aircraft, a feature in Ace Combat 4 but was removed from Ace Combat 5, but not 
 only that  you can return to base to change the weapons around mid-mission. As well as flying 
 to the edge of the map to return to base (which was always so slow and laborious) you can now land 
 on captured or allied airstrips on the map during the mission which is much more interesting and 
 actually requires a tiny but of skill to accomplish. Another very welcome improvement to the game 
 is that your wingman can actually achieve something now; you tell him to attack a target and he'll 
 actually do it successfully, you tell him to cover you and he'll actually attack the enemies targeting 
 you. This may not sound like ground-breaking AI but compared to the previous game it's a God-sent 
 gift. A feature that some people may like, though I despise, is the "high-g turn" system that, 
 simply by pressing the two triggers in together, makes you turn in an incredibly small arc at the 
 expense of speed. Sounds good? No! It takes all the skill out of the game because it is essentially 
 a "dodge" button that, when instigated at any moment, immediately tells the missile chasing you 
 to give up. Another not-so welcome change is that in Ace Combat 5 there were some where around 
 30, maybe even 40 planes. The new Ace Combat, sadly, only has around 15, also some of my favourites 
 from 5 are missing. I can understand this decrease in option somewhat as it is probably due to 
 the stunning visuals that I'll get on to nextstill, it's very disappointing.
  
  The graphics are fairly amazing, although the ground isn't exactly spectacular, it's a huge improvement 
 on previous games and from way up high in the clouds it looks pretty photo-real. Another huge improvement 
 is on the allied and enemy units, although the plane you pilot has always looked amazing, other 
 units have always looked like something from a PS1 game, now though they are just as good as your 
 own visually stunning aircraft and even the tanks and guns on the ground look much better. The 
 best visual effects have to be from the smoke and clouds in the game though; they're easily the 
 best Dx9 smoke effects I've ever seen in a game. It's truly wondrous to see the fantastic amount 
 of jet trails, missile trails, lingering smoke and clouds left after a long battle.
  
  A disappointing aspect of other wise fun and exciting gameplay is how easy it is. Although first 
 time fliers may find it difficult, I found it considerably easy even on "Ace" difficulty especially 
 seeing as after "Hard" you unlock the super-amazing "Doom-Plane" that fires 50 missiles at a time 
 or something ridiculous. Also, although the first play through may take you anything between four 
 and eight hours (which is still pretty short) your next few tries may only take you a couple of 
 hours, again thanks to the "Doom-Plane". 
  
  The multiplayer I have very mixed reactions about. There isn't a huge amount of people playing 
 it, even now, and only one gamemode seems to have anyone playing it at all. When you do find a 
 good game that isn't really laggy though it can be quite entertaining, even if all of the gamemodes 
 are a bit peculiar  sometimes I wish there was just straight up team deathmatch instead of "team 
 deathmatch with shipping containers full of special abilities" and such abstract ideas. Entertaining 
 as it might be, it can get fairly repetitive and dull after more than a few games; this is down 
 to the fact that it requires little, or no, skill. It seems only to be a game of picking someone 
 to chase then idly flying round in circles until you get a lock-on and then mashing the fire button 
 until they die (you have something ridiculous like 60 missiles so it doesn't matter if you miss) , 
 doing all this while praying that the three people chasing you don't kill you first isn't exactly 
 much fun. Another low point is that all the fun is taken out of the game by the "high-g turn" system 
 employed in the singleplayer. 
  
  Overall though, the game is a solid combination of winning gameplay elements combined with spectacular 
 visuals and multiplayer that may entertain some for varying amounts of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 73Zero
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of previous Ace Combat games, I was sure that Fires of Liberation was going to 
 be great. I was wrong... it is EXCELLENT!
  
  The storyline ties in with some of the previous entries in the Ace Combat series, which (for fans 
 like myself) was a great touch and helps paint an even bigger picture of the universe you're immersing 
 yourself in. The graphics are top-notch, the soundtrack helps build the mood/intensity, and the 
 storyline/cutscenes are GREAT!
  
  You get to select from some of the greatest fighter jets ever made... and some that were never made. 
 I thought that the visual depictions of each jet was spot on, and the weaknesses/strengths of each 
 helped to build a balance during gameplay.
  
  The gameplay was absolutely FUN... I found myself glued to the game for hours on end. Even after 
 beating the game 5 times on every skill level (after only 2 weeks of ownership) , I still find myself 
 firing up the 360 just to play this game. The replay value is definitely HIGH with Ace Combat.
 
  
  Overall, definitely try this game out... if you're a fan of jet-fighter type games, you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikej-uk
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The new Ace combat 6 is the best flying game I've ever played. I'm not the type to read a 1000 
 page instruction manual before playing a flight sim. I just like to get into the thick of the action 
 and in this game you sure do. They say that in the first 5 or six missions the biggest threat to 
 you is the ground. WTF have they been playing! If you have xbox live this game is even better, 
 tons of huge, stunning maps and up to 15 players against you. And the graphics. They are (second 
 to crysis) the best I have ever seen. Especially if you have a 63" HD TV. The graphics are photo 
 realistic. If you want to see what I mean go to http://www. acecombatsix. com/.
  
  The campaign is awsome. Still have not completed it. But I am doing it on hard. If you have played 
 the demo which I completed 10+ times before I actually bought the game off Amazon for 30 it is 
 not like that. The gameplay is the same but the enemies shoot at you and often hit you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrogMon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  When I got the game I didn't do any research before I bought it, so when I entered the game I saw 
 that my fighter was packing enough ammo to fully equip about 100 fighters and had the ability to 
 do turns that would rip any fighter in half. I was expecting realism on some level, but don't think 
 this makes the game bad! Instead of having to be strategic with your weapons you can just go all 
 out and have some serious action packed fights. Also, the variety in aircraft is truly amazing 
 and the stunning graphics made this game worth the cash. I would really recommend trying it before 
 you buy it, because this seems like the kind of game you could really hate, or really love.
  Graphics- 10
  Sound- 10
  Gameplay- 9
  Realism- 2
  Story- 8
  Verdict: Rent it first or 
 borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WILLTHEALMIGHTY
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  First off, two things make this game a must-buy:
  -The entire game is centered on blowing things up.
  -The soundtrack is the best damn musical 
 piece in gaming history.
  
  Ace combat games have always been fun. Simple controls and satisfying booms ensure that. Plus it 
 gets rid of the limiting reality factor: Your plane never runs out of fuel, flies at ridiculous 
 speeds and has over 300 explosives hidden somewhere on it.
  
  A few controls need some getting use to, like the machine gun controls. You'll need to "place" 
 the enemy plane in the machine gun crosshair, but once you start shooting, the enemy jet gets torn 
 up to pieces in amazing detail. Stuffing airplanes full of lead has rarely been so satisfying.
 
  
  You get to choose from various planes: You get bombers like the A-10 thunderbold (the Fuel Air 
 Bomb is majestic) , multirole and fighters. Fighters are by far the most fun, since they make dogfighting 
 fast-paced and have some nice weaponry.
  
  The story starts off a bit cheesy, but in the end you might care for the characters. There aren't 
 any real-life places, but this is perfect for the huge sci-fi fights you get later in the story.
 
  
  All in all, if you've been waiting for a nice flight combat game, buy this now. At least, until 
 the next Crimson Skies comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 marks the debut of a Ace Combat title on any Xbox console. And that means alot also 
 because not only is it the best Ace Combat yet to date, but its also an exclusive. Ace combat has 
 always been the leader when it comes to jet games and this entry proves why it is king of it's 
 genre. 
  
  The Story in most Ace games don't really have much of a storyline and the majority of it is completely 
 forgettable. Though, this one is really no exception, it is far more compelling and interesting 
 than any other in the series. Voice acting is very well done and the script actually seems partly 
 intrigueing. But the majority of us do not go into an Ace Combat game looking for a story.
  
  The Graphics are mindblowing. That should come as no surprise considering that this is, afterall, 
 an Ace Combat game. Never have you seen a more realistic looking jet unless you have gone to the 
 air show or seen them in the sky. I believe this is one of the true strengths of the game and when 
 you see it in motion its hard to believe that they are not real. Just look at the jet from the 
 outside or step into the shoes of the pilot in the cockpit view and see how well they nailed it. 
 Namco did a great job bringing the battles to life with such a great job on the graphics and bringing 
 the game the closest to realism than it has ever been.
  
  The Gameplay is quick, realistic and fun. However, this is where the game shows extreme strength 
 and some weakness. Now the game plays fine, no doubt about it. The only flaw in the gameplay is 
 that it can get a little repetative and sometimes it gets downright frustrating. Aside from these 
 though you get some insane dogfights and you'll also have the support of several other wingmen 
 that you can issue orders to. 
  
  The online Multiplayer is the newest addition to the series and is just great. You get 16 player 
 dogfights along with co-op modes. I believe they did a great job with online component and I believer 
 this is the other biggest sstrength of the game. Its just to fun to shoot out a real person outta 
 the sky and hear your fellow wingmen yelling at another pilot or hear them curse outta anger cause 
 an enemy forced them to crash. Its an expeience like no other when it comes to jet and flight sims.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  well firstly the plot aint worth watchin so skip it's borin and you'll prob fall asleep. now to 
 the game itself well i think it plays really well you'll pick it up after bout 10-15 mins the difficuly 
 is pitched just right it gets harder and harder as you progress through it. also you have the option 
 of freeflight after you complete the missions so you can go back and do say pat c of a mission 
 that you may have failed or improve your score and accuracy rating. which is a great idea cos it 
 adds to the ongetivity of the game which if you consider the price of em these days thats essential. 
 the grapthics for the planes are awesome the planes look absolutely perfect and real. the only 
 flaw is the terrain as you get closer it does'nt look crisp enough but you can forgive them because 
 they look perfect only for that. the combat is great i always have that top-gun song in my head 
 when i'm playin it in case you want to know who it is it's kenny loggins danger zone. but i must 
 say i thouroughly enjoy playing the game i would recommend it to anybody who wants a descent flight 
 sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam437
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Talk to anybody from my generation that grew up watching Top Gun and they'll all tell you that, 
 at least at one point in their life, they wanted to be a fighter pilot. And that for some reason 
 volleyball left them a bit confused. With Ace Combat 6, you get to be Maverick. Or Goose or Iceman 
 if you prefer, but the point is that you won't be able to play the game without at least once saying, 
 "I'm gonna put on the brakes and he'll fly right by." And now that the Ace Combat series has made 
 its way to Xbox 360, you can say that to a friend on the other side of the world in the midst of 
 an adrenaline-pumping online match.
  
  That's really the success of this game. It looks real enough and you're inside a real jet cockpit, 
 but you can still be that imaginary ace that you've built up in your head all these years. Nose 
 diving towards an ocean, only to pull up at the last minute in a gravity-defying move that sends 
 you underneath a bridge while barrel rolling, of course, can be a reality. And you never run out 
 of ammo, because the war is on your shoulders and you absolutely need to blow up every last thing 
 on your radar, even if it is a radio tower on your home turf. The story doesn't really make sense. 
 The giant flying manta ray looking enemy base you fight certainly doesn't either. But it doesn't 
 matter, because you're in an F-22A that has over 200 explosives hidden somewhere on it and it controls 
 just like you always dreamt it wouldeven if that isn't totally realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higglefliggle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the series thus far and I am blown away by the graphics that this achieves 
 on the 360. It is light years ahead of the PS2 graphics. Not only are the graphics amazing, but 
 the new additions to the gameplay are astounding. The ability to control all of the planes in the 
 battlefield, the unit support system and the engagement zone and the ability to remove all of the 
 clutter from the radar display by selecting the engagement zone are awesome. Not to mention the 
 frontline landings, the new high-G turn system, the improved missile animations and hit systems, 
 proper gatling gun damage and only 1 annoying wingman to control, who, believe it or not, actually 
 can help you kill people. As with all of the games in this series, funny country names and cheesy 
 dialog are to be expected and are like white noise to me now. The game has simply evolved for the 
 next gen machines and will hopefully continue to improve as this one did. Looking forward to the 
 next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy234
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Flight orientated games on the Xbox are quite limited. With Over G fighters and the poor blazing 
 angels games the only other options. Now with Ace Combat 6 in the mix, it gives the genre a good 
 kick-start. 
  
  Now, I was never cool enough to have a PS", so I missed out on all the previous incarnations when 
 they switched platforms. So for this to be released on the 360 was excellent for me. 
  
  The basic premises of the game, is you're a fighter pilot trying to retake your country that has 
 been invaded. By using many different real world jet aircraft. An edition to the AC series is a 
 multiple choice operations, meaning a mission can be completed in a very free form manner. 
  
  Now the game play. Fast and exciting is the only way to some it up. As you tear through enemy 
 squadrons at mach 2 firing mini guns a missiles at anything that presents itself as a target. Tanks 
 and ships firing anti aircraft guns at you and explosions everywhere. It can at points get confusing 
 as to much is going on. I feel that speed is very well incorporated into this game say compared 
 to Over G, in which aircraft didn't feel very fast. But on this you can really kick in the burners 
 and scream towards enemies.
  
  Graphics are superb. The Aircraft in which there are 15 overall, all modelled expertly. So if you 
 are a plane buff (like myself) you will relish gunning down F-4s in F-16s and Tornado's. The ground 
 looks amazing from altitude but as you drop to the deck it can be slightly blurry, but still pretty 
 good considering the amount of other things going on around you. The aircraft are the real stars 
 of the game though. The amount of detail put into them is enormous. Even the air intake fans spinning 
 inside the air intakes, all the little details add up. 
  
  The audio quality is also top notch. The aircraft engines are loud. Pilot's radio chatter is also 
 very believable. But the dialogue during the cutsceanes is very ace combat, bearing no particular 
 reason to what's going on. The new orchestral soundtrack also gets the blood pumping.
  
  The story is possibly the most pointless story ever. For some reason a small girl called "matilda???" 
 was separated from her mother at the start of the war. And for some reason we have to follow the 
 mother on her journey to find her. Now none of this has any relevance to what you are doing in 
 the air. So only ever watch them once, then for comical value afterwards. Otherwise its very basic 
 shoot the other people, go yay when you win. 
  
  Multiplayer is covered very well with basic team and free for all death match. Then there is siege; 
 where to opposing teams have to destroy objectives in order to win. Though the only real downside 
 is the learning curve is very steep. YOU will die on your first match. But when you get used to 
 it, you can pretend you are Maverick.
  
  The only thing that really annoyed me was the usage of the apparent catchphrase, insult and propaganda 
 line "dance with the angels." The continued use of this drove me mad at points. Were its use made 
 no impact to the conversation. It really hit a low when a captured pilot insults and enemy pilot 
 with it. WTF, that's like the most pathetic thing ever. He should have done something cool, like 
 Arnie, pin him to a wall and say stick around and run off, find and m-60 and shoot anything that 
 moves. Not some pathetic little name???
  
  Besides that the game is overall excellent and was worth the 5 years of waiting. See you in the 
 sky
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerer34
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  when i first played the xbox live demo for this game i was shocked with the amount of stuff thats 
 on the HUD, at first its nearly impossible to fly, with some time and practice you can fly like 
 the ace you want to be. i just recenlty got the flight joysticks for the game and it makes the 
 game so much easier. there is a few minor issues i personally dont like, the scaling is horrific, 
 i F-16 i not the size of a city block, i mean these jets are massive in some cases they overwhelm 
 the battleships out at sea. another thing i didnt like is the arcade style time deal, and with 
 certain planes on missions like the 5th you and your wingmen are tank busting but theres enemy 
 jets all over the airspace so there needs to be a little less planes on tank-busting missons and 
 less tanks on anti-air missons. but all-in-all this is a great flight game with outsading detail 
 and complexity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCamGrdnr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  As a diehard Ace Combat fan (I own every game in the series, and love them all) I was super excited 
 to finally get to play a next-gen AC. Graphically. theis game is one of the best looking games 
 on 360, with every aircraft looking outstanding, and watchin missile trails and contrails lookin 
 equally lifelike, though at close distance some of the terrain looks blurry and undetailed. The 
 game delivers nothing really innovative as far as new game mechanics, with the only notable new 
 features being the aliied support and high-g turns. The Story is also nothing out of what you would 
 expect from an Ace Combat Game, with the same standard Western country (Emmeria) being invaded 
 by the same standard soviet-esk country (Estovakia) , and it is up to one ace pilot to single handedly 
 win the war. But you never play these games for the story, you play them for the thrill of the 
 dogfight, and AC6 does not disapoint one bit, with massive dogfights and plenty of targets to destroy. 
 The game is given decent replayability, with muliple playthroughs required to beat every sub-mission 
 and defeat every named aircraft. The multiplayer is something i was really looking forward to, 
 but it is a first attempt at an online MP for the series and shows it with the pretty shallow games 
 types (DM, Team DM, defend the base, and two Co-op missions) , but it is a pretty solid first try 
 and is pretty fun to play.
  The only bad thing I could find with this game was the surprising lack of flyable Aircraft, the 
 Fan favorites were there such as the A-10 and F-22, but where were the Mig 29, or SU-37? All in 
 all I would say that despite it s lack of jets this is the best showing of Ace Combat yet, or at 
 least tied with AC5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veovisinus
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This game follows along with Ace Combat 5 with being a great arcade flight combat game with high 
 detail aircraft and environments in addition to insanely annoying dialogue in the background. And 
 thats where the similarity ends. AC 5 had a story, AC 6 does not. Mission to mission you fly around 
 and shoot stuff without really knowing what you're doing for in the game. AC 5 made you want to 
 get to the end because the cutscenes made you interested in what was going on with your character 
 and his unit. Ace Combat 6's story doesn't even follow you. It follows a stupid woman who left 
 her own child behind in a bombed out and captured city simply because she saw a burning school 
 bus and assumed her daughter was in it and died. An additional side story follows an old crippled 
 member of the "enemy" who is interrogating captured pilots from your side. He mentions you in one 
 line remarks in a couple of his scenes as a "mysterious" pilot but thats about it. Since 4 the 
 plots on these games have been getting worse and worse.
  And now the part I hate the most about this game and why it lost 4 points on my rating. A line 
 they use in every scene and almost every mission in this game, "Go dance with the angels!" and 
 numerous variations of this phrase is supposed to be the equivalent of "F*** off!" or "Go to h***!" 
 but somehow the words dance and angel in these types of situations make it come off as.... well, 
 you get the idea. The constant references to dancing and angels made the messy, fast, gritty, adrenaline-filled 
 madness that comes with aerial war soft, cuddly, and serene. The script, along with the worst voice-acting 
 I've ever heard in a game with this much hype and rave and tradition behind it, lost this game 
 a lot of points from me.
  I only hope that Namco Bandai greatly improves the story of the next game or if they can't make 
 a decent one they need to get rid of the stories and make it a straight sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_klein
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  REVIEW UPDATE: My recent discovery of not being able to play this game via system link changes 
 my rating from 6 to a 5.
  
  I have been playing flight sims of all sorts since there were flight sims (yes I am an old gamer) . 
 So I write this mainly for hard core flight sim fans.
  
  This game is by no means a hard core flight sim, but it does capture the essence of said sim just 
 enough to satify your fighter jet combat pangs.
  It is very fun, but you will have to forgive alot of design choices that are intended to simplify 
 the game and make it accessable.
  
  This game does satisfy my hard core flight sim cravings, even though there are some rather gross 
 concessions made in terms of weapon capabilities and the how your loadout affects your plane (all 
 weapons are weightless! Alot of the missiles are very unrealistic, but still fun to shoot at things) . 
 
  
  I am glad that each plane has a 3d cockpit and that you can padlock targets, though it is a bit 
 uncomfortable to do so with a game pad. 
  
  It's a fantastic looking game. Very very pretty, and looks better than any PC sim on the market. 
 
  
  The sound effects are good, but pretty generalized. I wish they could have captured the haunting 
 whine/buzz of the A-10 better, rather than making it sound like a lear jet. 
  
  The combat is very fun, but be warned: if you don't have a HDTV you'll find it hard to tell what 
 the hell is going on on your radar or HUD. The "radar" display is always on the HUD, and it's rather 
 large, which is annoying.
  
  Another thing you'll have a hard time swallowing is the whole premise. The story takes place on 
 some fantasy world, where the soviet-like country is trying to invade the american-like country 
 ala red dawn, but with more jets. There are gigantic flying aircraft carriers in one mission, which 
 is silly, but it's still pretty damn fun.
  
  The story... will make you gag. Seriously, I would have given this game a nine if it were not for 
 the HORRIBLE story, HORRIBLY HORRIBLE dialogue, and the HORRIBLY HORRIBLE HORRID writing. Good 
 god it wil make your ears bleed, or make you very uncomfortable. Let me give you an example:
  
  New enemy fighter catain: "Hey I can have any girl I want!"
  
  Enemy fighter pilot, thinking: 
 "I bet he can. Why if he was more serious, and I was a woman, I would fall for him myself!"
  
  Yikes. It's not even funny in a national lampoon way, but more uncomfortable in the awkward 
 silence kind of way. Yes the game comes from Japan, but the dialogue is in english, by english 
 speaking people, so there is no excuse for such painful cut scenes and briefings. 
  I'm serious, they are very very bad, but you'll need to listen to them to figure out what you need 
 to do. This is not only painful, but sometimes difficult to comprehend. 
  To be fair, the radio chatter during combat does make the battlefield feel alive, but it's often 
 very confusing when hearing enemy radio chatter mixed with freindly radio chatter. Some of your 
 enemies have accents... wait... only 2 enemy characters have accents, but they are your friends... and... yeah, 
 no the radio chatter sucks actually. 
  
  Ok, so the story and dialogue are the worst things. There are some serious violations of physics 
 and reality in general. However, the game makes you feel liek a fighter pilot, and it's damn fun. 
 It's like a mentally retarded girl who is also really really hot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Ace combat series has had a long long long long very long long long series of games. The next one 
 picks off just like the last few with a global war emerging. It puts you in the cockpit of a pilot 
 of father who flys for the airforce of his country.
  
  The good ----------
  
  Lot of aircraft choices
  
  The sounds of the missiles sound cool shoosh shoooeewssshh.
  
 
  The multiplayer is a chaotic fun missile fest dogfighting crazzyness. 
  
  It lives up to the rest.
  
  The singleplayer is very good. Its deep it has a story to it. And 
 it really is like the old ones with those cool briefing screens and this sense that this is an 
 epic campaign to free the country from these jerks who invaded.
  
  I only wish the briefing was as cool as number 4's
  
  The multiplayer has a lot of different 
 maps and modes like siege and deathmatch, team deathmatch. It really is just fun having these massive 
 battles.
  
  you can get a lot of people in one multi game
  
  
  The 
  
  The story is a little goofy with the asteroid strike 
 thing on the planet
  
  The special weapons are rigged in multiplayer in that you can shoot at 3 different people or more 
 at once. Thats one problem is this game is very unrealistic. But I guess the pc simulators are 
 for realism.
  
  Theres a lack of players.
  
  Why can't you change the map in the lobby? you have to exit out make a new game. Kind of annoying 
 playing online with people to have to do that. Especially when theres no one online to have to 
 reinvite everyone and stuff.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  All in all it lives up to the old ace combats very much. The online mode is a huge addition to 
 the series that makes it just much better. If your a fan of the series GO BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!! 
 and go online :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tto55619
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a graphic masterpiece, the planes are photo-realistic, hell, everything is photo realistic 
 in this game! If you havent play the other games in the series (like me) it will be BEYOND hard 
 for the first 2 levels but then you get the hang of it and you will love it.
  
  The sound is realistic, you feel like your inside the plane yourself with a big tv and surround 
 sound :) .
  
  The online is mediocre really... but if you can find a good game it can be fun..
  (also a warning: 
 ALWAYS leave a game with 2 Japanese poeple in and no one else! It is a scam to lower your rep! 
 I learnt the hard way!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Ace combat 6 is impressive as ever, but this time with even more inhenced graphics and addictive 
 gameplay. 
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome, the planes are well modeled and the skies look terrefic 
 with realistic clouds and amazing reflection and details on the plans. one you're up in the sky, 
 you'll realize how beautiful this game looks. however, the more close to the ground the less impressive 
 things look, and I mean by things buildings, roads, houses, anti-tanks, military bases and almost 
 everything on the ground looks far less detailed and sometimes painfully disappointing. however, 
 you would be spending most of the time in the skies and probably won't bother or pay too much attention 
 to that. apart from that, everything else in this game looks terrefic and detailed; the oceans, 
 the hills and mountains ... it's amazing from above.
  
  The gameplay is a bit confusing at the beginning, though it may not be the case for Ace Combat 
 fans, who happened to play the previous games on ps2. however, once you pass the learning curve, 
 it becomes a great experience. I could not stop playing it after I got the hang of it and it felt 
 addictive in my hands. the early mission may seem a bit boring, but around mission 4 and 5, the 
 fun begins when you get to buy new planes and some powerful weaponary that turns the ground into 
 a firework show. the landing is also a good idea to be added here, since you can go back to your 
 base for supply when you run out of missiles ( I liked this idea) . overall, I had a blast with 
 this game, knowing that i'm not a fan of the genra and i'm not into planes and air to air combat. 
 
  
  The story is basically not important or even clear, because the cutscenes have so little to do 
 with what you actually do in the game. the sound is great, though with some good atmospheric background 
 music. the multiplayer is quite decent and could interest some players.
  
  to sum it up, I have to say that I was relactant about getting thie game when it first came out, 
 but when I did give it a shot , it never let me down. if you like aces, definitely buy this game, 
 if not you may still wanna check out the demo because this game may still suck you into it, after 
 all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I am an Ace Combat veteran. I've play almost all of them, and I am always just stunned by the level 
 of detail that the developers always put into the games. This is a perfect example, just plain 
 awesome graphics.
  However what it does handsomely in the graphics department, it kinda of lacks in the gameplay, 
 but still is really fun game to play. Online play, for me at least, can be a little frustrating. 
 Could be just my lack of experiance, but theres just something about the online play that just 
 doesnt click for me.
  This is a fantastic game, if your a fan of flight combat games, or just looking for something different, 
 I would recommend that you pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baseman28
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I'm relatively new to the Ace Combat series. I've only played 3 games (and didn't finish one of 
 them) . So far I like it but I'm not exactly a die hard fan or anything. I like how it handles the 
 gameplay, the graphics, the sound, and the story. It's fun but it's missing something...
  
  Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation is actually the ninth game in the Namco/Bandai's famous jet fighter 
 series and it chronicles the war between the Emmerians and Estovakians a. k. a "Your side versus 
 Their side". You will pilot actual jet fighters against real and fictional vehicles such as a giant 
 air fortress that fires cruise missiles. Moving on....
  
  -Gameplay- This is a arcade/flight simulator but it's definitely more arcade than simulator. You 
 never run out of fuel, lose pieces of your aircraft, suffer G-Force, or anything else that real 
 pilots need or have to worry about. All you need to worry about is having enough missiles and bombs 
 to finish a mission (ok, you still have to worry about ammo) , destroy enemies, and defend your 
 allies who obviously can't hold a candle to the enemy without you.
  You're not called "Air Support" for nothing. 85% of the missions are about 61% defense objectives, 
 35% destroy target objectives, and 4% retreat objective (sometimes) . The last 15% are seek & destroy 
 missions (the best parts in the game) . There are exactly 4 seek & destroy missions.
  You will always be armed with all-purpose default missiles and gun but you can also pick special 
 missiles and bombs you buy with money earned from missions. Special missiles and bombs are usually 
 specific to certain planes or types of planes (ex. special air-to-air missiles are only for air 
 superiority fighters or multi-role fighters) .
  Planes have to be bought as well in a similar manner. You go down a list and you get to see each 
 plane while it's in the hangar. It's a pretty cool feature not to mention you also see the information 
 about the plane such as it's history and capabilities (which are shown on a radar chart) such as 
 mobility and defense (armor) though you will probably be looking for Air-to Air performance, Air-to-Ground 
 performance, and speed.
  Throughout the entire game you seem to only have one official wingman (unlike the 4 you get in 
 Ace Combat 5) and you can tell him to cover you or go out and attack the enemies. However, you 
 do have one special trick up your sleeve this time around... (check Innovation factor.)
  While friendly A. I. will have some trouble, enemy A. I. becomes increasingly difficult every mission. 
 You will have to dodge missiles head your way and keep track of enemies you lock onto. Letting 
 them out of your sights can be a big mistake. There also are "elite" enemies that have better planes 
 than the rest and will gun you down whenever they have the chance.
  
  =Controls= The left joystick is for rolling and pitching the aircraft, right joystick moves the 
 camera, the trigger buttons accelerate and decelerate, and the shoulder buttons yaw the plane. 
 The face buttons control the combat functions like firing missiles and locking on to enemy vehicles 
 while the D-Pad handle squad commands. All of these are responsive and do not hitch up at any moment. 
 The only complication is when fighting ground targets. While fighting other jets in the air is 
 relatively versatile, slowing down your jet to bomb ground targets can be a pain and you must do 
 it often to complete missions.
  
  -Graphics- Ace Combat is pretty unique when it comes to graphics. The terrain seems to get the 
 best treatment with realistic looking hills, gorges, cliffs, rivers, and other natural features 
 you would see in real life and detailed textures... until you get near to the ground. At that moment 
 you realize that the terrain is actually pretty flat and looks bland up close. Of course, you don't 
 want to get to close in the first place (jet fighter flying at low altitude = very dangerous) unless 
 you have to use the machine guns. It's an impressive trick, nonetheless. Either they (Namco/Bandai) 
 were very careful with were they had to place texture and how, used real photos of terrain and 
 placed them in, or both.
  The planes seem to have similar texture design. Though not extremely detailed, they have the right 
 amount of texture to show off some realism but it's their design that really shines. The plane 
 models in the game seem to have been created while the developers where looking at the actual planes, 
 making them good to see up close as well as far away and the real star attractions (just like they 
 intended) . Changing to cockpit view is a real treat because every plane is unique.
  Ground units, helicopters, and naval units, on the other hand, have above average model design 
 but seem to suffer the same fate as terrain. Get too close and their texture is going to take a 
 ugly hit but this is a minor complaint.
  Other things such as the actual display like missile lock-on and radar is neater and cleaner looking 
 and the characters models shown in the cut scenes look good enough (actually, they look almost 
 movie CGI quality) . Smoke and fire effects are clearly better overall.
  In other words, good improvements all around for the usual Ace Combat graphics.
  
  -Sound- 
 Sound has received some good improvements as well. It's clearer and sharper (in my opinion) . You 
 can hear everything from large explosions to bullets whizzing through the air. Radio chatter also 
 seems to be coming through better radios this time around. They have less static.
  Ace Combat 6's musical score has a lot of orchestra music but also contains some electronic sounds. 
 All the songs are of great quality
  Though the character voices sound a bit campy and over dramatic , the voice actors have pulled 
 through. All the characters get their point across and never sound completely unrealistic (well, 
 a couple instances, they do sound ridiculous) .
  The jets still sound like real life jets so not much to say there.
  Other vehicles also sound 
 life-like but you would have get close to tell.
  
  *Story* This time it's straightforward. I kept looking for some neat plot twist or revelation but 
 nothing truly unexpected or surprising happened that couldn't have been foreseen earlier. No, instead 
 of going with a Ace Combat 5- like plot, they went for quantity over quality, telling the story 
 from over 7 character viewpoints (including the "bad guys") . To give a brief summary of the beginning, 
 the Emmerians are attacked by the neighboring country of Estovakia. The Estovakians attack the 
 Emmeria capital city, Gracemeria, with fighters and bombers and the Emmerian military defend themselves. 
 Then the Estovakians pull out their secret weapon (or one of them, anyways) , the aforementioned 
 super air fortress, and it fires cruise missiles which explode mid-air, destroying Emmerian jets 
 and damaging Gracemeria, effectively forcing the Emmerian military and government to retreat to 
 an island way far away. And from what I can saw in the cut scenes, only 1/4 of the cities population 
 goes with them.
  From then on, you and your wingman (codenamed, respectively, "Talisman" and "Shamrock"; where do 
 they get these names?) , along with the rest of the allied air force, fight back against the enemy 
 in a, in my opinion, vicious campaign to take back Emmeria but even more important than taking 
 back an entire country is getting Gracemeria back (they talk about the city a lot) . In your way 
 are Estovakian military and their elite air force squadron, Strigon.
  But the majority of the cutscenes and story isn't about you. In fact, if it wasn't the fact that 
 you played the missions, you would swear it was some sort of major sidestory. The "other" main 
 story is about a woman named Melissa going back to Gracemeria, on foot then in a car, to get back 
 her daughter, Matilda, who had a school field trip on the day Gracemeria was attacked and is stuck, 
 along with the other students, in a castle that is also the location of an Emmerian national symbol/landmark, 
 the "Golden Statue of the Smiling King" or something. Along the way Melissa makes friends with 
 an Estovakian woman who just wants to see her fiance, an Estovakian fighter pilot.
  Then there several other stories, half of which intertwine in some way with Melissa's. One about 
 an Estovakian Lt. Col. who was the former Stigon leader until he broke his leg. This one is almost 
 as important as the "main" story because he is helping oversee the transformation of Gracemeria 
 (or whatever) and is starting to have a change of heart. I'm not going to go in anymore detail 
 for the rest of the stories but you will seem at least once.
  None of these are bad or anything. They are well-made and show the humanity of both sides but gets 
 a little over dramatic and I don't how important they are. It's almost a random occurrence they're 
 even here.
  And your character never speaks or shown. Nope, not at all.
  
  =Innovation= This game does have some new things for the series. In most of the missions, you have 
 multiple objectives which are happening in real-time (on larger levels, you can engage each of 
 them one at a time by entering the objective area) . You can even switch your radar to show only 
 one objective and all enemies and friendlies related to it. Once you do almost all of them, either 
 the mission is a success or you have do one final objective that appears afterwards. Only problem 
 is most of these are escort/defense missions and there usually multiple in a level. Either you 
 finish an objective very quickly or start juggling a few of them at a time. Failing one is fine 
 but failing two or more means you fail. 
  Another addition is "Allied Attack" and "Allied Cover" (the "tricks" I was talking about) . By holding 
 down a wingman command instead of tapping, you get most of the ally jets to attack all targets 
 marked by this command (giant circle appears for a moment selecting all targets in front of you) . 
 There is a gauge you must fill by destroying enemies and completing objectives (the latter is faster 
 in doing so) . On a related note, it seems that even though there is only one wingman, sometimes 
 ally jets follow you but you can't command unless you use "Allied" commands.
  
  Bottom line, this game good and should be played. The only major gripe I have is that the series 
 is bit stale now. I've only played 3 games but I can already tell the formula is being recycled 
 without much added to keep it fresh.
  
  If Ace Combat 7 is planned then they need more new features or other improvements to make the series 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkameltosis
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I remember Ace Combat 4, you could fly around for the whole mission, and barely any of your units 
 would be killed, unless a Yellow was nearby.
  
  Ace Combat 6, although it gives 40 minutes, or somewhere near that, for each mission, you have 
 to do everything in about 15, otherwise you fail one or two of your objectives because the whole 
 tank battalion was destroyed. There are only three bad things I could find in Ace Combat 6, the 
 first being that although the graphics are great, when there is a cloud in front of you, its sooooo 
 bright that the glare blinds you. 
  The second is that your radar doesn't have such a wide radius on the first setting, and the next 
 setting takes up a whole corner of your screen. 
  The third and final problem is the missiles, when your locked on, there is no loud beep or buzz 
 (actually there is a silent one, but because everybody is saying something at every point in the 
 game it can barely be heard,) and when you fly into a cloud you don't know if your locked on or 
 not to the enemy your following.
  
  It is a game worth playing however, plenty of fun and action, as well as it gives you a choice 
 of what mission part you want to follow, either an anti-air mission, or a mixed, or an air-to-ground. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crashspeeder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with a compelling story told through cut-scenes. Every cut-scene keeps you 
 entertained every character has a story to tell (from both sides of the war) . The game is a bit 
 cliche when it comes to praising you for your achievements as it tells you you're the best and 
 they couldn't have done it without you every 5 minutes.
  
  The story wraps up nicely tying all the characters together, bringing the game to a close. Not 
 a single part of the game was boring and even when it was challenging it didn't dissuade you from 
 playing. Instead the incredible attention to detail made you enjoy the game whether you succeeded 
 or failed.
  
  The game tutorials couldn't been more extensive and preferably explained a few things earlier on. 
 I guess they want you to develop your own dogfighting style.
  
  All-in-all I say the game deserves a 9.5 for not disappointing at any part. And I still haven't 
 played multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebourne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short cuz i have to go soon. Ace combat 6 impressed me from the first cinimatic 
 to the end of the game. The cinimatics are almost as good as it gets and the actual game is as 
 fun and exciting as a flight sim gets. In the history of flight sim games this is by far the best 
 one to date. The replays feel almost movie like as you watch your plane from all angles fly around 
 and destroy enemies. Most people who enjoy flight sims will have little to complain about when 
 immersed in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 is a great game no doubt... but is it worth your money? Here is my review which will 
 hopefully answer that important question:
  
  I'll start things off by going over the good parts about this game. First, the gameplay is action 
 pact and the missons are VERY challenging. The missions keep you busy for hours as you try to clear 
 them, while staying alive and flying without crashing (its harder then you think) , and the explosions 
 and gun fire heard all around the map adds to the excitement. The graphics are stunning and make 
 the game one of the most realistic flight games ever. The maps and airplanes look amazing, especially 
 with the sun glare on them :) , and the sounds of the engine and the explosions gets you pumped 
 up and ready to kick some ass in the skies!!!!! Alright, maybe thats a little too much... but you 
 get my point. 
  
  The bad parts of the game are as follows... well, if the developers wanted to make the missions 
 so damned long, hey.. its fine with me! I got time to finish them, but the problem is what if I 
 suck at the game and I die mid way through the mission, that means I can start from where I last 
 saved right? Wrong, in Ace Combat 6, their is absolutely NO saving during missions which is abosulutely 
 insane... and I mean INSANE. Imagine if you are 2 seconds from finishing a mission, you were playing 
 the mission for like an hour and a half, and then you suddenly die... its terrible, its a waste 
 of time, and it shows the lack of effort of the developers to at least put some type of checkpoints 
 of something during the missions so the player can save their progress. Another dissapointment 
 is the storyline.. it sounds cool on paper but the cut scenes are just embarasing. The oppenning 
 has some blond woman screaming "maattildaaa!" and prisoners insulting police men by saying "go 
 dance with angels".... go dance with angels? Are you freakin kidding me? Anyway, the cut scenes 
 suck , but the gameplay makes up for it. Also, speaking of the gameplay, it is very good... but 
 it can get a little reppetitive after a while, that doesnt mean it gets boring though.
  
  Overall, Ace Combat 6 is a great flight game that will keep you hooked for hours, the sounds and 
 graphics are amazing. The gameplay is awsome and fun, and the game is a nice rapped up package 
 of pure fun that is well worth the 60 dollar price tag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBaron76
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  A flight sim enthusiast or a fast-action junkie will enjoy this game. It's got very high detail 
 and is very fluid, and keeps its replay value with attainable but challenging goals. The story 
 is good, but perhaps cheesy in its delivery to some (me) . The online play is pretty awesome, but 
 it's hard to find matches. This is my first Ace Combat game and I'm very impressed. I'm drawn more 
 to the realistic sims on PC, but I found this one to be very enjoyable despite its arcade-type 
 gameplay. Actually, since I've gotten the hang of it, I've found it hard to quit at any given moment. 
 The aerodynamics are there, the weapons employment functions are right for the console gamer, and 
 I'd give this game a 10 for its genre. I'm glad I didn't drop the $150 for the flight stick, as 
 the game is designed for agile thumbs, but I'm glad to have the game and will not be getting rid 
 of it any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arroliga
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  So I've been with the Ace Combat series since it was called Air Combat back in 1995 and loved it 
 from the start. A die-hard AC fan I am.
  
  But let's face the music, the series hasn't changed one bit in 12 years. TWELVE YEARS. The best 
 thing I can say as a person who has been there from the start is that this latest version has the 
 best graphics. The battle interface hasn't evolved, the running story is lame as always and the 
 menus are sloppy as usual. Quite dissappointing in this respect. How can you not make this awesome 
 series better in a decade?
  
  So if I'm griping so much why did I give AC6 a 7.0? Cause it's still a damn solid game despite 
 the lack of innovation. Best flying mechanics out there. Hands down. Not like I can compare it 
 to any other jet fighter sim but it stands out on its own. The multiplayer is tight and the audio 
 works very well with the action. Anyone trying out AC for the first time with 6 will be quite impressed. 
 Namco has stuck with the formula that made me fall in love with the series and it still works.
 
  
  Great game but quite a let-down for AC vets like myself expecting innovation this time around. 
 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurielovsko
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, again Namco-Bandai have done a really nice game, those who have already played other AC installments 
 will notice a few new things like:
  
  *The ability to call in support from allies
  *The massive battles
  *The new radar system
  *Online gameplay
  
  Even though this seems 
 like some good stuff, it's got its downs, for example:
  
  *There are less planes than in other installments of the series
  *No Falken (There is still another 
 superplane)
  *No radio questions
  *Less missions that in other installments
  
  Even if it seems that there are some bad things about this game, it retains the feel of the other 
 AC games, the graphics look awesome and difficulty is just about the right in normal mode, so you 
 all beginners can get better.
  
  The story mode is acceptable, even though you don't get cutscenes from your sky moves (you get 
 the story of different characters that have a roll in the war) it's still immersive in the way 
 you feel the story a lot more personal and less politic.
  
  The on line mode is good, and without lag (even though I got a really bad connection) but the menus 
 are kind of disappointing.
  
  Other than the stuff mentioned above I just want to say that this game is worth buying even if 
 you're not an Ace Combat fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinjun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Great game! Great Graphics! AWESOME MULTIPLAYER!!!!
  I was skeptical at first as I have played a few flight sims on the console and have been sorely 
 disapointed. Ace Combat, however has been impressive to ay the least. I have been playing now for 
 almost 4 weeks and have yet to get bored or feel like it is just another flight sim . I have played 
 through the campaign on standard difficulty and am on my way back through on hard. When I have 
 gotten enough of the single player action ( hard to do) I head online for the great frame rate 
 over mulitplayer. I have 2 360s in the house and to have my friends come over and do fight... nothing 
 short of awesome. I highly recommend for both the single and multiplayer experience. In my opinion 
 this is the best flight sim to hit the X360 since inception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bevbinks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is so amazing its not even funny its the most buy for anyone that likes to fly around 
 in jets. the story line if you have commonsense you will understand it and it even makes good sense 
 unlike some other games eg kane and lynch. anyways the jets are kool to fly the story makes sense 
 its a great game you and did i forget to say the graphics are amazing but im still trying to find 
 up if i cant make the jet cut the water when i fly low uh well if you have this game or your going 
 to buy it have fun guys. (^.^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetkyle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Its funny how this outstanding action game sells more than 10 million units worldwide, and all 
 I see all over this and other sites is how amazing Mario Galaxy is and that it sold 500,000 copies? 
 I am a Nintendo fan too (since 1987) but it seems like other titles are being swept under the rug. 
 Mmmm. 
  
  Despite the underrated aspects of the game, it still comes out a winner and at least deserves a 
 rent. Nice graphic work, the city and landscapes are super realistic and the action is tight. Check 
 it out!
  
  Despite the underrated aspects of the game, it still comes out a winner and at least deserves a 
 rent. Nice graphic work, the city and landscapes are super realistic and the action is tight. Check 
 it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_Gow
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  i remember when i buy this game i thought it could be like a ace combat 2-5, cuz in this episodes 
 , by my self i couldnt find any diffrence between theme .
  but this one Rockssss !?? i'm a fan of F-14 and just look at the F-14 Tomcat Especial for halooween 
 (in marketplace you can download it) !!? great orange horror pumkin right back on you'r F-14 tomcat 
 ??? that so Co0o0ol .the graphic is (10/10) . you can check it out in screen shots and wallpapers 
 .
  at first when you start to playing the game its gonna be some boring for you , cuz shooting planesin 
 15 minutes for each mission is gonna frust you'r knees . but then .... you gonna catch the story 
 and you'r getting boost with planes and your crew and aliied planes that you can control it . its 
 possible for tell them the orders like covering , attack , and after you completing each objective 
 you gonna get some boost to use aliied attack . this one sometimes is hell of way to survive from 
 10-13 planes in mission and all that you can see is a lots of missles that they are crossing from 
 you'r wings .
  Multiplayer is one of the most powerpoints of a game , by my self im enjoying the team battle mode 
 . you can use the orders in online mod too .
  Advises:
  1. if you like play RPG=its gonna be boring 4 u 
  2. if you like to see bloody shots=its not gonna 
 be boring but after you finished it on easy its impossible 4 u to start the game again in normal 
 or hard & u r gonna hook on the online mode
  3. for enjoying this game you will need a little bit information of fighter planes and etc. and 
 if you don't know anything about planes i can't prefer you to buy this game.
  4. if you wanna game points its gonna be so hard to take a achievments from this game , in single 
 you can just get 300-350 but in online mode its not goona be so hard , and it grows on you how 
 much you want!?
  thank's :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vhayste
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  =Operations=
  
  One of the new features of the game is the DOS (Dynamic Operations System) . Most of the missions 
 in AC6 are comprised of several operations or individual battles, which players need to complete 
 a certain quota to accomplish the whole mission.
  
  =Allied Support=
  
  In the player's HUD, the new AS (Allied Support) Gauge has been added. This gauge is filled up 
 when the player and his allies destroy targets. 
  
  Once the gauge has been filled with at least one bar, players can reques for Allied Cover and Allied 
 Attack commands. These are similar to wingman cover and attack commands but to a larger scale.
 
  
  Allied units from completed operations can be called for allied support as well, for more effective 
 attack runs.
  
  =Wingman=
  
  A feature first introduced in Ace Combat 5, the player's wingman can be ordered to attack or cover 
 him/her. Players can't order their wingman when to use his SP weapons. This is just a small lowdown, 
 especially when your team is caught in a tight web of enemy fighters and your wingman just goes 
 around and chasing enemies while attempting to shoot them down with conventional missiles. Either 
 way, having a wingman takes a bit of load off the player's shoulders.
  
  =Frontline Resupply=
  
  Another great addition to the game. In some missions, there are operations 
 that will require players to defend or capture airbases or runways. When cleared, players will 
 be allowed to use the runway for immediate resupply, re-arming and repairs. Players are vulnerable 
 with enemy fire while landing or taking off so they will need to clear the skies or order an allied 
 cover while doing an emergency landing.
  
  The game also features return lines in all missions. Return lines are available in other AC versions 
 but on some missions only.
  
  =ESM=
  
  ESM (Electromagnetic Support Measures) is yet, one of the new features in the game. Certain facilities 
 and planes provide an ESM field where allied units within range have enhanced missile tracking 
 and protection. Enemy forces use this support feature too.
  
  =Planes=
  
  The game has only a small lineup of modern and efficient aircraft. The old favorites such as the 
 ADF-01 Falken and X-02 Wyvern were not featured in the game. Instead, a new fictional aircraft 
 CFA-44 Nosferatu is included, and will be the most powerful aircraft in the game.
  
  =Weapons Payload=
  
  One noticable changes in the game is the increased missile and SP weapon 
 payload of all aircraft. This is due to the lenghty missions and multiple operations.
  
  =Secrets=
  
  Players will still have the chance to unlock medals, assault records, aircraft 
 colors and of course achievements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 definetly delivers, other games in the series did not have the rich beautiful graphics 
 that this one did which is a big plus. Sound is good and gameplay is easy and fun. Online multiplayer 
 is probably the best part of this game, I can actually feel the reality of it and its awsome. Namco 
 realy did a good job on the visuals on explosions and landscapes. A good selection of jets to chose 
 from is great, though previous games in the series had more to chose from. I give this a 8.8 out 
 of ten, go Namco u rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Having been a veteran of the Ace Combat series, excluding the ones released for the original playstation, 
 I was very eager to say the least, for this new ace combat to come out. I was impressed with Ace 
 Combat 4, Ace Combat 5: The Unsung War, and of course Ace Combat Zero: The Belkan War. So when 
 Fires of Liberation came out, I was well pleased to go out and buy it. First off, this game is 
 really no different from the other series. The usual story line of, your country is under attack 
 and you have to save the day. I would like a ace combat game to come out though were the pilot 
 you play as is the attacker, and invading some peaceful country. That would be an interesting twist. 
 Anyways, the graphics are great, though the game still suffers from when you fly low and then the 
 ground and buildings aren't as great as they seemed from high altitude. Some new add ons are the 
 ability to call in squad mates on targets when you fill your bar and watch the dozens of missiles 
 streak through the sky and blow up whatever you want them to. Its thrilling to watch. Some drawbacks, 
 if you do notice is the fact there are very little planes to choice from in this one. I remember 
 having around 30 planes in the older games. This one comes in around 15. Though considering once 
 you get the F-22 or Su-47 your bound to never really use the other planes ever again... lol. The 
 only thing I disliked about this game was the way the missions were lined out. You have to race 
 back and forth assisting attacking comrades who don't seem to be able to sort things out on their 
 own and I remember losing a battlefield because I was to engrossed in wiping out another particular 
 field of operation. Though the game doesn't end when you lose an area of operation, but its still 
 annoying. But it doesn't really take away from the game. The final mission, like the other games 
 is thrilling and heart bounding. The soundtrack is great, and the controls are fine. If you like 
 flight sims that involve combat, or any ace combat game. Then pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 offers a great storyline and a nice selection of planes, all of which come with an 
 availiable wingman. 
  
  Single Player: You'll probably finish single player on the normal difficulty in 4 hours or so and 
 3 more hours on hard difficulty. The story is believable todays post September 11th society, but 
 the voice acting is sometimes horrible and over dramatised, with lines likeHow can I let this 
 happen!!"
  or "Oh yeah, The Battery, it has a backup, you'll have to destroy that too".
  
  Multiplayer: This is good but it's effect wears off on you after a dozen sessions. Some of 
 the time you'll play with english speaking players and other times you plays against those from 
 the Asia region. Multiplayer has no ranking system or anything that will keep you gasping for more.
 
  
  The gameplay is great and addicting at first but after unlocking all availiable unlockables you'll 
 probably like me put the game in the shed outside and forget about playing it again.
  
  Good for a rental if you just want achievments and to try the new planes out.
  Ace Combat 6 gets 
 an 8.5 for graphics, gameplay & story, and an easy to learn multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 was my first exposure to the Ace Combat world. Everything in the game is absolutely 
 solid, particularly the graphics. Each plane is rendered and modeled to an unparalleled realism 
 that at some points, all you can do is marvel at the majesty of your current aircraft you fly. 
 In addition to the aircraft, the general environment from buildings and structures to water, ground 
 textures, and clouds are absolutely amazing.
  
  Gameplay, while at times, is repetitive in the early goings, gets much better in the later missions. 
 For the most part, the name of the game is speed -- as you will constantly be put up against foes 
 that can even outmaneuver your own aircraft, ultimately shooting you down. In times of need, however, 
 your allies can be called upon to destroy every target you select, or they can cover you while 
 unleash a salvo of missiles onto numerous bandits.
  
  All in all, Ace Combat 6 is an excellent addition for the 360 as it is easy enough to pick up and 
 play, but has enough complexity for those who are looking to test their skills well beyond their 
 limits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The movie Top Gun comes off as campy at best these days, but in its time, it was a smash action-fest 
 for a reason - it turned the highly technical and demanding profession of piloting fighter jets 
 into a testosterone-filled roller-coaster ride that everyone could enjoy. The long-running PlayStation 
 series Ace Combat became famous by doing exactly the same thing, and its Xbox 360 debut is one 
 of the best yet.
  
  From the moment you load up the game, it's impossible not to marvel over how gorgeous Ace Combat 
 6 is. The breathtaking scenery looks almost photorealistic from 5,000 feetthough if you're buzzing 
 the ground on a bombing run, it's like sticking your nose right up against a big-screen TV - it 
 just looks all pixelated and ugly up-close. Those moments are rare, though, and you'll enjoy rocketing 
 through wispy clouds, tracking the smoke trails of your missile launches, and watching the concussive 
 puffs of explosions bloom all around you.
  
  Those visual fireworks are more than just pretty scenery, though, because they let you really take 
 in the enormous scope of the battles in Ace 6. There's nothing linear about this game - you and 
 your wingman are dropped into huge, sprawling conflicts where up to six full-scale operations can 
 be going on at any time around you. You can flit between aerial duels, clearing out bunkers for 
 your ground forces, sinking gunboats in the path of your landing marines, and much more.
  
  You're a pilot, not a general, so while you do have the freedom to decide where to go, you're not 
 calling the shots. Sometimes your presence will be urgently needed, and other times, you can neatly 
 tidy up one battle before starting another. You really, really have to pay much more attention 
 to the radio chatter than pretty much any gamer is used to - miss one desperate plea for help, 
 and a whole operation could fail.
  
  Fortunately, you can outright skip some operations without ruining the whole mission, and you can 
 also earn the ability to call in allied support, which basically means your comrades zip over to 
 whup some tail on your behalf. But the game could still really use some better information management, 
 like a way to pause and see where you're urgently needed. You can also accidentally trigger an 
 operation by inadvertently flying into its airspace - it's a shame Namco didn't connect that occurrence 
 to a simple button-press to prevent such goofs.
  
  Last on my list of gripes is the learning curve for the HUD and radar. Both displays are just not 
 as user-friendly as they need to be for all the info they're presenting. Your current target, for 
 instance, is almost indistinguishable from others in front of you - and sometimes, you literally 
 face more than 20 targets at a time. Mercy!
  Still, that learning curve is worth climbing. The payoff for feeling like an ace pilot who rains 
 death on enemy bases and dogfighting opponents alike is pretty substantial. This game is a cracking 
 good time and a refreshing change of pace. Thankfully, the realism is not even close to high - 
 in one mission, you assault massive airborne aircraft carriers... what a hoot! - so mostly, your 
 first-person-shooterbred skills will do the trick quite nicely.
  
  Where you may run into trouble is online. For the first time in the series, Ace 6 offers 16-player 
 dogfights and four-player co-op against A. I. forces. Co-op is a blast, involving two long, complex 
 missions that are fun to unravel with friends. The dogfighting, though, feels aimless unless you're 
 playing with people who really know what they're doing: We predict it'll be the stomping ground 
 of the ber-hardcore pilots. But even if that's not your thing, there's enough single-player thrills, 
 lock-on tones, and just damn cool battles to make Ace 6 a game you should definitely pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  This is a stunning looking game (until you get close to the ground) , the first few missions are 
 a tad dull but it soon livens up with some pretty intense dogfights and bombing runs. As you might 
 have guessed the gameplay is pretty samey because of the type of game it is, i. e. fly here, kill 
 these, bomb that, fly back. But as i said its that kind of genre, so if your a fan of the ace combat 
 games its worth buying. If its your first console flight sim then i would rent it or borrow it 
 before you buy.
  
  And another thing, who the hell needs a storyline in a flight sim/shoot em up??? the cut scenes 
 are off putting and i just wanted to skip them so i could frag some enemy jets. as i said rent 
 before u buy, unless your a big fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristopherPB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Combat series has always tried to please an odd niche in the gaming world. Its typically 
 not simple enough to many casual gamers with its engrossing control schemes however it is often 
 not realistic enough for flight simulation buffs.
  
  This 6th installment continues the tradition of fast paced air combat and compelling story driven 
 action but, like all games, falls short in a few areas.
  
  The first is in scope. The game developers clearly wanted to expand the average playing field and 
 bring the game closer to real world combat by providing each mission with several different combat 
 operations occurring at the same time. While this may sound exciting, it makes the game play tedious 
 and overwhelming. While fighting various enemies you are constantly bombarded with requests for 
 aid and reports on causalities and survivors. At one time or another you may have to kill several 
 ground bases, 16 enemy aircraft and provide air support for several other units across hundreds 
 of miles. The immense scope of the missions wouldn't be so down right monotonous if the objectives 
 weren't so repetitive.
  
  The second area of disappointment is in the ally support system that is a new feature in the series. 
 On each mission you are given one or more allies that are there to support you in your mission. 
 All they appear to do is to remind you of incoming missiles which you are already aware of thanks 
 to the warning system in your cockpit. When their not telling you that "an enemy has a lock on 
 you" they are complaining about being hit by missiles.
  
  The third area of importance is the storyline. In Ace Combat 6 you play as a an ace for the Gracemerian 
 Nation who have recently lost their country to the Estolovakian nation who decided, prompted by 
 years of poverty, to attack. The story is primarily told through long FMV and during missions through 
 the radio. The main problem is that much of the story is narrated from the perspective of a woman 
 hopelessly lost in love and war. It might be good in a cinema or a book but in videogames, its 
 best to focus on the action. It becomes really boring listening to her monotonic, sad voice every 
 time a mission ends. Another annoying factor in the story is that you are always referred to as 
 "support". It seems everyone says "Thanks for the support" or "we couldn't have won it without 
 you!". Its frustrating because you are the one doing all the killing, all the saving, all the flying. 
 The other units are doing about as much damage as would my toaster if it suddenly self-combusted. 
 Also to add to my list of story woes is that the pace of missions is really unbalanced. A mission 
 starts of as uneventful for the first 10 seconds, then for the next 30 minutes the action remains 
 at a plateau with little break nor increase in excitement. Then, suddenly, as if someone flipped 
 a switch, the mission is over. You hear the typical "Good job!" and such and the "success" sign.
 
  
  It can be difficult at times to actually find and target enemies. Unless one figures out early 
 on (with no tutorial to explain it) that by pressing the blue button on the controller you can 
 change the radar to operation and tactical view, you remain hopelessly lost. Distinguishing enemies 
 from terrain is nigh on impossible and you must rely on the fickle targeting system that will decide 
 to aim at a unit 100 KM away in favor of the one 600 ft away. The lock on times are also disproportional 
 as firing at an unmoving ground target is somehow harder to lock onto than a jet fighter moving 
 at 500 KPH which locks on almost instantly.
  
  But now for the good stuff; the parts of the game which went right.
  
  The graphics in this 
 game are amazing, both for the aircraft and for the effects. Explosions seem alive and clouds obscure 
 your view and offer a picturesque image of the ground. Sadly the ground is the one thing about 
 the visual presentation of AC6 that seems to lack improvement. It is basically a mesh with a texture 
 applied and often lacks detail. This is hidden to some degree by a variety of buildings in city 
 areas and by vast forests in the mountain regions of the game. My only negative comment towards 
 the graphics of the game (bar the ground comment made earlier) is that the smoke trails left behind 
 by planes seem to persist a bit too long and if one looks at a dog fight in progress you get to 
 view an unsightly mess of trails all twisted together. I think they should last a little less long 
 and transfer the frame rate savings onto the ground.
  
  Another decent feature of the game is that the differences between the different aircraft to choose 
 from can actually be felt and experienced. The starter aircraft performs well and an experienced 
 player could likely stay with it throughout the campaign but other aircraft, such as the A-10 should 
 likely be kept in the hangar as it lacks the speed and maneuverability needed to survive any of 
 the missions.
  
  Overall, Ace Combat 6 has done rather well for a game that hedges it's bets. Theres enough action, 
 excitement and story for the casual gamer and just enough realism for most flight simulation junkies. 
 Even if you own prior Ace Combat games, this one is worth it just for the graphics improvement 
 and new storyline.
  
  Certainly a game I will play for the many days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous Ace Combat games and they're all real good fun. Nothing makes you feel 
 cooler than jumping in a jet and going full throttle blowing stuff up! This game had a great story 
 and the cinematics for the cutscenes were great. The voice acting was good and quite believable. 
 This game immerses you more than the others do. It doesn't have as many planes but you'll have 
 lots of fun playing with the ones it does let you.
  
  There's lots of extras you can unlock and it's fun to go back through the campaign with all your 
 goodies and try a harder difficulty. The online is the only hitch for the game. I couldn't find 
 any games under the non-ranked portion, and only two under the ranked. I joined one game and it 
 was totally chaotic. Since the other players can pull off the same moves you can, they're harder 
 and more of a pain to kill than the Strigon team members. There's no satisfaction because it's 
 nearly impossible to skillfully kill other pilots. Your only strategy is to just fire lots and 
 lots of missiles and hope they hit someone. 
  
  If you don't plan to play this online, it's a must have! Beautiful graphics and a great story make 
 it a campaign worth playing through over and over. Your guranteed to enjoy the single player, but 
 wait for the next installment if you really wanted to get online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation
  
  The second you load up the single-player campaign for the first time, you get a real feel for Ace 
 Combat 6. Why? Your capital city, Gracemeria, gets the crap beaten out of it and taken over by 
 the "evil" Estovakians. The proceeding missions are all about you as try to liberate your nation, 
 Emmeria, from the "Stovies" (hence the subtitle "Fires of Liberation) . The main story is told straight 
 from the cockpit of whatever plane you're flying, but there are side stories told in the cutscenes. 
 One cutscene character is a woman who has lost her child, another is a crippled former enemy pilot. 
 These WOULD be awesome... if the lipsynch weren't obviously made for the original Japanese audio 
 track. Also the voice overs aren't particularly great - not THAT bad, but not great either. 
  
  Moving on to what makes this game awesome: the gameplay. Right from the beginning of the game 
 you feel like Maverick from Top Gun. Yes, references like these are cliche, but it really is that 
 great. You feel awesome when you've been tailing an enemy plane and then get hear the AWACS tower 
 tell you, "Garuda 1 locked-on!" and then you fire your missile and destroy him. Flying feels great 
 and natural: the controls are just right. What's more is that every plane is different. While, 
 they really are subtle differences, it's the subtle differences that matter. 
  
  There are other perks to gameplay, such as the ability to call in friendly units to deal with your 
 9,000 airborn problems. The catch? You have to unlock the allied support first. How? You complete 
 the operations on the map, such as helping destroy enemy radar jamming planes or saving the tank 
 battalions by doing their job for them. The most immediate support you always have is your wingman 
 Garuda 2 "Shamrock". He's always there for you. If you order him to "cover" you, he'll take missiles 
 for you. If you tell him to "attack" he'll go forth and start wreaking havoc. In short? Awesome. 
 
  
  The graphics are superb. There are times when you'll just want to sit back and enjoy the view from 
 your aircraft... or of your aircraft. There are points when you'll forget you're playing a game, 
 yes, that good. The planes look real. The landscapes are brilliant and are photorealistic until 
 you get really close, which you probably won't do.
  
  The sound. The voice acting and aircraft sounds are awesome when you're playing. The roar of a 
 passing jet followed by your wingman Garuda 2 announcing that he just made a kill sounds simply 
 incredible. However, as a I mentioned, the voice acting isn't great during cutscenes. 
  
  Now, games like Ace Combat 6 often include sour replay and you'll only play once. Not the case 
 here! There is loads of unlockable content and there is no way you'll have used every plane by 
 then end of a campaign. There are also objectives you won't have done in missions and various small 
 things. Ace Combat 6 is truly a diamond in the rough in the regard of value.
  
  Finally, I'm going to say something for the story. There are points where it's dorky, for instance 
 the "Golden King" is pretty stupid. How many times are they going say "dance with the angels"?!?! 
 Seriously... almost every sentence of the game has to include "dance with the angels!" But that's 
 not too big of a problem! Why? The story is awesome. No, it isn't on Mass Effect's level of story, 
 but it gets to you. When you finally get to the liberation of Gracemeria, you really feel it. You'll 
 wanna shout "YEAH!!!" as you save your hometown. 
  
  THE SCORE:
  Graphics: 9. They look brilliant, but the humans aren't as great as the landscapes or the planes.
 
  Sound: 9. Not-so-great voice acting in cutscenes.
  Gameplay: 10. What's not to love?
  Value: 10. Loads of stuff to do and unlock.
  Tilt: 9. I would give it a ten if they'd fix the 
 story up a bit, it's not broken but there are things that would have made it better. Either way, 
 it's awesome! 
  TOTAL, FINAL AVERAGE: 9.4, adjusted is 9.0. 
  
  Why do I not adjust it upwards? Because 9.5 is reserved for games that are just shy of total perfection, 
 or 9.5 and above. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killdot1335
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I bought this game just because I thought it was a real neat Idea to have the joysticks and everything. 
 (I know, kind of dumb to buy a $160.00 dollar game on a hutch) . But when I took it home and poped 
 it in My XBOX 360, I dident know what to think. At first I sort of thought, wow this game is going 
 to be tough and boring. Sitting there trying to figure out how to fly my plain, using the joysticks. 
 Doing the tutorial, (witch i might add, is very good) . But within about 1 hour I was flying and 
 shooting down enemy aircraft, and bombing the heck out of boats. Long story short as I speak I 
 am on mission 12. The missions are fun, and they dont feel pointless. This game trys its best at 
 trying to make you feel like you are this flying ace. Anyways, great game! BUY IT!!!
  
  
  The good... Great Graphics, Very fun, Addictive, the joystick is a blast, great multiplayer, Just 
 an overall great game
  
  The Bad... The cut scenes can be a little confusing. Feel like you need more fire power somtimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kherak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Planes, gameplay, effects, sounds. This game is complete. Ace Combat gives you the felling of a 
 true air battle where split second decisions must be taken and a single mistake mean the failure 
 of a mission or even the life of a wingman. This game goes to where no one of the same genre went 
 before. There you can control over 5 battles simultaneously and the stunning graphics... yeah. Namco 
 (now Namco/Bandai) has got a Bull's Eye once again in the gaming industry. I hope they keep like 
 this. I'm expecting for Ace Combat 7. The project exists, but it'll take some time to come. So 
 I have fun with Fires of Liberation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation is yet another great addition to the Ace series. It provides 
 a intense simulation of air to air feeling even though it can feel a little arcadey at times.
 
  
  The graphics are probably some of the best on the 360 to date. Even flying at 4,000 feet reveals 
 a pristine landscape that you can't help but love and want tot defend. 
  
  The sound work is great from the sound of your jet's engine revving up before take off to the second 
 your wheels touch the ground. You can't help but to feel immersed in the battles as your allies 
 fill the radio channels with useful and humorous banter.
  
  The story is also well thought out and highly probable. The Ace series is one of the few games 
 that makes you love what your doing in the game almost as much as something you do after you shut 
 your console off. 
  
  In the end this is a high quality game in a series that has yet to let us down, and is a definite 
 in any gamer's collection0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucksfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Ace Combat's debut on the 360 is a successful attempt to bring the quality flight game to a different 
 console. 
  The single player is a solid campaign with a lousy story, but pretty cutscenes. The action is a 
 solid as ever with the second half of the game feeling quite challenging in some parts.
  From choosing your jet and special weapons to selecting which objective to attempt, this campaign, 
 for the most part is highly replayable.
  Graphics are nice. The planes show amazing detail and the environements are enormous. However, 
 ground textures look butt ugly and the inside of the cockpits don't look too much better than previous 
 games on the PS2. Maybe the thrill of flying with cockpit view has worn off on me. Newcomers and 
 most veterans to Ace Combat should be pleased.
  The multiplayer is a new edition for series and there is co-op, but with only two missions it doesn't 
 last long. DLC is a possibility in the future. Other multiplayer options give multiplayer some 
 fun options that will give a player their money's worth. My only gripe is you never get a close 
 view of who your shooting at. I waste so much ammo trying to shoot down a bogey, that after a while 
 the multiplayer gets kind of old. 
  All in all, a great game that does what it does very well. For me, I was kind of let down by the 
 way multiplayer turned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I admit, I have never played an Ace Combat game before this one. I have always enjoyed a good fighter 
 sim as long as it erred on the side of arcade style. Ace Combat 6 definitely does that and does 
 it very well. The controls and feel of dogfighting is just plain awesome. While in combat you can 
 control the camera to look at your plane and surrounding areas from almost any angle. You also 
 get a very cool missile cam. Whether you are taking on air based targets or ground based combat 
 the action is intense and a lot of fun. The controls are easy to pick up and master even for a 
 novice like myself. The jets all control very differently but all control very tightly. This is 
 one of the best parts of the game.
  
  The grafx in the sky are extremely detailed and no slow downs occur even when hundreds of jets 
 are duking it out. The ground based scenery is not as detailed, but you are going so fast over 
 it you wont care. The sound FX are pretty avg. You get all of the sounds you would imagine dogfighting 
 and combat to contain, but nothing to special. The music is bad, but you wont care.
  
  The one big draw back to this game as you progress through the 15 missions is the story. Basically 
 you are a fighter pilot for Emmeria. Emmeria is suddenly attacked by Estovakia, a neighboring country 
 that has been on the skids of late due to asteroids, yes thats right asteroids, destroying their 
 economy. As you can see the premise is ridiculous and it gets worse. You get to meet a bunch of 
 characters that have little to nothing to do with whats going in your missions. The dialogue is 
 so cheesy bad its laughable. Overall the game would have been better off just sticking to the briefings 
 and a few random cut scenes involving the fighters you are flying. The story just didnt do it for 
 me. 
  
  Overall this game is nice addition to the aerial combat genre. Aside from the storyline you will 
 get hours of enjoyment out of the missions and online play this game brings. Definitely a must 
 for any Ace Combat vets and those that enjoy a solid arcady style flight sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfeinstein
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Combat series is consistently good, but only rarely great. This latest addition hews to 
 that history.
  
  Visuals have improved some. There is a lot more detail on the screen from jet exhaust to being 
 able to see the missiles coming right at you. The environments look stunning as long as you do 
 not get to close them. Oddly the story line is among the worst in the series. You will find yourself 
 growing weary of the mawkish cut-scenes fairly quickly.
  
  The game itself plays exactly like previous versions. This edition allows you to reload during 
 missions which some of its predecessors did not. On most missions you will not need to restock 
 given the generous amount of ordnance these planes care -- one has 500 missiles packed onto a single 
 pilot fighter in the game's attempt to rewrite the basic laws of physics.
  
  But beyond that, the game play is the same as it was in earlier additions and about as much fun, 
 which is to say it is really engaging. Receive a briefing, pick your plane, pick your special weapon 
 and then do battle.
  
  This time the mission settings are enormous and even with the fastest plane with afterburners kicked 
 on, going from one end to the other can take a few minutes. The missions themselves are long and 
 involved with multiple sub-goals that can take 20-40 minutes of non-stop flying to finish.
  
  Sound is also good. Everything sounds right. The only real issue is your dopey wingman who 
 is constantly screaming about missiles coming at you even though you get plenty of warning from 
 your own instruments. I kept wishing there were some way to shut him up. It got old after awhile.
 
  
  Most of the missions are challenging but doable. There are two exceptions. One level, featuring 
 a top-gun quality enemy who controls a swarm of drones is pointlessly difficult. The drones throw 
 off your missiles with such ease it is almost unfair. And nailing the pilot is a matter of luck. 
 The second exception is that once again, Ace Combat has resorted to making you fly through tunnels 
 to finish objectives in a continuing homage to the trench scene in STAR WARS. The problem is that 
 the controls are way too sensitive for this and in every edition of the game, I found myself constantly 
 crashing into the walls, ceiling or floors and blowing my mission.
  
  Lots of value with the online material that is supposed to be coming and the multiplayer was pretty 
 good too.
  
  If you liked Ace Combat's previous installments are want another heaping portion of the same sort 
 of goodness, then you will definitely love this game. If earlier editions made you hit your head 
 against the wall, this one is not going to be any better. And if you have never tried the series 
 before, it is well worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Ace Combat game from start through zero, and bought this one on the notion 
 that it would be a good repeat of previous versions. Not quite. The missions have become very repetative. 
 It's the same missions with new crap to blow up, only now they take an hour to play. No I am not 
 an expert, I am not going to spend 80 hours a week playing this game. I am like 90% of other players 
 that pick up the game a few hours a week and would like to finish it at some point in the next 
 couple of weeks. That doesnt seem like its going to happen. Most gamers are going to get to mission 
 9 or 10 and say, thanks but no thanks. The amount of crap going on in this mission, and the difficulty 
 level is a little far fetched even on the simpler settings. Mission 10, 2 planes against 50? I 
 have yet to figure out how to pull that one off. Definately rent this one first. Better yet, I 
 will sale you mine for $20.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthecoffee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say i was a huge fan of the last two Ace Combats. Ace Combat 6 is a great game 
 that i cant put down, iv had it for 2 days and have played the story mode 3 times. unlike the previous 
 games your part isn't you vs the world or even have 3 other team members you command . you control 
 a wingman and 4 other named pilots with 3 planes following them. Is a new twist on the game for 
 when your outnumbered you can just command all of them to attack everything in sight or thats behind 
 you. But when your not commanding them they all just follow you which gets annoying.
  But the pros outnumber the cons with this game. it does have a few missions that were almost the 
 same as previous games, like being told to go from one point to the other of the map but you have 
 to stay below enemy radar. Even with that flaw most of the missions have a new felling whare the 
 battle is taking place on 3-7 fronts, from ground to air to sea. You can choose who to help and 
 when, which busts up the replay value. 
  The story flows and is thought out but it could have been longer. In the game your attacked by 
 a neighboring, country and are driven off. you then spend the game getting your country back and 
 only go into the enemy's land once. This leaves me wanting more, i wanted to fully destroy the 
 enemy that killed me people not watch a cut scene about there downfall.
  Online play is fun but your mostly gonna run into people that cant fly or people with your same 
 approach to it and find yourself flying around after each other in a circle till you get back up 
 or one up you makes a break.
  All in all Ace Combat 6 is a great game that will have you hooked. Well worth your money
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I think Ace Combat 6 is amazing... i have been a fan of the series for a few years.. kinda got 
 started on it late... but this one really stands out... 
  
  pros-
  Great graphics
  Good choice of aircraft
  Tons of replayability
  Fun online multiplayer
  Co-op missions
 
  Enough weapons to keep you interested
  
  cons-
  Could have been more planes
  Needs more multiplayer maps for co-op
  Could use a little speeding up so you really feel like 
 you are flying
  Landing could have been a bit more challenging and still been fun
  
  I did not buy the flight stick for this game.... and it controlled just fine using the standart 
 xbox controller...
  
  it has already started to die off online which is not a good sign...
  
  if you were a fan of 
 any of the previous Ace Combat games you will like this one.... and if you are a fan of jet combat 
 you will enjoy it..
  
  i feel it is one of the best online deathmatch games on xbox... people do a great job of communication 
 with their team...
  
  worth the money in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8rsquirrel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the best AC games ever. 4 set the bar and I think this one reached it
  I was a bit dissapointed that there were so few aircraft in the game and I felt that the story 
 could have been a bit longer. but the Online play made up for the lack of aircraft and length of 
 gameplay. 
  Still trying to make the Ace Edge work with my computer so I can get it set with my F-16 Flight 
 Sim 2000 add-on
  It also feels a little too responsive and unrealistic, but I think they have to make the game unrealistic 
 for it to sell
  OVER-G Fighters is more realistic than AC6 but AC6 is still a fun try for a Flight Enthusiast
 
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHReese
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to the addiction that is Ace Combat with Shattered Skies. That game was no doubt 
 one of my favorite games on the PS2. Everything about it from the story and game play made it simply 
 awesome. While the next games were nice, they didn't live up to what I was expecting.
  
  Now its 2007, and I have a 360. I have to say I never expected to be able to play Ace Combat, but 
 thankfully I have that opportunity.
  
  From the get go, AC6 throws you into the action. You have about 15 missions thats you progress 
 through, fighting to reclaim your country. The planes look absolutely amazing. The detail is ridiculous. 
 When you fly into a dogfight with 20 other planes and you see the contrails from all the aircraft, 
 it is awesome. You feel like you are in the action. On top of the solid single play, multiplayer 
 will rock your socks.
  
  However there are a few down notes. This Ace Combat story is somewhat weak and isn't fleshed out 
 to what you like for the story to be explained. Also there aren't as many planes as before. The 
 single-player can also be a little short, yet no doubt gets harder if you ramp up the difficulty.
 
  
  Overall this is one of the best Ace Combat games and everyone needs to go and try it out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Presidentman2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  When you start the game your greeted with an opening movie teasing you with plot details. Upon 
 rushing through to get to the game, I encountered the same old menu's as always. Now, this is probably 
 the only bad thing i have to say when it comes to fires of Liberation, The rest is all praise. 
 (with the exception of the voice dubbing =P)
  
  The in game visuals and mechanics are as crisp as ever, playing at 1080p only adds to the fun. 
 Like all ace combat's before it, the script was enticing, I became as zealous to the cause of Emerians 
 as Garuda 2, Ghost eye and the whole lot.
  
  If your into war games, flight simulators or you just own an Xbox 360, I take it upon myself to 
 highly recommend this game.
  
  Go Dance with the Angels,
  Presidentman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassiba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  the story is not as exciting as the previous Aces
  it is too short, when I comleteted the game the total playing hours was 5 hours only!! to complete 
 all missions
  
  This is what i did not like the most in the game.
  TOO MUCH GROUND UNITS to take care off in the missions
  I always end up selecting Air-Ground 
 Jet to comlete the missions
  did not do much of dog fights because of this
  
  the game play it self is the best between all Aces
  Grat game for Multiplayer
  
  oh, I comleted 
 the game in Normal Diff
  going on hard now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 definately brings the series back... in what I think is one of the best editions in 
 the series. I still think that the best game in the series is Ace Combat 2, but FOL is almost as 
 good. The game plays just as the old ones do, and you also have the benefit of having two triggers, 
 and two bumpers in the same relative area on a 360 controller.
  
  The graphics are simply nothing short of breathtaking. The planes are all modeled so realistically, 
 that if you didn't know it was a game, you would think that it was real. When all you have to model 
 is planes a buildings though, it's not hard to make things look so pretty.
  
  The Sound is very well done, from the sound of your engine screaming through a high speed turn, 
 to the sound of your machine gun firingthrough the air, the game is perfectly spot on. The voice 
 acting for the cutscenes, is also really well done, and every character's voice matches their individual 
 look and model.
  
  The game is hard. Plain and simple. If you are new to the series, you will definately want to play 
 on easy. I like the normal difficulty myself but for newcomers, it's best to start out slow. Thanx 
 for reading, and I hope you enjoy the game as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isackfj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  OK. Let's see here... where to start... oh... I know. Let's start with the FRICKEN' AMAZING GRAPHICS!!! 
 When you see the replay of the mission, you feel as though you're watching a movie. The game does 
 an amazing job with its camera angles. The controls to this game work SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO well. I don't 
 mean just the camera ones. The flight controls are so realistic and proportional even without the 
 flying stick. The controls are also staightforward and easy to handle. This game is not quite a 
 flight sim (because you don't have to land/takeoff) but it sure feels like it. There is a free 
 flight mode where you can just fly around and have fun practicing your flying. I've spent about 
 3 hours doing it (just to let you know how much fun the flying is. The sounds are great, the controls 
 feel good, and you accomplish the impossible. Add in the great story with some wonderful graphics, 
 and you got yourself Ace Combat Six.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: 10
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Story: 10
  
  Controls: 10
  
  Overal: 10
  
  Replay value: High
  
  Online Play: High
  
  Learning Curve: About 1-2 
 hours
  
  Dificulty: Just Right ---Isackfj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoleinHead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  While I was into sims, I hated messing around with all the avionics. I couldn't even lock on and 
 shoot down a passenger jet in Jane's F/A-18. Then I've tried some more arcadish games on consoles, 
 and I hated how by tilting the stick left, the plane rolled and turned automatically. Ace Combat 
 combines the best of both worlds, and the result is a game that looks real and feels real enough, 
 but adds arcade elements to strike a perfect balance. I've played Ace Combats 4, 5, and 0, and 
 loved them all. I'm glad to see that Ace Combat 6 lives up to its predecessors in most respects. 
 Here's the lowdown.
  
  Graphics: Stunning! Gorgeous! Stellar! (I think that's enough adjectives) The detail of the aircraft 
 is extraordinary (Cockpit detail is up too!) , and the effects are perfect! Vapor flashes, missile 
 trails, explosions, they're all rendered in glorious detail. The ground is also of note. There 
 are times where the graphics come pretty dang close to photo real. Of course there's the bugaboo 
 of the ground graphics up close not looking quite as good as one would hope. That has been an issue 
 in all the Ace Combats I've played, so it wasn't that big of a surprise. Still, even at the deck, 
 it's not enough to distract you, and because of the incredible draw distances and the rest of the 
 graphics, the on the deck ground detail (or lack of) is forgivable.
  
  Gameplay: The best in the series! The scale of the battles is insane compared to the previous installments. 
 The way the battle plays out, including what kind of units you'll have available to assist you 
 depends greatly on how you choose to tackle the missions. Your units actually do get into the fight, 
 and will make a difference. The allied support system works well most of the time, and it's awesome 
 to see the Allies you saved earlier come in to assist you when you call them in, and see kills 
 being spammed in your destroyed list (Mission 12 anyone?) . One minor disappointment is that there 
 are fewer planes. The available planes that are available however are good ones, and with the long 
 render time for a single plane, this is forgivable.
  
  Sound: For now, I'll focus on the gameplay aspect. When in the game and flying, the sound is stellar. 
 Explosions, missiles, impacts, and radio chatter all sound great. Personally, I wish the chatter 
 sounded a bit more authentic. I'm not asking for full use of the brevity code or anything like 
 that, but maybe try to be a little closer to it. As it is, it sounds too casual. That's not to 
 say that it's terrible as it is, but it could use improvement. One big plus however, is that there 
 is no preachy chatter found in AC5, and found to a much lesser extent AC0.
  
  The sound track is also pretty decent, I think it somewhat pales in comparison to previous installments. 
 There's definately some stirring tracks, but nothing to the extent of The Unsung War (Last mission 
 in AC5) or Zero (Last mission in AC0) . Of particular note, is the briefings. They are terrible! 
 The phrases, manner, and tone of the delivery are ridiculous. It's mostly monotone, with no emotion, 
 and worded in a way that no native speaker would do so. I really don't see how the briefings could 
 have ended up so bad when they weren't nearly this bad in previous installments.
  
  Multiplayer: Finally, AC fans get online playability! And it's quite fun! It's not quite as good 
 as I would hope, but I still find my self enjoying it every time I go for a run. I haven't tried 
 Siege Mode yet, but the rest of the modes are quite fun. Probably my favorite mode so far is the 
 Team battle where one player on each team is an ESM plane. Some improvements that they could use 
 are mostly to the interface. Squad support would be handy, and the ability to change maps and game 
 type without the host dropping the game would be very welcome. However, I do appreciate some of 
 the options they give you, like limiting what aircraft are available, as well as imposing weapon 
 handicaps. I've saved the worst for last:
  
  Cutscenes and Story: This is Ace Combat 6's biggest downfall. Compared to 4,5, and 0, AC6 falls 
 flat on its face. I'm sure many of you have heard about the Dancing with Angels phrase. Suffice 
 to say, you hear it WAAAAYYY too many times! The story is also not nearly as catching as the predecessors'. 
 I felt little interest or involvement with the characters, and found myself skipping the cutscenes 
 everytime (except my first play through) . They had a chance to do a very stirring story, with looked 
 like they were going to do by looking at the trailers. Unfortunately that's not the case. Because 
 the characters have little to do with your character, it's easy to feel disconnected. In AC4, the 
 story telling method was spectacular, as was the story itself as it followed a young boy who's 
 town was overtaken, and he came to build a friendship with the leader of the enemy ace squadron, 
 who you as the player fought against.
  
  In AC5, the best story wise of the PS2 Ace Combats in my opinion, was great because it specifically 
 followed your squadron. It was also the most involved, and epic story of them all as well. The 
 cheese, while there, was just right, and I can forgive the anti-war sentiments since it is somewhat 
 relevant to the story. AC0's story was interesting because of the interview style cutscenes that 
 were specifically about you. Also of note was how the interviews were different depending on what 
 style of ace you were. To conclude, the biggest downfall of Ace Combat 6 story wise, is it's disconnection 
 to you. You follow too many characters, none of whom have enough of a solid link to you or your 
 squad mates. The cutscenes visually are quite good, except for the blatant lack of lip sync. It's 
 not even close. It's not a huge deal, but it can be quite distracting. At least I usually skip 
 the cutscenes anyways due to the poor story.
  
  To sum up:
  Graphics: Incredible! Effects, detail, draw distances, you name it. The lack of detail up close 
 to the ground is forgivable, and not distracting. 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay: Easily the best in the series. Dynamic battles, Allied support, multiple operations make 
 this a unique experience. Less planes, while slightly disappointing, is not that big of an issue. 
 10/10
  
  Sound: Good radio chatter and soundtrack, Great sound effects, but poor briefings. 8/10
  
  
 Multiplayer: Fun, but with interface issues. 8/10
  
  Cutscenes and Story: While visually good (except total lack of lip sync) , the player will likely 
 feel disconnected and uninterested. Too cheesy, and too much use of dancing with angels phrase. 
 3/10
  
  Total Score: 8.5 (not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  There are very few games that have accompolished what Ace Combat has. The graphics are amazing. 
 The dog fighting is fun. The selection of jets with special weapons are exciting. And after mission 
 success, you get to watch a replay of your actions from different angles. It LOOKS real!
  
  There were some aspects of this games that I wasn't crazy about. I played multi-player once and 
 unfortunately, maps don't make a difference. You simply fly around and attack eachother. Everyone 
 uses either phantom's or SU's. Not much excitement there.
  
  I was also looking for more of a realistic dog fighting simulator and only found a few realistic 
 aspects in it. And having over 100+ missles isn't very realistic.
  
  Fun, but not what I was looking for personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Well as always I rented the game, just like I have EVERY AC game! I am a die hard fan. This one 
 doesn't have a story thats as good as the others.... well thats what some people say. This story 
 is actually very good if you can be open to the idea of ... you know.... emotions that word Men 
 avoid.
  
  The graphics were top notch even though I was forced to play it on a NON-HD tv while mine is out 
 of commission. The jets looked real, the ground looked real... everything looked real! The explosions 
 were so-so and the facial animations were silly but when this game is obviously about jets not 
 facial animations!
  
  The gameplay itsself was better then ever. They always try to add more things to make it funner. 
 Some people didn't care for the new items like G-Turns in which you do a quick and sharp loop. 
 I found it something that was always needed. Little things here and there make it feel fresh! The 
 game itself is easy as you want it to be or near impossible if your that crazy so being shot once 
 ends it all. I tried on expert and got to the end but had to return it, but beat it on easy and 
 medium previously.
  
  The controls are simple, and are easier with schemes you can choose from and options that let you 
 choose how you wish to steer on the controller!
  
  The sound and music.... well have you ever known it to be bad? For me its the Hans Zimmer of music.... or 
 whoever your Hans Zimmer is.
  
  Replay is medium I'd say. Most games maybe you'd do once again. I could play this a few times. 
 Its just so fun to fly around. More so because you have a TON of things to do after unlocking your 
 jets such as new paint jobs, medals to earn... etc.
  
  As for the MP I don't know. Didn't get to try that either. I think this is the best one yet, then 
 AC 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDemos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  One thing is for sure, this title brings back the old feel of the previous installments- and lets 
 not bring up Ace Combat 0... That wasn't even a challenge and you didn't even get the feeling of 
 being in a highly emersive war where your actions change the tide of battle. Ace Combat brings 
 back the same good ol' action and drama that most veterans of Ace know and love. I mean to me the 
 best Ace in the series was Ace Combat 4 and I loved 5, which uped the ante. However, Ace 6 is quite 
 the best- visually and story wise. Your an Ace pilot, once again with out a name. Your duty is 
 to take back your country, which has been invaded and nearly destroyed by a neighboring country. 
 The story progresses further into an epic struggle to take back Ecemeria. The visuals are quite 
 astonishing, especially on HD. The graphics look great and planes look as photo realistically than 
 ever before. When your missles are launched, they leave a trajectory lines that streak along the 
 sky. Its quite amazing. Buildings explode when your missle misses its target. Oil refineries explode 
 into a large ball of flame and black smoke, which distorts your vision until you are through the 
 cloud of black smoke. When you ascend into the sky and through the layers upon layers of clouds 
 and then quickly descend downward towards the ground as you fire off your rockets at a pair of 
 tanks that are pestering your ground troops from taking an airfield- this, is what Ace combat is 
 about. This time, and finally, the realism is kicked in on the visuals (not so much on its gameplay, 
 which is still arcady but good none-the-less...) . I mean you can't do any better than that. I say 
 this, ace combat is a great $60 game that fans of military plane genres will enjoy and even newcomers 
 to the series (I recommend playing the 4th and 5th installments to get a sense of what I meant 
 about part 6 returning to its roots..) . I mean you cannot go wrong. And as for its lenght- I think 
 its a good lenght for the campaign. To be quite honest, Ace 4 and 5 had some missions that didn't 
 make any sense what so ever and they were let downs because the company wanted to make the game 
 have more lenght. Leave the length the way it is, because its fine. I don't want to sit down with 
 a game for 20+ hours of just prolonged story and long irritating missions. I have a life as do 
 majority of the people reading this review.
  In order to kick out a good session with this game is to take it on-line. Finally, an Ace Combat 
 game with on-line capability. I mean its nothing like having an actual person cover your six, while 
 your chasing down an enemy fighter, mean while there is another enemy fighter incoming towards 
 your cover. I mean, it adds on the excitement and doesn't stop. This is a great game and I highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxmorgan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to the release of Ace Combat 6: The Fires Liberation ever since I first 
 caught wind of this title finally arriving on a Microsoft platform. A deep longing for the days 
 of the massive aerial dog fights on the PS2 had my hopes soaring above the clouds for the latest 
 chapter in the Ace Combat legacy.
  
  Upon arriving home with the game in hand, the anticipation of beautiful vistas rushing by as I 
 launched salvos of missiles to bun my enemies for the sky was not to be let down. I popped the 
 game into my XBOX 360 Elite feeding my Samsung 55 DLP set at 1080p. Within minutes I was flying 
 through the skies of Gracemaria downing as many Estovakians as I could. The visual presentation 
 of the game is fairly impressive. This is what you would expect a flight sim to look like on the 
 hardware of the day. Some of my favorite levels saw me sliding between the high peaks of narrow 
 mountain passes taking out armored trains and a multitude of other ground targets. With the technology 
 we have available today, it is sometimes the small things we appreciate the most. During a flight 
 sim you would expect to see SAM trails arcing up to intercept you, AAA fire tracing a path through 
 where you had just been or even flak exploding around your aircraft. What I did not expect to catch 
 my eye was the ground units exchanging fire as I flew by at super sonic speeds. Seeing a battery 
 of Howitzers firing on my approaching armored columns was indeed a treat.
  
  The arcade style game play of Ace Combat 6 might not suit some flight sim enthusiasts, but this 
 is what made this series survive in a genre that has struggled in the gaming industry since the 
 demise of Janes gaming division. There is a wide array of playable aircraft, each with its own 
 line up of weapons, most of which are straight forward and easy to use. The flight controls are 
 simplistic and easy enough to control without the need for an advance flight controller, although 
 I am assuming that this could not hurt. As far as the game play goes, I was a tad disappointed 
 in the level of challenge. Evading SAMs and air-to-air missiles is a walk in the park and about 
 the only way you will get hit from AAA is if you fly into it. I am thankful that the Estovakian 
 pilots could not evade as easily as could I. The most challenging aspect comes from the flight 
 of Estovakian ace pilots flying Su-37 Flanker-Fs that begin dogging your missions soon into the 
 campaign. There are other challenges, such as massive targets to take out and fast moving aerial 
 drones that buzz around you like flies, but over all I think the game was a tad too easy on the 
 normal level. I am playing through now on the new level of difficulty I unlocked after finishing 
 the campaign. We shall see how that pans out.
  
  One final note that I must include, there are plenty of cut scenes to move the story line along. 
 Just remember, you bought the game to blow things out of the sky and rain fire down on enemy tanks. 
 You did not by it to be entertained by stellar voice-over acting and a gripping dramatic storyline, 
 and as such, you will not be. This portion of the game does leave room for some major improvements.
 
  
  All told, Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation gives a solid performance, with stunning visuals, easy 
 to master controls, a nice assortment of flyable aircraft and plenty of enemies to annihilate. 
 I tend to think that the game will present ample replay options and multiplayer seems to be engaging 
 and not as repetitive as I had expected. The voice acting an storyline are not great, but those 
 aspects are of little import to the over all experience of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Ace Combat 6 is the 7th game in the long and very sucussful franchise that was born on the Original 
 PlayStation with Air Combat. Since the orignal which went into a name change which you all should 
 recongize as Ace Combat. The series as a whole has had its ups and downs but still very fun to 
 play regardless. In March of 2007 the next Project Aces game will be made for the Xbox 360 and 
 only for the Xbox 360 which is a first time in the franchises history to appear any where but on 
 Sony's Platform. With coming out with such a huge annoucment ( which seem to fall on deft ears) 
 was the fact that the game will have a Online mode which was the most exciting thing to here because 
 us fans when waiting for this for a long time. Now fast forward to today. Does it live up to previous 
 Ace Combat games or does it fall short of it? Lets start with the story. Ace Combat 6 takes place 
 in a fictional world where Gracemeria (The USA Counter Part) and Yuktobania ( The Russian Gov. 
 Counter Part) are in a state of some sort of Cold War when all hell breaks loose when the Yukes 
 invades Gracemeria's version of the San Fransico . The story revolves 5 everyday people all who 
 add something to the story. Like the mother who daughter is missing when the shots ring out. An 
 Ex-Piliot of the Yukes. The little girl who is in the city and a tank commander for the Emmerian 
 Forces. Unfortunately the story and the way it is told doesn't do any good or give you any kind 
 of sense at all. Granted the Ace Combat series hasn't been known for their story lines but in recent 
 games in the series it has been proven that there can be a great story to be told. Also it would 
 help if you as the player impacted had a much bigger part instead of just being known as Gruada 
 1 and you are a fighter pilot. Now on to the gameplay. The gameplay in Ace Combat 6 is on par with 
 the rest of the series. This is the one area that Namco has really nailed down hard. Every plane 
 you fly is different in terms of turning rate , speed, and weapons. Certain planes excel at ground 
 targets like the A-10 and those who excel at air targets like the F-22 or F-15. As you progress 
 thru the game you can unlock more planes but there aren't as many planes as in previous series 
 where you had tons of to choose from. Also there are 2 brand new gameplay elements in the game 
 which are the High G turn and the Allied Support System. This is the first time in the series that 
 all the planes can pull off a High G turn which is when you hold both RT and LT and turn either 
 left or right but it comes with a cost. When you do this you drop speed really really fast which 
 could lead to you stalling at the wrong moment. That little feature as a bit a strategy to the 
 game and it is more usefully in later missions. Next the Allied Support. Finally i feel like i 
 have someone that will do exactly as i want to them. Complete enough of there objectives for you 
 and they will lend you support which you will need because you can't do it all by yourself. Now 
 lets talk sound. Ok this is where Ace Combat 6 crashes and burns in my opinion. The sounds from 
 your jet fighter and missile firing sounds are awesome. You truly get the feeling that you are 
 high in the clouds without a care in the world. Now i know what you are thinking what is so wrong 
 with that? It is the soundtrack that is played. I feel they really drop the ball on the soundtrack 
 because none of the songs except for Mission 14b are not Ace Combat music. It is hard to explain 
 and all i can say is that in every Ace Combat game the music got you really pumped when you are 
 suppose to be pumped and sad when you should be feeling sad. The music in this game it feels like 
 the wrong song for the moment or the song just doesn't work with what is going on. Everything else 
 but the soundtrack sound great but this main thing really hurts this game alot. Now for the graphics. 
 The graphics in this game is the best in the series no doubt because of the next gen hardware which 
 was a given. The only drab part is the ground which you won't really be paying attention to because 
 you are either dead or trying to evade a missile. Now for the online mode. The Online mode is probably 
 the single most important thing they added since the very first Ace Combat 3 had 2 player split 
 screen. There are 4 modes to play Online. You have Team Battle which is Team Deathmatch. Battle 
 Royal which is a free for all. Siege Mode where one team defends the fortress from the other team 
 and it switches up when the round is over. Co-Op Mode has only 2 maps which you and 3 others can 
 tackle an entire stage and see who can complete the mission. Basically you really have to rely 
 on your team for that one. Now the question comes in does it all work ? Yes and no. Every time 
 i click on Quick Match all there is available is a Team Battle . I have yet to play a single Battle 
 Royal mode because nobody makes the room. Maybe it is my own fault for not making the room myself. 
 Anyway the lag issue is there is almost no lag but if it does happen everyone in the room is kicked 
 out. Now i have run into some instances where people host rank matches and when the Match Over 
 sign comes up the host will try to end the match. Also people who crash on purpose suck monkey 
 butt and it doesn't help when i see the guy go straight down when i had a missile locked on him. 
 I wrote there names down so i got them. In all Ace Combat 6 is a good game and it had the potential 
 to being one of the best one in the series but in the end it falls short on critical things that 
 i believe that took it away from being as good as previous installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acepilotmra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Fans of the series will instantly fall in love with the game, those new to the series will be overawed 
 by the visuals and ease of the game. The controls are just the same as the last series with the 
 exception of a few differences, due to the game being on X360 you don't have the pressure sensitive 
 buttons, so certain aspects from the previous games (control wise) will be gone. Also, you will 
 have to get use to the difference in the trigger and bumper shoulder buttons. Sound is of course 
 amazing, explosions ring clearly through your speakers and you will be deeply immersed in the game 
 by the atmosphere created by them. If you fly through debris in the air of a recently shot down 
 enemy, you can hear the pinging of said debris on your aircraft, a definite plus for those up close 
 and personal gun kills. You'll also hear your enemies' missiles as they zoom past your cockpit. 
 Physics wise you'll notice a definite improvement from its predecessors. The first thing you may 
 notice is that after being shot by a missile you will find that your aircraft does not take the 
 hit and go on its merry way like nothing happened. Instead, you may find your flight path being 
 altered and headed for the the ground, or in the unfortunate case of myself, the side of a canyon. 
 The missiles themselves all act much more realistically and the machine gun as well. Graphically, 
 you'll find this game having some of the best on the console, at par or even better than Gears 
 of War or even the newly released Halo 3. Unfortunately series wise, this game had a bit of a duller 
 story than its later predecessors. You have a feeling of being part of two different stories while 
 playing as there are only brief references to yourself or the character you play as (Talisman, 
 a. k. a. Garuda 1) . Add to that the multiple sub-stories within the actual cutscene list, and you 
 have a feeling of incompleteness about the plot. Aside from that, you'll find that the story has 
 similar overtones of the previous games. Gameplay wise, there are a few quirks, you may have slight 
 troubles adjusting to the targeting system as it relies much more on what target is in the center 
 of the screen. But you should quickly get the hang of it. The added feature of multiple objectives 
 in each mission while clever, in that it increases replay value, make targets in each mission sometimes 
 overwhelming, luckily you can cycle through in the radar and have all or a particular objective 
 visible. Further, the new allied attack and cover features can help wipe much of those extra targets 
 of the screen. Although, the allied attack can actually be counterproductive to your end mission 
 rating. Lastly, it is necessary to note the new online multiplayer. Since the series has been out 
 there has been a multiplayer mode, but its always been a bit lacking and generally something that 
 I never bothered to touch. Fortunately, the online feature allows it a bit more of an appeal. While 
 the multiplay holds true to the games physics, you will find yourself spending a lot of time trying 
 to get your opponents rear. To those familiar with the series, you should be used to it, ace enemies 
 tend to be of said caliber especially since the last installment. Unfortunately though, in order 
 to change settings to the gametype, map, and minor settings you will have to remake or rejoin a 
 room to get the desired settings. A definite plus to the game is the fact that new players will 
 not find themselves with outdated or inferior craft when joining an online room. All the high-end 
 craft will be available, though extra sp weapons and colors will not be available until you have 
 spent time with the campaign. Rooms tend to be stable, but as always that depends on the who is 
 hosting and what your connection is.
  Overall this game is a definite buy for fans of the series or genre. Those who are not familiar 
 with either should at least give the game a good try before passing judgement. And you won't see 
 me selling this game anytime soon, I still have the first game from way back on the Playstation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jural
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Graphics: 8/10 | Sound: 7/10 | CGI / Cut scenes: 6/10
  Controls: 9/10 | Peripherals: 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: Ace Combat 6 has some very nice in-game visuals, 
 the ground as in most flight arcade/sim's is bland close up but from a distance looks good. All 
 the air craft are rendered beautifully and inside the cockpit is no exception.
  
  Sound: The sound during game play is very good, but could be a bit better. The sound volume / noise 
 dose not change when you switch to the cockpit which makes the game loose a little something. When 
 you fire up your engine, or pull into a hard G turn there's no sound effects for that.
  
  CGI / Cut scenes: The story of what is going on is basically told through out the cut scenes, they 
 wanted to make the story dramatic but for me it just doesn't work. I don't know if it's lost in 
 translation or what, but I find myself skipping the cut scenes. Visually they do look good.
  
  Controls: The controls are a very nice blend of arcade and sim which makes for great gameplay... 
 very fun. Some of the maneuvers you can pull off are just a bit ridiculous, but make the game fun. 
 I usually like sim's myself, but the blend in the controls and the dog fights have me enjoying 
 myself.
  
  Peripherals: Great. Really the flight stick and throttle feel almost perfect. Good weight to them 
 and very nice construction (I don't know why they choose a green panel for the top) . From what 
 I've read the controls work on the PC aswell so thats a bonus. My only issue with them is a few 
 fake buttons. I don't why they would glue on a couple of fakes.
  
  Overall the box set is worth every penny. I haven't tried the game with a game pad, but why would 
 I. If you like flight games grab a copy, if you can afford it get the box set, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOP_GUN77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  October 19, 2007 - Talk to anybody from my generation that grew up watching Top Gun and they'll 
 all tell you that, at least at one point in their life, they wanted to be a fighter pilot. And 
 that for some reason volleyball left them a bit confused. With Ace Combat 6, you get to be Maverick. 
 Or Goose or Iceman if you prefer, but the point is that you won't be able to play the game without 
 at least once saying, I'm gonna put on the brakes and he'll fly right by. And now that the Ace 
 Combat series has made its way to Xbox 360, you can say that to a friend on the other side of the 
 world in the midst of an adrenaline-pumping online match.
  
  That's really the success of this game. It looks real enough and you're inside a real jet cockpit, 
 but you can still be that imaginary ace that you've built up in your head all these years. Nose 
 diving towards an ocean, only to pull up at the last minute in a gravity-defying move that sends 
 you underneath a bridge while barrel rolling, of course, can be a reality. And you never run out 
 of ammo, because the war is on your shoulders and you absolutely need to blow up every last thing 
 on your radar, even if it is a radio tower on your home turf. The story doesn't really make sense. 
 The giant flying manta ray looking enemy base you fight certainly doesn't either. But it doesn't 
 matter, because you're in an F-22A that has over 200 explosives hidden somewhere on it and it controls 
 just like you always dreamt it wouldeven if that isn't totally realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana_Dei
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the ace combat series. This one tops them all. The graphics are the biggest bonus 
 with this game. My complaints are that the storyline is OVERLY dramatic and when you fly close 
 up to the ground, the map texture is horrible, but thats only if you like doing the air to ground 
 combat. But what i like about this game is that it is quick paced and the danger is non stop. The 
 ability to call in your squad mates is a blast and very helpful when youve got a screen painted 
 red with targets. The replay camera is also fun to play around with especially to slow down when 
 you narrowly dodge missiles. The multiplayer action is too fast and it ends too quickly. If you 
 havent beaten the game on the hard setting, then you are going to get your butt handed to you with 
 your weak planes. The great thing about this game is the replay value it has to get into a level 
 and just have a good ol' dogfight or just get on multiplayer and have a quickie . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningVigor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  keeping it simple.. this is my first flying game since top gun on nintendo. So maybe i dont know 
 all the other type of flying simulators, but to me this game feels great. The controls are very 
 responsive and environment is just wow... it really feels like im piloting these aircrafts.
  
  Gameplay 9 (very solid controls and fun airbattles. Feels like the real thing)
  Graphics 
 8.5 (When you are above the clouds it feels magical)
  Sound 7.5 (Sounds real, music decent, voice decent)
  Value 9 (Even a non fan will appreciate 
 it.. cause i did)
  Tilt 9 (Not many games made me feel like im actually there. this one did) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The flight simulation genre has been pretty much dead for long time, and apart from some old WW2 
 games and Microsofts FS series there's been little action to be had lately. The worst part of that 
 is that since the competition is so low, the advances in the genre has been so slow. And as an 
 result, Microsofts last Flight Simulator received rave reviews despite the fact it looks completely 
 crap. Compared to AC6 that is. AC6 lifts the bar - high!
  
  Out of the blue this game delivers the most impressive visuals I have seen in any FS ever, at incredibly 
 fluid framerates. You have to be really picky to have something negative to say about the graphics, 
 if I have to mention something it would be the relatively low resolution textures you see when 
 flying close to the ground. But, when flying at 1000km/h chasing some badguys, who would really 
 notice anyway.
  
  So, how about the gameplay? It's basically more of an arcade game, rather than a simulator. So, 
 although the movement of the plane feels pretty much accurate, you can enjoy very easy enemy lock-on 
 and a ridiculous amount of missiles to play with. You can even send out swarms of missiles, taking 
 out many enemies at once. So, forget realism, this is about killing as many badguys as possible. 
 And you are indeed expected to kill a lot of them. Already in the first mission there's a huge 
 amount of enemies to be downed. It's all tied together with a cinematic story-line and radio chatter 
 from your wingmen, giving the game more personality and depth.
  
  Personally I would have preferred more realism. I found it to be too easy, and more of a matter 
 of patience to clear out the enemies. It kind of lacks any feeling of accomplishment to kill an 
 enemy, it's too easy. But, the gorgeous visuals make up for it, and for me the gameplay is more 
 or less a distraction for enjoying the freedom of flying around in a stunning looking world.
  
  I'm relieved to see this kind of game in a time where almost every game is a FPS or sports 
 game. And it's not just different, its really an outstanding game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Alright, let's get this out of the way. 15 planes was a really dumb idea. Particularly the 15 planes 
 they chose... eek! But it could be worse. I could be reviewing Blazing Angels again.
  
  So here's the skinny: ace combat has come to 360, and it's right at home here. The game is very 
 nearly "Gears of War" gorgeous. It's so pretty I might ask it out on a date... I might (I'm a little 
 shy) . No more Osea and Belka, this is a new continent with a fresh, although often times laborious, 
 storyline. The massive sprawling battles are back however, in a way that makes dynasty warriors 
 jealous. Everything is bigger and better to a fault. That fault is that sometimes there's so much 
 on the screen going on that it's hard to figure out where your target went. But that's a bit more 
 on the side of realism. To that end, mebbe 200 missiles and 80 xlaa's in your opening mission compliment 
 -on easy- is a bit farfetched, but oh well... more carnage is always good.
  
  As to the technical: we already know it's gorgeous. If you've been following the games' development 
 you already know all that beauty is in the planes and the spacial effects. The ground is a skud, 
 gorgeous from afar but nasty up close. Big surprise? No. It's ace combat, it's always been that 
 way, and critics need to consider the requirements of that kind of distant and up close particle 
 and texture generating. You wouldn't have anything left to animate planes.... which as I recall 
 is kind of the point of the game. The physics in game are as spot on as ever, though I recommend 
 shifting the turning controls to the triggers and putting your throttle on the bumpers. If you 
 do it'll control exactly like past ace games. The engine generates an enormous amount of accurate 
 visual goodness for you, and does it without dropping a single framerate.
  
  How about gameplay? Well the gun firing is a little more sloppy than it has been, but that could 
 just be the early planes. missile lock is still 5500 meters and works the same. The enemies are 
 smarter this time though. No longer can you get distance and play chicken with them so they fly 
 into your missile. See it used to be the a. i. would not bank and evade head on until they hit 3000 
 meters distant. well no more. Now they bank at range, like a good pilot. Just like you will, when 
 they detect missile lock they bank and evade immediately. Sooo, xlaa's are much more important 
 this time around obviously.
  
  The addition of multiple operations per battle is a very interesting twist on priority targets 
 and it works really well so far. The AS gauge to apply allied attacks to a specified area is a 
 really cool uber move, though I imagine it won't always be your ace in the hole... like obviously 
 when your alone, but it does give an excellent sense of real time teamwork, even playing solo offline. 
 All said and done AC6 is a valid successor to the series, and certainly scores big both visually 
 and in the gameplay. Behind the scenes failings like only 15 planes for instance can be overlooked 
 whenever your dumpy F-16C does actually shoot something down. Heh.
  
  Yes it's worth buying and loving and nurturing. Ok I may have said too much. Bottom line: Any virtual 
 jet jockey needs to play Ace Combat 6 to justify those ridiculous aviator sunglasses you still 
 wear. Now get out on that next sortie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiren97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I played it 3 hours yesterday.... very good simulation... i think best ever I have 
 
  
  Must 
  
 
  Good camera 
  
  Good control over plane and 
  
  Nice 
 
  
  I feel like a fighter 
  
  
  
  Dont forget to invert the 
 
  
  Initially takes some time to master the plane flying... but its fun afterwards..
  
  good story line...
  
  Nice 1080p output......
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I played it 3 hours yesterday.... very good simulation... i think best ever I have 
 
  
  Must 
  
 
  Good camera 
  
  Good control over plane and 
  
  Nice 
 
  
  I feel like a fighter 
  
  
  
  Dont forget to invert the 
 
  
  Initially takes some time to master the plane flying... but its fun afterwards..
  
  good story line...
  
  Nice 1080p output......
  
  I played it 3 hours yesterday.... very 
 good simulation... i think best ever I have 
 
  
  Must 
  
 
  Good camera 
  
  Good control over plane and 
  
  Nice 
 
  
  I feel like a fighter 
  
  
  
  Dont forget to invert the 
 
  
  Initially takes some time to master the plane flying... but its fun afterwards..
  
  good story line...
  
  Nice 1080p output......
  
  
  1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: la12play
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the pWhen writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icantfindithelp
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Though the number of aircraft is limited in the beginning what you do get to see is worth the wait 
 . The action is crazzy. It makes feel like I can fly jets onece again. Realistic controls and for 
 the most part everything is realistic. Ace Combat did it again. This is one of the best flighing 
 games out there and the best on the 360. Though the number of aircraft is limited in the beginning 
 what you do get to see is worth the wait . The action is crazzy. It makes feel like I can fly jets 
 onece again. Realistic controls and for the most part everything is realistic. Ace Combat did it 
 again. This is one of the best flighing games out there and the best on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  After going through the campaign (in Hard mode, mind you) I roughly completed the campaign after 
 pulling an all-nighter by the game's 'campaign clock' in 3 hours and 25 minutes; now just multiply 
 that by 2.
  
  So the game is about 7 hours long, provides a plethora of ways to begin a sortie and the game is 
 absolutely beautiful to look at.
  
  So that is the good...
  
  Now, a little background about myself: I have played every Ace Combat from its inception on the 
 PSX to the PS2 and now onto the 360, so I'm pretty confident I've got the series down.
  
  If you've played Ace Combat 4 you'll be familiar with the theme in 6.
  
  The story takes place 
 in a fictional setting with pretty outlandish and creative designs and weaponry you'll be contending 
 with and for the record, I'm not very fond of bosses exclusively targeting my plane amongst the 
 dozens of allied fighters in the air; it just ain't fair... until I blow them out of the sky. To 
 avoid giving away the plot you'll be taking on a series of campaigns amusingly designed to show 
 you the nooks and crannies of Ace Combat's new engine, no pun intended. From thousands of feet 
 up to thousands of inches from the ground, the guys @ Namco give you a run for your money as you're 
 set (with a wingman) to literally change the tides of war as the two man army (when he's responsive...) 
 blow everything out of the sky, water, ground, and underground. You'll be tasked with mission objectives 
 over an ENTIRE battlefield and you can pick or choose which objectives you'd like to complete, 
 keeping in mind certain objectives will grant you alliance backup and so objectives will grant 
 you havens... for example: a runway.
  
  These campaigns/ missions will be set throughout a fictional continent where you'll experience 
 everything from the deserts, to the cities, the cities to the glaciers, from the glaciers to mountainsides, 
 mountainsides to ravines, etc. The game isn't shy about where its taking you and every map is detailed 
 from ground up (to 45000 ft... you stall any higher... guess they don't want you going to space...) 
 with trees to volumetric clouds to (my favorite) missile clouds and contrails. You can literally 
 carve the sky out with your missiles and blot the skies with FLaK cannon fire and it is truly a 
 beauty to see. From miles away you can see impressive dogfights with their erratic gunfire and 
 missile trails, with wingmen taking key positions and others lining themselves up for a shot, all 
 the while drawing dizzying convolutions as they mix up the sky like a milkshake in a blender. Toss 
 in anti-aircraft fire and an aircraft carrier firing its phalanx's in mesmerizing disarray and 
 you've got one of the most beautiful ocean war theaters taking place on your TV set (HD for me...) . 
 There are some qualms I have about the game however, despite how fun the game is. One of the major 
 nicks is my Wingman's inability to hit anything and his unresponsiveness. Of the targets I've assigned 
 to him he's probably hit only 2/6 and if he isn't hitting them he's wasting his cache away for 
 the entirety of the mission trying to. Alliance support sort of feels like cheating as everything 
 is blown out of the sky (mind you: if you've completed certain and specific mission objectives 
 to earn you allied support) but when you do need it (for a specific mission) they'll just shoot 
 an impressive blind volley over and over without even considering which angles to attack from that 
 will inflict the proper amount of damage.... it almost makes you do those missions by yourself; 
 which I don't object to... I just find the resource in that instance to be a waste. After completing 
 a mission and the game you can always come back and 'Free Mission' it to attack the mission from 
 another angle, earning you medals and unlocking new information about certain squads, which is 
 fun if you're interested in the lore behind AC6, and its replay is definately high with the ability 
 to 'SP Continue' the campaign on a higher difficulty.
  
  ... now you're all wondering about Ace Combats NEWEST feature and yes... I've played it. The ONLINE 
 features are definately ROCKING but it could use MORE content. After blasting away through Siege, 
 CO-OP, and Battle Royal I wish they implement MORE to do... such as objectives, or territories...*DOH, 
 I'm talking HALO 3 here... but with a sandbox design as grand as Ace Combat 6 you can dream can't 
 you?
  
  I was able to quickly join games and on my... lacking DSL connection there wasn't a hint of slowdown. 
 CO-OP could use MORE missions because I feel that's the meat of the online experience whilst Siege 
 and Battle Royal are just quick games with one single objective in mind: blow the other guy's stuff 
 up. There's no real coordination with Siege and Battle Royal, so long as you stay out of someone's 
 way you can enjoy yourself. But with CO-OP you're planning out something of a contingency with 
 others and you split the objectives of the mission between each of you, which makes the 'support 
 calling feature' useful in this instance. The ONLY problem I have with online feature is the LACK 
 of SP support... SURE some of the weapons are... what you can say: Cheating but hey, you earned it... and 
 certainly paid for your plane, I just don't see the reason why they'd exclude some SP weapons, 
 I certainly deserve the right to use my uber-secret plane and its lopsided-advantageous SP weapons 
 against online fights, right? So what if I can paint an enemy with 12+ missiles... they were asking 
 for it...
  
  For the most part 'balance' seems to be the key component to the online experience so some weapons 
 you thought were extremely cool and DO literally change the tides of war are missing...*sniff... but 
 I never had any problems machine-gunning down people.
  
  The game is certainly fun to play and it'll keep you coming back to replay missions again, its 
 not as strong as a story I'd hope it'd be and I'm certainly sick of 'The Angels' (you'll know what 
 I mean once you've played it) . The game is everything you could want out of an arcade fighter jet 
 title and I'm impressed at what the game can do. On that note, yes, I did buy the flight-stick 
 and well... its certainly interesting playing the game with a throttle and joystick, but it certainly 
 takes some getting used to after putting down the controller. When utilizing the flight stick keep 
 it on a level surface and no, in-between your thighs wont work; I tried. Once you put down the 
 360's controller you have to re-orientate yourself to the button set up and remember that the throttle 
 moves... and when pushed forward makes you go faster *slaps forehead*. It takes a little more precision 
 to use the flight stick but its certainly rewarding when you master the setup, my only problem 
 was the joystick doesn't yaw and you have to use the throttle setup to yaw to the aircraft. Oh, 
 and yes, it rumbles!
  
  As I bring and end to the review I will mention that it is worth renting, for those who've never 
 played the series, and I would recommend it to friends who are more inclined to play games on the 
 HALO/ GEARS setup. It was definately worth the wait, with a few blunders, the game does soar to 
 new heights. Go dance with the Angels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornet345
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered my with the flight stick. picked it up on the release date at about 1:30pm and beat 
 it a few hours ago. Solid game play. Some spots in the game were a little dry. like the first few 
 missions but it picked up after that. the f-22 raptor is by far the best aircraft in the game. 
 You obtain it on the second to last mission. the campain was kind of short, only about 15 missions, 
 but each mission is split into about 3-6 operations (sup mission if you will) . so they take a lot 
 longer than past installments. The Graphics are unbelievable. lighting, atmosphere, effects are 
 all beyond what i have seen in any jet sim. this blos over-g fighters so far out of the water, 
 its orbiting earth right now. I loved every second of it... starting the campain again but on the 
 next difficulty... EXPERT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentless101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I know that the Playstation one got a higher score and probably had more planes and features. I 
 guess on the 360, I can download more planes and weapons. The storyline so far is interesting, 
 and this game is really addictive to play. The missions are very challenging so far, I am only 
 on the second mission, but I am having a blast with this so far.
  
  This is a must get if you like the series. I am pretty sure there will be XBOX Live updates for 
 this game that will include more choices of planes to choose from. I already saw an update that 
 they had, and I'm sure there will be more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGamer_09
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game, wasn't as good as i thought. First off the graphics are amazing, but 
 graphics isn't everything. The storyline doesn't really fit, they just kinda put it in there in 
 my opinion. It seems like you do the same thing over and over again. shooting down plain after 
 plain. and it can get a tad boring.
  
  Theres the negatives heres the positives. It does have amazing graphics, the online is pretty decent. 
 and the game play and game controls are excellent. You might wanna rent it first or buy it used 
 so you can at least take it back if you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax53
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm sick of developers thinking that having graphics (I'll admit, gorgeous graphics) will save 
 their bacon when it comes to the actual GAME part of the equation. First of all what happened to 
 all the aircraft? I was shocked and disgusted to see that you could only unlock and fly a fraction 
 of the previous titles slew of aircraft. The Su-35 Terminator was fun as hell to fly, but alas... nowhere 
 to be seen. Also, the amount of colour schemes that you can use also went down. And even if you 
 want to use the other schemes, you have to buy the same plane you already have just for the colour! 
 Having to replay stupidly hard missions (#9 for example) just so I can buy the same plane in another 
 colour is NOT re-playability in my books. Another thing that irked me was that while they still 
 had the Ace Chart where you can track the aces you've defeated, there were again a fraction of 
 the amount as in previous games (AC: Zero) . That was a great feature because finding and shooting 
 down enemy aces was a lot of fun. It IS called "Ace Combat" after all. Now before I get told I 
 stink at the game or some other such thing, I have played this game from the very first Ace Combat 
 and unlocked everything that there is to unlock. Got the whole S rating and all that. I've anxiously 
 awaited each new game because they got better and bettter with each release (ignoring AC: Electrosphere 
 of course. that's a whole other disaster) But I truly believe those in charge need to give their 
 heads a shake. If they think that they can get away with dumping parts of an amazing title as Ace 
 Combat just because they can make it look pretty. Well they've got another thing coming. Don't 
 get me wrong, the flight controls, visuals, maps and music are all incredible but I'm sorry that's 
 just not enough. When you put Ace Combat on the box, you've got to bring something to the table. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this is an ARCADE flight game, NOT a sim, so if that is what you were looking 
 for then do not buy this game. I have not played a Ace Combat game in a while so I decided to pick 
 this one up. My first impression right away is that from the very get go this is a BEAUTIFUL looking 
 game. As you fly around you will notice the photo realistic landscape and sky graphics. Flying 
 in cockpit view will pretty much give you motion sickness if you are prone to that! The controls 
 are sharp and easy, pulling 7Gs is not a problem, especially when there is no black-out consequences. 
 Weapon selection is good, lots of different weapons and some very fun special weapons.
  
  Most of what I do not enjoy about the game have to do with figuring out exactly what to do and 
 who to shoot at sometimes! Some times there are so many enemies in the air it's hard to tell which 
 ones are the main objective and which ones are just fodder. On-line = Total confusion on my end. 
 I played a few times and each time we were split into teams, each team had to protect it's EMS 
 plane... not sure I ever really saw the one I was supposed to protect because I was to busy watch 
 the mass of speeding, shooting friendlies and enemies in front of me. Also, it seemed nearly impossible 
 to get on peoples six, the speed and turning ability of most planes made them zig and zag to fast 
 to actually get a good quality shot off. After a while it did get a little better, but over all 
 it just seemed like you were lucky to actually get into a good cat &amp; mouse chase.
  
  Story line... skip it.
  
  Over all I think it's worth playing, just don't expect a deep flight 
 experience or story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combo78
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Finally a good flight game. With all the fps and racers, I'm so happy to be able to fly it's ridiculous. 
 The missions are enjoyable but the story doesnt really fit, but who sits through a story anyway 
 right. Wish they would have let you choose from more planes from the start. Control is easy but 
 you can still get dizzy with too many twists, turns and spins. 1080p &amp; 5.1 sound are top notch, 
 especially in the replays. only graphic problem I see is that you dont have much sense of speed 
 except for landing and taking off. Wish they would have use the headset like stuntman so you hear 
 the radio transmissions better.
  
  Online is fun and will def extend the playability of this game. only down side is just 2 co-op 
 missions. Hopefully more is on the way quickly and free. I'm not even getting into the dlc disgust.
 
  
  So if you're finally tired of fps and racing, it's time for a fly by. Thank you Namco for not forgetting 
 real gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Instantly blown away, this game is sick! The planes are highly detailed the enviornments superb. 
 I could ask for nothing more. The missle trails the plane fragments and explosions. Jeez dude, 
 was that my Quam that blow you up last night???
  
  Sound:
  
  DEAD ON, radio chatter, targeting aftre burning, air collisions and gun play, I love it! The sound 
 is very very cool!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Have you played ACE COMBAT before?? It plays exactly the same, no diff, just now we have MULTIPLAYER!
 
  
  Online:
  
  All i can say is that you better know how to fly. There are people out there that will make you 
 dodge thier entire payload before turning around and putting a missle up his Arse!
  
  5 minute games are cool because they are quick and fun. I have only played the team battle. After 
 about 5 rounds of play I began to top score so my skills blossomed once I found out what every 
 one was using and so forth. Pretty straight forward this game.
  
  All in All I love this game, it hard to find anything wrong with it as it is what it is and arcade 
 flight game not SIMULATOR (sorry for all you falcon 4.0 fans)
  
  At any rate I have been flying for many years in cyber space, this game just proves that I am an 
 ACE and air COMBAT..
  
  See you in the skies!
  
  ROACH xLXMx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive and just plain fun to play. I have played up to mission 10 in campaign 
 before writing this review and I have to say this game is great. I have had to resist the desire 
 to buzz the tower so many times its crazy.
  
  I purchased the collectors game which comes with the flight stick throttle quadrant combo controller. 
 The controller makes a huge difference. For example when you want to do a special maneuver such 
 as the High G turn you would normally have to hold down 3 or 4 buttons with the normal console 
 controller but with the flight stick combo controller its just a single button. This lets your 
 other fingers stay free to switch weapons, cycle through targets and fire a missile up someones 
 tail pipe in addition to change speed with your arm on the throttle quadrant. I have seen plenty 
 of videos of players flying without this fancy controller and they do a great job but the simplified 
 controls on the controller and the sense you get of having your hands around a flight stick and 
 throttle quadrant are tough to beat. This game has some of the best visuals I have ever seen in 
 a flight game. I have flown my share of flight sims from Lockon, Flaming Cliffs, Janes Flight Sims 
 and all the way back to Falcon 3.0 Technology has changed and the 360 is no slouch for outstanding 
 visuals so trust me that this game looks amazing. In one mission involving a fortress on top of 
 cliffs the fortress and cliffs looked so good that I was aww struck. This mission had a great feeling 
 of being there. The smoke from all the hits against the fortress stayed and drifted with the wind 
 so after a while it was like a large fire had occurred and the fortress was obscured in smoke. 
 These are little touches in detail that make this game great. The game has a wonderful balance 
 between being a flight simulator and a flight arcade. I have to give the developers credit for 
 finding that fine line as I used to be a big sim fan so I understand flight dynamics and trading 
 energy but on the flip side I love arcade style flying because its just so much more fun. You can 
 use flight dynamics if you want and this will probably make you one of those harder pilots to shoot 
 down online but if you dont know how a plane flies and dont care to find out you can still jump 
 right in and switch to Novice and go turn and burn without a care. Its nice to have a missile miss 
 or they become one hit one kill with no aim weapons. In this game you will need to get a good line 
 on your opponent to hit them with a missile. This doesnt mean that missiles always miss but does 
 mean you have to line up your shot and not just spam missiles into the air. I like this a lot as 
 numerous times I have launched a lot of missiles at someone and they just out turn them then I 
 think Thank goodness I can dodge a missile and have a real fight on my hands . This forces some 
 skill into the equation for dog fights and is a welcome change. I haven't tried the online mode 
 yet but I am sure one or two planes will become the dominant choice online. Hopefully we will see 
 some more down-loadable content or the ability to custom paint your planes. As mentioned in plenty 
 of other reviews the cut-scene dialog and voice acting is pretty bad but I really like the stories 
 attempt as it adds character to the game. If you can overlook the voice acting and admire the story 
 even if it is light then I think you will enjoy the campaign even more. We all know you will skip 
 the scenes your second time through anyway so might as well grin and bear it the first time. After 
 all the graphics are really good.
  
  Unlockable content is done well in this game. You can buy and sell planes and weapons which I think 
 adds a nice campaign twist. You will be forced into thinking Should I buy that special weapon for 
 my wing man or hold onto the cash in case a new fighter unlocks the next mission . These little 
 things really make it fun. There was an old saying I came across a long time ago in a flight sim 
 and I wish I could give the game credit but here it is.
  
  There are two types of aircraft. Fighters and targets . I always loved that saying but in this 
 game its not necessarily true. Everything is a target from aircraft, bombers, super airships, tanks, 
 buildings, aa guns, towers and my favorite, navy ships. I dont know why but I love attacking navy 
 ships when in a flight game. There is something fun about that nice chunky explosion you get when 
 tagging a ship. But to add to my excitement this game will have radio chatter that says things 
 like, Destroyer hit she's going down and Direct hit on the cruiser shes headed for the bottom . 
 These little radio confirmations also relate to missiles on your tail to your wing mans inability 
 to hit the broad side of a barn but again this is another wonderful little touch that makes this 
 game great.
  
  My only complaints from being an air jockey for so many years is the inability to put a prefix 
 before your name for a squadron designation. In the flight game world being able to identify your 
 squadron is paramount. Hopefully something like this can be made available.
  
  Great job to the developers for getting it right and that means tons of fun for us.
  
  A must 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paynehos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Well First of all the games graphics are great nothing comes close to the views of the trees and 
 mountains except maybe FSX. The sounds are good when breaking near aircraft you can hear there 
 engines rumble the room and the Wingman controls have been updated and improved in my opinion. 
 The Multi player is just plan fun. Theres nothing like it on live fast turns and missiles flying 
 ever which way is just a hectic but fun experience. The Story is good from what ive seen so far 
 some of the lip syncing is a bit off on the little girl and woman but nothing to bad. The jets 
 in the cut scenes have a bit to much bass to them my sub just goes crazy when they show a scene 
 with them. The multi player modes are perfect for an fighter game. team death match type and the 
 attack defend ones are fun and will keep ya coming back for more plus the leader boards. Anyways 
 if you want a fun great looking game this is for you unless you just don't like fun and addictive 
 games. I would of giving the game a 9.5 or 10 if the flight sticks dead zone was a bit smaller 
 though it works wonders its just not perfect from what ya should suspect from a 150 dollar game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaldisco
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this series for quite a long time. The mix of real planes, great secondary weapons, 
 and high speed arcade action is the series' signature. Fires of Liberation delivers on all these 
 fronts, but the real hype, and draw of the game i. e. multiplayer, seems more an afterthought, than 
 a feature designed into the game from the beginning. Like its predecessors FOL features missions 
 that are laughably easy and cruelly difficult. The levels swing back and forth from one extreme 
 to another with only a couple being well balanced.
  
  Once again the storyline is unneeded and totally unrelated to actual gameplay. This isn't that 
 important though, as you can skip all the cinematics.
  
  What drew me to this game, and many others, was the promise of 16 player air battles with a variety 
 of modes. It seems Project Aces hasn't studied the Halo 3 or even Gears of War matchmaking system, 
 as Ace Combat is nearly crippled from the lack of intuitive online controls. There are only a handful 
 of maps. Some of the levels make you wonder what in the hell the developers were thinking. For 
 example one map sets you in a twisting canyon without the ability to fly above 1000 feet. Dogfighting 
 in this map is a joke, with layers avoiding the ground more than each other. Not to mention that 
 you can't actually talk to your teammates while playing. A handful of preprogrammed statements 
 controlled with the d-pad is all the communication you get.
  
  There was a lot of promise for this series' debut on the 360. Unfortunately everything from the 
 graphics to the gameplay comes up slightly short. It isn't horrible, it's just blah. A few hours 
 with the online combat system will have you scratching your head and reaching for Halo.
  
  Ace Combat: Fires of Liberation is yet another reason why I will be avoiding Japanese game developers. 
 It seems cultural differences has left Japan with no interest in the 360 and its developers with 
 no understanding of what North American gamers want from online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  10 from 10. so funny. in the air i feel the smell of sun and the sky. aircraftz are som amazing. the 
 lights are so good &amp; at right place. in this gener it is the best and it was best too. the gameplay 
 works so greatly. namco bandai show that they are comming up, after inertal sonata. i enjoy it, but 
 it must be so greater. whole the game is good, but the grafices and textures element must be greater! the 
 mission are well-design, the ie of your foes are great, and your friends are smart. it can be great 
 game for you if you are a pro gamer, and amazing for all.
  gameplay:10
  ie:9.5
  grafic &amp; texture elementz:9 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
