-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Afro Samurai
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/afrosamurai/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brutal, satisfying combat.
 Great art design.
 Awesome music.
 Some really fun setpiece battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad platforming sections.
 Inconsistent pace leads to occasional monotony.
 Inferior camera can't be customized.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 27, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Jan 27, 2009

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This gory, gorgeous action game has plenty of flaws, but it will still satisfy your thirst for blood. 
 

  Nariko in Heavenly Sword. Cloud Strife in Final Fantasy VII. And now Afro Samurai. These are the 
 characters that you remember for their remarkable hairstyles, though Namco Bandai's newest hack-and-slash 
 action game offers more than just a curly coif that reaches for the heavens. It is an entertaining 
 and thoroughly gory offering that contrasts sumptuous environments and crisp cel-shaded characters 
 with shocking sights of slow-motion dismemberment. In Afro Samurai, you'll chop ninjas in half 
 and watch their disembodied torsos drag themselves along by the arms until they collapse in a pool 
 of blood. Sights like these make for some wickedly satisfying combat, though in other areas, the 
 game falls noticeably short of the standards set by genre predecessors such as Ninja Gaiden and 
 Devil May Cry. Clumsy platforming and pacing inconsistencies keep Afro Samurai from reaching its 
 potential, but the entertaining combat and dedication to its subject matter keep it from being 
 just another forgettable button masher.  

           Afro's enemies don't just shed blood -- they positively gush it.      

  If you're familiar 
 with the Afro Samurai anime, you'll undoubtedly enjoy experiencing the events depicted in the series, 
 as well as several that aren't. If you're new to the franchise, the most important thing to know 
 is this: You are a big-haired, cigarette-chomping dude who knows a thing or two about blades. This 
 is a revenge tale, and as Afro, the wearer of the Number Two headband, you're out to defeat your 
 father's killer -- the current Number One. Even if you're not familiar with every character (the 
 neurotic, potty-mouthed Ninja Ninja; the demure Okiku) , the game's vibe has a way of pulling you 
 in. Split-screen sequences in and out of combat embrace the game's anime theme; a fantastic hip-hop 
 soundtrack tinged with Far Eastern harmonies enhances every slice and dice; and energetic voice 
 acting from Samuel L. Jackson and other recognizable talents lends humor and gravitas in turn. 
 Afro neophytes may not be drawn in by the plot, but they'll find it hard to escape the lush but 
 violent atmosphere.  

  At the forefront of this vibe is Afro Samurai's combat, which cribs from most games of its type. 
 You can issue weak and strong attacks, kick your enemies around, and string these three basic moves 
 into a variety of combos. You'll spill a lot of blood using these simple actions, but if you really 
 want to punish your acrobatic foes, it's better to enter focus mode and watch the guts fly. With 
 a pull of the trigger, you can slow down time, adjust your blade's trajectory a bit, and lop heads, 
 digits, or entire limbs off of your smack-talking enemies. You have to charge up focus mode by 
 landing combos, but you will never go without the ability for long, and the resulting mix of old-fashioned 
 button mashing and focus-powered slaughter is satisfying and fun. A few other moves help mix things 
 up, such as sprint attacks, parrying, and bullet deflection (tricky to time properly but well worth 
 the trouble) . As long as you're facing a typical crowd of ninjas and a miniboss or two, it's all 
 a drippy delight.  

  Once you're outside of combat (an all too frequent occurrence) , Afro Samurai trips over its own 
 feet, thanks largely to unpleasant platforming mechanics. The inelegant jumping sections are easy 
 to stomach in small doses, but they're strung into long and frustrating sequences late in the game -- one 
 of which you have to repeat if you die at the hands of the boss that appears afterward. You can 
 wall-run here and there, and leap up and grab certain ledges, but as a rule, you can perform these 
 moves only when the game wants you to, and they're purely for getting from one spot to the next. 
 You can't string them into combat moves a la Ninja Gaiden, and rough animations make these acrobatics 
 look as awkward as they feel.  

           Swordplay, a sunset, and a warm splatter of blood -- what more could a samurai ask for? 

  This leaves the burden of entertainment purely on the combat, and it's usually up to the task. 
 At its best, Afro Samurai keeps pushing you forward, throwing a few different types of foes at 
 you and tossing in various objectives, such as throwing foes into an electrical apparatus or flipping 
 a switch here and there. A few set-piece battles are also a total blast, particularly an exhilarating 
 freefall sequence that might leave you breathless. A couple of boss battles are good fun as well, 
 such as one versus an endlessly self-cloning rival, and the easy but moody final boss battle. Some 
 levels, such as a protracted fight versus Kuma, are lighter on combat but succeed thanks to pensive 
 ambience, entertaining scriptwriting, and pure artistic splendor.  

  But as brutally beautiful as the combat is, it can't support the weight of some inconsistent pacing 
 and the less appealing boss fights. In some levels, you'll wander around without encountering enemies 
 for far too long; in a few others, nonstop waves of enemies will make you scream for variety that 
 never comes. These issues come to a head in the penultimate level: The combat, normally a head 
 rush, gets a bit tedious, the platforming takes center stage, and a few broken checkpoints might 
 force you to replay sequences that you've already plowed through. The boss fights afterward aren't 
 much of an improvement, spamming some cheap moves rather than providing a true challenge. The camera 
 certainly doesn't help matters; it isn't completely broken, but it has a tendency to get hung up 
 behind objects in the smaller combat areas or jitter around if you move it into certain positions. 
 A related oddity is the lack of camera customization. You can adjust the Y-axis settings but not 
 the X axis, which means that you are forced to deal with inverted camera settings when moving it 
 from side to side. If you prefer standard settings, this frustration will simply exacerbate the 
 other camera issues.  

  Nevertheless, Afro Samurai is an appealing game, and its visual style and pulsing soundtrack drives 
 this success. The art style doesn't rely on simple cel-shading, but rather infuses this familiar 
 technique with soft colors, muted lighting, and crosshatched textures. It's a unique look, and 
 the gushers of rust-hued blood contrast nicely with the gently lit environments. When you enter 
 focus mode, most of the environmental color washes away, making the gruesome cleaving of a bare-breasted 
 ninja a bloody sight to behold. Jittery animations and other technical flaws can get in the way -- particularly 
 in the PlayStation 3 version, which suffers from minor but noticeable frame-rate drops, especially 
 during split-screen incidents -- but these rarely detract from the appealing visual design. Likewise, 
 the occasionally lackluster sound effects can't detract from a superb hip-hop soundtrack (inspired 
 by, as opposed to composed by, rapper RZA) and fantastic, lively voice-overs.  

           These manufactured monstrosities lead to violet violence.      

  Its flaws are noticeable, 
 but Afro Samurai is ultimately a lot of fun. It isn't the next action classic, but it embraces 
 its subject matter with vigor and delivers equally dynamic combat in spades. You can squeeze a 
 good seven hours of enjoyment out of the experience the first time around, and hidden items and 
 ensuing unlockables may drive you to return, if the fun and ferocious combat isn't reason enough. 
 In other words, it's a problematic but ultimately worthwhile reason to don the Number Two headband 
 and see that justice is done -- and that Justice is done in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  First off I thought about buying this game (thank God I rented it) and I have never been so bored 
 in a game like this in a while, the story is alright... the soundtrack is amazing... its by rza 
 of the wu-tang clan and Samuel L Jackson is good as Ninja Ninja and Afro... Other than that the 
 graphics look cool and the game plays well, its just so repetitive and although the bosses are 
 alright u fight the same enemies over and over again and again.... The camera in this game is the 
 worst I have seen in a game in a while... It will not follow u around and u have to adjust it way 
 too often... u will practically by hitting the X and the Y button over and over and then have to 
 turn the camera around and its ridiculous that this issue was not adressed... Also there are clipping 
 problems and some slowdown... Also after u finish the game (if u do I didn't) U can replay it for 
 achievement points... There is not a multiplayer, co-op or anything interesting for u to keep coming 
 back to it.... Overall Afro Samurai is Style over Substance.... and it gets way boring... Its like 
 a mix of Prince of Persia, Jet Set Radio Future, The camera from Super Mario 64, Ninja Gaiden, 
 and Devil May Cry all into one, but it sucks and is way boring... A rental at best for the common 
 player, but if u are a MEGA HARDCORE Afro Samurai fan u might as well buy it for the namesake... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, voice acting, characters, and story, fun and gory combat
  
  The Bad: Monotonous combat, very short, broken platforming, tough boss battles
  
  Afro Samurai 
 is just one of those comic/cartoons that you never really hear of until it's a video game. Afro 
 Samurai is about a ummm... samurai named... Afro... who is trying to find the #1 headband from the 
 person who killed his father. Anyone who holds the #1 headband becomes a god and only the #2 bearer 
 can challenge #1. While the story has interesting developments and great characters the game is 
 mainly focused on combat. Afro, and Ninja Ninja, are voiced by Samual L. Jackson (you may have 
 heard him as Officer Tenpenny in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas) along with Justice being voice 
 by Ron Perlman (Hellboy fame) .
  
  There are a lot of elements to the combat in AS, but the whole thing becomes very monotonous after 
 a few levels. You have three basic attacks: Light, Heavy, and Kick (along with jump) . You also 
 have Focus attacks (which slow down time) and if you hold either heavy or light you with instantly 
 slice in enemy to bits. Not all enemies can be easily succumbed to the Focus so some will have 
 to be weakened before using this. There is also a Parry technique in which you can "mount" an enemy 
 and slice their head off. Parry is essential to most boss fights (more on those later) and to staying 
 alive.
  
  While the combat is very satisfying only because of the sheer amounts of gore that are spilled 
 it does become very repetitive. There are combos you can learn but they aren't really necessary 
 since you can just button mash most of the time. I particularly loved the gore since it isn't canned 
 and any part you slice off WILL come off. If you slice just the toe that comes off, slice a piece 
 of a guys' skin it comes off. The whole theme is very mature with lots of cussing, sexual innuendos, 
 and nude polecats. Yes, nude female samurais... nothing's hotter than that. Anyways, there are some 
 platforming sections, but this part of the game is somewhat flawed since Afro likes to stick to 
 things a lot and the controls for this can be somewhat unresponsive. Controls for combat are spot 
 on, but they seem to become sluggish and sticky when your platforming.
  
  Another great aspect (that I'm glad more developers are doing) is there is no HUD. Just like games 
 such as Dead Space everything is on your main character to tell what's going on. The more Afro 
 glows red the closer you are to dying, when your focus is charged up Afro's pendant sparkles... and 
 that's pretty much all you need. You do level up and learn new focus moves such as bullet slice 
 (reflect and slice bullets in slow-mo) , mounting etc. There are some different enemy types, but 
 there could have been more. You'll see a lot of the same ones half way through the game and it 
 tends to add to the monotony.
  
  Enemy AI is actually pretty good and you will have a challenge fighting off enemies by the dozens. 
 Thankfully Afro is fully equipped to take on all these baddies. Combat doesn't tend to get to frustrating 
 until you get to bosses since the windows for attacking are so small it takes so much patience 
 to kill them. While your character does level up it doesn't really make a difference since it's 
 all set on auto really. The game is fairly short clocking in at about 4-6 hours depending on how 
 you play the game and your skill level. There is zero replay value since there are no extra modes 
 you unlock or anything. I just highly recommend Afro Samurai as a fun weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadefury27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  i'm not going to stand on a soapbox on this one, i have to be honest i didn't have the highest 
 hopes in the world for this one. I thought the english version of the show was one of the worst 
 dubs ever with the exception of ron pearlman as "justice". let me just get to the pros and cons.
 
  
  PRO: THE SOUNDTRACK
  The music was so on point for this game second only to samuari champloo.
  
  CON: BOSS FIGHTS
 
  They simply had nothing to them the fights had no emotion behind them and hit detection is awful.
 
  
  PRO: ENEMY COMBAT
  While the types of enemies didn't vary too much the basic enemy combat and "body part poker" was 
 fun and gory.
  
  CON: CAMERA
  The camera was so out of place sometimes you start to wonder how they playtested it.
  
  PRO: 
 CONTROL
  The combat gives you tons of combos to choose from but you dont even need them.
  
  CON: RPG STYLE STAT TRACKING
  This was so pointless. unless you figured out to click in both 
 thumbsticks for these stats you didn't know what was going on until you leveled up.
  
  FINAL VERDICT: 6.5
  Like games such as battlefield: bad company and army of two, this game is 
 a ton of good ideas that aren't executed properly and the end result is a game that plays and feels 
 broken. it's not a bad game but not worth more than $30 of your money.
  
  as always
  peace, love & frag!
  jadefury27 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw that there was gonna be an Afro Samurai game i thought this may have potential 
 to be a great game. But they seem to have just let a great idea go to waste, don't get me wrong its 
 fun at times but its very few of those times. I feel as though this game was rushed it seemed the 
 stuff you have to do is really just pointless. The little loading screen things are crap didnt even 
 need to be put in the game. The missions are a little to repetitive you find yourself fighting people 
 but it never actually explains why you have to do this or why you have to do that. They tried to 
 make it where you could run up walls and stuff on certain parts but that felt really weak and got 
 old really fast. This isn't the worst game i have played but i would never give this the title of 
 best game ever in my opinion they could have did alot better. This game story is really just pointless 
 its all rushed in without any explanation. If your not a fan of this show you wont know what in 
 the hell is going on. Even if you are a fan of this show i dont think you would know whats going 
 on.
  This game is just really weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phishyphishy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Don't get hung up on the score. Afro Samurai is a fun game. Whether you want to just mash buttons 
 and slice topless female ninjas in half, or if you want to master combos and soak you screen with 
 blood the game's got it. Good stuff. Just too short and annoying at times. A few times during the 
 game, especially during the platform jumping, you will die and be forced to watch a cut scene or 
 start a few jumps back. Also, the camera does a bad job of following action, but you get use to 
 it after a while. Boss fights are either very easy or very frustrating. But, the disappointing 
 boss fights are balanced by some awesome fights during the stage when the action pauses, a great 
 song comes in and you get swarmed by a bunch of enemies to slice and dice. Which brings up the 
 greatest upside of this game... the soundtrack. When I put in the game, I would turn up my sound 
 system and get immersed into the beautiful mic of hip-hop and eastern inspired music. Not a classic, 
 but still one of the more enjoyable games I've played in a while. Oh yeah.. amazing music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a rocky ride of ups and downs. The game has an excellent cast of actors most notably 
 Samuel L. Jackson and Kelly Hu (the beauty on my gamer picture) . You most likely will be laughing 
 at lots of the commentary. The basic combat is good. Afro can jump slash and string together combos 
 with ease. He also has the ability to slow time and make precision slashes and other acrobatic 
 moves to dismember enemies. This feature is charged by connecting combos and rarely runs out on 
 you. The major problem with the game is that the camera is terrible. In most instances works against 
 you creating blind spots and giving enemies the jump on you. A lot of the time it randomly refocuses 
 itself. Against the normal enemies it's not a huge issue but it makes some of the boss fights more 
 difficult. You can reverse the camera but I found it wasn't very good on either setting. The game 
 contains some jumping sequences that just aren't designed right. The camera angles make it hard 
 to gauge the jumps and make it a trial and error sequence. Through out most of the game the jump 
 sequences aren't big except that the one later level has a lot of them and a bad checkpoint that 
 means you redo a frustrating sequence if you lose a fight at the end of it. The first half of the 
 game was entertaining and played pretty well. The second half was filled with cheap bosses and 
 frustrating jump sequences. A major setback is that either due to the camera and some of the design 
 the later bosses just seem rather cheap and unoriginal. Most bosses spam a move or two and if they 
 catch you off guard or the camera screws you up it can cause a cheap death. The games short easily 
 beatable in 7-9 hours and no replay value other than a harder difficulty. It's definitely worth 
 renting I would wait till it's cheaper to buy. 
  
  
  Good 
  Voice Acting 
  Great Artwork
  Fun Combat
  
  Bad 
  Camera is a huge hindrance
  Poor jumping sequences
 
  Cheap Bosses
  Short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moneymoneyguy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If you like Samurais and Samuel L Jackson as much as I do then I think you will enjoy this game. 
 This game has all the makings to be an awesome game with only a few minor problems. 
  
  The pro's of the game to start off with is simply the Animation style. To put it simply it is dynamic. 
 It really reflects the show I think. If only more anime based games looked like this. The fighting 
 mechanics of the game are god of war like but with out all the QTE events. The game can function 
 as a button masher but if you put a little effort into it, you can start to pull off some wickedly 
 cool combo's. You can easily go on a power trip just like in god of war.
  The voice acting in this game is simply superb. Samuel L Jackson as ninja ninja is simply hilarious. 
 The voices can drag you deeper into game but drag you out of it when ninja ninja eludes to you 
 playing a game. Kind of what Kojima does in the metal gear series, which I approve of.
  
  What I don't approve of is the platforming sections of the game. If you don't hold the button long 
 enough or hit the wall just right, you will plunge to your death. Trust me it will happen.
  
  Other than that I think this is a great game, especially if your an afro samurai fan. Which 
 to say I never really watch the show, but thanks to the game I think I will. If your not that much 
 of a fan it is a least rent worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  When the strangely named character Afro Samurai hit the scene awhile back in the form of an animation 
 series, people actually brushed it aside as just another "cookie cutter anime" with extremely eccentric 
 characters. In some respects, they were correct. Happily, the series won over audiences with it's 
 fresh take on exciting samurai adventures mixing hip-hop music with modern day slang and humor, 
 plus the animation was pretty good too. Before assuming this as a rehash, glance at the main character 
 and realize this is where the video game really shines -- one man, hell bent on vengeance, willing 
 to sacrifice everything simply to claim a headband that deems him the best! Sounds good in concept, 
 but easily loses its luster mid-way through. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  As the lead man, Afro Samurai scours the land with a massive sword in hand and a serious chip on 
 his shoulder, gruesomely slicing down any fool who crosses him. This is where you meet the supporting 
 cast: nameless nobodies. Ninjas, swordsmen, guys wielding axes, really big guys wielding pillars 
 and the occasional boss here and there. Pretty standard stuff, until you clash swords with these 
 unknowns in combat. Most of the baddies are limited to a few attacks and the ability to block or 
 dodge your incoming barrage.
  Lucky for Afro, your skills are pretty diverse offering light, heavy, and kick attacks with the 
 added ability to jump and block. As you mow down enemies experience is gained through smooth execution 
 of particular attacks, which leads to the expansion of flashy death-dealing combos and overall 
 stats. One area of great interest is the ability to "focus" attacks. Being a deadly swordsman, 
 you can build up focus energy, which can be released in a slow motion attack that is time based 
 and can be aimed at particular limbs of your target. It takes a little getting used to, but once 
 you master the basic combos and the timing function, these focus attacks can easily dismantle a 
 group of bad guys with one hit.
  
  Unlocking all the attack combos and skills is not solely based on combat performance. You can also 
 find patches of birds hidden through out levels which reference to the main villain you seek for 
 vengeance. Being that there are only 6 chapters to this story and a brief prelude, it's safe to 
 say Afro might be revisiting certain areas more than once to milk the experience.
  Another sour note is the camera control. Working through an inverted system, the camera is like 
 fighting another goon without your sword. You can adjust Y-axis in the options menu, which controls 
 the up and down motions, yet the left and right functions are cemented. It's not difficult to adapt 
 to the camera controls, because the environments are pretty compact and linear. It is a bit troubling 
 when Afro is surrounded by numerous baddies in the later levels who are a bit stronger and the 
 camera gets a little wonky, which can lead to some unfair deaths.
  
  VISUALS
  If you've ever watched the Afro Samurai series, the art direction is very reminiscent of the Aeon 
 Flux show that use to air on MTV. With a little more polish and cool character designs, the Afro 
 stands out much better. One glance at the video game and you'll notice right away there was an 
 immense amount of attention put into how well the main character and the overall art style came 
 through.
  Unfortunately, it seems like that's the only area that got special treatment. With decent animation 
 of the main characters interacting and actually expressing a range of emotions with their faces, 
 the rest of the game suffers from very sub-par body animation and terrible level variation. Dicing 
 through mountains of bad guys never really requires serious detail, but to set the game back a 
 few years by simply adjusting clothing color and weapons as a ploy for diversity is just lame. 
 Even worse, the polished main characters stand out ten-fold while exploring the bland environments 
 that are very flat. Based off an animation series, the dull color schemes and simple level design 
 work well enough in some areas, while a great portion of the rest reminds me of children's adventure 
 game.
  One huge saving grace is the combat visuals. While Afro dishes out huge combos with devastating 
 impact, the blood and gore strikes a pleasant cord for any fan of the mature show. Even the boring 
 bad guys come to life in a different way as their body parts are lopped off in bloody detail and 
 the aftermath of them coping with a missing mid-section is very entertaining. 
  
  AUDIO
  If there was an award for best in-game music, Afro Samurai would get my vote! Being such a short-lived 
 adventure, the game doesn't require a wide range of music to help nudge Afro from one area to the 
 next. Since exploration is very limited and most of the events that take place are context sensitive 
 and very brief, the main tracks and ambient moments never feel forced.
  As for other sounds heard in combat such as swords and gushing blood, you'll likely hear the same 
 effects applied to a good portion of interactions. Afro traverses over water, snow, wood, jungle 
 terrain, and cracks a lot of skulls  unless you're stuck in focus mode, there is a good chance 
 you won't hear as many distinct sounds as you'd like. To anyone who is a huge fan of the show or 
 Samuel L. Jackson, you can be sure to hear him most of the game as Afro's cynical side kick, Ninja 
 Ninja, who never misses a moment to bang on the funny bone.
  
  EXTRAS
  For gamers who love constant fighting or beat'em up titles, achievements are pretty clear cut in 
 Afro Samurai. You gain experience that is hard to gauge by spilling lots of blood in the most entertaining 
 ways possible; as you do so, Afro becomes stronger and learns more combos. Applying these loving 
 moves to the masses of sword fodder is fun, but the joy can easily ware thin if you never really 
 experiment with the moves list.
  From start to finish, you can rake in about 300 points playing through the story. Along the way 
 you chop up a lot of bad people that rewards you for: number of kills, dismembering precision, 
 particular attacks, blood spilt, skills unlocked, and finding hidden birds that pertain to each 
 level. After one play through there isn't much left to the replay value, besides a whomping 200-point 
 achievement for completing the harder difficulty.
  
  OVERALL
  To claim something is solely created and reserved for the "fans" is a subtle way to alienate other 
 gamers and an even worse way to excuse garbage production values. I don't really feel like that's 
 the case with Afro Samurai. It may be a matter for debate, but I rented this game with appreciation 
 for the animation series, and as a gamer seeking something to keep me busy for a few hours  both 
 delights were fulfilled. Would I recommend this game as a purchase to any fan of the series or 
 the hardcore gamer  not at all.
  What the Afro Samurai game offers is strongly in tune with what the show delivered; a decent cast 
 of characters, respect to how strong music and voice acting affects a production, not much deviation 
 from the main story, and plenty of action. When you desire an injection of mindless violence, not 
 many games can fill that void without causing guilt or shame. With Afro, you can kick back and 
 enjoy the music which is perfectly themed for the game, take in a little story that doesn't really 
 hold much relevance, mash a few buttons with big pay-offs, and rejoice in the fact that not every 
 game is meant to be played for weeks on end with immense details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamchuff
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  DISMEMBERMENT, BLOOD, A DIRTY A** MOUTHED CHARACTER, HIP-HOP.... what else do ya want?
  
  dismemberment in this game is sick, as you go into your focus mode you aim the reflection of the 
 blade at your target in the area you wish gone, and now there is a wound spurting red RED blood.
 
  
  next the music....
  
  one of the biggest things about afro samurai was the custom soundtrack created by RZA of wu-tang 
 clan and i personally think its pretty sick music i like the eastern harmonics and melody mixed 
 with a nice real hip hop beat tossed on there really good with intense music with real lyrical 
 style for the boss fights or bigger fights. Sam. Jackson loved the idea. its a power cast, with 
 a good anime license that was bought for a nontraditional ninja styled game. so if you dont like 
 hip hop that should be more or less of a reason to rent the game, or the customer that would mute 
 the t. v. just turn the music down in game because the voice acting is great it makes a memorable 
 character that you dont forget. this is a game all about the characters story, thats why its called 
 afro samurai, just looking at it you realize this game is not gonna be your regular shuriken throwing, 
 katana slashing, poison dart game. 
  
  This is AFRO SAMURAI..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyvillian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Think about it one of the best actors of our time in a kick ass anime about a brother with his 
 sword trying to find his father killer. The story sticks so close to the anime it is scary. Anyone 
 in to bloodshed and violence should at least play this game. It does not do anything terrific but 
 it does it all well enough for you to be able to play through this game at least once. My major 
 issues with this game has more to do with the camera angles and the light platforming that it tries 
 to incorporate into the game, like the jumping on rocks in the pond that kill you if you fall but 
 you can walk across a log and won't fall off. The best part of that is that is not always true. 
 A lock-on button would have at least alleviated some of the camera issues but i guess that was 
 to much to ask! Still this game is a true beat'em up at heart and if you approach this game with 
 that on your mind you will have no trouble enjoying this game for what it is. A chance to slice 
 foes anyplace you want to with your favorite renegade black samurai. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai has come along just in time for the sequel movie, but can it prove itself among so 
 many other great action/adventure games? The answer is no, but it comes damn close. Afro Samurai 
 may not be as badass as it would like to be (even with the help of Samuel L. Jackson) , but it's 
 still a fun game that oozes style.
  
  The story, to those who haven't seen the series, may seem convoluted, but for those who have, the 
 game is just as action-packed and emotional as the series, with worthy story elements tacked on 
 that further explore the crazy Afro Samurai mythos. The game follows Afro, and his sidekick Ninja 
 Ninja as the venture to find Justice, the man who killed Afro's father, and holds the Number One 
 Headband, which essentially gives him the power of a god (or does it?) 
  
  The main hack and slash system in Afro Samurai is thoroughly entertaining, and takes a surprisingly 
 long time to grow old. The basics play like any other action adventure game, you have a light attack, 
 a heavy attack, a block, and a kick. But where Afro Samurai outshines other games is with the focus 
 system, where you can slow down time and take a potentially fatal slice at your enemy. But, unfortunately, 
 that's pretty much it, there are a couple of mediocre platforming sequences and some fun boss fights, 
 but Afro Samurai never changes up the formula as much as it should.
  
  The graphics are simply awesome. The game had a hand-drawn, cel-shaded aesthetic that make for 
 a real visual treat. Some may complain about the camera, but I didn't find it to be a huge problem.
 
  
  The sound department is easily the game's best quality. The game features great sound design, and 
 stellar voice acting from the likes of Samuel L. Jackson, and Ron Perlman. But the true star is 
 the RZA, who brings a positively bumpin' soundtrack to the game. The songs brilliantly mix hip-hop 
 and Asian instrumentation which makes for some great fight music.
  
  The game isn't too long, only about 8-10 hours, and there's not much replay value. For the true 
 collector there are some hidden mementos throughout each level, and for those who wish to punish 
 themselves, there's a harder difficulty to unlock, but that's it.
  
  Afro Samurai is a fun game while it lasts. There are moments where you'll be playing, and the game 
 will feel like a AAA title, but there are moments where you'll be frustrated by some of the design 
 flaws. But, the sense of style, and excellent sound department make Afro Samurai just edge out 
 of being a mediocre game to a game worth recommending.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  1ST OF ALL THE Right stick controls are totally backwards: pull the stick towards the right and 
 AFRO -pans- LEFT and vice versa. With that said, gameplay was a bit nauseating... therefore, Trade 
 IN.
  
  Gameplay was a bit repetitive, hack and slash hack and slash....
  
  At least GOD OF WAR in contrast was a bit more tasteful along with a very deep plot. I would of 
 kept the game if it wasnt for the right stick controller issues. I mean think about it.. you move 
 the stick "right" the character should "look" right. Oh well.. cant have everything.. but for 65 
 dollars new and a 20 dollar "trade in value" the next day... THAT HURTS. OH WELL..
  
  Lesson Learned. always listen to Instincts rather than "commercial" hype.
  
  enuf said.
  
 
  what a waste of money, what a waste of funds, what a waste, what a disappointment, what a bummer, 
 bum deal, this bites, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Afro samurai brings really nothing new to the table. it is enjoyable at times but overall just 
 another boring hack n slash/ beat em up and follows the formula without straying or trying anything 
 new.
  
  the games strengths are that it has a somewhat interesting storyline inspired by a decent anime 
 show, it has great graphics, and it has samuel l jackson.
  
  the weaknesses however far outweigh the strengths. there is only one mode to the game which is 
 a very linear one player storyline that can be beaten in less than ten hours. the majority of the 
 game is spent cutting... and cutting... and cutting. the enjoyment of the gameplay wears thin by 
 the end of the first level and it doesn't change. the acrobatics are simply a carbon copy of games 
 like prince of persia and ninja gaiden.
  
  
  if you are a true fan of the afro samurai show then i would reccomend playing it but only for rent. 
 it is simply not worth shelling out sixty dollars and can easily be beaten in a rental period. 
 if you are not a fan of the show, it's really not worth playing at all.
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilRalph
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of afro samurai, and i been waiting for this game ever since i heard they were making 
 a afro samurai the game. its just like the series but longer and added more content to it like 
 new characters. when i first played it, it was great and i thought it was perfect. but i was wrong, 
 thwe camera is bad and sometimes the bosses are like almost impossible to beat just like ninja 
 gaiden and my favorite part in the entire game is when you fight afro driod that was fun. but i 
 think this game is a buying game for me and this is a pretty good game, if you like hard video 
 games this is the game for you. I also like cutting ppl in half and see guts and organs and blood 
 coming back. i hope someday they were make afro samurai 2 that would be great, based on the afro 
 samurai movie. I Give this Game a 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  For me it was fun for the first couple of hours, the cell animation looked really cool and Samuel 
 Jackson as the storyteller was kinda interesting. But after a couple of hours it just was fighting 
 the same guys over and over with nothing too different to shake things up. But what really frustrated 
 me was the camera in the game. I was forever fighting with it to look in the right direction and 
 face my attackers. Also the perspective can get real funny and for about 5-10 minutes I got stuck 
 hovering between two rocks, if they want a platformer where you have to hop from rock to rock with 
 some precision a bad camera and some glitchy spots really doesn't work. May be fun for a rent but 
 I wouldn't really shell out $60 for it. Also while Samuel Jackson as the storyteller was interesting 
 it also got on my nerves with the constant swearing and yelling at Afro. After death and between 
 loading he would yell AFRO!, I got so sick of that. But it did make me curious enough to want to 
 see the cartoon and if it was any good, so it worked in one respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:23 pm PT
Review:  i'm somwhat biased in this review because i have been a HUGE fan of afro samurai since it debuted. 
 however, as a die-hard gamer, i also find that this game stands on its own two feet as a wonderful, 
 albiet oldschool-feeling game.
  
  first off, the graphics are wondrous. the cell-shaded, cross-hatched character models are something 
 to behold on an HD set (however, since i don't own one, and the only HD set i have access to at 
 work should also tell you that this game looks great on an oldschool set as well. keep it oldschool, 
 people!)
  the graphics are great. blood gushing from enemies chopped in half, soft lighting effects, and 
 great lip-synching make the graphics up to snuff.
  
  the audio is probably where the game shines the most. you have your swords cutting through the 
 air, gunshots, and great dialogue, but the soundtrack is the best original audio segment i've heard 
 in years. i'm a fan of hip hop, and this game blends hip hop culture and the far east as seamlessly 
 as the samurai champloo series (NOT the god-awful game) could ever do. fight sequences erupt with 
 hard-hitting beats, and amazing wu-tang style flows on top of them (sadly, RZA was NOT part of 
 this project, but the flows are very wu-tang-esque) . the music is absolutely astounding, and what's 
 better, this game is the ONLY place you can hear these tracks. 
  
  "HIT EM WITH A GINSU!" epic
  
  the gameplay DOES have weak moments. if you take the time to 
 learn the combos and special moves, then you'll have much more fun, because you can tailor your 
 gameplay to the situation at hand. dispatching multiple foes with a focus sweep kick is pretty 
 awesome, but some sequences still lead to a little controlled button mashing. the platforming sequences 
 aren't quite as detrimental as the GS review would have you believe, but the oldschool feel to 
 the controls makes precision in these segments difficult. the combat is great, though, and you'll 
 find yourself slicing off heads, fingers, feet, and torsos with relative ease in no time, and it 
 never gets old.
  
  all in all, AFRO SAMURAI is a great game for those of you that have followed the saga of NINJA 
 NINJA and AFRO through the incredibly original adventure that they've embarked on. even if you 
 aren't a fan of the series (i own the box set of the series plus both movies) you'll still find 
 a lot to love in this game. while the platforming bits (while necessary) are a little weak, the 
 rest of the game is so funny and endearing that you'll want to experience it a few times before 
 shelving it.
  
  to put it bluntly, it's a great game. go buy it. unless skate 2 has struck your fancy. i'll be 
 reviewing that game shortly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmusarra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm at work so I won't be writing an especially long review, just my opinion of the game. I 
 think it is absolutely wonderful! I LOVE the series and have been waiting for this game for a long 
 time. If you have never seen the shows you might be a little disappointed in it. For me, it was 
 exactly and maybe a little more than I expected. It is full or profanity, nudity, and gratuitous 
 bloodshed. Finally, a good adult type game. In one scene, if you go the wrong way while following 
 a female assassin, Ninja Ninja says, "Afro! You been chasing Justice so long, you done forgot how 
 to chase pusseh!". Just hilarious one liners from Ninja Ninja throughout. Let's see, there is also 
 a sort of in-game mini-game called body part poker in which you slice off different body parts 
 on specific enemies to form poker hands, lol. It is a lot more fun that it might sound on here. 
 Um, I dont' really have much else to add at the moment. Just go out and at least rent it, but make 
 sure you watch the series first! I gave it a 9.5 out of 10 because for me personally, it was everything 
 I expected and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shonuff331
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited about this game when I heard it was being developed as I am a fan of the series. 
 Upon reading several reviews such as IGN, GamesRadar and GameSpy I almost passed on getting it. 
 It seemed that yet again something I liked had a poor game made based on it. I bought Afro Samurai 
 anyway and man am I glad I did, here's why. First off let me start by correcting a few erroneous 
 errors in some of the reviews I read that lead to their scores.
  
  GamesRadar claimed that the instruction manual listed the wrong command for dashing. The manual 
 lists clicking the left stick to dash. This is correct. While moving Afro in any direction clicking 
 the left stick results inguess what. a dash. Clicking it while stationary does nothing. Like many 
 other action games with a run button you have to click it in conjunction with a directional input.
 
  
  Gamespy noted a "game-stopping bug" that prevent ropes from being cut in the game. There is no 
 bug. The ropes in question can only be cut by using the focus mode and executing the perfect slice 
 maneuversalong with aiming the slice to cut properly with the analog stick. It can't be done by 
 button mashing. It's a precise cut that requires you to use the perfect slice system.
  
  The IGN review bugged the daylights out of me as it was really off base (and I usually understand 
 IGN's reviews) IGN claimed to be able to get through the entire game by "alternating attacks and 
 mashing buttons". This same review claims an overly frustrating and cheap Brother 6 boss battle. 
 Well it shouldn't be frustrating if the game can simply be beat with mindless button mashing I 
 thought. If it's frustrating it really can't be so simple, right? Read on. This battle I did 3 
 times to test. The 1st time it took me 10 minutes after I died during phase 3 on my first attempt 
 (I was not using the two bears they give you to restore your health during the battle) . I then 
 proceeded to kill him in 3 minutes both of the next two times without using the bears. How? Using 
 a dash attack (An attack that can't be done by mashing buttons) . I dash attacked Brother 6 and 
 then proceeded with a simple combo of XXXX until brother 6 knocked me away. As soon as I hit the 
 ground and roll recovered I dashed right back in with a dash attack and interrupted his attack 
 animation. This dash hit stuns him and then I use XXXX again. I repeated this pattern for ALL of 
 the three phases. 3 minutes using one dash attack, one combo and no bears to recover life. Hardly 
 frustrating or worth mentioning as "cheap". If anything, I was cheap by abusing one move and one 
 combo.
  
  Several reviews said there is no way to track XP as you progress or what moves you'll unlock. False. 
 When checking your moves list (something many reviewers openly admit not doing) there will be moves 
 with white slashes through them. These are locked. There will also be moves with blue slashes through 
 them. These moves are the ones you're gaining experience on. When the slash fills completely blue 
 you'll gain that move when the screen next flashes "level up".
  
  Another review mentioned that you have to click R3 (nearly an industry standard) to re-center your 
 camera. The complaint was that doing so removes your fingers from the buttons rendering you defenseless. 
 This would hold true if the block/parry button (defense right?) was a face buttonbut it's not. 
 It's the R-trigger which can be held while pressing the re-center camera button if that is an issue 
 for someone. So you're not defenseless. Also the inverted X-axis is listed as a major issue in 
 some reviews. To anyone who has been gaming long enough or who has played titles from regions other 
 than the US an inverted X-axis on the camera is not new. It's not prevalent here in the states, 
 but it's been around for a while in a few titles here and abroad. It should be old hat and easy 
 to adapt to. And it's not game breaking either. Like learning any other controls in any other game 
 it should be factored into the learning curve. not listed as something to drop the score or the 
 opinion of the game... unless you're a gamer that has issues learning new controls. If that's the 
 case then be fore warned the camera is inverted and cannot be changed.
  
  So now that the air is cleared of some incorrect stuff let's get to the review.
  
  Presentation, 
 graphics and sound are great with some minor issues. The game has a definite anime/comic look to 
 it with comic paneling and cutaways to coincide with the cel-shaded looks. The menus are simple 
 and easy to navigate and the load screens are animated instead of static. The music really gets 
 you pumped to play. There are very minor instances of slow down and clipping is very noticeable 
 when it happens. But oddly enough the slow down blends into the game since you have a slow down 
 mechanic of your own. So it often ends up appearing stylistic even though it is a technical concern 
 with too many body parts and too much blood animating on the screen. The moves list is very well 
 done as it demonstrates the commands needed for each move and even includes a video demo of it 
 so that you can see the timing involved and know what the move should look like when done properly. 
 The game is over flowing with violence, blood, gore and nudity just like the series. It is very 
 much an adult atmosphere. Parents, you have been warned.
  
  The gameplay is very good, almost textbook. Actually it's not almost textbook it IS textbook with 
 pages borrowed (read: STOLEN) from other textbooks. 
  
  You have the near endless array of combos in the vein of games such as God of War, Devil May Cry 
 and Ninja Gaiden. You have an upgrade system that adds new moves to your repertoire based on experiencewhich 
 is gained by killing enemies. These upgrades include moves such as reflecting bullets, fragmenting 
 bullets, the ability to execute multiple precision cuts in a row, the ability to cut through more 
 enemies with each strike, etc. You have your standard attacking combos, throw moves, combos that 
 link into a throw animation, dodging moves, blocks/parries/counters, etc. You can instantly link 
 many of the games combos together to make near infinite combos, you can launch and juggle enemies 
 and pressing block cancels your attack animations to put you in a blocking stances or to parry 
 instantly. well most attacks. Some of the higher powered moves can't be interrupted. Bigger damage, 
 bigger risk. 
  
  A special feature of Afro Samurai is the innovativeok I mean overdone focus mode that allows you 
 to slow the game down. What Afro does different with this old mechanic is give you manual control 
 of where to attack when in this mode. Focus mode slows the game down and gives access to other 
 moves most notable of which are the perfect slices. These moves allow you to sever enemy body parts 
 precisely by aiming the slices with the left analog stick and choosing horizontal or vertical slices 
 based on the button you press. When Afro's focus meter is full you can press a button which puts 
 Afro into overfocus mode. For those familiar with the old Punisher game this will sound VERY familiar. 
 The screen turns black and white and everything slows down. All of Afro's attacks are now one hit 
 kills on most enemies. It's essentially a manual smart bomb.
  
  Speaking of Afro's focus meter an observant gamer will notice that there are no meters displayed 
 in-game. Afro Samurai joins the legions of recent games opting to use a HUDless system. Thankfully 
 it works well. Afro's life is displayed on his body and this also applies to opponents. As characters 
 near death a red aura starts to show on the body. The closer to death they are the darker and more 
 apparent the red glow becomes. Attached to the hilt of Afro's sword is a medallion. This is his 
 focus meter. When the medallion has a black aura around it Afro's meter is empty and he needs to 
 score some combos to increase it. As the meter fills up the medallion begins to flash with a pulsating 
 white aura. When the medallion has a constant solid white aura the focus meter is full and the 
 aforementioned overfocus mode is available.
  
  The platforming in Afro Samurai is passable and only so because of one key issue. It's inconsistent. 
 In games like Ninja Gaiden and Devil May Cry the platforming moves such as running on walls can 
 be done at any time. In Afro Samurai these moves can only be done in certain places and at first 
 you can't tell where. There are subtle clues like level geometry and flashing ledges to give hints 
 but even these are more questionable than they should be.
  
  Replay value depends. For fans of the series, you'll be playing this a lot as it feels like a good 
 representation of the source material. For those who like a hyper violent action game with slick 
 visuals and responsive controlsyou'll be loving this. For those who can't get passed the camera 
 inversion, avoid this game. For those that have problems with pattern recognition and timing, avoid 
 this game as that's what the boss battles consist of mostly and to a lesser extent the battles 
 with the weaker enemies.
  
  Overall I give the game a solid 8 out of 10. It's not pushing the envelope in any given area, its 
 best features are ripped from or inspired by other games and it has enough minor issues that prevent 
 it from achieving A status. I'd rank it as an 8 even if it wasn't an Afro Samurai game, but I also 
 won't rank it higher just because it is based on a series I like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'm not a fan of the anime. As a matter of fact, I never watched any episodes so 
 Afro's world is new to me.
  
  I bought this game since the graphics looked cool and music inspired by the RZA.
  
  Afro Samurai 
 promised some very simple, almost last-gen gameplay and levels. You move Afro around, cut dudes, 
 learn skills, beat the boss, move to the next level.
  
  Oddly enough, the combat surprised me a little bit. I thought it was going to be very bland, but 
 in the end there's a neat ammount of combos, even if they're kinda hard to pull off due to the 
 bad timing of the buttons. Cutting people in half never gets old, and the RZA beats makes the fighting 
 scenes almost hypnotic and makes the awesome meter explode. That's when Afro Samurai's at his best. 
 Killing people and fat beat.
  
  Unfortunatly, as I mentioned earlier, the levels are archaic. You move around, jump from platform 
 to platform, run up and on some wall, and thats it. The platforming sequences could have been a 
 lot better, and its a shame Afro's movements arent as fluid as his fighting moves. Almost feels 
 like the devs added platforming as an aftertouch. In some situations, I could see Afro jump in 
 a stuttery fashion only to find him crash to his death just because I didn't jump at the right 
 spot on the wall.
  
  The game has a very cool cast of characters, yet the levels are so disjoincted and for a newcomer 
 to the franchise, it's impossible to get the storyline right. Why is Afro suddently out in the 
 woods with this chick? Why do I suddenly have to destroy androids coming out from the earth beneath 
 a bamboo forest? It aint explained.
  
  That said, the game has given me a handful of laughs and good time, mostly because of Ninja Ninja.
 
  
  When I reached the end bossfight and saw the credit roll and checked my 6:35:15 time run, I felt 
 very disapointed with the product. Most likely because every boss fights are cheap. I thought they'd 
 eventually get better, but no. Not cheap in the way theyre overpowerful, not at all. Cheap because 
 all you do is hit the X orY button until the cutscene starts. I mean, what's that ? I'm used to 
 God of War esque boss battles, and these bosses felt very old school, in a bad way. Like in beat 
 em ups before God of War ramped up the bar.
  
  The graphics and sound are great, but it doesnt save Afro from being what it is, just another run 
 off the mill beat em up. I would have prefered more consistency between the levels ( cause I have 
 no clue of half of what happened in the game ) and more refined gameplay sections. Maybe some QTE's 
 on bosses would have made the thing a little better, and some better platforming mechanic.
  
  Unfortunatly, Afro spends too much time walking around in levels than killing dudes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai is a manga, turned anime, turned game. This game, while better than most licensed 
 games, still suffers some of the same faults known to all. First off it's short. About six hours 
 long. The game covers the whole first series of episodes (only 5) but tells it in a little different 
 way. Some little details are different here and there, but you fight all the right guys at the 
 right places. (Something I usually don't expect to get.) You fight your sword master, the empty 
 seven, afro-droid, Kuma, and of course justice. All in the spot that Afro fought them in the show. 
 
  
  For those who don't know Afro Samurai follows the life of a man named Afro who wants vengeance 
 for his fathers murder. His father, who once wore the number one headband has been killed and the 
 headband was taken from him. Now he is on a mission to fight the man who killed his father, and 
 kill him. 
  
  The story goes deeper than that, as Afro himself is a very interesting character. But you don't 
 get into too much of that in the game. And a lot of the story is missing from the game, but that's 
 to be expected. The best part of this is to be able to fight all the great fights from the series.
 
  
  Speaking of fighting, here's how it works. Three buttons are used for hitting. The standard light 
 heavy kick attacks. Here's where the game gets a little different and fun. You can chain together 
 all types of combos, some on the flashy side, and really make a fight come alive. Then besides 
 that you can hold the L trigger and go into focus mode where you can shop vertically, horizontally, 
 trip, grab the enemy, do flips, rolls, and some other things as well. All of that is used to finish 
 off most of you enemies. When you go into that mode you can hold down one of the sword attack buttons 
 and when it flashes Afro will slice and usually cut whatever limb that you were pointing at off. 
 (Or you can go diagonally right across the guy if you are feeling like a jerk, today.) The fighting 
 is actually surprisingly well done and really keeps the game from getting boring during its short 
 play time.
  
  There are also some running, jumping, Prince of Persia type things to do in the game. They aren't 
 used so frequently, except for a few levels. They work out ok, and the penalty of falling usually 
 isn't too bad, so it's ok. 
  
  Now here are the problems. Some of the boss battles are very, bleh. Nothing too special happens 
 in them. I was a little disappointed with Kuma boss fight, and the final one with Justice. But 
 the insane one against Afro-Droid and somebody else (won't spoil it, since it's sort of a surprise.) 
 really shine. 
  
  A few more annoyances were present. The big one that I'm sure will get the most complaint is the 
 camera. For whatever reason they decided to make the X axis on the camera backwards. For me, I 
 just adjusted, and it was no problem. For others, they seem to have a hard time doing it. But there 
 is no way to change it, and I do wonder how they came to that decision. It's just kind of odd.
 
  
  Lastly the sound effects are odd. Or, sometimes not present at all. There will be times of dead 
 silence where you could tell there should be some sort of sound there. Or the sounds didn't hit 
 with the force you think they should have. Kind of what the last 3 prince of persia's were like. 
 That was an annoyance, but it wasn't a horrible thing. Just made the game makers seem lazy.
  
  The music was great. There were quite a few full rap songs all put in the right places, and 
 the music composed for the game was just as good. The game features some of the most memorable 
 music I have heard in a while, and SHOULD be featured for best original soundtrack in next years 
 game awards. (kinda early to be talking about that, huh?)
  
  But in the end it was a pretty fun ride. The fighting was furious and fun, but still topped by 
 the big boys of Ninja Gaiden and Devil May Cry. The story was alright, and gave a different perspective 
 on things. Of course Ninja Ninja provided plenty of laughs. To fans of the show, depending on your 
 love for Afro, you could either rent this or buy it. I'd prefer renting it, but I already bought 
 it so, whatever. To people who have never seen the show, watch it before playing this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
