-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: All-Pro Football 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/allprofootball2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An exciting, highly realistic gameplay engine.
 Over 200 classic players to choose from.
 Building up teams and taking them online is a lot of fun.
 Largely excellent animation.
 Great on-field sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Much of what makes All-Pro's gameplay so great was done just as well in NFL 2K5 three years ago.
 A distinct lack of offline modes.
 Player models look ancient (and not just because they're old players).
 Commentary is mostly recycled from 2K5.
 Could have used more in the way of customization options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,480 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2K football returns with solid gameplay and a new focus on classic players, though the roster isn't 
 the only aspect of the game that feels old. 

  ESPN NFL 2K5 is one of those games that have developed a seriously hardcore following in recent 
 years. That's because it happens to be one of the most tightly crafted football games ever made, 
 and also because it happens to be the last NFL-licensed game made by 2K Sports, following EA's 
 snatching of the NFL license into the land of exclusivity. For just about three years now, fans 
 of the 2K brand of football have been wringing their hands in anticipation of what 2K might do 
 to bring back an alternative to Madden. The answer is finally here in the form of All-Pro Football 
 2K8. All-Pro is precisely the kind of football you remember from NFL 2K5 -- maybe a little  too much 
  like it -- but with a roster of classic players from NFL yore. The premise? Build your own team 
 out of your favorite old-timers, and compete against other teams full of heroes of the gridiron, 
 both offline and online. It's a very cool idea for a game, especially in the way you build your 
 team, but some niggling issues with the gameplay and presentation, as well as a stripped-down package 
 of modes, prevents 2K8 from being a truly great return for 2K football.  

           2K Sports returns to the gridiron in All-Pro Football 2K8, and they've brought some old 
 friends with them.      

  First, let's look at who you're working with in All-Pro. The roster of classic players goes well 
 over 200, and you'll see plenty of big-time names like Jerry Rice, Joe Montana, John Elway, Dan 
 Marino, Barry Sanders, Walter Payton, Mike Ditka, and more. There's also a nice variety of players 
 that aren't quite as immediately recognizable, but certainly deserve their all-pro status, like 
 Lem Barney, Len Dawson, Chuck Muncie, Jessie Tuggle, and the like. However, there's also a decent 
 chunk of players in the game that kind of leave you scratching your head about why they're in there. 
 Mike Golic, for instance, is far more notable for his ESPN broadcasting career than his playing 
 career; Korey Stringer is better known for his death at training camp than his role on the field; 
 and what, exactly, did Brian Bosworth ever do besides play well for about two seasons before getting 
 injured, retire, and go on to star in bad movies? Still, several weird choices aside, the number 
 of honest-to-god legends vastly outweighs the goofy picks, and while one could argue endlessly 
 about various omissions in the roster, this collection of players is plenty good for a starting 
 entry.  

  But what do you do with all these classic players? Essentially, from the moment you first boot 
 up the game, your task is to build the team of your dreams. To build this team, you're provided 
 11 empty slots with which to fill superstars, and the remaining slots are taken up by generic players. 
 The classic players are ranked in gold, silver, and bronze tiers. You get two gold, three silver, 
 and six bronze players for any team you create, and they can fill whatever positions you like. 
 Want a potent offense? Grab Jerry Rice and Walter Payton, toss in a silver-tier quarterback like 
 Joe Theismann or Randall Cunningham, and you're in good shape. Prefer the defensive game to be 
 the focus of a team? Pick Ronnie Lott, Dick Butkus, Lem Barney, and Ed "Too Tall" Jones, and you're 
 looking pretty scary. Of course, it's all about balance. Go too far on one side of the ball or 
 the other, and you may suffer in the end. Likewise, if you don't fill out your less sexy positions, 
 like offensive line and kicker, you could find yourself in a difficult spot in certain situations. 
 Difficult a balance as it can be to strike, it's a fun one to experiment with. You can create as 
 many teams as you like, and edit any one you create over and over again until you feel like you've 
 gotten it right.  

  Once you get your team on the field, any fan of NFL 2K5 is going to be able to settle into a groove 
 pretty quickly. That's because this game might as well be 2K5 with a handful of gameplay tweaks. 
 Some of those tweaks include a new gang tackling system that actually looks and feels superior 
 to anything found in recent Madden games, and a new right-analog-stick tackling mechanic that essentially 
 lets you do big hits, high and low tackles, or reach tackles (the last of which rarely ever seems 
 to work very well) . There's also a new kick meter that tries to turn the right analog stick into 
 a kicker's leg, having you pull back on it to start the play, and then push forward to kick (provided 
 you time it and aim correctly) . Nifty idea, but it doesn't work well at all. Kickoffs seem to work 
 fine, but kicking field goals is a lot more scattershot than it should be. You know something's 
 off when you're timing your kicks nearly perfectly and putting little angle on the ball beyond 
 where you set the arrow pointer, and you're still missing kicks from 35 yards out.  

           Finding the right combination of star players is half the fun.      

  Interestingly 
 enough, it's not the changes made to 2K8's design that really sell it -- it's the stuff you remember. 
 It probably speaks best to how fantastic a game 2K5 was that 2K8's gameplay can still be considered 
 great fun, and still feel realistic, considering how much of it is identical to that game. The 
 running game is still the best in the business, with moves and blocking that look and feel just 
 about as spot-on as you could ever hope for. The passing game is no slouch either, though there's 
 a weird bit of delay between when you press the button to throw to a receiver, and when the pass 
 actually launches -- one that might be somewhat realistic, but feels overwrought when you're just 
 trying to get the ball out quickly. Defense is stingy and mechanically sound. Defensive backs tend 
 to drop a few too many "gimme" interceptions, and defensive players still like to stand dead still 
 in one spot when assigned to zone coverage (wide receivers tend to do the same thing on certain 
 types of routes) , but those quibbles aside, it's hard to complain much about the defensive game. 

  So, if the game still plays so well, what prevents it from being truly great? It's a lot of things, 
 many of which are elements that are missing. As an offline, single-player game, All-Pro is a weak 
 effort. You get a quick game mode, and one season to play through against a series of pre-made 
 teams, and once you win the championship (or don't) , that's pretty much the end of it. There's 
 no franchise mode, no crib, none of the amenities 2K Sports fans have become accustomed to over 
 the years.     

  Customization options also feel a bit lackluster. There are plenty of ways to design your team, 
 including names, cities, uniform styles, and the like. The number of logos is a little on the paltry 
 side, but there's enough of a variety to ensure you won't end up creating very many similar-looking 
 squads. Player customization options are more disappointing. There aren't quite enough base options 
 for faces, nor any way to really edit hairstyles or other distinctive features. What's also disappointing 
 is that any player you create has to be put into the gold, silver, or bronze category. There's 
 no way to edit the scrub guys on your team. It makes sense that you wouldn't be able to edit their 
 attributes and performance ratings, but not even being able to edit their names or appearances 
 is pretty weak.  

           The gameplay is a lot of fun, but people who have been clinging to NFL 2K5 lo these last 
 few years will find it extremely familiar -- almost too familiar.      

  At the very least, the multiplayer game isn't lacking. In fact, it's safe to say that 2K8 feels 
 like a game specifically built for multiplayer competition. Half the fun of the game is pitting 
 your created teams against other people's concoctions to see how they match up. You can do so in 
 the standard ranked and player matches, as well as in tournaments and online seasons for up to 
 32 teams. There's still no fantasy-draft option, but given the limited number of noteworthy players 
 in the game, that's somewhat understandable. Online performance seemed aces all around in the matches 
 we played. Small bouts of lag popped up, but nothing that affected gameplay.  

  Presentation is another area where All-Pro falls a bit short. Graphics are a point of contention 
 simply because of how much the game resembles its Xbox forebears. Certainly the graphics engine 
 has been scaled up quite a bit. You'll see plenty more detail in players' jerseys, helmets, and 
 especially the arenas, which are massive and feature excellent-looking crowds, and animatronic 
 mascots in some cases. But at the same time, it still looks like a scaled-up version of 2K5. The 
 overly lanky player models, weird player faces, and sometimes stiff running movements give the 
 game an aged feel.  

  That's not to say all the animation looks bad, mind you. Not even close. The new gang tackles look 
 excellent, collision animations in general look just about perfect in most cases (even when players 
 run off the field into the bench and players on the sidelines) and there's nothing quite like having 
 a QB launch a long bomb to someone like Jerry Rice or Andre Reed, and watching them make a spectacular 
 leaping catch for the score. There are definitely some areas where the animation could have used 
 an upgrade, but much of what's there works nicely. By the same token, the celebration animations 
 feel pretty out of date, as a lot of them came straight from 2K5. Not to mention that some of them 
 seem woefully out of place, or downright inappropriate. Barry Sanders doing a boastful dance after 
 a TD? We don't think so. And there's something truly disquieting and, frankly, a bit tasteless 
 about OJ Simpson doing a throat-cut animation after a big play.  

           Compare this and 2K5 side-by-side, and you won't see a huge graphical upgrade.      

 
  Broadcast presentation is another issue of note. On-field stat displays are solid and give you 
 good info about what's going on in the game, but the camera presents an occasional issue, especially 
 if you aren't playing with a widescreen TV. Zooming back prior to a play doesn't let you see your 
 receivers on the far ends of the field, which sometimes makes it difficult to check up on what 
 route they're running. On the audio front, the delightful twosome of Dan Stevens and Peter O'Keefe 
 make their return to the commentary booth, but loads of the commentary seems to have been directly 
 lifted from 2K5 with little editing or adjustment. Sure, they've got all the player names updated, 
 but O'Keefe's food jokes and "You can't coach that!" moments are largely recycled. On top of that, 
 the ancient editing techniques give the commentary a stilted feel that breaks up the flow. On-field 
 dialogue is also extremely cheesy and poorly delivered, and the in-game soundtrack is rather short, 
 so you tend to hear a lot of the same tracks again and again. At least the sounds of the game are 
 as high quality as ever.  

  Ultimately, All-Pro Football 2K8 delivers an enjoyable gameplay experience that fans of 2K football 
 will find immediately engaging. At the same time, that great gameplay is so great because much 
 of it comes directly from a three-year-old game, and many of the supplementary features that made 
 that old game so fantastic are missing here. The issue isn't with the lack of an NFL license, but 
 the inability to truly enjoy the game in a single-player environment for very long, not to mention 
 the decidedly antiquated presentation. But with all that said, what matters most is that All-Pro 
 is still an enjoyable football game, in spite of its more lackluster elements. This is a good, 
 solid foundation that 2K can hopefully build upon for future sequels. If you temper your expectations 
 from the extremely high ceiling set by NFL 2K5, and simply go in expecting a fun multiplayer-focused 
 experience, you'll get just that out of All-Pro Football 2K8.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (194 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prophet_Posse
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Pros : The game does have good animations and physics. And the stadiums look great. i like the 
 graphics on the jerseys. It's cool to play NFL greats like Barry Sanders and Joe Montana. Making 
 your own team and custom Jerseys is pretty cool too.
  
  Cons : No franchise mode. The halftime replays are zoomed in way to close to see whats going on. 
 Gets boring after a wile. The codes for other peoples custom jerseys are WAY too long.
  
  This game was good for the first month... Then i just quit playing it. It was cool to play NFL greats 
 like Joe Montana Barry Sanders etc. But, the game just gets old {for me at least} . Don't get me 
 wrong, I love 2k5 and all the other ones since Dreamcast. But this was kind of a let down. I wish 
 they had made fictional players with franchise mode. I hope they get the NFL rights back Because 
 a want to play a good football game again. cuz this and madden don't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricky567
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  qr ui0, qr-ui0, qru i0, qru-i0, qr, quire, Curie, curia, curie, curio, quid, quin, quip, quit, 
 quiz, grue, Kiri, guru, Uri, Jurua, RI, Ru, cry, curiae, juror, query, Yuri, Cari, Cori, Cr, Curr, 
 Geri, Gr, Jeri, Jori, Jr, Kari, Keri, Kori, Kr, Quill, Quinn, Quito, cure, gr, jury, quail, quick, 
 quiet, quiff, quill, quine, quirk, quirt, quite, quoin, quoit, Ric, Rik, rig, rug, Crow, GUI, Grier, 
 Gui, Que, Rio, Roi, , curer, curry, ruck, Crin, Cris, qr ui0, qr-ui0, qru i0, qru-i0, qr, quire, 
 Curie, curia, curie, curio, quid, quin, quip, quit, quiz, grue, Kiri, guru, Uri, Jurua, RI, Ru, 
 cry, curiae, juror, query, Yuri, Cari, Cori, Cr, Curr, Geri, Gr, Jeri, Jori, Jr, Kari, Keri, Kori, 
 Kr, Quill, Quinn, Quito, cure, gr, jury, quail, quick, quiet, quiff, quill, quine, quirk, quirt, 
 quite, quoin, quoit, Ric, Rik, rig, rug, Crow, GUI, Grier, Gui, Que, Rio, Roi, Ruy, crier, crow, 
 grow, qua, rue, Ari, Auria, Aurie, Currie, Dru, Fri, Luria, MRI, Pru, Cruise, cruise, Caria, Carie, 
 Corie, Curry, Jorie, Karia, Karie, Korie, curer, curry, ruck, Crin, Cris, Cruz, Gris Cruz, Gris 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxAdioxx
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was creative, but it cant live up to any expectations it may have had. I mean, i've always 
 wanted to play as legends like John Elway and Jerry Rice, but not like this. The graphics are somewhat 
 dull. Not exciting. No game modes. This just isnt worth it. But you cant count it out yet, if you 
 love football games you'll love this game. It is what you've wanted for a while, it does provide 
 fun gameplay. But overall i probably played it about 2 hours total. I found it somewhat boring 
 after a while. But like i said if you like football games, I would recommend it to you, but if 
 you are a die hard madden fan, dont even bother. If you are a decent, overall football game fan, 
 i would recommend you rent it first. Another good thing about this game i saw was that you can 
 turn off offsides, i thought that was hilarious, and i would get a sack every play.
  
  
  Overall i gave this game a: 6.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtlDuDe346
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best football simulation you will get on the 360 or PS3. It is a highly 
 realistic football game. Great selection of players to choose from, AI performs well, awesome animations, 
 side line catches, gang tackles, sweet interceptions, good presentation, fun customization, deep 
 online play that has a nice rock paper scissor match ups between which star players you chose for 
 your team. So why did i rate this game an 8 then? The reason being is that there is not many features. 
 There is no franchise mode, no first person football that you had in 2k5, no crib, no goodies to 
 collect. There is pretty much nothing to do but play single games. This is an excellent simulation 
 of football but if your a fan of signing and firing coaches/players etc. then this game is not 
 for you. Only for hardcore simulation footballers like myself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  If everyone can remember back as far as the good ol' Dreamcast days, a revolutionary new football 
 simulation entitled NFL 2K was released. And man did it shine. Following this predecessor came 
 NFK 2K1-2K3, and ended with ESPN NFL 2K5 which was the last before jolly ol' EA claimed exclusive 
 NFL rights. Anyway to make a long story short, we now are apparently blessed with All Star Football 
 2K8. Folks, don't be enticed and fooled with the "2K8" as it's a former shell of what this "2K" 
 franchise once was.....
  
  Graphics: 
  Surprisingly detailed character models combined with a fresh coat of polish over its predecessors. 
 Slight deformity on characters faces and deterioration when the camera is panned back takes away 
 from the score however.
  
  Gameplay:
  Fast paced and fun even for a football simulation. It offers everything we've loved in the past 
 including a genuinely addictive online mode that will keep the disc in the tray long after franchise 
 mode bores you to an untimely death. Dissapointing teams mixed with all-star legends was not a 
 good choice for 2K Sports. Although I don't believe they had any other choice in the matter thanks 
 to Go-I mean EA. Create-a-team is interesting and can take away from the anal-r@peage you ensue 
 when looking for them good ol' NY GIANTS. *sigh*
  
  Sound: 
  Dialogue from the announcers as usual become repetitive and dull. Lack of in-game soundracks and 
 forcing to use the dashboard for accessing your tunes can be quite annoying. Bone crushing and 
 crunching still remains jaw dropping and brutal however. Voice-overs from the players while in 
 a huddle can be noted only as corny and outdated.
  
  Controls:
  The sleek style of the 360 controller never felt more at home in this simulation. Fast paced 1-button 
 throws when on the offensive and slick power tackling can be fun and competitively worthwhile. 
 Other controls are stable and solid throughout the course of the game.
  
  Overall:
  If you've enjoyed the overall gameplay of the prior games and can look past it's lackluster features 
 regarding quality, then this next-gen football simulation may be worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  They had the right idea trying to bring football back but its just not the same. It was kinda cool 
 at first playing with the legends but then it got old, and the corny one liners the players drop 
 are no necessary. I also missed the nfl jerseys and found myself getting angry trying to make a 
 jersey i liked. The game play was also not very good. You could tell they were trying to mimic 
 2K5 but it was not the same. The speed burst was barely even part of them game, and out running 
 a defender was hard. Passing also seemed tight and awkward. If they come out with another title 
 in the 2k sports football franchisee, they better do better then this. And with the Madden thing, 
 if 2K doesn't up there game, i don't want another football game, ill stick with madden. The only 
 cool thing in this game is being able to customize your team players. You can also make your own 
 player and put him on the team. It has the basic achievements like get the game record for passing 
 yards. Overall if you like blitz, or older 2K games I guess you should think about getting this, 
 but don't expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unewman
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  All pro football is a good try and overall a really good game. I will have to say that I use to 
 play madden and grew up playing numerous other football games including madden but got really into 
 madden around 2000, 2001. With that being said that all came to a halt when I bought 2k5. After 
 that I could never go back to madden because the game of football virtually changed for me....... Forever!!! 
 I had a nintendo wii and bought madden 07 and I will have to say I loved that game, if madden is 
 going to be resurrected it will probably be through the wii because it brings a whole new feel 
 to a over-aged franchise. Now back to 2k5.
  
  Advantages:
  
  Reviewers complain about the character models and I did as well until I started playing the game 
 and realized what 2k did. The character models really look like they have football pads on top 
 of their body instead of the models looking like they are one with the equipment. The jerseys actually 
 has texture that looks like a real jersey, and because of the player models you can actually picture 
 the players without the equipment because of the way the body structure is built. On a ripped player 
 you can see the biceps and triceps, the players head looks like it could actually match the body. 
 True every player is not photo realistic but all in all I think that 2k did a nice job. 
  
  Building a team was very fun for me because I edited my squad until it felt just right. The stadiums 
 are off the hook, i actually am still in the process of finding that right stadium for me because 
 when a touchdown or first down is accomplished every stadium celebrates it differently. Player 
 animations and the actual game of Offense and D, are perfectly integrated with the AI. I love playing 
 the game of football on this engine. Offense react as it should (blocking, passing, etc.) I love 
 the defensive rushing because this is the first game where you actually have to bull rush, spin, 
 rip, everything possible to get to the quarterback. Often one move won't let you make it to a sack.
 
  
  Negatives:
  
  You've heard it before, not enough modes. I think that 2K wanted to do something different to appease 
 there old fans but not necessarily create a foot hole in football if you know what I'm saying. 
 This is evident from the lack of modes and the trade mark Crib. On the presentation side replays 
 are still shown often and you still have a player of the game but I would have like to see suzie 
 back down there giving the interviews and I would have like to see peter o. maybe give a sports 
 centerisk review of the game. I think that 2k could have made up their own broadcasting center 
 a really created a whole world around the fantasy league of football. The soundtrack is too short 
 and it would be nice if you could add your own music like in their great title before.
  
  
  conclusion:
  
  all in all this game is wonderful it just felt like 2k wanted to give you 
 something new and not something they were 100% behind. 2k is too creative I know that they could 
 come up with a sports center like broadcast in game and build more modes and etc. It feels like 
 they wanted to show the fans that they still want to make a football game for us but lack the license. 
 I say with what you have done her you can expand upon. GTA create fake advertising boards and tooth 
 paste and whatever why can't 2k create a world around this game. Make this league real to us, it 
 can be done. The movie Any Given Sunday had all made up team and yet the audience still gets the 
 feel of the NFL, it can be done. I hope that this title gets an update...... it needs an 2k9 or 
 10 or whaterver because there is so much potential. I owned madden 08 I took it back because I 
 hated the commentary and the presentation and the player animations the game doesn't feel real 
 to me we need another all pro football but next time BRING EVERY THING YOU GOT 2K, FO REAL THIS 
 TIME. FOOTBALL MAKES THE NFL NOT THE NFL MAKES FOOTBALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I liked the idea of make a make believe league. This idea was not executed well here in my opinion 
 as it seems they felt they needed some NFL connection and brought in the retired NFL players. This 
 concept will probably work quite well for you if you are a big fan of any of these players, I am 
 not. I tend to like the underdog, the unexpected champion and this game is setup for the "stars". 
 Your team consist of a "stars" with their abilities (apparently it would be rude to give all the 
 stars actual rankings) and a bunch of nobodies who are not setup with any known abilities or rankings. 
 
  
  Now you can make up your own guys thats cool. You can make your own teams and modify your uniforms. 
 All quite cool.
  
  You get one with the team you created and then you have to start over by selecting another set 
 of stars to play with your nobodies (or picking the same ones) . Now you can take the team you created 
 online and I hear this is where the game really shines, but I cannot speak to it as I dont really 
 play online that much.
  
  Graphics: They were good. kInd of cartoony like 2k5 but nice and clean and I actually like the 
 style of it a bit better then the recent Maddens.
  
  Sound: Announcers did fine, music was fine. Environmentals were well done. I dont need Warren Moon 
 to talk to Jonny Unitas and thought those types of things were cheesey and overdone (but thats 
 my taste) .
  
  Gameplay: Kicking is terrible (I know, I guess I just stink at it, but to me its no fun to continuously 
 kick for 20 yards, might as well run a 4th down play... which worked more often then not) . Otherwise 
 the controls worked well enough.
  
  Script: This game takes a long time because there is a lot of cutscene stuff to skip through. Now 
 this is nice to have as Madden 06 (the last version I bought) has basically nothing in atmosphere 
 compared to All Pro. However, it would be nice to be able to turn these on and off as sometimes 
 you just want a quick game without all the fanfare and I get tired of skipping it all. Play selection 
 was good. AI played reasonably well. No obvious glitching or absurd fumbling of the ball every 
 snap. Though sometimes the "fourth quarter comback" guys seemed kind of cheap. 
  
  Menus were occassionally confusing, poping up and not letting you get back to where you were... but 
 then I didnt actually read the manual so that could have been on me. 
  
  I am still waiting for a great next gen football game. This was a good try but I think they got 
 too hero-worrishpy and that ruined it for me. The lack of a franchise mode where you can move on 
 with knew unknown players was a let down for me too. If however you love the legneds or online 
 play you may like this game better then me. But for me even the the $9.99 I payed for it seems 
 like it could have been better spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I am a great admirer of the EA sports games. so i was skeptical that another studio could even 
 approach them but 2K has done a great job of competing with them. The Third 2K Football game features 
 none of the famous NFL or AFL or any other professional team due to "legal" Problems. I found the 
 game play superior to Madden 07 but lacks a great soundtrack. The HUD has a great ESPN Football 
 look but still remains user friendly. The Ability to create Teams, from the logo and uniform down 
 to the roster, and Players of any level, It has a great Engineering Fun Factor. The Graphics are 
 up to date and has a great TV look. Its espicially cool to turn of Penalties and just go crazy. 
 But my favorite feature is the Hall of Famer's (including Dan Marino, Joe Montana, John Elway and 
 many many others) you can mix and match to create your dream team. And this time they are not lying 
 by saying that. I suggest it for any Madden fan or Sports game nut. A solid Game in all aspects. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I have always been an EA Sports guy but since Madden became the exclusive NFL video game I feel 
 that EA hasn't had anyone to push them to improve and it shows. The Madden game has gone down hill 
 and lost my attention. So I decided to try the All Pro 2k8 game. 
  I LOVE IT. The game play is better than Madden, graphics are decent, building a team of my favorite 
 childhood legends is a load of fun. The online play is outstanding. The online leagues, tournaments, 
 and VIP stats are awesome. The A. I. is good and the game is realistic unlike the arcade-like Blitz 
 the League game. The team customization is great from the uniforms, to the logos, to the team colors, 
 and a decent number of team names and cities to choose from. 
  The only downside is that it doesn't have a franchise mode. It only allows you to play one season 
 and then start over. 
  That is the only downside for me. I love the game and look forward to another edition of it this 
 coming year (hopefully with more legends and a franchise mode.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky1121
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Madden was undesverdly given the exclusive NFL License, and football gamers everywhere suffered. 
 Madden had no more competition, and the end product of their football games would leave me always 
 wanting more. To me, 2K5 was the best football game ever created for a console. The presentation 
 was stellar with the ESPN crew at the helm. 2K would pay superb attention to the details. From 
 the full selection of alternate uni's to the playoff and Super Bowl paint on the field looking 
 just as it did in reality, right down to the trail of turf kicked up in a player's wake, the game 
 was as authentic looking as could be. Combine that with the great gameplay and the XBox Live set 
 up, and this game was the best.
  
  2K8 is hampered by the lack of a mulitple season franchise mode, where you only get one season 
 with your team. No dynasties! The graphics are sevicable and look good, but it's not quite what 
 you would expect from Next-Gen. Madden 08 is back on the right track. It's the best football game 
 currently for the 360. But 2K8 is good, and I can't wait for their next effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL8664
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well for starters, this game IS NOT amazing, It is fun and entertaining though, which goes a long 
 way. The "legend" aspect is cool and a nice touch. Its pretty sweet to get to play as those guys 
 who were bad ass far before there was any video games to immortalize them. I like the aspect of 
 the different tier players although most do not based on what I've read. It makes the teams even 
 so one team isnt too overloaded. The gameplay is nice, almost a bit TOO realistic at times though 
 and the AI does a pretty decent job of figuring you out. For example, I have a team with Emmitt 
 Smith on it. He is a very good and balanced running back in the game so I use him alot, out of 
 the backfield and up the gut. I was able to get a get amount of yards with him initially but then 
 the AI did catch on and start to shut him down a bit. So overall the AI isnt bad but its no einstein 
 either. The graphics on the other hand are good but somewhat circa 2001. They look clean but not 
 really next gen IMO. All things considered, its a good game. Definetly a welcomed break from the 
 madden series. I'm glad i did not pay the full $60 for it, but at the current price tag of anywhere 
 between $10 - $25, its a great steal! Pick it up if you are a football fan and you know your classic 
 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albedos_shadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1999, Sega released the Sega Dreamcast, a quality system which eventually ended in failure. 
 At the Dreamcast's launch, EA Sports declined to release the Madden franchise on the console, prompting 
 Sega to find another football franchise to fill this gap. NFL 2K was the football series to take 
 Madens place, and it performed excellently. The series continued in yearly installments, eventually 
 gaining an ESPN license and moving onto the Xbox and PS2. Unfortunately, in 2004, EA signed an 
 exclusivity agreement with the NFL, effectively shutting out all competition from 2K Football. 
 The franchise disappeared for several years, only to be ressurrected with All-Pro Football 2K8. 
 The series still has some serious fight left in it, but there are a couple glaring omissions that 
 keep the game from reaching the heights of its predecessors.
  
  
  Since the NFL is now off-limits for everyone but Madden, 2K Sports decided to go with a more inventive 
 solution. The game's roster is made up entirely of former NFL players, mostly Hall-of-Famers. This 
 means you can finally assemble your dream football squad. Want to go for an all-out assault with 
 Dan Marino and Barry Sanders? How about the epic team-up of Bubby Brister and Yancey Thigpen? Go 
 ahead. All 240 legends in the game are ranked as either a Gold, Silver, or Bronze star player. 
 At the beginning of the game, you choose 2 gold, 3 silver, and 6 bronze players. While an average 
 football fan should recognize all of the Gold players and most of the Silvers, once you move into 
 the Bronze tier, you'll start scratching your head. Any open positions left after your draft are 
 filled by randomly generated players who do a decent job carrying out their roles.
  
  Once you move past the draft, the serious downfall of 2K8 is revealed. After naming your ridiculous 
 made up team, you are presented with only four game types - Quick Play, Season, Practice, and an 
 Online Match. For whatever reason, 2K Sports decided not to include a franchise mode in the game. 
 despite the fact that ESPN NFL 2K5, the last 2K football game before this, did include it. This 
 omission severely limits the replayability of the game, as after you beat Season mode once, you 
 most likely won't do anything else but play online.
  
  Fortunately, the game shines in its most important area: gameplay. Simply put, this is the most 
 realistic football game you will ever play. Every play and every formation you could want is included. 
 Every player handles realistically, as opposed to the ice-skating running backs and ball-magnet 
 recievers of Madden. The only detail that seems to plague all football games, what I like to call 
 velcro tackles, still plague this game too. Whenever any player makes a tackle, they seemingly 
 home in on their target and attach themselves instantly, like some strange adhesive is holding 
 them to their opponent. Luckily the rest of the game overshadows this small problem.
  
  If you're sick of Madden's recycled games every year, and are looking for a new football game fix, 
 do not pass up All-Pro 2K8. And if you were ever a fan of the series in the past, by all means, 
 buy this game now. It's a worthy, though not perfect, continuation of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the early part of the millennium, gamers had their choice between two football games, 
 Electronic Arts' John Madden and 2K Sports' NFL 2K series. The two both had different strong points, 
 as Madden had the better graphical engine and thrived on arcade-like gameplay, while 2K prided 
 itself on gameplay and realism. However for the past three and a half years, Madden held the exclusive 
 rights to the NFL license, forcing the boys at 2K to sit idly on the sidelines.
  
  That is until the release of "All-Pro Football 2K8".
  
  However, while the game will bring 
 back memories of the great football games the development team put out years ago, it's lack of 
 an NFL license and deeper gameplay options hurts the end package and limits its overall star power.
 
  
  Despite not having the rights to any current NFL teams and players, the team at 2K managed to snag 
 over 250 "Legends" of the gridiron, which consists of everyone from all-time greats like Barry 
 Sanders and Johnny Unitas, to lesser known, but nonetheless accomplished NFL players like Henry 
 Ellard, Freeman McNeil and Chris Doleman. There is also a solid create-a-player mode in the game 
 as well, which will allow you to create anyone who isn't in the game or even put yourself in there 
 to mingle with the legends of yesteryear. 
  
  Regardless of the number of legends in the game though, you'll often find yourself playing against 
 a team that has the same players as you do. This is the first of several nagging issues that hold 
 "All-Pro Football 2K8" back from being as solid a game as it could have been.
  
  When turning "All-Pro Football 2K8" on for the first time, you're prompted to create your own team 
 from scratch, picking everything from the team's logo and uniform to the players on the team. While 
 this can be a fun experience, the fact that you can only pick about half your team [the rest is 
 filled with random made-up players] takes some of the enjoyment out of this process. 
  
  Given this fact, depending on how you create your team, you may find a huge part of your team consist 
 of players that have never existed. So say that you choose John Elway or Joe Montana as your starting 
 quarterback, the chances that you'll be able to have the same caliber running back to hand off 
 to or wide receiver or tight end to pass to is highly doubtful if you want to put a quality team 
 on the field.
  
  However, despite the rigid team creation options, the game features online leagues and a one-year 
 franchise mode that adds to the overall playability. Playing "All-Pro Football 2K8" online is probably 
 the best reason to buy the game, as squaring off against people with other customized teams with 
 their own unique strengths and weaknesses is extremely enjoyable.
  
  Another strong point of the game is its realism. The passing game is as solid as ever and fans 
 of the running game and the older games in the series will feel that All-Pro Football 2K8's rushing 
 is perhaps the best in gaming today. Defense is also a ton of fun to play, as the new gang-tackling 
 system makes it easier to keep opposing offenses in check and mirrors the same tackling that's 
 done in the pros.
  
  Nonetheless, despite the game's realism, the graphical engine more than shows its age, as it looks 
 more like a PS2 game on steroids, rather than a true next-generation football title. The animations 
 are solid, but lack the polish and detail that even Madden 06 for the X-Box 360 has. This one factor 
 may spoil the fun for plenty of gamers.
  
  Putting all the games shortcomings aside however, "All-Pro Football 2K8" is an entirely different 
 football experience from Madden that is worth at least a rental. It's fun to play online and with 
 a bunch of friends and will easily provide the hardcore football fan with a solid look back at 
 the greats of their childhood and yeah, O. J. Simpson.
  
  -Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty7874
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much that the lackluster graphics don't really bother me. I wish there was 
 more than a regular season though. Playing through it is fun, but once its over, its over. An offseason 
 mode would have been fun, but it would have exposed All-Pro's true weakness: a lack of real life 
 players. Don't get me wrong. I loved having Archie Manning, Eric Martin and Dalton Hilliard (classic 
 Saints players) on the same team. I also enjoyed recruiting Ronnie Lott and Reggie White to play 
 defense on the team. One thing that I would reccommend is selecting a kicker or punter with a couple 
 of your bronze star selections. The kicking game is tough (at least when you have a generic player) . 
 Online play is some of the best. I wish that the less-sexy positions held more weight than they 
 do. I assembled a pretty impressive o-line (according to star rating) and they did not dominate 
 a generic d-line like i thought they would. If only we could mix the best of 2k with the best of 
 EA, we would have a solid football title. Go Saints! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dredogg90
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I gave Madden 08 a try, but I had to force myself to get through a game. It was painful. I just 
 don't see what all the hype is about Madden. Its garbage. Anyway, I actually enjoy playing APF 
 2K8. The presentation is amazing, the gameplay represents real football, and the graphics are beautiful. 
 The weather effects are the best ever in a sports game, and you'll see players slipping around 
 in the rain and snow, and actually having to play through the elements. The over the top stadiums 
 are a pleasure to play in. The legends play just like they did in real life, and you'll see all 
 the mannerisms of the legends in the game. The customization in the game is insane, and you can 
 customize pretty much anything want. The field pass feature is great. It puts you right in the 
 middle of the action. If OJ isn't performing up to par, his teammates will let him know about it 
 in the huddle. If John Elway needs the rest of his offense to play big, he'll let them know. The 
 game captures the game of football almost perfectly. The animations are where this game shines, 
 and Madden is know where near this game in that area. I don't care for mini games and all that 
 unnecessary stuff. If you love real football, get All Pro Football 2K8. I got this for $20 and 
 I hear Best Buy is selling it for $10 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers8694
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant im happy that 2k sports start making football games like this. I like the 
 gameplay its a very solid. I like i get to play with the best to walk in a football uniform like 
 Joe Montana or Ed "Too Tall" Jones. I just wish that i can hear Suzi or Chris "Boomer" Berman I 
 also dislike that it has the same commentary. I also dislike that you can only play one season 
 with your created team but I still like this superb game it could be a little bit better but it 
 can be a whole worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babytaz77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I love how the sidelines are active unlike madden. You can see the players running toward the field 
 and celebrating when u break a big run and when a player is running out of bounds u can see players 
 grab him to slow him down. If madden had the sideline action like that I would be sold 100% to 
 it but until then I will on be 75%. I also like how it is based on the players abilities and not 
 a number system and it gives u an overview of the two teams like who has the better QB or HB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  APF 2K8 had alot of hype making it's comeback, but sadly did not meet those standards. Don't get 
 me wrong the gameplay was fantastic and playing with all those legends of the past were awesome 
 as well, but it couldn't last. I have never finished a full season of this game because there weren't 
 nothing to look forward to after the game was complete. The only thing was to complete all the 
 task and gets some gamerPoints, but even that seemed to dreadful. But I still stand by saying this 
 is the best gameplay so far in football series and once Madden is done with the license 2k Sports 
 will rise and dominate. I personally believe that the fact that 2K was coming back scared Madden 
 and forced them to actually make a decent game. Note to Madden: next year please have the ability 
 to change positions of players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that 2k was putting its foot back in the football ring, my first thought was 
 Who cares? Its obviously auto-handicapped by the inability to have current NFL stars, but quite 
 frankly I was never thoroughly impressed with 2ks football games in the first place. Its not 
 that they are bad games, but I never saw the big gap that a lot of people saw between 2k and Madden. 
 When Madden dumbed itself back down for the 360/ps3, the 2k hype machine was in full force. After 
 all, Madden was a bare-bones ported game with a coat of gloss on it and 2k5 was a feature filled 
 game with better presentation and supposedly better AI and gameplay. I think reality has now set 
 in for 2k sports and their football game.
  
  First of all, the gameplay isnt as good as people want you to believe. Controls are fine, but 
 the game cameras, especially when the ball is in mid-flight, are atrocious. I felt like I was playing 
 an arcade style game when I played online. The score was way out of hand, way worse than any score 
 I have had in Madden. Wide Receivers do not block downfield and they stop running their routes 
 at the end rather than moving around and getting open. The offensive line AI is good almost too 
 good. There is hardly ever any penetration and the line opens holes for virtually any RB. I averaged 
 7 ypc online with Ickey Woods which actually leads me to my next gripe-
  
  While 2k was emphasizing the ability to play with old school players, they really grasped for straws 
 with some of these guys. First of all, there is absolutely no need for players like Andre Ware, 
 Eugene Robinson and Brian Bosworth. These guys were either busts or average players in the NFL 
 and they are not necessary. Who is really going to build a team around Ware? Also, there are a 
 lack of legends in the game. Sure you have your Elways and Montanas, Rices and Loftons, but they 
 are limited. It would be nice to have more real former players and less drones.
  
  Franchise mode is nonexistent and season mode is a joke. Online really saved this game. 2k always 
 nails it with online leagues, tournaments and the server connections are excellent. Presentation 
 is typical 2k, which means they spent a good amount of focus here. But they arent the same as 
 they once were without the ESPN licensing. The stadiums look imposing and are vibrant in color 
 and detail. They could have also spent a little more time making the player models a little more 
 current. This is a game filled with major problems. 2k has a great idea, but they completely crapped 
 out on this one. Even calling this a 2k5 port would be an insult to 2k5. They stripped the game 
 bone dry and charged $59 for it. And people say EA dropped the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: try122583
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  It is great news taht 2k sports is able to create football games again, because EA sports needs 
 some competition to help get them back on track, and boy, they now have it. Sure, you don't the 
 NFLPA with all of the 2007 players. Sure, you don't have those plays your use to running every 
 year. Instead, you have a football game that factored in realism. The whole historical players 
 aspect is awesome, and that keeps the game exciting, but like I said, it is the realism. It might 
 not be as graphically appealing as Madden (although it doesn't look bad at all) , and you don't 
 have all of those bonus features (like the whole Madden meets the SIMS thing) , but once again, 
 you have realism. Realism trumps every shortcoming of this game, and because it uses historical 
 players instead of current players, the game has more lasting power. Very well done 2k sports, 
 way to come back after some time off. There is no doubt in my mind that the further we go along, 
 2k will only improve on what it has done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I was shocked when I started playing this game on my 360. I thought my HD settings on my 360 were 
 off. Nope, they were on. The graphics in this game were sub-par to say the least. This is not a 
 next-gen title in terms of graphics I can assure you. NFL 2k5 for the xbox outshines this choppy 
 mess. Now on to the gameplay. They skipped a beat with this as well. Go ahead and try to move your 
 linebacker up to the line of scrimmage before the snap and see what happens. Yep, you guessed it, 
 he slides offsides as if he were on ice skates. I purchased this title on fanboy loyalty alone 
 for the 2k series. It was so terrible I decided to trade it in at Gamestop for a $20 credit. Oh, 
 one more thing. Did they go back and look at film or snapshots of these NFL players to make their 
 appearances in the game or did they get them to pose at there current state? I swear Steve Young 
 looked every bit of 75 years old! Barry Sanders, Joe Montana, Dan Marino, etc., looked as if they 
 came straight out of the retirement home! I would recomment renting this game before purchasing 
 it. This is by far the worst game in the 2k series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainstead
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I really think all pro has many plusses and minuses. The minuses first... sometimes the gameplay 
 can be a little bit sticky in that I feel there are times where I threw the ball to my wide receiver 
 or I caught the ball but the game doesn't keep up with my hands. Some of the graphic could use 
 a little work and though I like the stadiums I think it would have been much cooler to design old 
 stadiums . For instance, the Browns are in a new stadium over the last few years but long ago both 
 the Browns and the Cleveland Indians played at one stadium, The Cleveland Municipal Stadium, and 
 it would have been cool since this game deals with former players that it could have dealt with 
 things such as former Jersey's and Stadiums as well. Other than that, the minuses are pretty brief 
 as this game is fun to play for the most part. Watch out though.... the passing game is really hard 
 to execute at times.
  
  The pluses - The big one is that for the most part you can play with some of the best all time 
 football players of all time as if they were all in their prime. It is really fun to go back and 
 sort of remember those hall of famers and it is really cool to in fact live through them for an 
 hour and a half. I think that the game really nailed all the players gifts on the football field 
 well and in some cases even got their personalities down. When Warren Moon talks to his players 
 or says hello to a visiting team member, you hear what he relaly talked like (not neccessarily 
 his voice, but his personality) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  For the football game fans out there, remember the year of ESPN NFL 2K5? Remember how it had you 
 critically making a decision of whether to buy it or Madden NFL 2005? Then again, you may have 
 bought both like many others did. But the known fact remains, NFL 2K5 was practically the best 
 football game of all time. Now here we are three years later, and after a selfish (just kidding) 
 business acquisition with EA, the NFL and ESPN, the 2K football series returns to resurrect, real 
 football under the All-Pro moniker. They make a comeback in the spotlight, but that light doesnt 
 shine too brightly for too long.
  
  To start with the pros (no pun intended) of the game, it feels like youre playing NFL 2K5 again. 
 That is a very good quality. The core gameplay still maintains that awesome realistic feel. The 
 physics vividly resemble real life football. New mechanics entail huge hit tackles with the right 
 analog stick, which is basically the Hit Stick feature used in Madden. Flicking down on the right 
 stick will have the defender youre controlling dive for the ball carriers legs, while flicking 
 up delivers a huge hit to the upper body. Additionally, a new gang tackling system is introduced 
 in 2K8 and it gives the game play even more authenticity.
  
  The charging system which was the key trademark mechanic from 2K5 makes a return in APF 2K8, and 
 this time its utilized in even more situations. By holding down the A button (tapping the A button 
 allows for sprinting) , youll see an illuminated blue colored vector appear under the player your 
 controlling, which signals the charge. If youre on a run play, charge your tailback and release 
 running near a defender to indefinitely break a tackle. The same gameplay feature has now been 
 extended to quarterbacks. In the pocket, use it to give your quarter back pin-point accuracy or 
 to throw a bullet to your receiver. When playing as a defender, charge and release to ensure a 
 big hit. While APF conceptually plays like the most realistic football game out there, you may 
 feel ripped off by the plays. Hands down, the playbooks seriously lack daepth. You get your standard 
 run and pass plays, and thats it. The playbooks remain tremendously similar between all teams, 
 which significantly takes away from strategy, intensity (especially if youre playing against a 
 physical or online opponent) , and the overall fun factor.
  
  Past that is the games primary focus, customization. Its highly emphasized to create your own 
 team. In fact, its a requirement in order to play the season mode. Creating your squad is pretty 
 simple. Theres a respectable amount of icons to choose from, and all the standard procedures of 
 creating the uniforms and team colors are present. New and unique to the 2K football series are 
 player attributes. There are no traditional numerical stats implemented into the game. The skills 
 of the 240+ legends are classified by stars and distinct icons. Gold stars are given to the greatest 
 players of all time, for instance, Walter Peyton. Those who nearly reached legendary status, like 
 Billy Simms, hone the silver stars and the plain ol good ones acquire bronze stars. The amount 
 of superstars allowed for your team is of course limited (2 gold players, 3 silver, 4-6 bronze 
 players) . The remainder of your team is chosen in a simple package under the options of balanced, 
 run and gun, etc. The iconic attributes are very distinct. Lets say you selected Dan Marino as 
 your gold star quarterback, one of the attribute icons he possesses is laser arm. Each of these 
 comes with a small description giving you more information on who to pick up for your roster. The 
 skill system is definitely one of the strongest points of All-Pro Football.
  
  Another quality aspect of APF 2K8 is the presentation. Dan Stevens and Peter Okeef return as the 
 commentators, and their colorful and witty remarks and analysis are mostly always on queue to the 
 action on the field. The soundtrack has some so-so hip hop instrumentals and weird alternative 
 tracks. Youll find a few Eric B. and Rakim songs, which is always a plus. I do recommend that 
 you modify the rotation of songs on your own merit however. Even without the NFL license, APF delivers 
 the solid presentation it always had.
  
  Graphically, APF does decent. During the momentary cutscenes, where the camera is zoomed in on 
 the players, the visuals just shine. However, when you control the action on the field, it looks 
 more like a football game for the original Xbox. The best looking things youll see in APF are 
 the stadiums. Each one is very distinct for each team. For example, the FireBirds stadium sports 
 a huge phoenix statue on the side, which separates the bleachers sections. Faces on the player 
 models are pretty accurate. Its nice to see Jerry Rices face in the game before the days of his 
 grey five o clock shadow on the Oakland Raiders just a few years ago. Its even cooler to see 
 O. J. Simpsons likeness precisely rendered in his glory days, you know, before the whole murder 
 situation.
  
  All-Pro Football 2K8 definitely heads in the right direction, it just doesnt do enough to take 
 you along for the full trip. The use of many NFL legends, solid presentation, a unique attribute 
 and skill system, and the sheer realism are what APF does best. What it lacks is the saturating 
 amount of features that NFL 2K5 had. As previously mentioned, the weak playbooks hinder the games 
 fun factor. You are only allowed to play one full season, which is not acceptable for any fan of 
 football games. The awesome franchise and dynasty modes that 2K5 shined for is nowhere to be found 
 here. The online play does enough to add some replay value along with the achievements, but you 
 just dont feel like youre getting enough bang for your buck. Nevertheless, now that 2K has established 
 their football game in a new light, 2K9 will hopefully be very promising. An addition of some legends 
 and more features will give APF the credibility to beat Maddens review scores next year. For now, 
 you can enjoy the decent APF2K8 -- for the temporary time that itll keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggajtny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  this game is real good, hard to put down, once you get the hang of it, cant wait till next year 
 to see if they bring back the franchise, with that this iz A must have, the online play iz great 
 good compition, i mean iznt that what we get xbox games for anyway, the graphics iz great, the 
 only thing madden haz over it iz the franchise, but who plays in regular mode anyway (offline) . Other 
 than halo 3 comin out, dont see many people offline when they have/get this game. Over all This 
 iz one of the best games on the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueJoker20z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great Gameplay, Playing with Legends, Great Presentation, Great Commertry, and Great online 
 community.
  
  Cons: At times get boring, some people online cheats or do the same thing with the same players 
 ( I think it only happen to me) , and short frahcise mode.
  
  This game is way better than madden in every way. Everything you think of is in All Pro Football. 
 Gameplay: This never gets old. It a good mix of anitmations in football. Player models look accurete, 
 and physics is good in it way. I thought it was the same as NFL 2k5, but it not. Some ways it the 
 same, but it minors things to me. Graphics: This is a minor thing that is the same as NFL 2k5. 
 But it nothing that will make you change your mind about the game. Online Community. If you have 
 online and you could play this game online, it is fun. But some people (I played with) cheats or 
 use Rice and Montana and throw deeps bombs. Or Earl Campell runs it all the time. I like the online 
 community leagues or season. If fun when you in a active one too. But once you in a good game it 
 fun.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The legends you pick is going to affect how you play it in a real game. This game will make you 
 switch up your team, so you could find how players play your style. To me, the season mode is not 
 the old or same thing. I use different player every season mode. The ahievements makes me play 
 a little longer too. But if you like football and tired of the madden frachise. Get All Pro Football 
 2k8. This is way better than Madden 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I personaly have been a sega/2K football sports fan for a long time now. When i herd about this 
 game i couldnt beleive they were going to make it. Like any other die hard 2K fottball fan i went 
 out and got the game on the realese date. But now i wish i had waited for madden and then chose 
 which i would buy. For starters the game looks great. The player graphics are great most of the 
 legends in the game look like their life like counterparts from when they were playing football. 
 The scrub plaers dont look that bad and all of the colors in the game blend together really well. 
 There are a few instances were the graphics won't look good but those will pop up only a few times 
 in a game. Overall this is one of the best looking football games on the market.
  
  This is the one part of the game where everyone has been crying about. The actual gameplay. People 
 say there isn't anything new. Why would you change a system that has been working for a long time. 
 If it works stick with it. The gameplay is the 2K football gameplay we have come to know and love. 
 No matter what anyone says it is still very fun and it is still one of the best.
  
  The worst part of the game it the lack of modes. There are only four total things to do in the 
 game. Edit/Create a team, exibition, season, online. While those modes are good i think we all 
 would have liked some more thins to do like fpf (first person football) , the  
 The season mode is a bear single celled version of a season mode. You take your created team into 
 a 16 game season after you play for one full season that is it. Not multiple saeson mode in this 
 game. Overall the modes section of this game lacked alot.
  
  The sound is one of the games strongest points. Dan Stvens and Peter O'keef come back to do the 
 play by play for this game. Though it is nice to see them back, they are geting a little old. More 
 than half of the commentary from 2K5 is just being reused in 2k8. The presentation is good as well 
 with a halftime and a postgame show. But all of th lines that Chris Breman did for 2K5 are being 
 used by Dan Stevens. There isn't total custimization this year. There are alot of teams but if 
 you dont have a team with a stadium made specifically for them it dosn't feel right playing in 
 generice stadiums. All in all the sound, presentation, and custimization are up to par in this edition 
 of 2K sports football for 2008.
  
  This years game was a good solid first effort for the 2K sports franchise in the new generation 
 of football games. The game looks great and plays great. New modes and better cutimization is something 
 i know i will be looking forward to for 2K9. If you were sitting back waiting to get either Madden 
 or All Pro you should give All Pro a rental and buy Madden 2008. Even though i didnt want to see 
 it happen this game fell short of expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The key to loving APF 2k8 is to love just playing a game of football. If you're looking for extended 
 franchises, mini-games, NFL licenses or current stars, you may end up despising this game.
  
  I was a little leery about a game with made up teams, retired football stars and skimpy features 
 when I first decided to try this game out. However, when taken at the most basic level (just playing 
 a game of football) this game is outstanding. While APF 2k8 lacks a franchise and trades during 
 the season, it really is a good fun game of football.
  
  Perhaps the most solid aspect of this game is the gameplay. The AI is fairly solid, although sometimes 
 questionable against the deep pass. The focus of APF is on the game itself. No bells, no whistles, 
 just a solid football experience. Players carry momentum, which means none of that instant 180 
 degree turns at a dead sprint stuff that makes it so easy to school defenses in other football 
 games. Players move with much more realism and the ball physics are pretty much spot on. Graphics-wise, 
 APF is pretty decent in HD. Play it on a SD TV and you may very well wonder if you are playing 
 a next-gen game. Players animations are extremely smooth and fluid as well. The stadiums are very 
 sharp and nicely detailed (albeit some of them are a little over the top in their team related 
 themes) .
  
  While the single player game is pretty much restricted to creating your own team and playing a 
 single season, it really is much more fun than it sounds. Designing your team's uniforms, helmets 
 and logos is a blast and it really provides the ability to put your own touch into your team's 
 creation. After creating your team, you select a partial roster of former NFL greats (two gold 
 star level players, three silver level and six bronze level) . It's up to you if your team will 
 be a jaw busting, lockdown defense or a high flying, high powered offense or a balance of both. 
 It sounds pretty sketchy, but I found it to be an excellent dose of innovation and it really is 
 something different, which is refreshing.
  
  Online play is solid as well. As usual, 2k Sports boasts excellent online leagues and nearly flawless 
 online play. The game, for the most part, plays just as smooth as the single player when online. 
 Players get to take their created teams online to play against other created teams, which really 
 makes you focus on strengths and weaknesses each game.
  
  For sheer fun, this game is a 9/10. But it really does lack the depth that a game of this caliber 
 should have. Regardless of whether or not the league is ficticious, it needs to have the ability 
 to trade/release/sign players during a season and a franchise mode is a giant omission. But if 
 you are looking for a game of football that is just flat out FUN to play, APF really is a solid 
 game. While it won't be everyone's cup of tea, it offes a solid game experience. If you're looking 
 for a game full of gameplay features and officially licensed teams/players, go with Madden. Or 
 do what I did and pick up both and enjoy each them for their own strengths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  There's MUCH to discuss about the game, but I'll keep my impressions short:
  
  - We've had 2-3 years of EA based football games and are used they way they run the show. There's 
 going to be an adjustment period.
  - Just because a player was great doesn't mean you can play them greatly. IE: I had Walter Payton, 
 but I'm more of a strong north/south power run player. As a result, when I first picked my team, 
 I based it on my favorite players and failed. Once I picked my team based on MY play strengths, 
 I fared much better.
  - Once you start to get deeper into the gameplay, the player's singature moves start to show. That's 
 when it wow's you.
  - Players need a supporting cast that gells properly. IE: Don't expect a finesse runner to do well 
 with a vanilla QB &amp; line. You'll be lucky if he can get out of the backfield.
  - You need a strategy for your Defense. Whatever it is, just plugging in Superstars isn't the answer.
 
  - The graphics are fine enough for the players. The custom stadiums are cool. The grass is horrid. 
 The game was made for widescreen TV's. It's jaggy on 4:3, but playable.
  - There are numerous oversights/shortsightedness (seems rushed in ways) .
  - The gameplay is good 
 and is freaking GREAT when the players do their signature moves. They also tick you off like no 
 tomorrow when you're on the receiving end (4th quarter comebacks and all - I CHEERED when I picked 
 off John Elway with 00:28 left to go in the 4th as he was charging down the field.
  - You're thrown right into making a team. This is part of the shortsightedness stated above.
 
  - I LOVE the customization, but why aren't there any regular swords for logos (I wanted to have 
 the Knights but settled for Nightmares (Which totally freaking rock, btw) ) ?
  - I want to post highlights/screens online ala Forza.
  - I haven't tried online play yet but 
 want to.
  
  There's more to it, but I like it overall. It'd sell like crazy at a lower price point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I'm renting the game right now and it's average at best. Let's start the pros of All Pro Football 
 2K8. The sounds of the game is blazing and it beats living tar out of Madden NFL 08. Field Pass 
 is amazing, well done by 2K Sports and I wish Madden NFL 08 would've thought of that, too. Halftime 
 and post-game show is crazy good. Why EA Sports don't do it with Madden NFL? You guys know y'all 
 have ESPN, don't you? Then use it! The graphics looks great. Editing your team, stadiums and players 
 is fun at first, but it gets VERY boring real fast. The soundtrack of 2K sports is better than 
 madden. Last thing, they've over 240 former NFL legends in the game and have gold, silver, and 
 bronze stars for skill players as well. Now the cons of All Pro Football 2K8. The gameplay is disappointing 
 for the fact it's still too easy. If you play on rookie or pro mode, you still automatically win 
 the game. On All-Pro or Legend mode, you've absolutely no shot of beating the computer A. I. at 
 all. I've played on all-pro mode yesterday three straight times and loss all of them (10-7, 7-0, 
 and 21-0) . The computer A. I. finds a way to cheat to win the game, just like Madden NFL 08. Single 
 player mode is limited, no franchise mode, not a lot of playbook for each team and no NFL teams 
 at all. If 2K Sports/V. C. wants to be reign as king of sim football and take down EA Sports/Madden, 
 they need to make a better football game. I'm not going to spend 60 dollars on a below average 
 sim football game. Try again, 2K Sports/V. C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  When 2k5 football came out sporting the ESPN presentation, crisp contols, fantastic online play, 
 it all seemed like the perfect alternative to the overly popular Madden franchise. Many would argue 
 which was better or had more features of digital athletic liking, yet the option was there and 
 gamers could rejoice as they saw fit. That all changed when money and business found its way into 
 the creative circle and EA struck a deal of exclusiveness with the NFL and ESPN. In short, the 
 rug was yanked from under the competition. Even without the proper elements that made national 
 football easy to identify, you would think the more creative bunch would still find a way to succeed. 
 The dishearting truth of it from a serious fans perspective is EA took more than the elements that 
 help make a good football game when they struck such a fishy deal.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Without any introduction necessary, 2k8 football is basically 2k5 substituting the NFL license 
 with classic players from the 90's and back. The controls are solid and tight as usual, but it 
 does feel slightly like a few pages were taken from Madden, such as the slippery feet on the field. 
 Realism and momentum is a hard thing to convey, and thats totally understandable. Thankfully 2k 
 doesn't change the old forumula too much, because you can easily switch between players, perform 
 moves with buttons or the right analog, and you can adjust offense and defense on the fly. Not 
 as accurate as 2k5 was, which makes no sense, but helpful none the less. The area that really takes 
 my breath away is the LACK of hearty features that 2k became so well known for. One gamer would 
 think, even without the NFL license or the ESPN broadcast element there is no reason why 2k would 
 slack on something they offer plenty in their other sports titles. Season mode is a joke not worth 
 laughing at, creating teams is fun until you realize everyone wants the super ranked players, even 
 creating players of your own feels stripped down without the ability to apply simple stuff like 
 hair cuts.
  
  VISUALS
  Good graphics in sports games is becoming a serious focal point more than ever and damn near a 
 requirement since live sports broadcasting went HD. To see the sweat, facial expressions, muscles, 
 crowds, atmosphere and the whole she-BANG! With out it, you feel left out of the genuine sports 
 experience, and that makes sense. Something that doesn't make any sense is how 2k8 rises from some 
 dormant state claiming to be the future of football, and they hardly even improved the janky graphics 
 from a version of years ago! Seeing players go through animations on the offense or the defense 
 and have arms rotating out of place, body parts blipping between environments and other players, 
 even the facial expressions are terrible... which is simply wrong since the game is constantly 
 highlighting superstars of the past. Options in creation mode is fair at best, just don't expect 
 anything of Elder Scrolls caliber when designing staduims or teams.
  
  AUDIO
  Some sports games are known for their legendary commentary, such as NBA JAM's PUMP FAKE! or even 
 Madden's BOOM! from the good old days. All things that stick out in the memory bank and could easily 
 be labeled useless, yet it has a fond place. Now imagine that fond place being revisisted to the 
 point where you basically want to burn anything within your brain that associates with such drivel. 
 Welcome to the rehashed world of 2k8! You have the exact same commentary from 2k5, except for the 
 few new names and the obvious 2k8 shoutouts. I honestly didn't believe it possible, but after playing 
 through a few season modes, tournaments's, online, and with friends at my side, its official. The 
 game is best enjoyed with music from your 360 HD. You could miss some of the on field chatter between 
 players, but I promise you there its nothing to sob about.
  
  EXTRAS
  My favorite aspect of most 2k games is by far the most childish part of all, the goodies. In previous 
 games, especially football, there was plenty of incentive to complete certain plays or perform 
 well with particular players. Toss all that out the window and dish out achievements for just showing 
 up. Not only can you easily adjust the settings to your liking without regulation and still garner 
 credit, but achievements for a game that stars amazing players from one of the greatest sports 
 in history should at least be worth while. Instead, your left with the lame star ranking system 
 that awards any bum who performs well against sorry Ai who is lacking in more ways than one. Online 
 could be argued as the main squeeze for such a game, but to fully depend on the internet community 
 who favors one thing and moves on to the next is a very bad call on 2k's part.
  
  OVERALL
  There isn't many ways to say it nicely, but I truly was expecting a Madden killer from 
 2k8. Such a comment is silly for someone like me who wants nothing than variety and options for 
 every gamer. Sadly, I feel many game franchises have fallen victim to a yearly routine of sub-par 
 experiences that as long as fans get enough, they continue to come back. To hell with that logic, 
 every game should be completed as if its your last! Such a method seemed to be 2k's shining point 
 with the football and now I see a whole different approach. One that resembles many unfavorables. 
 You could sum it up as football rust, lack of creative manpower, bad team direction, or even the 
 casual Madden reasoning... maybe it will be better next year. I say poop on you, because there 
 is no reason such a shameful version of 2k football should have ever been released, especially 
 for the outrageous amount of 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Sorry visual concepts, but apf2k8 is not even close to madden. but it is still a good game, if 
 you enjoy the classic greats like jerry rice and john elway, and my favorite, barry sanders. graphics 
 are surprisingly much better then i anticipated, which increased my overall thought of the game. 
 but saying that, many gamers like playing as current day players, which turned some people away 
 from the game. i talked to many people, and they said they would rather spend their money on something 
 they know that will always be great, which is madden. so many gamers only have enough money for 
 one football sim this year. should they take a risk with all pro, or play it safe and go with a 
 game they know is good? well i wish i could take both, because madden does not offer past players, 
 but if i had to, i would choose madden any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  On original Playstation my Football game of choice was the GameDay series. From there I tried Madden 
 &amp; ESPN Football. I was one of those whom favored 2K Sports NFL games over EA's Madden, so when 
 I heard that they were going to create another football game I was very excited. Although I would 
 much rather play with current NFL players, something about the idea of playing with Dan Marino, 
 Barry Sanders, Ken Norton Jr., Herman Moore, etc. actually sounded pretty good, a twist of something 
 new. However, not too long into my first session of playing the game did I start to think maybe 
 2K had lost some of their touch. I don't want to be harsh, but I have no other way of putting it, 
 I hate this game. If you haven't played NCAA 08 or Madden 08 you might be able to stand playing 
 this a little, but compared to those football titles All-Pro is trash. The graphics are ok but 
 aren't going to excite you by any means &amp; the create a team mode is fairly well put together 
 , but thats about as much good as I can say. The controls are absolutely terrible, slow &amp; unresponsive 
 &amp; the controller layout should had been put together a different way. Play calling &amp; general 
 menus look out of date and the sight of them after awhile will start to disgust you. All-Pro Football 
 was a great idea and could have been really good, but the controls alone completely ruin its chances. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoLocz1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game dominates all the aspects of a football game, and it brings realism to life. For example, 
 in Madden 07 you could throw off your back foot or run backwards and throw a 50 yard laser pass 
 and complete it, but in All pro football you can't do that because in real life you can't do that. 
 You might get lucky and throw a slow high ball and complete it. I like the way they made the legends 
 because they are all unique and every player has their own style such as Barry Sanders who is quick 
 and elusive, and Earl Cambell who is strong and fast. I like the way they made this game because 
 even the GOLD STAR PLAYERS CAN BE STOPPED. Not easily, but they can be stopped. Unlike Madden you 
 couldn't stop a very good player no matter what you did. The Q. B's have real throwing motions which 
 is cool, and that is how it is supposed to be. If you drop back for a deep throw, your going to 
 have to put more force on the throw, so it will take a longer time, and they did that very well. 
 The people who made this game did what many fans have wanted all along. Realistic gameplay, and 
 this game is worth buying and it is great so you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towner555
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  the game play thats what its all about, yea it might feel like 2k5 did back in the day but when 
 u think about it 2k5 was the greatest game ever so if it played like the greatest football game 
 ever then maybe just maybe the game could have some of the greatest game play ever! the animations 
 are amazing i cant go a game without saving a replay, late hits are amazing its noting like geting 
 frustrated the computer just broke a 15 yard run on 3rd down to get a first and you can just lay 
 him out after the play to relieve stress even though it'll be a big penalty my stress level will 
 be alot lower lol.. but on the flip side the create player needs to be tweaked up a bit and they 
 need to allow u to create more players i cant beleive there's actually a limit.. since they dont 
 have the licence they should give you total access to create as many teams and players as u want 
 .. WE DO NEED A FRANCHISE MODE, MORE RETIRED GREATS, LIKE DION, JIM BROWN, MICHAEL IRVING, LT, BO 
 JACKSON, AND MANY MORE.. HOPEFULLY THE NEXT INSTALLATION WILL FUFIL OUR DIRE NEEDS... fortunately 
 madden still suckz but people are still gonna buy it because they have the license all in all though 
 its still a great game to play and like i said before game play that's the most important aspect 
 of the game the realism is outstanding.. a little bit more feature 2k and i garantee you'll be back 
 on top 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsgamer2411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  first off the gameplay for this game is incredable. ive been playing madden forever and i gave 
 this a try and i was amazed. any football fan would love this game if they would give it a try. 
 the online gameplay is very fun with the leagues and all tht stuff. ya you can only 1 season over 
 and over but thats not tht big of a deal. this game is alot of fun ya it has some mistakes like 
 u cant reallly stop the pass across the middle and gold hbs are super good but it is still better 
 then madden this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Eventually more football games are going to come out and they may get worse or better but this 
 game is very cool and if you pay attention you may learn something. Playing with old football players 
 is a bit of a new experiance and it is just fun. You may have a odd opinion about that game but 
 is okay I dont hate the game but it is not my favorite game. But eventually when you play the game 
 for a week or two it is not as fun as when you just started. You cant play the game forever and 
 expect to want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdr589
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  At first seeing this game I thought wow this is gunna b amazing, then wen i rented it it seemed 
 reele bad. y did 2K make it this way... tear! where wuz the real football like 2K5, i mean i kno 
 EA has the NFL rights but come on 2K culdve dun such a better job. i thought this game wuldve been 
 totally worrh the wait but i wuz tricked, maybe if EA wuznt scared of 2K and both had the NFL rights 
 in my mind 2K wuldve prevailed. All pro just shows retirees were great wen they were in the league 
 but now all old there just not supposed to be played with with a controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  You can make your own team of legendary players, then create the jerseys. After that you play a 
 season with your dream team. The game does this really well. Now, here are the problems. The menus, 
 saving, and basically everything, is just way too complicated!!! Navigating the menus is complicated, 
 frustrating, and super hard. Saving is a big problem and can get hard. Using the different buttons 
 to navigate the menus can get confusing. In one word, the game is not simple. Sometimes No and 
 Yes are switched around, so you might accidentally accept the wrong one and lose your data. But 
 if you try to save your data, you get the same question and so saving is confusing. As for the 
 actual playing of the football game, if you don't have a wide-screen television, the game cuts 
 down the sides of the screen so you can't see the sides of the game. You can't read what's on the 
 sides, and you can't see players on the sides either. The text is small, and navigating the plays 
 is confusing. The graphics are last-gen, as is the music and sound. Although the sound of tackles 
 is pretty cool. This game seems terrible, right? Well, it's not. Now i'll say what makes this game 
 good. Making your teams is the best football customization yet, and playing football is fun and 
 works. It presents a great game of football that is both realistic and cool. The half-time and 
 post-game shows are a fantastic addition, and the create-a-payer option only enhances the already 
 great gameplay. You can create real football players that are not in the game. Want LT? Create 
 him. So, while there are dissapointments in the menu and complications with the saving, this is 
 a must buy for die-hard football fans and people who want to make their own teams from players 
 they like. But if this is your first venture in the football genre, and your a casual player, stick 
 with Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic_rich
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the 2k games as long as I can remember, whether it be football, baseball, or 
 basketball games. Loved the Warren Sapp game that let you play from the viewpoint of a player on 
 the field. Loved when Ben Wallace donned the cover, and loved the latest 2k5 game with TO on the 
 cover. Waiting a few years, reading the previews of this game, all got me excited about this. But 
 some things are lacking, that really should be there.
  Season mode is really fun, and it gives you the chance to play against a lot of great all-time 
 players. The achievements are good, most of which you'll have to play thru a season 2 or 3 times 
 to complete. Online is great, not one lagged game. My only problem, is the graphics. It feels too 
 much like I'm playing Xbox 1.5 when I put this baby on. A glitch I often get from this game, is 
 the instant replay. Every time it's overturned, the referee states that the play stands, but it 
 isn't.. it's overturned. Very annoying, and something that should have been caught well before 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Many of us can easily remember the very first E3 trailers that EA had promised us about how Madden 
 on next gen consoles (read: Xbox 360/PS3) were supposed to be all sorts of measures of graphically 
 gorgeous and insanely deep, with live x-rays showing player injuries and the kind of player details 
 that would make a live NFL football game look like so last-gen. 
  
  Well, it's been about three years, and we've not only not received on this hyped up promise, but 
 with the exclusivity buyout EA does with the NFL and NFLPA, the series has become even worse than 
 it has been.
  
  Competition breeds innovation, and with the exclusivity, EA no longer has any incentive to do anything 
 to improve its franchise anymore... not that it improved all that much to begin with. I myself 
 personally believe that Madden is a franchise that should have died in its heyday, because many 
 of the same fundamental flaws that beget the very first John Madden football titles still exist 
 today, not least of which the infuriating difficulty, flawed controls and a still born presentation 
 that makes the Super Bowl look like an after school cartoon special.
  
  Competition needed to happen; gamers and the industry need someone to provide a viable alternative 
 to the (not gracefully) aging Madden franchise, both for its benefit and for the benefit of its 
 competitors.
  
  Thanks to taking advantage of certain contractual loopholes with the NFL/PA exclusivity, 2k sports 
 finally brings us the first viable competitor to the Madden franchise post-buyout with All Pro 
 Football 2k8.
  
  Graphically, this is the type of game that should have been on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 from 
 the get-go. In terms of accuracy for body proportions and animations, this game surpasses three 
 years' worth of Madden efforts. The nylon and assorted fabrics on the jersey designs is exquisite, 
 especially when the camera can pull in close for a focused shot on a given player. Grass fields 
 may not be at the level of Oblivion grass (well, what can you expect? the fields would be much 
 more regularly mowed) , but it is very convincing, particularly with the small effects of when players' 
 cleats eat little divots and chunks in the ground, and as dives and falls accumulate on players 
 in the form of scuffs and dirt marks. Rainy games see plenty of great treatment, as the colors 
 start to change on rain-soaked jerseys, and the droplets of water bouncing and beading off helmets. 
 Visually, this game is a marvel of (relative) gridiron beauty, with none of the roided-up biceps 
 on quarterbacks like even Madden 07 gives us.
  
  Sounds do their job for on the field, and the commentary done by Dan Stevens and Peter O'Keefe 
 lend a lot of personality to the game. It's also great to hear the different vocals and voices 
 to different players either chatting it up, trash talking their opponents or trying to rebuild 
 morale after a badly played drive. I'd only wish there was just a bit more of it...
  
  The presentation of the game has always been the biggest strong point in 2K football, and the biggest 
 weak point of Madden. A madden game feels the same whether you're playing the preseason or the 
 super bowl. In APF, the presentation makes for a very engaging experience, with the visual and 
 audio elements clicking together to make each game feel unique and important. The way that stadiums 
 just go insane with cameras flashing in the audience and various levels of pyrotechnics and stage 
 displays (particularly during touchdowns) can bring a tear to your eye.
  
  Personally, I'm relieved to see that 2K8 kept the play-calling interface from 2k5, as it still 
 feels much more intuitive and superior to every Madden (and NCAA) title I've played. And for those 
 coming from the Madden camp, APF makes concession by allowing similar types of play-calling, such 
 as for different situations, or plays involving key players on the team.
  
  Football is considered a game of matchups, and APF takes it to heart. First order of business is 
 to create a team. One can (if they want) fudge up a team and set it up inside of 10 minutes (faster 
 if you let the system auto-pick stuff for you) . But at the same time, the level of depth that the 
 game provides allows you to individually set a great number of elements... a carefully crafted 
 team can take some hours if you're the kind to worry about color schemas and other elements... 
 but the work can pay off, as all those elements take place and are rendered on your jerseys and 
 the team once you play. If anything though, the only negative regarding teams is that APF doesn't 
 let you play as some of the pre-made teams the CPU has available. Some of those really look great, 
 and may help provide different ways of thinking for how to ideally set up a team and see what strategy 
 works best for you.
  
  Sadly, the reason that I can't say I own it anymore... lack of single-player content. The game 
 has many strong multiplayer modes available if you are more MP-oriented, but the game leaves much 
 to desire compared to NFL 2k5 in the single-player department. Otherwise, it'd be a keeper for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Im totally an oldschool guy , and i remember every player on APF 2k8 and
  this game is desent. The graphics on HD is alright but could of been better.
  The gameplay is 
 alright , But Man !! the player models could of been better.
  This game isnt close to being 2k5.. There missing alot of Pittsburgh Steeler
  players like Franco 
 Harris , Lynn Swann , Rocky Bliar &amp; Mean Joe Green and Bert Jones of the Baltimore Colts ? 
 Well maybe that will be in the next
  one if they have another. One thing i notice is alot of Micheal Jacksons sliding and moonwalking 
 across the field. Also i notice alot of bad calls and
  No Championship Awards, No Nothing in the game like 2k5. The Comentating is very corny and shallow 
 but its ok. Maybe its just a test to see
  how people will react. And one thing before i go. Leave Oj Simpson in the game , because as growing 
 up watching him on TV with the Buffalo Bills , was a good experiance cause oj was a good football 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Money182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  i had fun playin the game the offline was fun for a while but get pretty repetive i think the A 
 I is pretty good and graphics are also decent not amazing but also not crappy... the online is fun 
 expect when ppl do retarded things but if u can get past the retarded ppl and find a decent person 
 then u have a fun game so if any one wants to play sumtime hit me up my gamer tag is D money182.. 
 . . . . . a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets5261989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  When picking between Madden and All Pro Football, there is one question to ask yourself: do you 
 want a pretty presentation, or real football? If youre looking for real football, All Pro is the 
 right choice for you. Unlike Madden, you cannot use a scrambling quarterback and throw an on the 
 money pass for the opposite side of field while running full speed. As a quarterback you must set 
 your feet to throw an accurate pass, like in real life. Also, the turbo makes the game more fun 
 in my mind; in Madden you just hold the right trigger for turbo, where as in All Pro you have to 
 tap A. This becomes fun when a running back breaks a long run and you find your self tapping A 
 as fast as you can to lose the defenders. I have only a few complaints about All Pro, if you do 
 not play Xbox live, this game might not be a good choice for you since there are not many offline 
 options. Also, the graphics are not bad, the players body shapes look more realistic than madden 
 and they move more realistically, but the faces all look the same. My last complaint is that defensive 
 backs drop way too many interceptions, its almost ridiculous.
  If you are a football fan, defiantly give All Pro a chance, even if its just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phitin_Phils
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I now know what a next-gen football game needs in order to be a success; 
 great gameplay. All-Pro 2K8 has just that. When I watch the new videos of Madden I cant believe 
 how the same game continues to be put out every year with a different number on the cover. All-Pro 
 makes you feel like your playing REAL football, not the fake, arcade-like football Madden delivers. 
 In All-Pro you really need to be paying attention to the game in front of you, instead of being 
 able to roam the field freely and pass the ball wherever you please with anyone in the game. The 
 animations in All-Pro are the best Ive seen so far. The running backs actually shift their wight 
 when spinning and juking, they run behind blockers without running straight into them, the quarterbacks 
 take multiple steps forward and put all of their energy into long-range passes, and the blockers 
 actually have brains and block unlike in Madden.
  
  Here are the pros of the game, as I see it:
  -Realistic animations and gameplay.
  -Playing 
 with legendary players gives a different kind of experience.
  -Playing with already made teams also gives a new experience other than always playing with NFL 
 players.
  -The skill/ranking system is much more fun to play with instead of the boring old number.
  -Team 
 customization is very fun, and you are given loads of options. This is something Ive been waiting 
 for Madden to deliver better. In this game you may not be able to give the team the exact name 
 you want, but there is a large number of pre-made ones which the announcer will say instead of 
 home and away . You can also completely costomize the colors and styles of the jersey, helmet, 
 logo, etc..
  -If you want, you can recreate real NFL teams. Of course the name of the team wont be the same, 
 but you can give them something close.
  -Player customization is very fun. Especially making yourself or real-life players.
  -Online 
 tournaments and leagues ae fun to join.
  -Every pre-created team in the game has a customized stadium depending on their name/location, 
 and something very unique about them. For unstance, in the New York Knights stadium there is a 
 replica of the Statue of Liberty. you can also assign these and a few generic stadiums to your 
 created teams.
  -You can assign touchdown/sack celebration animations to players. there are a lot to choose from.
 
  
  But there are also cons:
  -You can only play with created teams.
  -Although the kicking system is very simple, it may take a little getting used to.
  -There is 
 only season mode, and no franchise.
  -No minigames or anything like them
  -The fill-in players, who are assigned to your team after you choose the legends, often are repeated 
 when making new teams.
  -It would be nice if you could make a custom league, so that you can have total customization of 
 every team in a season.
  -The menu-system is a bit different than other games. May take some getting used to, but nothing 
 big.
  -If you don't have and HDTV, the graphics are pretty bad.
  -The announcers get a little annoying, but personally I dont mind too much.
  
  Of course not 
 everything about this game is good, as Ive stated above. But since Madden bought out the right 
 to use NFL players/teams in their game, theyve been doing nothing but adding little gimmicks to 
 their games which dont improve much, thinking that they have the football game franchise under 
 locks. After playing this game, I never want to play Madden again until there are some big changes. 
 the All-Pro creators should be proud that they took the road of actually making a realistic football 
 game even without the NFL rights. But there are still things to improve on. Hopefully this review 
 is helpful to anyone who is stuck between All-Pro and Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_mirow
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? Nothing about this game stands out as being very good, and the be honest, it gives 
 football a bad name. Back when the 2K series were competing with Madden, it was a hard decision 
 between the two, as they were just about equal in terms of gameplay, graphics, and features. However, 
 2K has a loooooong ways to go if it wants to be a success.
  
  The first thing I noticed with the game was the graphics. The models and animations seem PS2-ish, 
 and the textures almost as bad a PS1 games. The framerate isn't smooth, the voice-synching is laughable, 
 and the players all look like anarexic nerds. Don't football players work out? I mean, the linemen 
 have a good gut on them, but most WR's and QB's looked like they couldn't have weighed more than 
 120 pounds.
  
  Then there's the sound. The music, commentary, and voice acting just sounds flat-out bad. The sound 
 effects are even worse. When I expect a bone-crunching hit, I'm treated to the sound of someone 
 crushing a bag of crackers into a $4.99 webcam microphone. When I expect to hear players in a huddle, 
 I hear fuzzy, crackly, low-bitrate canned noises. Just not cutting it!
  
  The gameplay is also lacking. The game is just so aggravating, mainly due to the nonsensical button 
 choices and limited play calling options. Who wants to sort through all that crap? It's a travesty, 
 really. It makes a good game of football into a game of WTF why would anyone play this?
  
  Overall, avoid it. PLEASEEE! I had high hopes for this game, but without an NFL license, good graphics, 
 passable sound, or fun gameplay, this is a game that just never should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Ever Since Madden bought out the NFL License, it was the only football game that was to be played 
 with NFL Players. Now since 2K couldn't make an NFL game, they made a football game with NFL legends, 
 which is Awesome!!!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is rock solid, feels similar to NFL 2K5 and added a new reach tackling system 
 and gang tackles! Customization is not as deep, it would have been cool to actually customize your 
 stadium!
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is a very well done!!
  
  Graphics: The player models look exactly how they looked when they played back then except Jerry 
 Rice looks alot older!! But still, graphics looks awesome and the animations are solid!
  
  The Good: 2K football is back, awesome legends, great online, solid gameplay and sound
  
  The 
 Bad: Season mode not as deep as NFL 2K5, Somewhat Limit Customization
  
  Overall: If you played NFL 2K5, you will love APF 2K8. If You never played NFL 2K5, Give this a 
 rent! But Overall, it's a solid football game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaeton_X
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  After building my team and taking it online I felt like a kid in a candy store only to get my A** 
 handed to me onliine ... this game is like a Chessmatch and it mirrors REAL football in how you 
 have to EXECUTE plays in order to have any success. I played several games and the games were close 
 and there wasn' t any one team or player that dominated the game and there wasn't Chessy money 
 plays like in that Other so-called Football... I stopped every running back on more than one occasion 
 and I feel that the gameplay is SOLID I only wish that I could master the kicking game because 
 it's the hardest part of the game and I see more people going for it on 4th down while in normal 
 field goal range because of the difficulty which is not a complaint I think that it's good that 
 Fieldgoals are now NOT a given like before in previous Football games..... and for all the people 
 that say the Graphics are not good they need to invest in a good HD tv because they are the best 
 graphics I have seen in a football game but then again I have a 720p TV that will run in 1080p 
 through component lol don't ask how that is but ... it's true ....... for anyone that is looking 
 for the BEST Football experience to come out on next Gen systems ... this is it !!!! Offline play 
 is equally exciting and after having a few friends from work over the other day we played Madden 
 07 first and then popped in the APF 2K8 we never went back to playing Madden ....... THIS GAME IS 
 EXCITING I had one guy that never really played Football games before is now wanting to get a system 
 because of this game !!! Don't listen to the bad press or negative hype you must play this game 
 and I am sure that this franchise will only get better ......2K did their best in giving us football 
 fans what we were asking for and not just another rehash or roster update like other companies 
 ... I am sure that next year they will try to sign more people and get the Legends count up to like 
 500 at least and include a franchise option also .... if you don't buy this game you'l be missing 
 out on what will be a prelude to the next GREAT Football to come .............. WAY TO GO 2k thanks 
 for giving us options and something other than that other game ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jraudia
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Good game, but not entirely what I expected. It's awesome to be able to create a team and supply 
 it with former NFL superstars. Gameplay is alright. Graphics are not up to next gen standards. 
 Looks like it should still be back with playstation 1 graphics wise, unless it is a cut scene. 
 Running is fairly easy. Passing is extremely hard. Announcers are annoying. Gameplay is not the 
 best, but is addictive. the most fun part is being able to play with Joe Montana, Reggie White, 
 Drew Pearson, and Solomon Wilcots all on the same team. Great Music. Not bad for 2K's abrupt appearance, 
 but i would rent it before spending $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisbradley
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Since there are other football games on the market there is no reason at all to by this game, except 
 for the ability to play with retired players. The gameplay mechanics are aweful, the control scheme 
 is a huge departure from defacto football controls, and the graphics are the worst I have seen 
 on the 360, and look about as good Joe Montana football from the Genesis. Seriously, if you get 
 this game, remember to look at the player models/skins when you're picking your team. You'll see 
 exactly what I am talking about, and you can come back to this review, and comment that I was right. 
 Football fans, please don't buy this game unless you just want to own ever football game on the 
 market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20piece
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I ran out to the store to get AP 2k8 as soon as possible, because no video game had been as exciting 
 for me as NFL 2k5 has been and in my mind it still holds up. AP 2k8 was supposed to build on that 
 and after playing this game quite a bit now, it really just borrowed a few things from 2k5 and 
 is missing alot that made it great, customized stadium music and franchise mode just to name a 
 few. This game is still very good and in my opinion the best football experience on xbox 360, although 
 I think if madden steps its game up in the coming 2008 edition I could be going back to the football 
 franchise that I haven't favored since 1992 on the sega genesis. Disappointed with 2k8 only because 
 I know that they are capable of so much better than what they delivered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohjtbehaaave
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  While the game lacks modes and the NFL License...2K proves it's the FB ENGINE which is what gamers 
 are in love with. I'd actually prefer if 2K went in a 100% Fantasy League direction like Blitz 
 the League did (without the cursing and drugs of course) and really blew this game out with a killer 
 Franchise/Story mode... and other cool modes where 2K could do whatever they wanted to do! They 
 could also save the $$$ that's paying to have 'Legends' in the game... and use it on Game Development!
 
  
  But as it is with the Legends it's still ok... although they could have used a few more Hall of 
 Fame type guys like Joe Namath (Insert Suzy Colber comment here) and Terry Bradshaw etc... But 
 overall the Legedns theme works pretty well. For me 2K FB is ALL about the action on the field 
 anyways. and 2K8 FB does a pretty nice job of things. One complaint i have though is a 300 pound 
 Lineman should NEVER be able to run down Walter Payton from behind. If your going to have Legend 
 RB's and WR's... they need to be GONE when out in the open and not caught by Lineman!
  
  other than that complaint... the game plays very well and is FUN!!!
  Love the animations, cool 
 Stadiums.. incredible real time crowd reactions and audio... and especially how the QB's need to 
 be SET to throw accurately! That's REAL football folks! That's what we should expect on Next Gen 
 . For a first effort on 360 I think 2K8 FB is a solid game. But the sequel is what I look forward 
 to with enhanced gameplay and MODES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a silly football game and I disliked pretty much everything about it. The graphics could 
 have been much better as well. I did not like the controls, the play selecting or the coaching 
 strategies. If you are into a silly football game that has nothing to do with a simulation, then 
 this game is for you. If you like a more down to earth football game that actually has good graphics 
 and play calling and selecting, then I would wait until Madden 2008 comes out. Note.. I did not 
 play the actual game but the demo and this is where I am getting my first looks. The real game 
 may be different but from experience the real game never differs much from the demo on xbl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kais48
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  All-Pro Football provides a terrific gameplay experience with little else to show for it. The running 
 game in particular is incredibly fun - offensive linemen pull and pick up their assignments very 
 well, and you'll love watching them go downfield and pancake a DB while you run behind them. The 
 passing game is enjoyable as well, as you have to really look for holes in the defense to be successful. 
 Passes over the middle get batted down by LBs and star DBs will jump your passes if you don't set 
 your QBs feet before throwing. Unfortunately, the generic non star position players on offense 
 are disappointingly awful - WRs drop too many passes and RBs are immobile, so you'll find yourself 
 trying to stack your offense to keep the skill positions from being wasted.
  
  Defense is more difficult to get the hang of. Linebackers have a tendency to get sucked into the 
 line on running plays, so you have to make sure you don't play too aggressively. I got burned on 
 long runs several times before learning to keep my linebackers further off the line. I found interceptions 
 and sacks a bit too easy to come by, but you can tweak the gameplay to cut down on them.
  
  The list of great players is impressive. Yes, many are missing, but 2K Sports can't force everyone 
 to sign up for their game. But who really cares about having a star kicker or punter? If 2K gets 
 a chance to expand the list in the future I'd like to see them add more great defensive players. 
 The list is slanted towards offense, particulary at QB, WR and HB.
  
  The big disappointment is the game's list of options. It's a quick game or season. That's it . 
 Once you build a team you play a season and they fade to oblivion. Why not add a franchise mode 
 or allow some flexibility in the system of assigning players? I can't imagine that it would have 
 been that hard.
  
  Overall it's a fantastic gameplay experience, but I can't help but feel that the game isn't totally 
 finished. Regardless, it's a great next-gen start for 2K and I'm looking forward to their next 
 iteration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Football games have always been one of my favorite video game genres. When I was younger, I always 
 had to play them on the computer, so Madden was my only way to play.
  
  Well, in recent years, I've heard how 2K is the true champ of football gameplay, so I decided it 
 was time to pick this game up. It was one of my best decisions in years.
  
  This game doesn't make a fantastic first impression. You're greeted by relatively dull menu screen 
 with a decent soundtrack. But once you begin to make your own legendary team, all of that goes 
 away. Since EA has the exclusive rights to all NFL properties, 2K couldn't use players in the NFL 
 right now, so they decided to license around 150 legendary players that have come through the NFL 
 over the past years. It really makes the game have an original feel to it, as the idea is quite 
 unique.
  
  So once you make your team of legendary players, you have the option of taking them through a season. 
 It is a relatively shallow experience, in the sense that you have no control over your franchise 
 and you are essentially just playing through game after game.
  
  Once you hit the field, this game really shines. Again, the visuals aren't overly appealing, but 
 the do the job. But this game really has some buttery smooth gameplay in it. It has much more realism 
 then Madden when it comes to tackling and throwing the ball. Those two things really shine through 
 as fantastic for me.
  
  First, the tackling really feels solid. You don't just run into a guy and watch him fall over. 
 You have to slam into him, and often you have to get a couple more guys to jump him to help bring 
 him down. Airing the ball out feels equally amazing. You can't just sprint backwards with your 
 QB, press a button and watch a perfect pass be put up to one of your receivers. You have to be 
 much more in control of the ball and you must be much more patience.
  
  One thing that doesn't work well in this game is the kicking. Honestly, the kicking mechanic just 
 doesn't work as you would hope. It's very unforgiving and your timing must be flawless for it to 
 work as hoped.
  
  Once you begin to master the game, it's time to take your legendary team online. The online really 
 shines through in this game, as it always does in the 2K series. There are online leagues, tournaments, 
 and standard quick matches. I have played a few unranked games already, and haven't experienced 
 any lag yet. It's very seamless and works very well.
  
  Overall, this game really feels great. Sure it's lacking some of the game modes that Madden has, 
 and sure, it doesn't have the amazing graphics that Madden has achieved, but who cares? 2K has 
 made up for that with a fantastic game of football.
  
  Positives:
  + Fantastic feel on the field
  + Solid concept of legends
  + Great sound effects and commentary
 
  + Smooth animation
  + Online = Amazing
  
  Negatives:
  - Doesn't make a great first impression
  - Clipping issues
  - Lacking many game modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_iceman
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game just didnt cut it for me. It just seem like all the Hall of Fame &amp; Legend guys got 
 together for a family reunion or Bar-B-Que and some bubble head found a football in someones car. 
 Now you got these old-heads sayin, I still got it ..... and it showed in this game. This game is 
 a cook-out. The graphics were great. The tackles were cool. But, no disrespect , these old-heads 
 were hittin the holes and running up the field like their age. This is not REAL FOOTBALL in no 
 way, form, or shape. I am disappointed that 2K didnt put in more stragedy . Thats REAL Football, 
 trying to outplay your opponent with a big play. This was more like BLITZ without the unrealistic 
 tackles, jump throws, and trash talk. 2K need to stick to NBA, where they are doing an great job. 
 I think if they had the NFL License it still wouldnt matter cause there is just no stragedy to 
 this game. Im sorry!.... but, Im glad I rented it from Gamefly and Oh, I just switched to Gieco 
 and saved alot of money....... (LOL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBucc
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  As someone who played EA's football offerings for about the last 6 years, and was almost always 
 happy with them, I never considered the rival 2k series. Then with Madden 06 and 07 sucking ass 
 and 08 still a few weeks away I decided to give 2k8 a try. At first I was blown away by all the 
 little things they do that EA does not. The way the QB moves in the pocket, the way the WR's run 
 precise routes. The interactive sidelines and the players talking to each other. The way each player 
 has a distinct look and personality like their real life counterparts. All these little things 
 combined make really great experience even before getting deep into the gameplay. I began to wonder 
 why on earth EA didn't have all these cool little touches.
  
  The little things aren't all the game does well though. The big football aspects like blocking, 
 pulling off jukes and spins, accurate and hard throws are all here. You O-line will double team, 
 pull out ahead of you on sweeps, and form a clear pocket around your QB. The moves for the ball 
 carrier are controlled differently than EA but it still works well. To put some zip on the ball 
 you have to charge up before you throw. I didn't think I'd like this feature, but it actually works 
 well. You can also charge up at any other position to make your moves more effective although I 
 rarely do outside of the QB. After I played the game more and more though some problems began to 
 arise. You may have noticed I didn't not mention anything about defense in the above paragraph. 
 This is because I found playing defense as the user to be awkward and unwieldy. The momentum system 
 used in the game causes all the players to move like they're in quicksand. Only the super nimble 
 like Barry Sanders can start and stop with any urgency. Everyone else takes their sweet time and 
 can lead to many overrun tackles. It's not as noticeable on offense because much of it is timing 
 based, but on defense you need your players to react quickly and it's very hard to do. You'll also 
 notice it some on running plays and out passes and screens. Your player will catch the ball and 
 have plenty of space in front of him, but he has to gather himselft first and by the time he's 
 ready to run the defender is there and has him. There may be some momentum in real life, but nothing 
 this severe. Additonally to the players moving sluggishly, the ball seems to go way to slow when 
 you throw it. Another small problem in the game is the imbalance between Legend and Generics. Each 
 team is allowed two gold legends, three silver, and six bronze legends. The rest of the team is 
 filled out by generic scrub players who have none of the special abilities of the legends. When 
 a legend comes up against a scrub, the legend wins 9 out of 10 times. This doesn't ruin the game, 
 but it takes away the fun sim aspects and chess matches that could on if all the players were on 
 a more equal plane. It is fun to go online and see all the different styles of teams people have 
 created. Unfortunetaly for every guy who tries to build an even team or follow a gameplan there's 
 the ones who just hand it off ot OJ or Campbell every time or throw up several way to effective 
 flea flickers to Rice. Instead of generics, I would encourage 2k to try to get older non-legend 
 middle of the pack players to fill out the rosters. Guys who aren't hall of famers but can contribute 
 to the team and can hold their own. As you probably have heard there is no franchise mode in the 
 game, only Quick Game, Season, and Practice mode will you find offline. Online the setup isn't 
 great but you have online leagues, tournaments, and quck games. The online games are generally 
 lag free, although in this game the slightest bit of lag can make a huge difference, especially 
 on the already flaky kick meter. One thing I have to mention for my fellow poor SDTV users out 
 there is this game looks like hell on an SDTV. They didn't test in one or just didn't care because 
 what looks to be about two or three inches of the left side of the screen gets cut off. This means 
 you won't be able to see your leftmost (and usually #1) WR or the left part of the X play in the 
 playcall screen. All in all given the lack of content I can't recommend this game to anyone but 
 the most hardcore 2k fans, and they already have the game anyways. So for the rest of you wait 
 for a price drop or two which shouldn't be too far off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trublu1334
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  While this years installment of 2k football lacks the features that some crave, such as franchise 
 mode. It still delivers in the most important category..... Gameplay. 2k8 has only built on the 
 great 2k5 gameplay. While the player graphics are not on par with maddens, the graphics are still 
 good. And as far as atmosphere goes this game blows madden out of the water. With dynamic crowds, 
 interactive sidelines, real time injures, and weather that affects gameplay. Also with all the 
 customization allowed in this game from building ur team, to all the aspects of ur uniform, to 
 the city, to the stadium, THIS GAME IS FANTASTIC !!! GET IT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espnrosters
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  The graphics were upgraded everywhere except for the playing field. It still needs some work. The 
 sound is almost the same as 2K5 but there is new commentary and the players lips move to what they're 
 saying. The Gameplay has been improved in most areas but moved back in others. For instance you 
 can now adjust the blocking on your O-line but now you can't adjust your D-line before the snap 
 anymore. It has tons more animations and you'll be watching a lot of replays. VC ditched the custom 
 soundtracks which doesn't make sense because this is supposed to be a highly customizable game. 
 The unis and logos are highly customizable but there needs to be double the amount of options and 
 thats not to say its bad right now but after create a few teams (limited to 8) you'll want more 
 options. You can however get your teams to look a lot NFL team if you work hard at it or you can 
 visit some forums where they have posted uniform codes. I know with enough sales we'll see another 
 2K game and we'll get a whole lot more for our money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisRig4
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  You think 3 years of non making Football games would give 2K studios time to practice, but this 
 game is a poor imitation of anything similar to madden. It looks like crap, sounds like crap. and 
 last bbut not least plays like crap. Not to mention the letdown of how good the NFL 2K games used 
 to be before they were bought out by madden. I was disapointed!!! Dont waste your money on this 
 game. Dont waste your money on this game, dont waste your money on thsi game dont waste your money 
 on this game dont waste your money on this game, man this has gotta have 100 words so far? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfsceo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Most of the Gamespot review is right on...
  
  This does play alot like NFL 2k5, but that is not a bad thing as it was the best looking and playing 
 football game on the market. Madden fans... sorry if this offends you, but Madden is still using 
 the same money plays and bad AI since it was on Genesis!!! It looks good in next-gen, but gameplay 
 sucks....
  
  All Pro Football 2k8 eliminates the half-moon turns of Madden... and add's great AI back to the 
 game. The AI is still the best in the business. The commentating is the best in the business, even 
 though it hasn't changed much from 2k5. The running game is spot on! No more getting stuck behind 
 the line of scrimmage because you can't get by your own man.
  
  The passing game is back again! Quarterbacks mimic their own play style... it means something to 
 be a pocket passer again. There is a difference between a pocket passer and a scrambler. And best 
 of all, NO MORE MONEY PLAYS!!!!! You actually have to play football. This just goes to show how 
 far ahead of the game Visual Concepts has been all this time.
  
  Now this game doesn't just add Hall of Fame players just to say they are added. This game was designed 
 around playing with the classics. There are great, but they are not so great that it seems like 
 you are at a disadvantage with or without them. The new rating system balances things out. Even 
 the non-stars can prove to be worthwhile additions to your team. The team creation process took 
 a minute, but once you are finished, you feel like this is your team. You feel connected to it.
 
  
  In short, the game is a lot of fun. You don't know what is missing in a football game, until you 
 play 2k8!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixbear
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Thankfully, it's not Madden or his step-child, NCAA. Exciting gameplay,
  unique player animations, excellent sound quality, non-generic sidelines.
  However, outdated 
 graphics, no game depth...2k5 = Madden '08.
  oh and finally, no more Madden!! yeeeah!! Who needs the NFL license?
  Ha Ha EA!! Can't wait until 
 next year's version... should be great!!
  2k5 = Madden '08, Ha Ha EA!! Thankfully, it's not Madden or his step-child, NCAA. Can't wait until 
 ALL PRO 2K9!! Thankfully, it's not Madden or his step-child, NCAA. Exciting gameplay,
  unique player animations, excellent sound quality, non-generic sidelines.
  However, outdated 
 graphics, no game depth...2k5 = Madden '08.
  oh and finally, no more Madden!! yeeeah!! Who needs the NFL license?
  Ha Ha EA!! Can't wait until 
 next year's version... should be great!!
  2k5 = Madden '08, Ha Ha EA!! Thankfully, it's not Madden or his step-child, NCAA. Can't wait until 
 ALL PRO 2K9!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlr2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Short and sweet. Graphics, sound, presentation and customization are very good. Offline modes are 
 lacking. Gameplay rocks!! Did I say gameplay rocks!! Online is a blast. Strategy is so important 
 to this game. No more picking the 99 team and playing with it online. Win or lose it is all up 
 to you this time. Very good game. Hope offline gets updated next year.
  If you love online play it is worth the $60. If not then wait until you can find it used but get 
 it one way or another. It is really refreshing building your teams and you really don't miss the 
 NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindSpike
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to boycott Madden for the simple monoply factory that is EA. I loved the gameplay of 2k8, 
 however. I simply can't overlook the fact they want to force me to have multiple Live accounts 
 in order for all my friends to play local. We play for money and Live and it's lag are not acceptable 
 to any of us. System link is the only way we ensure lagfree competitive environments without people 
 looking at your plays (bring back Dreamcast controller) . I know they are not the only ones that 
 omit this important feature to a lot of people, games such as FEAR and Far Cry do as well. I will 
 never again buy a sports game without system link feature. Btw, there is also a serious lack of 
 tuturiol/training. Features such as individually assigning LBs to cover specific players on the 
 O is NEVER discussed, but found out how due button mashing. Nice feature, but how about a LITTLE 
 explanation, same goes for Max Passing. Definetly NO WORTH full price. Sorry 2k, nice try, wanted 
 to love you... but the whole project just feels LAZY and uninspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I, like many fans of the 2K series, was as excited as ever to see 2K get back in the football fold. 
 Knowing that 2K would not have the NFL license, I expected something revolutionary. I expected 
 something that would make me yearn for the day when EA's contract expires with the NFL. After playing 
 this game, I was truly disappointed for a number of reasons.
  
  Before I get started, I will say that 2K is doing the smart thing by creating a football game two 
 years early. I believe what this will do is allow 2K's developers to obtain player feedback on 
 what needs to be fixed. In two years, if the NFL avoids an exclusive contract, 2K will have had 
 two years to work with the next-gen hardware and put out a product that is worthy of its name.
 
  
  Unfortunately, this game isn't it. Having NFL legends or not, this game feels like a repeat of 
 2K5. This is not a bad thing but I expected something different. The game basically played the 
 same. The play calling screens -- same; running animations -- same; players moved like molasses 
 -- same.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game is a good filler until Madden comes out. It does offer the ability 
 to edit uniforms, etc. It also does not have the old bag of player ratings by number. It uses an 
 entirely different system that could be the wave of the future. However, that is not enough for 
 me to drop $60.
  
  It doesn't have a dynasty mode. Once you play a single season, you are done. No progression. No 
 back-to-back championships. Bring back the days to the Genesis.
  
  If you are looking to revert back to 2004, this is the game for you. If not, it, at minimum, is 
 a solid rental or pick up a used copy to avoid paying full price.
  
  Again, I feel that 2K has a bigger plan for this franchise. For those that are fans, you will enjoy 
 it but for only a week or so. I will say, it was nice to hear Dan and Peter back in the booth. 
 The best play-by-play combo in video game football history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  First off, my apologies for my first review of this game. I had to write what I felt, and I honestly 
 felt the game did not get a fair review. Ok. I'm going rate this game soley on gameplay. To me, 
 90% of our time is spent playing the actual games, and gameplay should matter the most when reviewing 
 games. At least I wish it did.
  
  The gameplay is superb! Let me repeat. The gameplay is superb! It's the most realistic game I've 
 played since 2k5. It's not a cheesy game. Your not going to be able to drop back and toss the ball 
 50 yards downfield every play, and if you do manage to even get the pass off deep, there's a good 
 chance it will be knocked away or intercepted. The game forces you to play realistic, and I love 
 that. I understand not everyone will, but I'm so tired of the other football games that are loaded 
 with money plays and unrealistic plays that take away from the real SIM feel of the game.
  
  The All-Pro version will blow you away graphically. Not so much the definition of the players, 
 but the sheer size of the players and how they look are nothing short of amazing! ALERT! If you 
 have never played this game before, or if you are mainly only used to EA's football games, you 
 will be in for a shock! All-Pro has a totally different game engine and the gameplay is simply 
 not even close to EA's. Is that good/bad? I think it's great! It just takes some getting used too! 
 Again, you will be forced to play the game of football. You can't rely on money plays and running 
 the same plays over and over to move the ball. The A. I. is fairly on the spot for this game. You 
 won't see players get beat deep too often, you won't see linebackers jumping 20ft. in the air to 
 intercept a pass. The running game is probably the most fun. You can actually see holes open up 
 in the running game. And guess what? The holes actually stay open long enough for you to run through 
 them! The rating system to me is something I feel will be around for years. In a way, it's revolutionary 
 and I hope EA adopts this type of system. Especially for Madden. All professional players are elite. 
 Most pro's were All-Americans in college at some point. They are all deserving of a 90+ rating. 
 But the special abilities are what separate these guys from the rest. What 2k has done here is 
 brilliant. And yes, you can actually tell the players have these abilities. It's an awesome feel.
 
  
  The other thing I love is that the legends actually play like legends. If you think you will be 
 able to throw at CB Night Train Lane all day, you will be badly mistaken. You must pick your poison 
 against the computer. This is what makes the game so much fun. There is tons of strategy, starting 
 from when you actually turn on the game, and must decide on how you will build your team. Do you 
 select all 11 guys for offense? Hint..... Please don't... Or do you shoot for a balanced team and 
 have 6 offensive guys / 5 Defensive or vice versa? It's totally up to you. What you will notice 
 as soon as you begin your season or take them online (awesome gameplay online) is that the game 
 is all about mismatches. You will face teams that will be able to take full advantage of your weaknesses. 
 When you're online, it's up to the user to exploit you, sometimes they do, sometimes they don't, 
 but their is endless fun with making different teams.
  
  And yes, just like any other game, we can always point out the negatives. And if you have read 
 any of these reviews (especially the bad ones) , you will hear tons of negative feedback regarding 
 depth of the game. I agree with them, the game doesn't allow you to play multiple seasons. And 
 when trying to decide on whether or not you want to purchase the game, that's something you will 
 have to weigh out. Again, to me, I like the actual gameplay experience. You will not be disappointed 
 with the game in this area. You will also love this game if you like to play co-op with friends. 
 Co-op actually allows you to play as many as 4 on 4. Superb! Online play is excellent and you will 
 not be able to tell a difference from online and offline play, which is all I've been waiting for 
 in a game. The season mode is nice, although I wish the game would have kept it fair across the 
 board. There are a handful of teams that have more than one gold player, some teams with as many 
 as 4 - 6 gold players. That's way too many in my opinion. Overall you can' t miss on this game. 
 If you are looking for depth, obviously pick up madden next month. But this game has excellent 
 replay value and should be enough to last all of us until next season.
  
  I'll give it an 8.7 and the only thing holding it back from being superb is the depth of the game. 
 The gameplay and online play alone are enough to lift the game to the elite status. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxsuck818
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Pros: - The gameplay is great
  - The stadiums are the best I have ever seen... each team has its own stadium designed around the 
 teams logo and name
  - Making your team out of old players is enjoyable
  -The gang tackles make the game very realistic because on almost every tackle you need at least 
 2 people to get the ball-carrier down
  
  Cons: - No franchise... only season... you play 1 season and your done
  - Some of the players don't 
 deserve to be in the game
  - The announcing is mostly recycled from 2k5
  
  Either: - Advertisements in the background and on the scoreboard
  - The gameplay seems almost 
 the same from 2k8
  - The graphics look good up close but just look average during plays
  
  
  APF 2K8 is a game that is worth playing but ultimately lacks features... I suggest renting 
 this first because you will get bored of it after 1 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RohitV
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  Thats right.... if u want to travel back in time and are not interested in what next gen has to 
 offer..... and re-live the year of 2005 football video gaming then ALL PRO FOOTBALL 2K8 is your 
 unrivaled answer. I think 2K is making more strides in the field of science and technology than 
 football gaming. O. k. ...2K wants to get back in the market.... the stakes are kind of against them 
 having no NFL license anymore, then have a product that can get you to beat the competition with... and 
 not show how much further ahead they have moved on. If I wanted to play NFL 2K5 i would hook my 
 original old outdated xbox up and take out my $20 copy that I bought three yrs back.... not spend 
 another $60 on a new copy with a new name that runs on the next gen console.... without the real 
 rosters, stadiums, franchise mode.... etc. etc. I feel sorry for all 2K fans... they just got ripped.... and 
 they don't even realize... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeke74
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is NFL2K5 with better graphics and not NFL licenses. Equals a waste of time and especially 
 $60 dollars. 2K should have done a brand new gaming engine and should have asked gamers what they 
 want to see as far as options and gaming modes to include. The face animations look dated and not 
 fresh. This game is a much worth $60 as Starbucks coffee is worth 9 cents more a cup. This game 
 needed a NFL license but that wouldn't help it still. I 'm disappointed and hoped for something 
 new and wouldn't take much to make me happy over the recycled Madden games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  A pretty mediocre game that doesn't really push the 2k franchise in any direction. Let me take 
 you back three years; the year is 2003 in the month of august. During the summer video games fall 
 into a drought season were all the developers are trying to hit that holiday trend so the only 
 decent game that usually gets released during the summer is Madden. The reason why I'm going back 
 to 2003 is because that was the last year that I was interested in Madden. After 2003 I got introduced 
 to the magically world of 2k sports; now don't get me wrong I have always loved the 2k sports games. 
 I was one of a lucky few that got to experience the amazingness that was the Dreamcast 2k sports 
 games. Every single 2k sports game for the Dreamcast was amazing: football, baseball, hockey and 
 basketball. I own all those games and still find myself going back to them on occasion to refill 
 my meter with some good old fashion awesome fun. But during the beginning of the ps2 era, 2k seemed 
 to drop the ball when they were starting to gain some momentum on EA. When ESPN NFL 2k5 was released 
 I felt that 2k had finally reached its previous level of success. Just when 2k was really starting 
 to create something amazing EA goes and buys the NFL license. Which I can understand the business 
 side of the deal; I mean 2k was about to overtake Madden. MADDEN, the number one selling football 
 game for about 15 years was about to get overtaken by 2k. Unfortunately, that meant the end of 
 competitive football games. Basically, you had one choice for a true NFL experience; Madden and 
 that blitz game but lets be serious that game was crap; it was definitely not a replacement for 
 2k. Finally, three years later 2k and visual concepts comes out with another football game but 
 like all next-gen sport games they all lack that one key ingredient to hold people over for a long 
 period of time: features. 
  
  features~ When you first start 2k8 your going to be asked to create a team. Essentially, creating 
 an all purpose squad that can either be used in single player or multiplayer. This isn't the only 
 team around; the computer will create teams as well so their is no limit to the combination of 
 different star players on teams. You can only have 2 gold star players, 3 silver and I believe 
 eight bronze. The way to categorize them is simple: Gold = Hall of Fame type players; Silver = 
 pro bowlers and bronze = played professional football. This type of selection leads to some strategy 
 because picking all offensive star players will leave your defense cripple. The different types 
 of athletes are impressive, some of the big names like: Barry Sanders, Walter Payton, Steve Young, 
 Dan Marino, John Elway, Jerry Rice among others makes for an impressive roster. Once you have selected 
 your player you have to actually select the logo, name and location of your team as well as how 
 your jersey will look. The level of customization is very detailed unfortunately the rest of the 
 game isn't. First off, why would you only have one season?? There is no trading, no draft nothing. 
 You select a team have a 16th week single playoffs and a championship; thats it. Stats are only 
 kept for the single season then you just restart all over again. The only feature of this game 
 that somewhat saves it is online which has leagues and tournaments. Everything else is so bare 
 bones you're lucky not to die of boredom. 
  
  Graphics~ The graphics in this game are lackluster to say the least. The art style is still as 
 sweet as it was in 2k5 but most of the textures and character models look low res, even in high 
 definition. This is the running theme for this game; it follows way to closely with 2k5. This game 
 in a sense has become what all 2k fans hated about madden, the same game with minor improvements. 
 This game does next to nothing in the graphics department. A complete let down that should be inexcusable 
 since Visual Concepts and 2k have had around 3 years to improve on the graphics engine. Yet, I'm 
 not a graphics kind of guy so it doesn't really bother me that much.
  
  Sound~ The sound like the graphics are generic and completely dull which adds to the overall theme 
 of sticking close to 2k5 and not letting go. Honestly, the most annoying aspect of All-pro football's 
 sound is the field chatter that will randomly pop up during the game. I don't know why the developers 
 though this was a good idea; seeing how the same voice is used for Dan Marino as well as Walter 
 Payton. I mean the idea is cool but having the same voice say the same generic phrase every time 
 just gets annoying. In the end, the sound is passable but again 3 years of anticipation sets the 
 standards kind of high. 
  
  Gameplay ~ This is the only area in 2k8 that has been altered in some way. First of all the games 
 animation system is completely redone and completely awesome. Gang tackling is extremely well done 
 and looks and fells much better than NCAA football 08. This leads to the improvement in the running 
 mechanics. Personally, I though the running in 2k5 was impossible due to some of the animations 
 and collision detection. This game completely fixed that and added some new tweaks. For example, 
 when a running back like Walter Payton hits the hold and engages with a Linebacker he can either 
 try to spin out, lower his shoulder, juke or stiff arm
  the guy. Every move works together fluently to create a masterpiece. I have already seen some amazing 
 runs that mimic their real life counterpart. For example, Barry Sanders has the ability to cut 
 on a dime and brake for the outside like he did in real life. Lets move on to passing; which hasn't 
 really seen anything really new. Why because the passing in 2k5 was already pretty good so there 
 was nothing to really correct. The aspect that didn't make the trip over to 2k8 was the amazing 
 AI found in 2k5. Every single CPU team in all-pro plays the same; even when you hike up the difficulty 
 nothing really changes. Again, thank god for good old-fashion multiplayer. 
  
  Conclusion~ After reading these past couple of paragraphs your probably thinking that I hate 2k8. 
 Well, your wrong I think 2k8 is a solid game in certain situations. If you calling is an amazing 
 single player experience with online being a bonus, this is definitely not it. In this game, online 
 takes center stage which isn't bad but still doesn't make up for a bare bones single player. The 
 fact that the pros are absent doesn't bother me. What bothers me is that 2k didn't take any chances 
 with this game. They didn't try to push anything; instead they were completely content with just 
 barely improving on 2k5. As I said before; I know that 2ksports hasn't been working on this game 
 for 3 years; they were working on other projects instead. Yet, three years of anticipation will 
 do a lot to a fan of a franchise. Like raise their expectations to a whole new level. In the end, 
 if your a 2k fan and you don't mind spending 60 bucks for a online only experience than by all 
 means go out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johny-Wise
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  In my opinion All Pro 2k8 is a solid football game. The feel that 2k has for the game of Football 
 is unmatched. Since both NCAA and 2k8 were released so closely together it gave me a chance to 
 play both titles. 2k8's game play is so tight that it makes it very hard for me to play NCAA 08 
 after playing a game of All Pro. NCAA 08 is a good game, but there's no comparison in game play. 
 2k8 gives you the real football experience like no other football game. But if youre looking for 
 deep franchise modes and all the bells and whistles you might be a little disapointed. But for 
 me I'll take the wonderful game play offered by All Pro Football. On-line play is on point and 
 a great experience, something I've come to expect from 2k sports and Visual Concepts. This game 
 is must have for true sports gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeathball
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  When you first load up the game you are forced to make your our team (In a Good way) It was fun 
 and I took up 45mins just picking my 11 All Pros , choosing my style and picking logo/uniform. 
 The controls are the same as 2K5 expect the right stick is now a hit stick for churching tackles. 
 Once you play you will be blown away time flies in what I thought was only ten minutes it was 30 
 or so and the game was over it was awesome. The biggest problem is season is only one year which 
 sucks, and no crib or first person football which was warned, but because it was warn doesn't excuse 
 there being no crib, I could can less about first person. Anyway I never had more fun playing the 
 game I love running the ball, break tackles in the coolest ways possible or tackles a guy so hard 
 he flips. The Graphics arent nearly has bad has people say the only bad thing with the graphics 
 are the players faces. The sounds are great I love the crushing of pads, the catching of the ball 
 the commodity form Peter, and Dan but they are the reason it got only an 8. They say some of the 
 same things form 2K5 (with some new) but the big problem I have is when they say false things with 
 drop passes they say my receivers have 6 drops each when they really have maybe 1 in stats they 
 say he drop it if the pass it tipped, miss throws, etc. Its really annoying and there is no excuse 
 for this.
  
  The Game is fun but you will have a good time but you must have Xbox live to keep playing this 
 for a long time. IF U DOESNT HAVE XBL RENT IT because you will one day get bored of the one year 
 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigLebowski3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  My experience with this game so far has been mostly positive. When I first loaded it up, i was 
 a bit disappointed with the graphics; the field textures especially. But I soon got over the fact 
 that the graphics were a bit outdated when I started making my team. Building up my team from such 
 a wide variety of football's greatest players got me really excited to get out on the field and 
 play with them. Customization is a big thing for me and I always have a lot of fun creating something 
 all my own, so naturally, I had a good time creating my team's uniforms and picking the coolest 
 combination of colors for them (which is fairly deep, but i feel as though they could have done 
 more with it) . Then it was time to hit the field and that's where this game shines! It brought 
 back the good ol' days when I would load up 2k5 into my PS2 and get lost in it's amazing gameplay. 
 I have had just an absolute blast playing this game, especially after some big disappointments 
 from EA. Each legend has a distinct feel to them and out of the ones I know, play a lot like their 
 real life counterparts did back in their glory days. And it's also fun to throw in some created 
 guys to truly make your team your very own (personal favorite being Michael Madsen) . Now the lack 
 of a franchise mode is a bit of a disappointment, but it doesn't bother me all that much seeing 
 as how often I change up my guys and start anew. With the online leagues though, it's not too big 
 of a omission. So if your looking for a football game that you can just have some fun with this 
 is a definite buy, but if you want an  sim of a football 
 game you might just want to wait a while to see how this year's Madden turns out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game will receive all kinds of reviews from the skeptics, but let me be the first to say that 
 this game is far better than any rating can verify. The gameplay is superb, although it needs some 
 tweaks [i. e. the running backs should take off a lot faster if they are finese players] . The A. I. 
 can be rated differently depending on player perspective. If you are looking for a run and gun 
 game, then you will not like the A. I. in this game. But if you are looking for a realistic experience, 
 then you will find endless enjoyment out of this game. Picking your legends can be a roll of the 
 dice if you don't take the time to strategize. The generic players are far better than you can 
 imagine and you will find out how better they are than some of the stars of the game. What keeps 
 this game from converting Madden fans is the lack of offline features. It is missing a Franchise 
 Mode and the usual features found in previous 2K football games. Hopefully there will be plenty 
 of downloadable content that will increase the replay value of this game until next summer. The 
 graphics are in need of improvements, but unless you are glancing at the skin texture instead of 
 playing the game, it can be overlooked. The presentation is awe inspiring and the physics will 
 have you either grimmicing or jumping off of the roof depending on which side of the ball you are 
 on. With all of the bullet points Madden can mention about their franchise, they still won't match 
 2K in the gameplay department. Pick this game up if you are into realistic play. Pass on it if 
 you are looking for money plays and/or want to score 100+ points per game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acarpe73
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. Game play is solid as ever and the more you play it, the more you 
 will see all of the little things that make ths game top notch. the only downside to me is the 
 graphics when it come to player models. They are times really bad, but other times it looks next 
 gen... watch the cloth physics on the jerseys. for those of you looking for a really good alternative 
 to Madden 08 this year, I would definately recommend All-Pro Football 2K8. It offers alot of elements 
 that EA's offering either don't have or are implementing in their game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolExtreme1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Whoever said that this game is just like ESPN 2K5 is right but its the point of having the best 
 football game back and they WILL improve the game but for the time being, it is a great game to 
 play. The gameplay of the game is the same which means its a little laggy, the running is hard, 
 and the Quarterback position is still hard with placing your feet. The new thing about this game 
 is that there is no stats, it's all based on the skills that each player has. With this you cannot 
 make your player amazingly good which makes it a challenge. So this game is for people who love 
 a challenge and the classics. With all this said i highly recommend this game. One last thing I 
 would like to add is that with this game back, OUR game is back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melo_211
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  For once, I have to agree with a lot of what Gamespot said about this game. I tried hard to think 
 that this is All-Pro 2K8, the potential Madden-killer, the game that what supposed to resurrect 
 the 2K franchise in football. But each and every game I played, it just got me to feel more and 
 more like I was just playing ESPN NFL 2K5 all over again. The gameplay and the sounds are still 
 great (although kicking FGs could sometimes get annoying lol) , and the addition of the legends 
 is amazing fun with the fake teams and amazingly cool stadiums. The online is great, and is just 
 about as smooth as offline. Leagues, tournaments and your regular dish you find in every game online 
 for 2K. But the fun stops there. The commentary is just a recycle of 2K5, a lot of it I've heard 
 for too many times before. There are basically NO single player modes that are remotely interesting. 
 Season, Practice and Exhibition are there, and online and customization and stuff. But that's it. 
 There nothing to do in the season but play, because there are no free agents to sign, to trades 
 to make (as in there is no such option at all) . So all you do is play 16 games and go for the whatever 
 cup (I didn't even get through the season, let alone the playoffs) . The graphics are pretty bad 
 for the next gen consoles, they really aren't too big of an upgrade from what 2K5 had. This game 
 was... actually I just it WASN'T what I was hoping it to be. I tried, I really did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gio_Gambino
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  If I am not mistaken and please correct me if I'm wrong, but don't 2K Sports fans and EA haters 
 always complain that Madden never innovates or improves upon the previous season? Well for those 
 in that group, you all can swallow what you've been spewing for years. This game is nothing more 
 than NFL 2K5 packaged for the 2008 football season without current players. That's right, 3 full 
 seasons with zero innovations or improvements.
  
  You can imagine or dream whatever you want, but that is all this game is. There is no improvement 
 or difference. Stale gameplay for a stale series. Way to go 2K Sports. You had 3 years to develop 
 a Madden Killer but you failed miserably. I hope you guys never get the NFL license ever again 
 from this uninspired effort. At least EA revamps and adds several aspects to their series from 
 year to year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  All Pro Football 2k8 is a must have. Its been 3 years since we've had a 2kfootball fix. And this 
 try's to give us what we miss.
  
  Unfortunately, it seems rushed and just plain incomplete. Let me begin with the negatives first. 
 The create-a-player, just plain sucks compared to the other 2ksports games. No hair styles or generic 
 face that you can alter, just hairstyles made up and un fixable. No facial hair, and just plain 
 bad sliders for face fixes.
  
  The presentation is weak compared to 2k5, nobody but dan and peter showed up in the studio. No 
 Suzy Kozier or Suzy Kozier soundalike, no studio announcer, just dan doing it for them. No injury 
 reporter, just good ole Peter. Graphics are nice, but no trophy. Some areas look amazing, but with 
 the outdated player models with high polygons, from a distance it stills looks bad. Up close they 
 look amazing.
  
  Also mentions of no franchise, the fact that you can only play with the create team, and not the 
 teams already made, really sucks. I hate playing against my team and then playing against a computer 
 generated team and it has the same players on offense as I do. They need to make it where computer 
 generated teams, can't use players that you've selected.
  
  No 2k Crib, or extras. Really weak. Now the good stuff.
  
  Gameplay is amazing, stadiums are 
 great, some of the play books are extremely nice.
  
  Crowd interaction is beautiful sounding. Sideline interaction is nice.
  
  Field pass camera 
 is a nice touch. And customization options are lovely, nice to be able to edit so much.
  
  Online is a thing of excellence. I love my online league, we are so nice. lol...
  
  Overall 
 its a great game. Just not a perfect game. Hopefully 2ksports will listen to the fans and include 
 a much more finished product in the 2k9 series.....
  
  All in all its a much buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, as a hardcore NFL2K5 fan I am a bit dissapointed in the lack of originality as far 
 as commentary and some of the animations go... especially for $60! But where the game redeems itself 
 is online play. All of the quick matches and league games I have played have been very competative 
 and often come down to a field goal with little time left on the clock. I spent 4 quarters of overtime 
 against a guy in my league before the victor was finally decided... I lost : (. So whats my point? 
 This is a pretty balanced game and 2K/VC did a good job keeping cheasers at bay. Some guy did try 
 to exploit Barry Sanders and ran all over me for a while but once I adjusted my Defensive strategy 
 I was able to stop the run. Speaking of cheasers... the online rating system really encourages opponents 
 to play honestly. You can't stop all cheese, but when you know going for it on 4th and 15 every 
 single time in the first half might warrent a bad review at the end you might be more likely to 
 punt... same goes for running the same play over and over.
  
  Overall the strengths of online play outweigh the shallow offline experience and recycled parts 
 from 2K5. If you enjoy competative experiences that get your palms sweaty and prevent you from 
 sleeping for a few hours afterwards due to adrenaline, then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  So, although this game doesn't have tons of modes or things like that, it's still a very fun game 
 to play. The old school players are awesome and the animations are spiffy.
  
  Gameplay: Solid all around gameplay that makes this game very fun even without a million and one 
 options.
  
  Graphics: They look nice but they aren't up to par with other sports titles. Also, if the camera 
 angle gets low to the ground you can see them hovering above the field.
  
  Audio: The football sounds are great! The commentary is okay except for the fact that they repeat 
 themselves a lot and there are times when they say things that don't correspond to what happened 
 on the field.
  
  Overall it's a very fun football game that any football fan will enjoy. I will say though that 
 it REALLY has me pumped for Madden! This is a good year for football! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indigo_Blues
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Just thinking back to 2004, the last of a great NFL franchise was released. I loved everything 
 about it. At the end of the review I made for it, I said that I hoped that 2K would come back after 
 EA's lackluster liscensing deal would end. But man I didn't see this coming at the time!
  
  I throw in the game and automatically am excited to hit the gridiron and duke it out with some 
 legends. Alot of great players to choose from to create the backbone of your team. Many past legends 
 along with many great players of the last decade that have proven themselves amongst the greatest. 
 All from you to choose from!
  
  Gameplay is great, all the simulation style play of 2K5 is back. No off-balance, back step, cross 
 body passes will be perfect. You're risking some serious problems for your chance of gaining some 
 offensive ground. It's all about patience and precision to get off a good pass, or see the hole 
 through the defense to get off a good run. And with that patience comes reward with some awesome 
 moves to thwart off any defenders trying to take you down, though you're not going to be invincible. 
 Defense is the same. You get your chance to bat down passes, stop the runner from getting that 
 all important first down, and the occasional interception of you time the catch right. The game 
 really makes you sit down and learn it, which is what any sports game needs. At the end of the 
 plays, you can get a close in NFL Films-like camera of the players chit-chatting, talking to teammates 
 and opponents alike.
  
  Graphics are good, but not up to par with current-generation graphics. You can tell they brought 
 over some pages of the older games to this one. But playing this on a HDTV like I have the chance 
 to, the game still can look great. You can really get up close on the replays and see the individual 
 holes on the jerseys.
  
  Sound is also pretty good, alot of player chatter on the field and various sounds pre and post-snap. 
 Crowd chatter is good and commenting is colorful and flows well.
  
  Now... with value comes the line of alot of current and past 2K football fans. The Great Stuff - 
 The team customization is great. You can change the tendancies of all your main offense and defensive 
 squads that aren't legends to adjust to your playstyle. Many different names, colors, logos, towns, 
 stadiums to you to choose from to make your team much like your real favorites. Half time and post-game 
 show is a personal favorite that made it alot more immersive to me. Instead of just going to half 
 and going right into the next... you get to see some highlights of the first half, along with some 
 player stats at the bottom. Multiplayer is also good, getting to play with people's mixes of the 
 many legends makes the games pretty competitive and balanced, though there might be some games 
 that you just can't catch up, but don't be discuraged to leave, losing and learning is part of 
 the game. Getting to see your own tendancies and stats in the VIP is also great.
  
  The Bad Stuff - I have never been a great online player.. and 2K5 was really great on keeping me 
 going with franchise mode. Unfortunately this is where 2K8 falls behind. You can play only one 
 season with your team, and whether you win or lose the championship game, that's it. You'll be 
 asked to leave the season and returned to the main menu. Though with that it leaves you to try 
 out different legendary players, it still leave you wanting to play on in some kind of franchise 
 mode. If you are wanting single player replay value, well it's more in the eye of the beholder. 
 If you want control over a team for many years, well you read about where it ends. But if you want 
 to try to reach the top with many different players, you are really in for a treat.
  
  Some graphical glitches you can see while playing, like flashing graphic overlays when you take 
 a look at what play you are running before the snap, and clipping on some parts of players during 
 movements. And to me the graphics are aged.
  
  My Tilt - I want to love this game, and many things bring back the great days of NFL 2K5. The great 
 gameplay and overall tilt toward the simulation side. The many legendary players you can create 
 your team from, and the game still looks pretty good during the HD gaming age, even with some reminants 
 of last gen in it. Personally, I would have loved for them to have brought over the same elements 
 of 2K5's franchise mode. I loved playing through mulitple years... through the player progressions, 
 trades, drafts, post seasons, ect. It will really hold me back from playing it much after I get 
 burned out of making other combinations of legends. Multiplayer is not my strongpoint, but I might 
 try it more.
  
  Summary - If you are a 2K Sports loyal, I'm sure you'll be picking this up soon. And with the good 
 new view of playing football, it will keep you going for a while. And if you're a online fan too? 
 Well you're going to be hooked for a long time. But if you lean a bit more to offline play and 
 replay value, you're not in for much. This game is good in my eyes, and is a good re-start for 
 the 2K football franchise. But for me this year, it leaves me with something to desire for next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosox2005
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, I know it's not actually titled 2K5... I've read other reviews, and many seem to be way 
 to slanted IMO. Either Madden fans trashing the game (probably without even really playing it) 
 or 2K fanatics giving it near-perfect to perfect scores (are you serious) . To be brief....
  
  Good: Gameplay is mostly very solid. Not phenominal, but solid (and while it's the feature fanatics 
 will point to, you need to understand that gameplay is important, but it takes more than just SOLID 
 gameplay to override other things) . Stadiums and crowds look mostly great with some being downright 
 excellent. I'll take the 2K crew over John Madden or weird radio guy any day. Multiplayer (on or 
 off-line) is excellent and I'm assuming the only thing 2K really cared about.
  
  Bad: Graphics-players look very last gen (some exceptions) , create a player is thin at best, creat-a-team 
 feature is a nice novelty, but it feels pointless in single player. Speaking of pointless, that 
 pretty much sums up the single player experience overall (even Madden 06 for xbox360 had a bare 
 bones franchise, and that was one of the worst football games ever made) . Generic players (which 
 actually end up making up most of your team) are VERY generic. If you're a die-hard 2K fan, you'll 
 love it... you've been programming yourself to for awhile. If you're a Madden fan you'll hate it... because 
 you've programmed yourself to not give it a chance. If you fall somewhere in the middle, like myself, 
 then you'll fall into two subcategories. If you love multiplayer and online (and don't mind playing 
 an unlicensed version of 2K5) then this game is for you. If you are a franchise mode fan, and prefer 
 to have both multiplayer and single player modes fleshed out, then you should probably just rent 
 it or ignore it altogether. I personally will be checking out the new Madden and still playing 
 the occasional game of 2K5... at least THAT last gen game has NFL teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2LiveKrew
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Instead of treating you to a great wall of china text I will make this as simple as possible. The 
 most important part of a football GAME is the GAMEplay. And 2k takes care of this with near perfection. 
 Everything from the tackles to the small details such as how the legends played on the field is 
 covered perfectly. The graphics look average when playing the game but the textures are really 
 amazing closer up. From the players jerseys to how the rain falls on your helmet. This game lacks 
 modes but lets be honest, although franchise is great it would be hard to implement it in this 
 game and if you want an NFL licensed game on next gen get Madden 07... its practically the same 
 as 08 (09,10,11...) and it will save you money while you get your franchise fix. And if your like 
 me and only wanted to move your franchise to another city and customize that team this game is 
 perfect for you, this game has customization to the max.
  
  This game is great if you want to play a realistic game with amazing gameplay... and of course 
 the online is AMAZING which essentially is the best part when playing sports games and fps, if 
 you don't play these types of games online shame on you! As a former maddenite since techmo bowl 
 went under I'm proud to say I wont be buying another Madden because 2k offers what you want in 
 a football game... FOOTBALL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the football game that should have been put out 3 years ago as NFL 2k6. It's great. A football 
 game fan's wet dream. My only concern about the game is the lack of franchise mode, but hopefully 
 that'll be implemented in a future installment of this series. Football fans need to seriously 
 take note of this game, and not pass it off as another Blitz The League clone with no NFL License, 
 because this game is far from that. This game is the game that the NFL will not allow developers 
 to make because it nails the on-field aspect of the game right on the nose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KensterFox
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  When the NFL sold their soul, I mean, exclusivity rights, to EA Sports, what was a competitive 
 genre for games became a struggle to find a niche outside of the NFL (for everyone whose name isn't 
 Madden, that is) . Midway found success early on with Blitz: The League, although comparing EA's 
 franchise to B: tL is like comparing apples to steroid-pumping, foul-mouthed oranges with severe 
 anger issues.
  
  It took them a while longer, but 2K Sports and Visual Concepts believe that they have found their 
 niche, by offering Madden-esque gameplay, but instead using names you know from the history of 
 the NFL (unlike Midway's LT and Romo, most of the roster of stars 2K has assembled are widely respectable, 
 OJ Simpson comments aside) since they can't use the names you know from today's game. Also gone 
 are the numerical stats, replaced with gold, silver, and bronze stars, and 'attributes' like Pocket 
 Presence and Brick Wall. This is very effective for the game, since it avoids questions of who 
 is the better quarterback, Dan Marino or John Elway, but details what each quarterback excelled 
 at - Dan's Quick Release and John's Cadence, for example.
  
  The gameplay experience begins by prompting you to create your first team - not only what players 
 you will have in what positions, but your team name, city, stadium, and entire look, which can 
 be incredibly satisfying. Your team's strength is preset - two gold players, three silver, and 
 six bronze. This is a key point to part of the game's real value, which I'll address shortly.
 
  
  After you create your team, you are automatically dropped into a 'quick match' setup screen, which 
 may prompt you to wonder if you accidentally bypassed the menu screen. No, in fact, there is no 
 menu screen, a menu overlay can be brought up using the right thumbstick. I found this to be a 
 clumsy and unintuitive mechanic, and far inferior to the traditional interface.
  
  So now, you think, it's time to start up the single-player mode. This may or may not be true. If 
 you haven't played 2K5 since... well, 2K5, then you'll need to go through a quick match or two 
 to figure out the game - there are no tutorials on game mechanics. If you are an Xbox 360 Achievement... 
 enthusiast, you'll need to play through the season mode... several times... to get all the achievements 
 available, and for that I pity you. And since it's a pretty fair description of myself, there's 
 some feeling sorry for myself that goes along with it. If neither of these two descriptions fit 
 you, don't bother with the single-player mode. It may as well not exist. There is no incentive, 
 no impetus to progress through the season, no sense of drama or progression other than playing 
 through a string of games. Also, your opponents may have as many as six (SIX!) gold star players, 
 or as few as none. This lends itself to the game feeling horribly unbalanced at times. This mode 
 is not fun, and it seems as if the developers just skimmed over it, as if it wasn't important.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode... ohhhh, the multiplayer mode. Games can be set up as single games, tournaments, 
 or even entire leagues. You are playing only with other people's created teams - which means two 
 gold stars, three silver, six bronze for EVERYBODY. No one team is really stronger than any other, 
 there is only well-built and less so. Finding games, tournaments, and leagues is easy and intuitive. 
 Clearly, the bulk, if not the entirety, of your experience with this game should be spent online.
 
  
  As for presentation, the sounds of the game are wonderful, and the majority of player animations 
 are attractive and realistic, although the player models are thin and lanky (typical for 2K football) 
 and voiced not-so-well. The arenas are animated beautifully, and the commentators are colorful, 
 perhaps even too much so, and in the case of reporting injuries, inaccurate.
  
  If you are looking for a single-player football experience, this game is not even to be considered, 
 there's simply not enough value here. However, this is, quite likely, the most detailed, strategic, 
 and faithful online multiplayer football experience that has ever come out for any system. If you 
 enjoy multiplayer football, or never played it but want to give it a shot, this game comes highly 
 recommended. With any luck, All-Pro Football 2K9 will be the total package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexidog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  It took me quite awhile to get used to this game but once you do you will love it. It took me 3 
 days and 4 teams to find my groove and now i went form 1-7 to 5-7 in a few hours. The game is realistic (no 
 running around in circles like in madden) , amazing animations, in depth team creation and player. 
 This game truly lives up to its tag line. Granted there are flaws but for not having a nfl license 
 it did good. In madden you could run around in circles for ever with vick, now you cant run in 
 circles, or throw a 60 yard TD pass backwords ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartanx23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When you first pop APF 2K8 into the 360 you may feel a sudden rush come over you. It may have been 
 the song, or just the entire experience itself. From the very begining your asked to design and 
 build your team from the ground up. The game is comprised of former legendary players from the 
 NFL's past. Amazing standouts include Barry Sanders, John Elway, Joe Montanna, Emmit Smith, O. J. 
 Simpson, Jerry Rice, and Andre Reed. These players are considered gold Star players, and as such, 
 they are ranked the highest. The rest of the grid iron field is made up of other gold, silver, 
 and bronze stared players. However, you can not build a team entirely of gold Star players. The 
 way you build your team is simple. Pick 2 gold players from any catagory, be it RB, QB, or WR. 
 Then pick 2 silver players, and continue to pick 6 bronze tier players. After you pick your players 
 and choose the rest of your team attributes, you may then create the look and feel of your team. 
 There are tons of different stadiums, logos, and team names from which to choose. The editor is 
 pretty deep, and allows you to change various designs and colors of all the jerseys. It's a great 
 editor and provides a wealth of options. If you make a mistake, no worries, because you can always 
 go back and changes to everything. If you don't like any of the players, yeah right, then you can 
 create your own. It's pretty cool designing your team, but the football action is unmatched! The 
 little details are everywhere. The player models and field personel are all interactive. They will 
 move out of your way or get knocked over. The stadiums are modeled with loads of detail, and the 
 crowds are the best in any game to date. They react well to what's happening down on the field. 
 The player animations are amazing. High impact hits are insane! The sound truely brings the game 
 of football to life, but the music wears you out pretty fast. Changing the music is easy enough, 
 and tuning it off entirely isn't out of the question either. Every other aspect of the sounds and 
 announcers are done very well. The graphics are also very nice. The lighting is awesome, and the 
 reflections are super sharp. If you have an HDTV then your in for a huge treat, but they still 
 hold up very well under the watchfull eye of the SDTV. The HDTV moments come to life under extreme 
 weather conditions. Rain causes the field to turn to a sloppy mess, while snow dissapears beneath 
 the players movements. Heavy rain can result in some funny moments. As I was rushing my blocker 
 slipped into the referee, who then proceeded to do a summersault. The game is full of controls. 
 Whatever situation you may be faced with is met with an appropriate response. You can reach out 
 to grab a player, or charge up for that monster hit! Everything has to do with the amount of animations, 
 physics, and collision detection. It's all there. Amazing catches, loose balls, fumbles, INT's, 
 big hits, and late hits. There's no better way to let loose a little frustration, than to use a 
 late! Trash talking is rampent and cool. The NFL apparently has many restrictions that Visual Concepts 
 didn't have to follow. Yet the game feels very much like an NFL game. This game just adds so much 
 more polish to an already established franchise. NFL 2K5 was the highest rated football game around 
 for good reason. APF 2K8 is no different. There's a ton of value in this game. It's a game you 
 can keep playing for years. The developers put a lot of hard work into crafting the best possible 
 football anywhere. Period! All your fans thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oldkingsman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, i am just glad there is another choice in the football world again, another company i 
 should say (whew!) it's been a few years since i bought 2k5. Anyway, the game itself plays almost too 
 much like the real thing, what i mean is, if you dont know the game of football's x's and o's you 
 might just want to skip this and buy the other one. Different Shells for the secondary alone, might 
 scare off the more arcade minded player, because there can be a big learning curve and it's not 
 just a pick up and play type game. Running back 20 yrds and throwing the ball 50 yds in the same 
 motion will not work in this game (sorry madden fans) first off if your qb cant throw it that far, he 
 simply wont be able to, on the other hand, if you have say someone like warren moon, You still have 
 to set your feet and plant as well as gear up for a long throw (by holding the a button) Only certain 
 players can do this, this shows different skills for different players, so if you dont know who you 
 have, unlike other football games, your in trouble. Because the same buttons, dont do the same thing 
 for every player. Like most of the reviews i have seen, the gameplay is top notch. There is nothing 
 like it. Does it look great? no, not in my eyes, does it have plenty of offline features? No, once again. Does 
 it have online features? BIG TIME. So my point is, Offline sucks! Online is Great! Now if they just 
 combine the two, this game would be all that much better, as it is it's not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomservo51
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Thanks God 2k is back. The new system is perfect for a game that was designed to be played online. 
 No more worries about the other guy having a better team than you.
  
  If your a Denver Fan, you can have Elway and Sharp on your team. A 9er fan can have Clark, Montana, 
 or Steve Young, Rice. If you like the Raiders, you can have Marcus Allen and Cliffy Branch.
  
  If you looking for an emersive single player game, you will be disappointed, this game is all 
 about xbox live. The new lobby and rating systems are great. If the guy disconnects in the 4th 
 quarter cause your winnning you still get the W.
  
  I keep going back and creating new teams because the options are endless. Spend your 2 gold players 
 on your O-line and a bronze on Christian Okoye and Run right thought the Heart of the D. Or, get 
 Wonnen Moon, Rice, And 3 Silver Recieves, have your o-line focus on pass blocking and fire away.
 
  
  Talking about makes me want to play, so I'm going to do just that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHALILSRG
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I like the game, just an improvent of the last one. I guess if it aint broke don't fix it mentallity. 
 anyway. solid game, but 2K should have come a little stronger if it plans of taking back the reigns 
 of football. Yes is a good game, but MADDEN is gonna come out of the corner swinging.
  
  Madden has a strong following who are going to buy it anyway, if we want them to try 2k it missed 
 it's oportunity. the one thing that MADDEN got going for it is. now players NAMES. That means alot. 
 I want 3k to crush MADDEN but this was good effort however still a little weak. I don't like the 
 fack that the team you play against can pick the same players you have. 2k pulled aback a little 
 on an haymaker and settled for a jab.
  
  But, thanks for bringing back fun to an otherwise weak football pool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdeachin33
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I thought it felt and looked just like 2k5. However, after 
 the first snap I could tell this was a lot different. At first, the graphics were so so. But again, 
 after a couple of games and when you really start to pay attention do the details begin to jump 
 out at you. The players are easily recognizable as the star players that they are from Stabler's 
 gruff I'm a Mountain Man! look to Ed Too Tall Jones towering over everyone else. Unfortunately 
 is seems like some of the other people you think should definitely be in here are missing like 
 LT or Steve Largent. But considering what they needed to do to get the amount of famous former 
 pros they have is still impressive! You can always create any missing pros and throw them in the 
 mix. The teams and stadiums look great and the amount of customizing that can be done is pretty 
 amazing. The menus are kinda funky to navigate through and I for one am not a huge fan of the right 
 stick to pull up menu idea! But that seems to be 2K's thing this year. Besides exhibition, the 
 only thing they have is a Season mode (no Franchise) and it's pretty basic with schedule, stats, 
 and depth chart. No trading or anything like that. This is a football game for next gen that finally 
 added some co-op play! Take a hint EA! I haven't tried online multiplayer yet but if it's like 
 2k5 it should be great. However, when playing co-op one problem was our player cursors where pretty 
 close to the same color (blue and darker blue?) which got confusing every once in a while. Other 
 than that it work great. The actual player controls were pretty solid except for tackling. The 
 big hit stick seemed very hard to pull of and you'd usually just end up missing and go right past 
 the ballcarrier. Using the dive button also proved pretty useless about 80% of the time seeing 
 as you'd usually just brush off of him or just completely miss! I also noticed that even on rookie 
 setting, the computer was still a pain to tackle. Offensively running needs some work. There is 
 no way a defensive lineman should be able to run down Barry Sanders in the open field!! Even without 
 using turbo!! On that note, the computer seems to be able to close the gap on your runner pretty 
 easy but when you try to catch their runner, tapping the turbo as fast as you can does nothing 
 but wear out your finger! You'll never catch 'em.
  
  All in all, it's a great first effort on the next gen system but needed another month or two to 
 flush out some of the bugs. Bringing back the Crib or something like that would have been nice 
 too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csowdon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is what matters most. If your lacking in gameplay, it doesnt matter how fantasic your 
 graphics are. Conversely, if your gameplay is fantastic, most of us will accept subpar graphics 
 (but only to a certain degree of couse) . APF2K8 was made to be a Human Player vs Human Player game 
 focused on Online play. The single player game is lackluster. I don't think its fair to give this 
 game a bad review because it doesn't have Franchise Mode... or other features. It wasn't made for 
 that. Thats like rating a Cat a 5.7 because its not a Dog. You have to look at APF2K8 for what 
 it was designed to be. I think it does a nice job at that. The gameplay is very good. Not great, 
 but very good. The ability to fully customize your uniforms is pretty cool. It essentially becomes 
 part of who you will be online... a huge extension of your online Icon, if you will. How you play 
 will be paired with how cool your team looks. Overall the game is fun. But people looking for a 
 satisfying single player game will be disappointed. Anyone who plays with 3 or 4 friends will really 
 enjoy the matchups. I haven't gone online with it yet, so I don't know how that is. Im hoping someone 
 who has, will post a descriptive review for us. On a side note, one thing that always bugs me graphically, 
 is the 'ice skating' effect. I hate that! It occurs in APF2K8 sometimes. I havent noticed it during 
 actual plays so much, but a lot after the play finishes. Pet peev of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanakin
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  First, last-gen graphics don't bother me, K? You want football with next-gen graphics, then get 
 the barebones Madden ought-six.
  
  However, the gameplay and features don't acquit the game of lacking graphically. How can I count 
 the ways? The lack of the stadium sound feature from NFL 2K5 is a HUGE disappointment, and I would 
 hope it gets reinstituted in any future editions. Not being a fan of the music that someone else 
 liked enough to include in this game, it would've been nice to be able to substitute. On pre-snap 
 offense, there's no way to see receivers lined up off-screen to either side, so you can't check 
 to see to which button they were assigned.
  
  Like Jeff Thomas, the game needlessly obsesses over the myriad choices one has over aspects like 
 uniform color and design, which magnifies greatly any deficiences in gameplay.
  
  Now, because I'm not a total spoilsport, I must say that as a lifelong Broncos fan, it was fun 
 playing as John Elway or Karl Mecklenburg. And I suppose if I bothered to re-learn the controller 
 layout (instead of assuming it's identical to the typical EA layout) , I'd have an easier go of 
 it.
  
  All in all, it's a nice game to have if you can wait until they start dropping the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great customization modes, NFL Legends in all of their glory, return of Dan Stephens 
 and Peter O'keef, trash talking and harder hitting than the EA football games, game plays very 
 similarly to 2K5, online leagues, excellent presentation.
  
  The Bad: Graphics don't look much better than 2K5, not that many modes in general, no crib mode.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  We're only in July and football season is already heating up in 2007. All Pro 2K8 is the second 
 footbal game released this year, and it's also the epic return of 2K and developer Visual Consepts 
 to the world of football with this unlicenced game. All Pro begins with you creating a custom team, 
 which is one of the game's biggest pluses. You first pick a team name from a good set of pre-created 
 ones made by 2K. Second, you draft legends to your team. There are three sets of legends: gold, 
 silver and bronze. You select two gold, three silver and five bronze for your team, then the rest 
 of your team is filled with generic players generated by the computer. You can customize your team 
 jerseys, make your own legend and customize him in almost every possable way. The customization 
 is definately one of the biggest differences between NCAA 08 and All Pro. After you create your 
 team, you can play a quick game, start a season or hop online and compete with players from around 
 the globe. One thing that 2K did right with ESPN 2K5, which made it my favorite football game of 
 all time, was the presentation of the game. All Pro is also very well presented, and is actually 
 better presented than EA's games with the ESPN licence. At the bottom of the screen, you can turn 
 on a sports ticker that displays real life sports news as you play. Dan Stephens and Peter O'keef, 
 the commentators from 2K5 are back in 2K8, although many of their lines are the exact same as before. 
 There is also a half time and post game show just like in 2K5, but not quite as good. You also 
 watch refs present penalties, and observe the coin toss in realistic fashion. Although it does 
 make you dream about how much better the presentation of All Pro could have been with the ESPN 
 licence, it still does an excellent job in presentation and beats out NCAA in that catagory. The 
 gameplay itself is pretty much the same as 2K5, which is a good thing. It's more arcady than Madden 
 or NCAA, but it's more realistic than Blitz: The League. Instant replays are used often during 
 showstopping plays and there is a new feature that allows you to whitness the trash talking from 
 both sides, which is something the NFL would not allow. It also features more realistic, harder 
 hits than EA's games. It would seem that 2K has returned to the height of their football career, 
 but All Pro is lacking somethings that NCAA and Madden have lots of: gameplay modes. Sure, 2K8 
 has three good modes, but more would have been nice. The season mode consists of playing games, 
 and that's pretty much it. All of the training and preparation from the NFL games is gone, and 
 what's left is bare bones. The online mode does feature league play, which is a nice option, but 
 the inclusion of more single player, offline modes would have been nice. I would have also likes 
 to see the crib mode return. That was just cool and enjoyable. All and all, All Pro Football 2K8 
 is an excellent football game that brings 2K back in the race of gridiron games, but more modes 
 and better graphics would have been nice.
  
  Gameplay: It's harder hitting and more fun than the EA Sports games, but it lacks gameplay modes.
 
  
  Graphics: It still looks decent, but better graphics would have been nice.
  
  Sound: Excellent commentating and presentation all together.
  
  Value: This is a football game 
 you don't have to replace every year, but it wouldn't suprise me if 2K made a new one every year 
 anyways.
  
  Final Thoughts: The legend is back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choupeta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first timeyou may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first timeyou may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbean27
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very smooth. Tackling animations especially look really good. The passing could 
 be tighter. It seems like it takes to long to throw the ball. Maybe I'm just used to Madden. The 
 kicking game is a little frustrating to pick up as well. Overall a really good football sim. It's 
 just not the NFL. However, the team/uniform creation is pretty cool. But it's not the NFL. Kinda 
 feels like World League with Hall of Famers. V.2.0 should include more Hall of Famers to fill out 
 the rosters. Also for some reason your not able to move your DL around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaljeff
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  A longtime 2k Football fan, I have been waiting for this game like no other. Last year, I owned 
 both Madden and NCAA, and while amusing distractions, neither of these games got my heart pumping 
 like this one, or actually made me sit and play for hours on end......... this game does both....... Both 
 graphics and gameplay are top notch, and once again, I actually FEEL myself playing DEFENSE... this 
 is my biggest knock against Madden... I just don't FEEL IT, especially on defense. It as though this 
 game puts YOU on the field... I am no longer on my couch playing a VIDEOGAME, I am playing FOOTBALL...... Maximum 
 passing makes plays possible that you simply CANNOT make in Madden, which isn't to say it is easier, 
 because the 2k D is far more challenging than Madden..... Add to this a list of 13 new control features 
 such as on the fly Offensive line modifications, pass strrength charge-up, and body specific tackling 
 choices, and the choice is crystal clear...2k ALL THE WAY!!!... Did I mention this is the first 
 Football game that actually PUNISHES people who run 20 yards back in the pocket to pass.... your 
 throws will actually come up short or get picked off... JUST LIKE IN REAL LIFE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eminemboy162000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Madden killed off its competition with 2K Sports after seeing how successful NFL 2k5 was. Three 
 years later, 2K Sports is back at it again. Not being able to use current NFL players, 2K Sports 
 took an alternate route and decided to sign retired NFL legends. Would this game be legendary just 
 like the 240 people in this game? Not quiet. Not a legend, yet, but a deadly superstar with a lot 
 of potential in the future.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - Let me start off with the bad. I put bad in quotes because these things I can 
 definitely live without. Season mode is only one year. This, honestly, does not bother me because 
 I rather play against friends and people online. (Friends and people online tend to be harder to 
 beat than the damn computer.) Don't tell me you can't get online with this game. It's 2007 for 
 crying out loud. All Pro Football 2k8 doesn't have a franchise mode either. I just don't understand 
 how a franchise mode would be able to work with legends that are in their prime. They can't progress 
 anymore. Declining is the only way they can go. The crib is not in this game either. Big deal. 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - The good: The gameplay should be the most important thing in a game. You can 
 have a billion modes, but they are useless without good gameplay. Great gameplay is just something 
 that made people love 2K Sports. They have always been years ahead of their competition when it 
 came to gameplay, and it still holds true with this game. The gameplay in this game is EXCELLENT. 
 Honestly, the graphics are good. They're not superb, but they aren't horrible either. Like I said 
 before, GAMEPLAY SHOULD BE THE MOST IMPORATANT THING IN ANY GAME. 2K Sports is known for excellent 
 graphics as well, take a look at NBA 2k7 and MLB 2k7, but they wanted to put more emphasis on the 
 gameplay this time around. All Pro Football shows that a good presentation can be done without 
 the likes of ESPN. There is a half-time show and a post-game show. It's done by Peter, I believe. 
 It's pretty good. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
 -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Summary/Conclusion: It is lacking modes, but it isnt lacking 
 the most important fundamental in a gamegameplay. The lack of modes is the only thing that is 
 hurting this game. And, thats pretty sad because this is a terrific football game to play against 
 your friends and online. I, personally, don't need thee modes because of online play. They are 
 nice to have, but if you asked me to pick either 4-5 modes or great gameplay. Im picking gameplay. 
 Notice how no one isnt saying anything about the gameplay. The gameplay is superb. The graphics 
 are decent. The presentation is good. You know youre doing something right when the only thing 
 SOME people are complaining about is the lack of modes. Rent it, and youll end up buying it. Will 
 the legends suit up again for 2k9? You, the fans, are the deciding factor. Shut up and play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MWM5225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  the game starts with you creating your team with legends like Rod Woodson, Sweetness, Jerry Rice, 
 and much more. theres 3 classes 2 choose from Gold-jerry rice, silver-Ottis Anderson, and bronze-
 
  Bernie Kosar. The only down side is they dont have the likes of L. T. or Michael Irvin but Jerry 
 rice will do. once ur done creating u get 2 hit the gridiron to test ur team, but dont expect to 
 win. overall it took me about 5 tries or so each time i tried to perfect my team.
  
  dont belive what all the madden a$&amp; kissers r saying about this game, i belive this will be 
 a new begining for virtual football bcuz ive played madden and only madden for the past 3 years 
 and not even 06 has offered anything like this this game will ethier take over the top or push 
 madden 2 create a better game either way is good for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElloLady
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  While EA sports has a death grip on the NFL franchise name, 2k Sports brings out a well executed 
 game. While it doesn't have the graphics that the competition brings out, it does have a very well 
 executed system, with excellent hit detection and playability. No one team overpowers the other, 
 and the play calling goes back to the ESPN 2K5 days. New flairs came in, with the ability to do 
 different types of tackles to take out the different type of players. Higher tackles for more elusive 
 runners, lower tackles for power players, a big hit for when you have someone cornered, reach tackles, 
 and a move that was recently added as a penalty to the NFL, the horse collar take down. There are 
 a few problems, on SDTV there is a problem where the left side of the screen is cut off, clearly 
 designed to be a game meant to be played on HDTV. The character models are as defined as they could 
 be, but they do give the look of all the NFL legends you would come to know and respect.
  
  If you're looking for something other than EA sports and their slight add ons to their titles, 
 this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morbius41
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  .. But what is? I don't think to this day anyone has made the Perfect football game. However this 
 is what I thought of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  -------------
  The graphics are great and yes they are NEXT GEN great. I am hearing a lot of complaints on the 
 graphics themselves which I am completely disagreeing with. The wrinkles on jerseys tighten when 
 players walk or run, muscles flex, faces show emotion (Angry that they just missed the ball or 
 satisfied they broke a tackle) , the sidelines are heavily detailed with even fans for god sakes. 
 Love was dabbled into this baby. So much animation and graphic detail was placed in I could of 
 sworn the cherry on top would be seeing fans leave the stadium at the 4th early if the home team 
 was playing poor.
  
  Gameplay:
  ---------------
  The game was pretty dang fun. The movements are responsive and the animations on catches, jukes, 
 tackles, etc feel extremely smooth when executed. I am a little disappointed that there is no franchise 
 mode, because thats the only thing Madden has that I enjoy.
  
  The jersey editor is not very intuitive and you'll find yourself getting frustrated pretty fast. 
 The options are NOT endless either. The color palette for your Global Colors is pretty small, I 
 understand they are trying to keep players from looking like Rainbow Bright just spewed all over 
 them, but its nice to be able to add even more detail. As for the logos, not a lot to choose from. 
 It would have been nice if they took the Forza Motorsport route for the logo... but I guess we would 
 be seeing a lot of Lady Parts on helmets too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supes36
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the gameplay in this game just makes you shiver its that good. Playing with legends like Barry 
 Sanders, and Johnny Unitas is undeniably cool. Sadly then you realize that the only thing your 
 gonna be doin is playing and thats it. No franchise mode really hurts here and sadly the only real 
 negative is the price tag. Ouch, sixty five bucks for this game? I would have been happy with 49.99 
 sadly its not happening, but it still is extremly enjoyable! I would wait for it to go down in 
 price for those thinkin of a purchase, yet the fun from playin as legends is quite... Legendary. 
 Sorry i had to, Another thing the graphics are good but there are a buttload of jaggies, i'm talkin 
 alot. The create a player feature was also a little dissapointing. Come on guys, you can change 
 bone structure but not HAIR? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booforyou
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  50 yard bombs all day long. You will not succeed. This game is all about simulation football. 2k 
 pretty much nailed it like no other game before this. We all knew going into this game there was 
 no franchise mode. This game is to test the waters to see if there is a market for this kind of 
 simulation football. So, if your going to pick this game up, be prepared to take a lesson in football 
 101. The game play and the detail on the field is just amazing. You will have a ton of fun if you 
 stick around and learn how the game plays. There is a huge learning curve, this may throw some 
 people off. Lucky for me i am a hardcore football gamer. :) Online play is bar none the best i 
 have ever played. This game is like a chess match, you have to really think in this game. This 
 is what i personally love about it. Hopefully, they sell enough copies to continue this franchise. 
 It can only get better and better. From the kick off until the clock runs out. No game has ever 
 achieved what APF has. If your a hardcore football gamer looking for a real football game, stop 
 what your doing right now and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHalo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Strengths:
  
  - Most realistic running game to date (including NCAA) . It'll be interesting to see how Madden 
 does in this department this year because that's suppose to be one of the big changes made over 
 there, but as it stands nothing touches APF 2k8's ground game. The momentum behind the LOS and 
 how you can/or cannot cut for that matter is extremely realistic. The blocking AI is pretty darn 
 good, I haven't noticed any hiccups as of yet. Overall very realistic, you really have to work 
 for your yards on the ground, making the occasional big runs feel so rewarding.
  
  - Animations. This game completely blows everything out of the water here, it's amazing how smooth 
 and realistic the animations are. Also, there's so many of them which makes the game feel realistic.
 
  
  - Passing game is also superb. I know some people have complained about the animations that happens 
 with the QB, but really they're very realistic. With Neil O'Donnell I tried to lob up a deep pass 
 and he automatically took like 2 or 3 strong steps in the pocket and let the ball RIP. Which makes 
 sense because he doesn't have a cannon arm, so he has to take those steps and get his body into 
 the throw to make that type of pass. Also, when you throw off your back foot or try to throw on 
 the run with a pocket passer, YOU'LL KNOW. Being able to throw the ball while being wrapped up 
 is another great addition. We all know how frustrating it is in Madden when you try to throw but 
 they're already engaging the tackle animation, so even if your QB was winding up to throw he'll 
 automatically bring the ball back down and is forced to take the sack. So great addition 2k made 
 with that.
  
  - Blocking seems very realistic. Pockets develop the way they should. Blocking doesn't seem over 
 dominate and doesn't seem too weak either. It's just right, the AI is done well here.
  
  - Defensively I'm still getting used to everything, but it seems well done. The gang tackles are 
 pretty good. Right now the 3-4 doesn't feel right to me, hard to explain exactly why right now 
 though. But, other than that the D is cool.
  
  Downfalls
  
  More legends needed
  Graphics are good, not great. Some of the faces are AMAZING though.
  The way the players run 
 in the open could still be improved
  They still allow a little bumping of the WRs, I think the PI needs to be a TAD more sensitive than 
 it is right now.
  The jukes could be better
  The defensive controls don't seem very precise at times.
  
  Overall:
  
  9.1/10
  
  Must 
 buy if you were a 2k5 fan
  Must buy if you're into simulation football filled with strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaliSB
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Just got it a couple of days ago and I'm thoroughly impress. I haven't played previous 2k football 
 games and all I have to compare APF2k8 to is Madden 07 which I thought I loved. I'm glad I traded 
 Madden in for APF because it is definitely better. The uniform customization is pretty detailed 
 and the game play is good. I'm impressed by the voices in that game and the music is awesome. Visually 
 the game is appealing and has a more authentic feel to it when compared to Madden 07. Controls 
 are simple and intuitive. The best part is the way 2K programmed the game presentations. It actually 
 feels like a real game broadcast on your TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reppdogg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview of 2k making a new sports game i was very excited and thought that 
 madden would meet its match but after waiting months and months and buying this game it feels just 
 like NFL 2k5, the gameplay has not been touched at all. I was hoping that some of the AI issues 
 from 2k5 would have been issued like the computer being down by 4 scores with less than a minute, 
 yet still running a hurry up offense and calling timeouts. The graphics are a polished version 
 of the 2k5 engine as well. but for the good side of things playing as the legends is amazing and 
 will bring you back to the good old tecmo bowl days playing with joe montana and jerry rice. to 
 succed you must run a good steady offense and work for each yard you earn which is nice and big 
 plays are not to often made if you put the AI up to a hard setting. I think that bringing 2k football 
 back was the best thing since 360 was released and hopefully with 2k9 they keep the same style 
 but focus more on gameplay next year. the game is well worth the 60 dollars but do not expect something 
 you have never played before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbyFr3sh
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Well this game sucks at first don't get me wrong it will suck when you first play it but don't 
 get mad yet if u play it for a bit it starts to click and you will finally start getting better 
 at it. once you firguire out everything it is one of the funniest football games you play this 
 year if you don't have xboxlive then don't bother buying this game unless you like legends the 
 online in this game is amazing and the teams you can make are spectacular if you like sim games 
 and you hate unrealistic gameplay like 80 yard touchdowns while runnig with a qb like in madden 
 well this the game for you it is not that hard when you firguire out how to play. if the graphics 
 don't get you the gameplay will this is a must if you like football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trifekta9_basic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been a 2k fan since the beginning (espcially due to nba 2k and nfl 2k series) and have very 
 high expectations of this game. As a video game freak (sports especially) , I found it revolutionary 
 playing these games online with fellow ballas across the country anytime of the night. Up until 
 this day, I still feel the same way. We now have the capability of creating our own teams with 
 our own jerseys, stadiums, players, and playbook to match up against anyone online. I have always 
 bought these games with the intent of playing online to truly see how good I really am; whether 
 I get whipped or not. The single player mode should really be used for practice (not just franchise) 
 to improve your skills to see how well you do online. How often would we use franchise mode anyways? 
 I've never used it after all of these years. I play because I love football and I want to see how 
 I stand up to all of the best ballers in the country. The great gameplay and options for your own 
 teams in this game, allows for us to do that. No one can call you a cheeser since everyone now 
 has the ability to creat their own team. I wish they kept the D-line movement and the maximum passing 
 from 2k5. That is my only compalint. If you do not intend to play football online then I really 
 suggest you please stop being a wuss and take your beatings like a man so you can get better. That 
 is how you really get good at sports games online. Peace!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  First off all, it's painfully obvious to me that much like the console war (xbox 360 vs PS3) , there 
 will always be Madden fanboys and 2k fanboys, who, no matter how good or bad the actual games are, 
 they will stick to their views and ignore anyone elses. That's a shamed, but that's just the way 
 it is. I play both games, so I think I can be pretty fair. So here goes...
  The one area in which 2k games continue to just completely obliterate EA Sports is presentation. 
 2k games excel at it, EA games suck at it. All Pro football continues that tradition. From the 
 flyby view of the stadium, to the great commentary, to the player models, to the game statistics, 
 to the crowd noise and chants, to the field camera showing all of the action, to the Field Pass 
 .... you get the point. It's all very, very awesome. Oh yeah, there is even a halftime show and 
 wrapup show. Again, awesome. Graphics are pretty much on par with Madden, maybe slightly below 
 in some ways, maybe slightly better in some ways. But for the most part, it's a draw. However, 
 Madden has a leg up on Music, which is very repetitive in All Pro Football and most tracks are 
 very forgettable. Sound is hands down in favor of All Pro, since the commentary is great, the crowd 
 is more alive, and the hits on the field are vicious. Gameplay is very different from Madden. It's 
 a slower game, maybe not quite as smooth, but in motion it looks great. I would give the edge to 
 Madden in overall gameplay, but All Pro's gameplay is still very good. The main advantage in All 
 Pro is having to deal with legend players to win. Whereas in Madden, Terrell Owens is great, but 
 he won't necessarily beat you by himself. Walter Payton can... and will. On the negative side, there 
 is a total lack of game modes. But while people want to hammer this game for this, I would remind 
 everyone that this is standard stuff when a new franchise debuts on a new system. Look for Franchise 
 mode and a slew of others in next years game. In my opinion, the bottom line with All Pro is this: 
 the presentation is outstanding, and the gameplay is really fun, probably a little funner than 
 Madden. You can customize till the cows come home, too. There is room for two great football games, 
 and we have that now. I look for All Pro to make leaps and bounds next year. That said, this is 
 still a great game. I just wish EA would learn and few things from 2k and start presenting their 
 games better than they currently do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantherde
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Picked this game up as soon as it came out and i have to say WOW!!! Love it! As soon as you start 
 you can build a team full of legends (not the little baby's that are in the NFL now!) and take 
 the field. Now let me break it down...
  Game play: For every gamer who has ever strapped on the pads and played REAL football, you will 
 love this game as much as i do. Now a swarming defense that plays together as a team can make all 
 the difference in a close game. Gone are the days of madden where individual players can make or 
 break your team. Also, it is much easier to pick apart a defense with passing, as the defense can't 
 just call a zone coverage and then fly to the ball while it is in mid-air ( A feature madden has 
 yet to address) . Although this game is missing features like a franchise, i would much rather have 
 a game with solid mechanics and team game play over the option of being able the sell hotdogs for 
 $5 in my home stadium. Graphics: nothing to write home about, but it does look good. The fans often 
 look like distant pixels, but close up, they look second to none. Sound:
  Announcers suck, but it is better than a generic stadium announcer or a fat has been coach pointing 
 out the obvious. In short, better than madden, but not great. If your are a diehard fan of madden, 
 you will probably find this game frustrating and boring (this explains all the bad reviews on this 
 website) . However, if you understand REAL football and have been waiting for a game that focuses 
 on team play and solid mechanics rather than meaningless franchise options, than PICK THIS GAME 
 UP!!! you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_rod
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I am sure that everyone remembers the 2k series football games of the past. They were fun and I 
 liked them a whole lot better than the Madden series. My question is what happened to all of it? 
 I bought this game hoping to get a better version of the previous games and instead got a game 
 that was lacking in a ton of areas. The graphics are a plus but this is also the only football 
 game that 2k sports has made for the Xbox 360. The new kicking style was difficult at first but 
 I thought it was a nice touch to try to make things different. The fact that you can fully customize 
 a team was also a nice touch. If I never left the create a team section I would have loved this 
 game. I guess the part that really disappointed me was the fact that you could play a quick game 
 and a season and that was it. No franchise, no mini camp, etc. This is just my opinion though and 
 I hope for everyone that paid their $60 for it can get enough enjoyment out of it to not feel like 
 I do about the game. For everyone that agrees with me Madden comes out August 14. See you at Gamestop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejf0256
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I spent more time making teams then playing so far. The game play seems tight, 
 the graphics thou seem dated. They look great, however I keep thinking did they just redo the names 
 and staduims to confuse us and not start over from scratch.
  
  I will go on record and say that this WILL BEAT Madden this year as the best playing football game. 
 All the MADDENites will rip this game for old washed up players but, I love the classic debate 
 ending games that can be played. Is Jerry Rice the best of all time... I will see at seasons end. 
 GOOD FOR YOU 2K Sports ! The BULLY (ea) goes down !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myasg
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  one of the worst football games i ever played. madden certainly is in need of many improvements, 
 but it is far far superior to this game. i cannot believe that it made it thru production and into 
 the marketplace. i did have high hopes for it but the game is a major letdown. waiting for madden 
 to play some real football. sorry guys but this just does not make it. graphics are horrible, play 
 calling is just outright bad, action just dose not exist. it looks like madden is still the only 
 way to go and unfortunately they know that and do not have to put much more effort into it to prove 
 anything. now i have to see if my local retailer will take it back for full credit or if i have 
 to trade it in for whatever. either way i am getting rid of it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayMezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game Tuesday when it came out and when I got home and actually got to play it.... I 
 was dissapointed. The game graphics didnt look all that impressive to me... AT FIRST. Yes at first 
 I believed the game was a for sure port of 2K5. 2K should beat me for thinking that, cuz now as 
 I have kept playing the game. The game seemed to be like real football! The animations and dialog 
 between players and the on-field presence felt good. Let me break it down for you.
  
  Gameplay
  --------------
  This is classic 2K style football. If your familiar with 2K5 then 
 you'll feel right @ home w/ this game. When you get a feel for each player you get the feelin' 
 that it's actually them on the field playin just like old times. The animations are the best I've 
 seen in a football game period to date! some of the stuff you see on T. V. is seen in this game. 
 For Example the animations after the ball has been blown dead, players will take off with the ball 
 and run like it's a live ball!! Where have you seen this? NowHeRe!! Just the attention to detail 
 is what adds the realism to this game. Sidelines are alive with activity rather is the players 
 talkin' trash to the opposition or them catching players and slowing them down from hitting the 
 Gatorade cooler lol it's amazing. Presentation
  ------------------
  This was a bit of a short-coming due to the loss of the ESPN license I believe. The presentation 
 is still good, don't get me wrong, but I appreciated seeing the crowd cheering and the ESPN blimp 
 and the fly-by of the city before game time. Now that the license is gone, gone are all that that 
 I mentioned. Despite the significant lose of that stuff 2K has still put together a more than mediocre 
 presentation at best. It's not exactly really flashy but it gets the job done w/ the On-Field Pass 
 feature.
  
  The On-Field Pass is a great idea for hearing and seeing what goes on in the huddle before and 
 after plays. Sure some of the lines are corny but hey everybody ain't cool like that lol It puts 
 you on the field and in the game.
  
  Overall the presentation needs the next gen touch... but I'm sure they can get this str8 for next 
 yr.
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  The graphics at first on my HD-Ready TV looked kinda bad lol. But I don't what happened seriously 
 the 2nd time I played the game it looked better. The game looks gr8 on a HD-TV. The rain effects 
 and the snow and the afternoon shadows are amazingly beautiful. 2K did a good job on that in this 
 game like in 2K5.
  
  The player models are nice! From a distance you can't tell if they are as detailed as the screenshots 
 displayed but up-close the players look pretty darn good!! Madden 08 got a competitor on their 
 hands seriously. Still room for improvement however, they ain't perfect but the animations make 
 this game a winner! The animations are simply beautiful! NOT just the during the play animations 
 but the animations of after the whistle blows are nice! It gives the players life. Speakin of that 
 the addition of Signature Style adds to the life-like effect. The players moves and throwing motions 
 and running styles are all present. This adds to the realism and the overall feel for the game. 
 Iit feels good and natural. It feels like an authentic football just w/out the NFL title.
  
  Overall
  ----------
  If this was a grading scale from A-F... This game definetly gets an 
 B+. Why!? Cuz its everything you want from a football game.... Except the non-existence of the Franchise 
 mode, ESPN presentation-style, Crib and all that extra stuff. Franchise mode is not in the game, 
 and I can see why but its needed. Salary management wouldve been outrageous, so maybe not franchise 
 mode but some other type of mode should've been incorporated. I'm sure they are thinking of something 
 to replace that in the future until they get permission to use the NFL liscens again.
  
  Overall however the game is a good pick up to your Xbox 360 library!! I'd recommend giving it a 
 chance, it's better than most other football games and if you liked ESPN NFL 2K5 then you'll wear 
 that smile again and see that their is hope for REAL FOOTBALL out there. PEACE OUT PEEPS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcormier81
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  For the past few years the football gaming public has been monopolized by EA sports and the Madden 
 NFL franchise. Now that does not necessarily mean that football by any means has been sub-par but 
 as we all know necessity is the mother of invention. So here we are some three years since the 
 last 2k sports title and we finally get a taste of another football franchise, All Pro Football 
 2k8. Born from the ashes of NFL 2k5, 2KSports last NFL offering, All Pro 2K8 flies out of the gate 
 with a bang due to its exceptional game play. Choosing a play is easy and covert going with the 
 old school play selection screen, allowing players to select from 3 plays on the screen with 
 the touch of the corresponding button. The game runs smooth as silk from play to play. The character 
 models are crisp and clean. Tackling animations are plentiful to seemingly provide you with a more 
 realistic experience. The AI in the game comes through at every turn. Cornerbacks break on the 
 ball as it is passed. Pocket quarterbacks cannot throw on the run. Fleet footed running backs change 
 direction with the wind as opposed to a bruiser plowing throw opposing defensive lines. All in 
 all 2KSports has put together the exact football experience that you would expect from the team 
 that brought us all those years of football bliss.
  
  Now even though 2KSports has put together an excellent game. There is much to be desired about 
 its lack of depth. The game play is great, but with out the depth of control from ownership to 
 actual game time, All Pro 2K8 will not be able to compete on the same playing field as Maddens 
 long running juggernaut franchise. OK you dont have an NFL license to work with. Point taken, 
 but you have to offer the gaming community more than just one simple season of play. There is so 
 little substance that this game is barely worth being a party game. Football to most of the sports 
 gaming community is about being in control as if you were there. This game feels as though you 
 are watching a preseason re-run on ESPN Classic. 2KSports fails to bring much depth to a game that 
 could have competed with the likes of EA Sports and their long standing Madden NFL franchise. So 
 until this writer has a reason to leave his active NFL franchised roots, All Pro football has to 
 settle for a shanked field goal instead of a game winning touchdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibsd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  2k APF offers all of the excitement of a true football game, there's grind iron tackles, exciting 
 stadiums, excellent commentary and stunning game visuals that I missed in the past three installments 
 from EA Sports with the Madden franchise. 2K sports has given you lots of Ex-Pro's to choose from 
 and the list is almost endless. The AI plays very exact and the game sliders well lets say they 
 give you precision control adjusting the AI for your style of play. But there is one thing 2k APF 
 does not offer and that is the franchise mode. Given that mode this game would be complete and 
 for many maybe the answer to an alternative football game for the many who decide to purchase it. 
 I think (and I say I) 2k has put quality time into this game and they should be given thumbs up 
 for the effort.. With that said I say its a game that is vivid, appealing ,dynamic and a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dttdar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  First we must face the fact that 2k was never the graphically superior game until 2k5 and maybe 
 2k4. Saying that, menu and presentation graphics are slightly better than Nba 2k7.
  
  Having all the legends totally makes you forget about not having official Nfl players, and although 
 the fake team names aren't official, some totally suck while others aren't so bad. I doubt anyone 
 else could have done better. Creating your team is an exciting task overall and doesn't take long. 
 My only gripe is that I wish I knew more about the generic players that aren't legends so that 
 I knew where to place them on my depth chart. The game gives you absolutely no individual skills 
 information about them.
  
  Lack of a franchise mode is frustrating since this is why I play madden all year long.
  
  Onto 
 game play, It plays exactly like 2k5 with the exception of how realistically the players bodies 
 move. You cant stop and turn on a dime especially if your turbo is on and this is much more realistic 
 than madden. It seems as if all of the button actions have remained the same from 2k5 but I prefer 
 maddens button system better and there's no way to make the button actions similar to madden. I 
 don't like how you select plays because I prefer more selections available to me instead of three. 
 Nothing was changed from 2k5 about the play selection screen and its frustrating especially since 
 the play clock runs faster than it does on madden.
  
  If you've played Nba 2k7 the player models should look instantly familiar even down to the sweat 
 on their bodies. This is a good thing; however this type of quality is only seen up close. The 
 game play camera reveals the lack of texture in the game as far as grass, player uniforms, and 
 stadium. This is frustrating and makes the game seem inferior. Its frustrating because if the player 
 models look so good up close then why cant the grass and other stuff look as good far away?
  
  Overall its a good game, but you find yourself wanting more because you expected more from 
 a series thats been gone for 2 years. After playing this game I can't imagine much development 
 that needed to be done. Make the stadiums (intermediate) , Make the menu system (easy since it's a 
 lot like Nba 2k7) , Copy Nba 2k7's player models and movements, Copy 2k5's game play. You see, most 
 of the work was copying and I'm sure the developers weren't the ones signing the legends. Also 
 think about the fact that ea had one year to produce a similar game regarding features in madden 
 06 on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  After EA inked a five year deal locking up the NFL license back in 2004, Visual Concepts was shunned 
 from anything that had to do with the NFL. Take-Two then reacted by saying it was a tremendous 
 disservice to the consumers. And rightly so, as now EA would be the only company allowed to make 
 a realistic football sim, thus taking away the gamer's freedom of choice. But while Visual Concepts 
 was on their three year hiatus, they came up with a wonderful idea that proves you dont need an 
 NFL license to make a great football game. All Pro Football 2K8 brings back the classic style of 
 play that gamers have come to love from 2K football games. All of the gang tackles, touchdown celebrations, 
 player animations, and crowd reactions are back and better than ever. But what about the players 
 and teams you ask? Well theyve got that covered too I assure you. With over 240 classic hall of 
 fame players of the past, this title proves to be a force to be reckoned with. Players from the 
 likes of Dan Marino, John Elway, Jerry Rice, and Barry Sanders just to name a few. If you can think 
 of a classic NFL hall of famer, chances are hes in this game. Which is great, because who wouldnt 
 want to sling a bomb off the arm of Dan Marino down the field only for it to find its way into 
 the soft hands of Jerry Rice? Is there really anyone out there who wouldnt jump at the chance 
 of reenacting some of John Elways classic fourth quarter come backs? Trust me on this one, the 
 lack of current teams or players is in the back of your mind when youre breaking tackles and racking 
 up some serious yards with Barry Sanders. Everyone has their own favorite, their own legend, or 
 their own hero. And with All Pro Football 2K8 Im sure youll have plenty of fun with whoever that 
 player may be. When you pop the disc into your console, the first thing it brings you to is the 
 player select screen. This is where you will completely create and customize every aspect of your 
 team. You start out by picking your two gold tier players, than your three silver ones, and lastly 
 your six bronze players. Each position has at least one player in each tier, covering all of the 
 greats from years past. Once you pick those eleven players, it takes you to the fill roster screen. 
 The objective here is to let the game know what type of players you want filling out the rest of 
 your team. Do you want pass or run blocking offensive lineman? How about some pass rushing defensive 
 lineman? Or maybe some safeties that hang back to help out on the deep ball? The choice is yours. 
 Once done here, you are then able to pick your teams logo, name, stadium, city, and uniforms. 
 The customization is endless as you have thousands of combinations to choose from. It could take 
 you at least a half an hour deciding on what fits best for you, but thats what Visual Concepts 
 wants. Delve, dig deeper, and use strategy to create a team that can easily dominate your opponents. 
 Once all of that is done, you are taken to a team select screen for a game, and this actually doubles 
 as All Pro Football 2K8s main menu. It definitely takes some time getting used to, but once you 
 grasp the concept it turns out to be one of the more innovative menus in sports games today. You 
 push the right thumb stick to the right and the menu slides out, while pushing it back left will 
 obviously send it back. From here you can choose quick game, teams, season, practice, options, 
 features, or online. Most of these are pretty self explanatory, while features has some things 
 of note. You have a feature called 2K Reelmaker, which allows you to edit saved replays and upload 
 them onto the 2K Network to share with everyone. This sounds like an amazing idea, but you have 
 to purchase the editing software off of the Xbox Live Marketplace or PlayStation Store. So thats 
 a bummer. From the features menu you can also select V. I. P which shows you all of your cumulative 
 stats across all games played, as well as show you your tendencies depending on how you play. This 
 can come in handy if youre looking for a way to change your game plan. The one last thing in the 
 features menu is celebration maker. This lets you assign celebrations to four buttons so that when 
 you do something miraculous on the field, you make sure everyone else knows it. So once you get 
 through all of that, its time to play ball.
  
  If theres one thing that Visual Concepts knows how to do, its give the player a great experience 
 while playing their products. The gameplay, as you would expect, is magnificent. The players move 
 so fluidly and just seem so real. Each player plays different depending on what they were like 
 in real life. They really got it down to the tee as Ive seen some things that players do that 
 I never thought they could capture. For example; in real life when Dan Marino would get to the 
 end of his drop back, he would dip the ball a little bit while looking for receivers, and that 
 is totally in the game. The new dynamic sideline is interesting as well. Now when balls fly into 
 the sidelines bench players will catch them instead of just stand there, and if someone runs out 
 of bounds the players will try and slow him down or just get out of his way depending on which 
 side you fly into. Overall I was shocked at the realism that brought into this game, and it was 
 really a joy to play. This visuals in All Pro Football 2K8 arent stunning, but they arent bad 
 either. The graphics seem dated at times, and some of the player models dont exactly resemble 
 the person they are portraying very well, but they arent disgusting. All of the different player 
 animations were a sight for sore eyes however. You can really tell that youre playing a 2K football 
 game, and thats a great feeling. The way the players move and fight for the ball is fantastic. 
 Not only are the player animations good, but the crowed looks outstanding as well. A lot of the 
 stadiums feature something that has to do with the team you chose. Say you chose the Sharks, the 
 default stadium is Amity Stadium. This place has a huge, and I mean huge, shark at one end of the 
 field. After every home touchdown the shark goes crazy and sprays water everywhere, and this really 
 gives you a sense of the over the top nature that Visual Concepts brought into this game, and it 
 really is quite refreshing. Dan Stevens and Peter OKeefe are back again as the announcers for 
 All Pro Football 2K8 and what a treat it is. They really do a great job presenting the game to 
 the player, as well as crack a few witty jokes every once in a while. Some of the voice tracks 
 have been brought back from past games, but its been three long years so Im not complaining. 
 They conduct a nice recap at the end of each half, and all in all do a great job commenting on 
 the game. The stadium noise is filled with excitement, and the crowed seems to know whats going 
 on. They cheer when they need to cheer, they boo when they need to boo, and they even shout chants 
 and phrases to pump up their teams legends. While the voice acting for the players is a little 
 more than a bit off, the on the field sounds are phenomenal. Each hit sounds earth shattering, 
 and the quarterbacks couldnt sound more annoyed by the referees bad calls. There is even a Rush 
 song on the soundtrack, albeit a remix but its still Rush. The other songs on the soundtrack arent 
 bad either, and just feel right for football. Although this game has some incredible gameplay and 
 a tremendously deep customization feature, it lacks severely in any real depth. The season mode 
 is obviously only one season long, and there really isnt much else to do offline. Thankfully the 
 online play is outstanding, and this could set a new bar for online sports games in the future. 
 The teams you create offline are the ones you play as online, so this brings a whole new element 
 of strategy into the fold. You have your basic lobby system as well as quick play, leagues, and 
 tournaments. The way the leagues work is just like the offline season mode, except youre playing 
 against real people of course. You get all of the features of the season mode like trades, scouting 
 reports, league leaders, and a playoff ending with a champion. Players can scout you by using your 
 2K player card, which works much like the V. I. P. system offline and tracks all of your stats and 
 tendencies across every game played online. Users can also trade created teams by using the team 
 code provided for you in the game. You can give these codes to friends and they can input them 
 to unlock the team you created and use it as they please. There is also a 2K ticker that is implemented 
 in the entire game. Once you activate it with the push of a button, it will always be there. Online 
 or off, as long as your console is connected to the internet, it will keep you up to date on everything 
 in the world of sports. All of this helps to add to a pretty shallow game as a whole, and provides 
 some great online experiences to boot. So without an NFL license, Visual Concepts has created something 
 that any fan of the game of football can enjoy. Even if youre too young to remember any of these 
 classic players, just knowing that youre playing as some of the greatest men to ever put on cleats 
 can send shivers down your spine. With all of the hall of famers aside, the return of that classic 
 2K style of play combined with an exceptional online component is enough to warrant at least a 
 rent, if not a buy. Even with its shortcomings Visual Concepts definitely brings back the look, 
 the feel, and the atmosphere that all football games should have. The tagline doesnt lie, All 
 Pro Football 2K8 is without a doubt football resurrected. ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovartus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  So I went to my local EBX game store and pre-payed a little over 65 bucks back in June right? Waited 
 and looked at the media over the next few weeks and finally July 17 th rolls around. I trot into 
 EBX during my lunch break and head home to play my new 2K title. Pop the game in and bumble through 
 making my dream team. Time to play a game.... I'm already a little suspect of the presentation, 
 mind you.
  
  Memphis Pharaohs vs. ? (whoever it was)
  
  And I see what appears to be first gen graphics on a 2k8 game.... wait, this is 2k8 right? I guess 
 I was expecting to see 2K step it up in 08 but I was wrong. No polished players, no spectacular 
 stadium graphics, just artwork. OK VC, let's get something straight. When I stood in line and payed 
 $399 for my XBOX 360, I expected something spectacular to show up on my screen. So I popped in 
 my first game, NBA LIVE 06 and was blown away with the visuals. Granted, that's all it was, visuals. 
 The game sucked, BAD. It looked fantastic. I wanted game-play so I took it back and settled for 
 NBA 2K6 and became a true 2K fan. Now, back to the game. I played for about 20 minutes, pressed 
 eject and started on my way to EBX. I was seriously about to trade the game in for NCAA 08 and 
 take the $30 hit. I didn't make it to EBX so I decided to play the game for a min to see if I missed 
 something. I said to myself, Self! , huh? , lol Overlook the graphic disaster and dive into the 
 game of football. So, I did.
  
  3 hours later, I was impressed. The game-play was incredible. I was most pleased with the defensive 
 adjustments. Assigning a CB to a WR and assigning people to cover certain areas or to blitz a certain 
 way... I love it.
  
  So I check out the online stuff. It was nice to see that 2K decided to make some online lobbies 
 for longer quarters. Wow, 5 mins is just too short and is breeding grounds for cheesers. I didn't 
 really notice any lag online and played a couple great games. I took the time to create my jerseys 
 and so forth so my team will look how I want them to and it makes a little difference to the feel.
 
  
  Overall, it's fun. I can see it having replay value if you get into online leagues and lobby play. 
 Otherwise, I'm sure it will get pretty boring quick. With only being able to play one season at 
 a time, you tend to loose interest after you beat it once.
  
  Final thought of the game. It's like went you go out with your boys hoping to score and you all 
 meet up with a bunch of hot chicks. You know everyone is going home with someone and they all are 
 down for the whole agenda. You get stuck with the average looking one that will do it all. You 
 have a blast for one night and you might call her later on if the need to be pleased comes around 
 but she isn't girlfriend material. Ya feel me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puddy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is a breath of fresh air. We have suffered through 2 years of Madden and some OK games 
 from them. But nothing compares to the gameplay of 2k8. Credit has to go to Visual Concepts on 
 this one for putting gameplay ahead of graphics. There was no sacrificing the gameplay to have 
 pretty menus and more detailed fields and player models that you will find in Madden. The only 
 problem with EA's game is they come with a price, stuttering menus, unresponsvie controls.
  
  The base engine for this 2K game is brilliant and the attention to detail is great. Being able 
 to create your own team is a stroke of genius and I think revolutionary. Playing old greats like 
 Walter Payton is so fun. This game is a football sim in its core, but also gives a great deal of 
 arcade control to really pull you into the experience. Much of the gameplay is taken straight from 
 2K5 and cleaned up.
  
  I like the announcers a lot and although they borrow a lot of lines from 2k5, it is smooth and 
 entertaining. The sountrack is good. I do miss the custom stadium soundtrack.... hopefully next 
 year.
  
  No franchise mode. I usually don't play it, but some may miss it. I do agree after a season you 
 are left wanting, so it would be nice to have SOMETHING of a franchise mode.
  
  Anyhow, overall I LOVE this game. It won't get this award from the review websites, but it will 
 likely be sports GAME OF THE YEAR in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrburdine
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok Ok Ok...
  I do not care who you are or where your from, if you do not like this game then get the hell out 
 of football nation...
  this is by far the best football game ever made...
  who cares if this game does not have any license, it has the legends, hell even if it didnt have 
 the legends this would still be the best game ever...
  oh and for someone who said they have had 3 years to make this game, wrong wrong wrong, 2k started 
 back in december making this game, in less then 7 months they made the best football game ever, 
 just think if it took 3 years, can you say OMG... this game has the presentation, the gameplay, 
 the graphics, the animation, and everything else you come to love from 2k, so to all the 2k haters, 
 you are just ashamed of yourselves for bashing this, cuz you stick to your yearly madden roster 
 updates...
  i mean come on i have never in madden ever caught myself watching a play over and over and over 
 just to hear the helmets crunch together, or even to just to stare at the charecter models in amazement 
 Im sorry to say this, but madden will never be this good...
  NEVER NEVER NEVER NEVER NEVER
  now someone please tell me im wrong... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boston_College
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  So this is the return of football for 2K Sports. What this is, is a plain fun realistic, great, 
 fantastic football video game. So basicly for starters there are 240 former football players. You 
 select 11 of them for your team that you must create. 2 Gold Tear (John Elway 3 Silver tear players 
 (Randal Cunnigham) and 6 bronze tear players. At first you will think this game is crap! It bad. 
 It's Horrible! Just keep making teams and trying them out and tweaking them untill you feel confortable 
 with one. Once you do that go into season. Play evrey game. Go Undefeated and win the championship- 
 175 gamer point for it all combined. After that look over yor uniform. Tweak it some more. Then 
 go online with it. Join a leauge an be at evreygame and have some fun. Then after that i don't 
 know make another team and repeat. Then your done with the game. Total Gameplay time- A LONG TIME 
 AND WORTHE $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  frist off the graphics why ps2 graphics i think this is 2007 not 2005, someone should of told 2k 
 sports, maybe they spent to much money for sign ups, but at times its like playing 2k5 they just 
 added the old players did some tuning up here and there and said there 2k8, this is not bad but 
 this is 2007 we live in the time of the 360 and the ps3 cheap 2k sports cheap, the game is fun 
 to play, playing roger the dodger O. J. drew person so many others is just awsome, the game is tough 
 playing so far i have lost one and won one and close games, lot of mixing up you can do in this 
 game and thats great, lot of replay value here and i give 2ksports credit for thinking of this 
 great idea, sure EA is going darn darn, i think next year will be great for now this is a warm 
 up, go buy it and enjoy it is worth a buy i love being O. J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeneb430
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  First things first, if you are looking for a huge dynasty mode, owner mode, superstar mode, etc. 
 look towards Madden, APF2K8 will not satisfy those wants. However if you love the game of football, 
 All Pro Football 2K8 makes up for the lack of game modes with great game play. The main feature 
 of All Pro Football 2K8, is the over 240 legends available to build your team with and play against. 
 Right when you boot up the game, it thrusts you into a create a team feature. From here you go 
 on to choose 2 gold stars (Joe Montana, Barry Sanders, Jerry Rice) , to i believe 6 silver stars 
 (Randall Cunningham, Ricky Waters) , and 8 bronze stars (remaining legends ) . After you choose your 
 top players the computer fills the rest of your team with other mediocre legends and custom made 
 players.
  
  You then go on to pick your teams logo, name, city, stadium, and customize your teams colors. This 
 is a very deep create a team mode and all the stadiums, logos, and names are great. You cannot 
 make up your own team name, you must choose an already existing name. This may sound bad but it 
 is good as you will always hear the announcers say the name of your team. There is also a season 
 mode in All Pro Football 2K8. However it is very limiting. It is a standard single season where 
 you just check the schedule, play your games, hope for the playoffs. You cannot trade, release 
 players, or sign free agents which is a huge letdown. After the playoffs and Championship game, 
 the season ends. There is no multi season here. Very disappointing. The season mode is worse than 
 Blitz The League... yea, pretty bad.
  
  Like I said earlier, despite the lack of game modes, All Pro Football 2K8 is still the best core 
 football game out there. The core game play, going out on the field and playing a football game, 
 is the best any game developer can make. It plays a lot like ESPN NFL 2K5 (obviously) . However 
 the game feels much smoother. The right analog stick does alot of the same thing it does it madden. 
 On the offensive side it acts as basically a ripoff of EA's highlight stick. On the defensive side, 
 it is better than the Hit Stick EA developed for Madden. This is because it isn't just a hit stick. 
 You can perform reach tackles hoping to grab a piece of the ball carriers shirt as he runs past 
 you, or you can do a standard tackle, or a big hit.
  
  Graphics are lacking, it is a step under Madden as far as graphics go but that is not a bad thing. 
 All Pro Football 2K8 is a great looking game. Players jersey's animate which looks really cool. 
 The players faces are fantastic. There are some rough edges here and there, however the games runs 
 great all the time, I have experienced no slow downs as of yet.
  
  Last but not least All Pro Football 2K8 has a cool online mode. you can check news on all sports 
 in the U. S. MLB, NBA, NHL, NFL, it is very cool. There is also a 2K Sports ticker which is always 
 on as long as you are always on X Box Live or Play Station Network if you have PS3. This ticker 
 gives you up to date scores, and news from all of those sports. You can toggle on or off the sports 
 you may or may not want to read about, or turn the ticker off all together. Onto the main Online 
 component... MULTI PLAY! It's fantastic, I played a game with NO slowdown at all! I got into a 
 game quickly, the game got started quickly and I had a ball the entire time playing it. This is 
 an online mode I am sure will bring about leagues, and will last until the next 2K football game 
 comes out. It is that much fun to play online and gives this game that lacks in game modes a heck 
 of a lot of replay value.
  
  If you are looking for an alternative to the same two football games EA has given you since 2004 
 and/or have been waiting for 2K Sports to bring you a new football game since EA bought the rights 
 to NFL games in December 2004, then you are in luck. All Pro Football 2K8 is a great core football 
 game experience. If you can look behind the lack of single player game modes, and take the game 
 as a straight up football game, then you will most definitely enjoy All Pro Football 2K8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  it has been an long 3 year wait .but the wait is over .this game is sick .from graphics ,control, presentation, sound 
 .its what we all thought the 360 could do .refs on the field side line refs ,line of scrim, the 
 list goes on and on .its just fells like your watching tv or something like that .very crisp. my 
 only real issue is why cant i move the defs line and we need a patch for that auto srafe crap .we 
 dont like it on in rank games .but everything else in the game is flawless. an must have if you 
 love football . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finecheeselover
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - It's great, it just takes some time to get used to. Turning up the game speed to fast 
 can be beneficial to initially frustrated players. The running game is amazing as expected from 
 2k, and passing is fine too, it just takes time to learn. The more the play, the better you get, 
 the more fun it is.
  
  Graphics - Amazing up close (in replay/cutscene) , but from the game camera somewhat blurry (I'm 
 playing in full HD btw)
  
  Sound - A lot of the old commentary and semi-robotic voices. Typical 2k soundtrack.
  
  Value 
 - Creating and customizing team is extremely fun. I'm not big on franchises, but the lack of a 
 franchise in this game isn't as bad as some would have you think - I mean wouldn't it be terrible 
 to be playing with all generic players after a few years (the legends are the whole point of it) . 
 To conclude: The more the play, the better you get, the more fun it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfuchaos
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  ill keep this fairly short. If you loved NFL 2K5's gameplay and overall feel, you will love APF 
 2K8! Sure its minus the current NFL rosters, but I honestly didnt notice once I started playing. 
 The over 240 NFL Legends keep the game very fun and interesting. The graphics are definitely following 
 in NBA 2K6 and 2K's footsteps onto the Next Generation consoles. There is a ton of creativity you 
 can put into your rosters as you can create players from scratch, totally control the look of you 
 teams uniforms as well as choose the city you play in and there are numerous stadiums to choose 
 from. Season mode and online play will surely fill your football needs. The only negative outside 
 of EA hording the NFL and NFLPA licenses is the curious lack of a Franchise mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madehumble
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This is what football is meant to be a sim. It is classic 2k gameplay and visually way ahead of 
 2k5. The only down side is that you have to have a HDTV to enjoy all the visuals. This game also 
 has a learning curve that madden doesn't have because it is a sim. There is no dropping back throwing 
 touchdowns a 100 yard, on this game you have to know football trust me and the AI teaches you this 
 quick because it plays like human players even on ththe default setting. This year 2k you did great!!!!! 
 Here is a link to some game photos from a 1080I hdtv:
  
  http://2ksports. com/forums/showthread. php? t=129014 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Simply put APF2k8 the greatest football game no one has really gotten into. One day of playing 
 2k8 doesn't justify all the details and great gameplay this game has to offer. Anyone comparing 
 this game to NFL2k5 is an idiot. APF2k8 is leaps and bounds superior to 2k5 as far as gameplay 
 and graphics. If you have a cheap standard tv then you might think otherwise, but everything APF2k8 
 spells quality. I've invested a good amount of hours and this plays much more realistic than any 
 football game before it. The animations flows like a real televised broadcast and the commentary 
 is great, it's good to still have Peter O'keefe and Dan Stevens in the booth. It's dissapointing 
 not having a Franchise mode, but there's always next year, but customizing the teams logos, ect. 
 will entertain you after a game break. In summary this is not a personal review but rather a game 
 impression. Anyone in doubt I strongly suggest renting, but any real 2k fanatic I recommend this 
 game without hesitation. Is it like 2k5? Please, enough with the comparison and make some mental 
 adjustment. No NFL license? big deal, at least we have the legends that make up for it. This franchise 
 will only get better year after year until the license is back in 2k's hand. In the meantime enjoy 
 the greatest football game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joliveirashs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Awesome! One of the best if not the best football sims ever made. Everything is pure football, 
 it comes down to execution and playcalling. Who ever is the smarter player will win the game, it's 
 not whoever can find the most exploits wins .. like some other football games. Online leagues, 
 which no other football next gen game has to offer so makes the replay value that much more. Season 
 mode with each of your teams, thousands of possible teams you can make so thousand different kind 
 of seasons you can play. Online is awesome, and if you don't know football you can't play this 
 game, try running and scrambling 30 yards back to throw a 60 yard pass, you won't make it 30 yards 
 back. Plus if you do get a ball off expect it to be picked because, guess what you actually have 
 to plant your feet if you want your pass to be accurate. Run game is amazing, allows you to control 
 everything, new kicking method is cool but does take a 5 or so games to get use to. If your a REAL 
 FOOTBALL fan, this game is for YOU!
  
  Graphics are alot of things people are complaining about, now if your trying to compare this game 
 with Gears of War, you'll be very dissapointed. If you compare it to other sports games It's nice. 
 Some parts of the graphics are above average, other sections are below. The graphics and 7/10. 
 They are pretty good in some parts, below average in other. Gameplay can't get any better tho, 
 10/10 without question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothingman97
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I'll put right out there, I hate Madden and EA for attempting to eliminate competition in 
 the football genre.
  
  That being said, I loved 2K football games and I guess that's why I was so angry when EA secured 
 the NFL, AFL, NCAA, and NFL Europe licenses. So, along comes 2K back into the foray.
  
  Woohoo! I have been so excited for months awaiting this game. The idea of assembling a team from 
 former NFL greats and picking out the logo and the uniforms and all that jazz had me drooling. 
 The promise of football resurrected made me all giddy.
  
  So, then I actually play the game, and I had that eerie feeling that I had played it before. Oh 
 wait, I have...... NFL 2K5. Same commentary, same graphics, same gameplay, but without some key 
 features like franchise mode, more in-depth stats, and the crib, just to name a few.
  
  I'm disappointed. I know it's their first game in 3 years, but that's the point. They had several 
 years experience making awesome football games and 3 years just to make this one. Considering that 
 a new football game comes out every year, 3 years is an eternity.
  
  Overall, the game is okay. It's not groundbreaking, it's just mediocre. It's a great idea and not 
 so great execution.
  
  Really, 2K should be ashamed for not putting more effort into this product. I guess I'll look forward 
 to future improvements and another year of EA's force feeding of NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnta1723
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is nfl2k is back, or is it. All pro brings back the legends of yester year and puts 
 them on the face of a football franchise training to gain some ground back in this next gen world 
 we live in. But wait i could have sworn it was for xbox 360 which is a next gen console but the 
 graphics and player model still looks like dreamcast. But wait theres more......
  
  There is some good though all pro brings back barry sanders, jerry rice and many more legends. 
 It is a great multiplayer game but lacks an in-depth season mode and also if they are going to 
 promote touch down celebrations how about some new ones and not the same old ones. The game is 
 overall fun for the family but until the can catch up with the next gen graphice of the year to 
 come it still needs work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandz22
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  If it aint broke dont fix it! Great gameplay, smooth animations. The players look very lifelike. 
 The plays are great. They have also added more life to the players, more dialoge between the players 
 in the game. Definitely fixed the ghost bug. Players running right through one another is a thing 
 of the past. The best simulation football ever, madden must take notes. You can actually run the 
 ball! you can juke and break tackles, the right analog stick is used for kickoff, great new feature. 
 Really feels like you have more control over the kickoffs and field goals. This game rocks  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrXcalybur32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  No quarterback 50 yard no look passes here EA fan boys, just pure football. Setting up offensive 
 scripts and realistic defense brings a warm welcome back to 2k's football offering. Though the 
 play selection is somewhat limited the game still packs an playbook punch. Every pass must be thought 
 out and every big run breakout move planned. Presentation is nostalgic of ESPN 2k5 minus Chris 
 Berman, but the big plays are shown in sportscenter spectacular fashion. Though commentary is dated 
 and cut and pasted onto legends bio's the commentary is coherent and johnny on the spot . My recommendation? 
 Want fast paced arcadey goodness? not the game for you but if you want REAL football action. APF 
 2k8 got your back on this one. Have Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddenite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  All-Pro Football 2k8 is a great game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics aren't as strikingly similar to 2k5 as people think. They just beleive what other 
 people tell them. In reality, the only thing similar about the graphics is the engine used. Gameplay:
 
  
  Gameplay is simply amazing. If you think it's going to be like Madden where you just run around 
 in circles in the pocket, drop back 30 yards, and throw a bomb, you'll be shocked. This game is 
 very realistic in the sense of gamespeed and players reacting the way they normally would. This 
 is an entirely different game, and if you try and play it like Madden, you'll get frustrated every 
 time.
  
  Creating:
  
  Team creating is an amazing innovation by 2k Sports, and I was very pleased with it. And you simply 
 can't beat creating legends and players 2k forgot AND taking them online.
  
  What could have been better:
  I think they made some burps in the online play, and we need more 
 than 1 season mode. But besides that, it's a very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OSNAPANTHONY
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  The First effort for the 2k football series outshined EA's but, It did not live up to the hype. I 
 still play 2k5 and was expecting at least a prettier upgrade but, All I got was a Playdoe looking 
 football experience. I like the Stadiums and Highlight reels but, Other than that It's just ok to 
 me. Next Year Hopefully the time spent with the new software and systems will produce what we know 
 2k can do and please! Please give us the power to Edit and que up our own music into the game. That's 
 been my all time favorite Extra in any game to date 2k5 Rules and not so much 2k8. Maybe 2k9? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sylvanus090
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  There's MUCH to discuss about the game, but I'll keep my impressions short:
  
  - We've had 2-3 years of EA based football games and are used they way they run the show. There's 
 going to be an adjustment period.
  - Just because a player was great doesn't mean you can play them greatly. IE: I had Walter Payton, 
 but I'm more of a strong north/south power run player. As a result, when I first picked my team, 
 I based it on my favorite players and failed. Once I picked my team based on MY play strengths, 
 I fared much better.
  - Once you start to get deeper into the gameplay, the player's singature moves start to show. That's 
 when it wow's you.
  - Players need a supporting cast that gells properly. IE: Don't expect a finesse runner to do well 
 with a vanilla QB &amp; line. You'll be lucky if he can get out of the backfield.
  - You need a strategy for your Defense. Whatever it is, just plugging in Superstars isn't the answer.
 
  - The graphics are fine enough for the players. The custom stadiums are cool. The grass is horrid. 
 The game was made for widescreen TV's. It's jaggy on 4:3, but playable.
  - There are numerous oversights/shortsightedness (seems rushed in ways) .
  - The gameplay is good 
 and is freaking GREAT when the players do their signature moves. They also tick you off like no 
 tomorrow when you're on the receiving end (4th quarter comebacks and all - I CHEERED when I picked 
 off John Elway with 00:28 left to go in the 4th as he was charging down the field.
  - You're thrown right into making a team. This is part of the shortsightedness stated above.
 
  - I LOVE the customization, but why aren't there any regular swords for logos (I wanted to have 
 the Knights but settled for Nightmares (Which totally freaking rock, btw) ) ?
  - I want to post highlights/screens online ala Forza.
  - I haven't tried online play yet but 
 want to.
  
  There's more to it, but I like it overall. It'd sell like crazy at a lower price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  All-pro football marks the return of the 2k football games, but this time on next-gen. First off 
 when you start the game it will allow you to create a team of superstars of the past. The gold/silver/bronze 
 tier system is a good way to separate the legends from the greats. With so many different players 
 in each tier, it allows a lot of re-playability in the game. The customization of your teams colors 
 and uni's are next. You could spend hours just on the process of making your uniform amazingly 
 awesome. Then after all that is done, its time to strap the helmets and hit the field. You can 
 tell that the graphics were updated on the players right from the get go, although it is apparent 
 that the 2k sports games have been missing for quite a while, the field looks very 2D. The stadiums 
 are over the top, but in a good way, making it a real special thing when you score a TD. The players 
 have a huge array of animations, but this does take away from the game a bit at first until you 
 get used to it. For example the quarterback: You drop back to pass and are holding the left stick 
 down, the you let go and throw it, since there are a bunch of animations, if you hit the throw 
 button too early, it results in the QB throwing off of his back foot. So the animations look nice 
 but, they should be tuned down a bit. But besides that minor thing, the online play is stellar 
 letting you pit what you think is the best team, against someone else who thinks they got the best 
 team. A cool system instead of having the same old 32 teams face off against each other in madden. 
 Overall this game is a great game to buy for the summer, a great new twist from a returning franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars07
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I still play NFL 2K5 sometimes, so naturally I had high expectations for this game. And while it 
 is not a bad game, I have a hard time recommending that someone shell 60 bucks for it. I would 
 recommend renting it first like I did.
  
  I did enjoy playing with the Legends. The gameplay is at the top notch level that you would expect 
 from 2K Sports. I also have to admit that I liked the stadiums.
  
  Problem is that the overall experience of the game is lacking. How they could not throw in a Dynasty 
 mode is just beyond me. This game is basically just season mode and online mode. This game simply 
 needs more features to give it more replay value. The fact that 2K Sports has had years to develop 
 this game also makes the lack of features a bit puzzling. Also, the other players who are not Legends 
 are basically just there to fill roster spots. The announcing sounds pretty much the same as 2K5.
 
  
  If this game was 20 bucks I would tell someone to go ahead and give it a spin. With some added 
 features, I think this game will be really good next season if they take the time to add in some 
 more features. As it is, you should either wait for the current version to be discounted or head 
 over to your local rental store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you want football to play you, buy Madden.
  If you want to play football, buy this game. It is breathtaking football beauty.
  Finally, 2 
 k didn't miss a beat. When i last played this game on the original xbox i looged about 200+ games 
 on Live. I have since tried to get into Madden but there is just something not right about that 
 franchise as i kept returning thr game for store credits. Well, I'ts baacckk. Holy Haleuighluyu. 
 Every down played in 2k is FELT and when you make outsatnding plays you take pride that it was 
 actually YOU who made the play and not neccessarily ther computer. Simply an awesome football game. 
 Will go down as a Classis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  well i was hyped up to the extreme on this game and maybe thats why im a little upset. I was expecting 
 the ability to costimize all of my players not just a class. (Ex. instead of costomizing all my 
 offensive lineman i just choose, run block or pass block or balanced.) What happened to be able 
 to costimize your icon? well they must have taken that out too. Oh yeah one more thing. NO STATS 
 FOR YOUR PLAYERS. That's right so if you want to replace your runningbacks good luck because you 
 will have no clue on what there good at oops i'm sorry i chose balance RB so i guess that means 
 there good at both elusive and power but not great at neither. Well one should be quicker like 
 real football but hey i have no idea. The worst thing ever implemented in a football game comes 
 from this, the kicking. The worst position in football arguably the most useless they turn this 
 into a minigame, because i want to play a minigame being the worst kind of position ever. Now ive 
 played the 2k football games the A botton is sprinting but i mean anyone who has played football 
 on the 360 knows one thing burst on almost any sports game is THE RIGHT TRIGGER. so now i have 
 to learn a whole new weird botton thing with the charges that i never have time to use. That's 
 another thing the charge's. The only time i can use it is when im a QB and run out of pocket then 
 charge up, otherwise i will get sacked. I done the charges like 5 times in general with my RB. 
 I just think of after 2 years they should have been smart i mean nfl 2k5 was amazing and it just 
 seems like there could have been so much more. With no stats B/S bottons and cruddy minigames for 
 the kicker this game sucks. But with the all-stars it seems like they just relied on that to reel 
 people in to buying this game. I mean if they gave other players stats configured bottons a lot 
 and made charges easier to use then this could be great but if you don't have a star reciever (either 
 gold, silver, or bronze.) they can't catch even if they are 'possession' all in all this game has 
 one thing, potential but that is it. From someone who is getting fed up with madden and hoping 
 this was the light at the end of the tunnel im very upset with this. Maybe my expectations were 
 too high but all the previews made this game seem great but once again they have to take out all 
 the things that i actually wanted to play in this game, even before i found out about the all-stars 
 i was exciting for the trash-talking and the bruising tackles leading to injuries, but i have only 
 recieved that treatment three times. one time by O-linemean fell on his arm weird and twice my 
 recievers got messed up by a crazy mid-air hit. I can't beleave im saying this but i can't wait 
 untill Madden 08. This game was brought back not even 24 hours from when i bought it and i can't 
 beleave how much of an overhype can do to people.
  
  Now i do hear a lot on people saying things like this game takes stradegy and skill to play. Hmmm 
 now us 'real football players/fans' can agree on one thing. Player substition is #1 when winning. 
 Taking a slow WR out when your in a 2 minute drill and switching to a bigger RB on the goal line 
 drive. I used barry sanders got down to the red zone and was stuck scratching my head. Who is my 
 power back? I'm not wasting another star pick to get a jamal lewis type RB. That is another example 
 of stats hurting this game. This game is also pretty easy too. I mean lack of plays and formations 
 and still i can put a smacking on the other team. Anyone with a real brain can beat these AI and 
 real football fans will get angry with the lack of substitution's. I pray they fix this by next 
 year if they want to make another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs0875
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is much different than any football game you ever play. I love the fact that I can be 
 Barry Sanders again, or Joe Montana without having to dig up an old PS1 or Genesis. And being able 
 to be Johnny U. or Too Tall Jones is just cool. Pros-
  -The fact that you can be a legend is awesome. These aren't just created players with 99 or 100 
 scores, they are unique. Barry Sanders plays like Barry Sanders, Ronnie Lott hits hard like Ronnie 
 Lott. -Gameplay is great, there is actually a pocket to pass in, and no 30 yard drops and then 
 throw the ball 60 yards off your back foot in a full run. You need to finese the pocket, and have 
 your feet planted to make good throws. -Huge playbook to pick plays from.
  
  -Great customization, you can pick from about 60 or 70 logos, 200 cities. The great thing with 
 the logos too is you can change every color in the logo. You want to be a pink wolf with purple 
 eyes go ahead. -The best part is Xbox Live, each team is going to be unique, it's not like playing 
 an NFL team where you alread know what team to choose based on your opponent. Also seeing some 
 peoples unique uniform combos is great. -This has nothing to do with gameplay, but being a huge 
 fan of the TV show Angel... The fact that there is a stadium called Wolfram &amp; Hart Coliseum 
 is cool.
  
  Cons-
  -Limited season play. You only can play 1 season the start over. Since your team is so customizable 
 you could get a lot of replay out of it. But Live is where the replay really comes in
  
  -Graphics aren't the best. Not quite what a Next-Gen console should have after almost 2 years.
 
  
  -Menus are confusing, and not intuitive.
  
  Overall-
  -If you want good gameplay with legends this is the game for you. If you love playing online get 
 this game. There are literaly thousands of different teams to play against online, while even a 
 college games only gives you just over 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  It takes getting used to like any other game, but for the most part I like what they have done 
 after these couple of years. You can tell it is the same engine used with the Dreamcast version 
 of football. I like the animations though. I would say get it especially if you are a madden fan 
 and compare the two when madden comes out.
  
  If you are a fan of the 2k gaming franchise, this would be a welcomed edition. I have told people 
 I know and posted on the boards, that you have to give 2k sports 2 more years, then they will have 
 the superior football title out. Hopefully th NFL sorry butts wont sell the right exclusively to 
 EA again. That was so stupid in the first place. You need variety in every sport game, because 
 all are not made equal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennyroger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Anyone who thinks this game stinks is an EA apologist. This game is as good as any football game 
 that has EVER been made. The animations are fabulous! Dan Marino's quick release is mimicked to 
 perfection. Barry Sanders looks amazing. If I had ONE complaint about this game, it would be that 
 the draft of your team would happen during beginning of the season. I would like to have to think 
 about who and WHEN I need to pick Elway or Marino or Rice. The other teams should be fighting me 
 for the same players and not have preset teams.
  
  That is my one small complaint about the game! I LOVE THIS GAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdwarne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  If you loved NFL 2k5, you'll feel right at home with All Pro 2k8. There have been a few tweaks, 
 including the kicking game and some other nuances, but for the most part, its NFL 2k5 part 2... only 
 this time there are retired NFL stars instead of modern day players. Is this a bad thing? No, not 
 really. 2k5 was an outstanding football game, and getting the chance to have Montana fake a hand-off 
 to Payton, then look for Andre Reed over the middle while keeping an eye on Jack Tatum is pretty 
 cool. There have been slight AI and animation improvements, and the ability to customize your team 
 is pretty deep. My only complaint is that with 2 years off, there should be a little more. If this 
 game was $20 (or even $30) I wouldn't have a problem. However at $60, I feel like I've paid for 
 a port of 2k5 with a few enhancements, and not a brand new game. The announcers use the same tired 
 lines from 2k5, which is disappointing. There have been some graphical improvements, but the player 
 animations and models do look slightly dated.
  
  Overall, All Pro 2k8 is an great football game. If you've never tried 2k5, you really need to give 
 this a try. If you're a proud 2k5 owner, you might want to wait for the price tag to come down 
 a bit before biting (its not like the rosters will get outdated!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tbonious_Prime
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  after reading all the post yesterday, i have to admit i had my doubts about this game, i read that 
 the game was ugly, that the graphics were horrible, that the gameplay wasnt that good and other 
 things, i was sitting at work with the game waiting to go home but i was scared, i thought man, 
 this must really be a let down,.......... but anyway, i go home i pop the game in expecting the 
 worst, and IMO this game is beautiful, the player faces look good to me, there wasnt a crazy amount 
 of cities, but not a bad start, and picking my team members and then thier tendencies was as good 
 as it gets, i know some people complain about wanting to build thier whole team with legends and 
 maybe that will be the case one day, but i like the fact that you must chose good players, and 
 players that will work well together, not just go out and get every great player on the block, 
 it would be less fun that way in my opinion.
  
  the game play on this game is the best i've ever played. i played madden 06 and 07 everyday while 
 in iraq, and they got the job done as far as football was concerned. but this game offers so much 
 more realism to me. i'm using warren moon at quarterback, and staying in the pocket is my friend 
 i can't run around with him, i have to actually set up and then deliver the pass, and when i did 
 that, i was successful no matter if it was a legend reciever or one of the scrubs, and if i was 
 trying to throw off that back foot, or running in an akward direction, then it wasnt happening, 
 incomplete pass, i love that.
  
  the graphics for this game look good to me, i do think maddens graphics will be a lil better in 
 some peoples opinion and thats understandable, i think that apf could have made some of the linemen 
 look fatter, but thats just what i believe. but to say the graphics are just a lil bit better than 
 2k5 is pretty crazy
  
  as far as modes go, i'm not a franchise guy but i can understand why people are upset that its 
 not in there, but i am upset that they didnt put any mini games, or those training mini games like 
 they had in 2k5 or even like the ones in madden the last few years, that would have been nice, 
 and having a crib feature on this game would have been nice to have again too, but maybe next year 
 if there is a next year, but anyway i give this game an 8.9 out of 10, they could have atleast 
 had mini-games in my opinion and the kicking is gonna take some serious getting use to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmastor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  So after waiting 2 years for a real football game 2k sports did it. The game is fun but it do take 
 some getting use to at first the game seem to hard or to slow/fast how so let me tell you, Because 
 of the smart AI this feels like a true simulation It's easy to believe because i have barry sanders 
 and jerry rice i can just though the ball or run as i please WRONG this game you most use your 
 play calling skills you can't just run on a overloaded defense side and think you getting anywhere. 
 The DB are crazy smart but not impossible to beat the game is hard but for the right reasons. The 
 passing game is exciting but the ball move to slow though it's hard to tell what's a zip pass to 
 a lob but somehow the game respond to the passes well but i wish i can see the speed the game lack 
 single player modes like franchise and crib or first person football. While playing the game something 
 seem missing during the game i can't put my finger on it. The commentary is pointless one of the 
 reasons i was looking forward to this game because of it colorful/funny commentary but it's the 
 same as 2k5 Overall is you don't mind making your own team customizing you uniforms and playbook, 
 or not playing with nfl teams but want a realistic football game this is it on online play is solid 
 just like NBA2K7 with a few tweaks it has the normal leader boards, stats, league play etc and the 
 ticketer is awesome with the lastest news flashing all game under the scoreboard I just wish one 
 of these sport games will use spectator mode so i can view other people online games. THis game 
 is Fun we see how madden compare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyjb00777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  - Now I'm a die hard 2k fan. I never like madden for a number of reason, graphics, game play, control 
 and feel of the game. APF is an above average football game. The game play is a 10 hands down. 
 The timing and feel of the game is incredible. Watching the receivers tightrope the sideline is 
 breathtaking. However, the look of the players could be better. Everything else on the screen looks 
 phenomenal. The stadiums, fans, replays, commentators, it all great. The players could look better. 
 It does however look better than madden 07 (next gen) . It's a great foundation to a new football 
 era. I played for hours last night. If you want to do well at this game, you will have to use all 
 of the features. I loved some of the new features, quarterback scramble. The DBs are much smarter; 
 it makes for a better game. Bottom line... Only 7 more hour till i can go home, 3 hors after that 
 I'll put the kids to bed, 15 minutes later make love to my wife (total of 15 min) , From there it's 
 APF for the next 2-3 hours... auuuuu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  It this real? A 2k sports football game? Yes 2k sports have done the unthinkable. They have made 
 a non NFL football game. Didn't they take note with Midways Blitz? Yes they did and proved to us 
 that you don't need the NFL license to make a good game.
  
  Game play: If you can remember the football war EA and 2k had back in the day (which I believe 
 2k was winning) . They were neck and neck. EA being the Vet of depth and fun factor and 2k being 
 the Vet of game play and presentation.
  
  Well there game play still reminds in tack. 2k has always taken pride in making simulated games. 
 Making it play as real as it should be played. This is what makes and breaks the game to many people. 
 This isn't a pick up and play type game. You need to know what youre doing at all times. The game 
 runs at a slow place so that gives you time to read the Defense better and make better plays overall. 
 The player motions play a big part in everything. A players weight is factored into how you run, 
 juke, break tackles and defend. So a CB and DL all have a different feel when playing them. The 
 running system is well done. You have all the options a back should have. But there's a Learning 
 curve for most people that been EA ed for so long. I'm still not use to pressing A for speed.
 
  
  Passing is all Sim in which I love. Not to knock Madden because it's a great game. But when you 
 play 2k you see what passing should be like. There are a lot of things that go into play when making 
 a pass. The most important thing is your feet. Unless you have a mobile QB then you will need to 
 set your feet and get a good look at the pass. No more running all over the place and making a 
 magic pass across the field. And everything is pressure sensitive. So if you press the left stick 
 very lightly then you just slide over getting better position for the pass. And if yank the stick 
 that will send your QB in a scramble.
  
  The Defense brings all the bells and whistles. You have all the options from changing your DB's 
 and LB's coverage. And changing just one players role on the fly is nice. But what I hate the most 
 about the D side of things is. Where is the option for shifting your DL? On GL/red zone offense 
 you really dont have the time to manual change all 4 linemen. This is where I have to give it 
 to Madden, with a quick button press you suck the line up or move them left or right. Overall the 
 Game play is top notch. Graphics: Now there are a lot of people complaining about the graphics. 
 But game play is what this game is about. And yes this is Next Gen and it should be able to do 
 both but if I have to have one then I can live with ok and not perfect graphics. But if you have 
 HD then I think the game doesn't look that bad. It does have a dark overall look but the player 
 models are really done well. The OL and DL could have more depth, cause Im sure the vets back 
 in the day had a little more weight then what the game portrays. The animations back in 2k5 was 
 way ahead of its time. And nothings different about this. Some seem to be the same from the old 
 game, but that's not a bad thing. From gang tackling to the motions of each player look good. And 
 what I use to hate about EA is after the play the players look dead and brain less walking around 
 like nothing just happened. At least 2k makes these guys do something.
  
  Sound: Old school re-used effects. Nothing new. And the sound effects all sound good. The hits 
 are big and the crowd gets into the game. Sound isn't something you can mess up most of the times 
 in this type of game. And 2k passes here.
  
  Value: Now 2k8 is a great game and something us Football vets'' needed after being milked by EA 
 all this time. But what this game fails at is its replay and depth. The game has shipped with only 
 3 modes. Quick game, Online, and Season. The season is only 16 games, and after that there's nothing 
 left to do. Other then making another team again and playing the easy AI. If you don't have Xbox 
 live then I'm not sure if I can pass this game as a must buy. After that little to nothing season 
 at least you have online play and leagues. That's something to keep the game fresh for a while 
 (till the big boy gets here in august) . So for the 2k fan, your prayers have been answered. For 
 the player looking for depth then you might have to stick with EA. And the hardcore simulation 
 player then your fix is also here. APF 2K8 brings a lot to the table. But it all comes down to 
 what you want off that table. Some will find a lot, others little! Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macual
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Well, I have been boycotting Madden ever since EA did everyone a disservice by getting exclusive 
 rights to the NFL. Madden seems to me to be for the 11-15 year olds who just like to run around 
 and throw the ball deep. People that look for Glitches in the game. I get that all the time with 
 NCAA.. WR as QB's and stuff like that. Now I am finally playing grown up video games. Is there 
 such a thing? I am glad that I got this game. It remindes me how good some of these players were.
 
  
  Now on to the review. WOW! gameplay is wonderful. If you don't throw the ball after you 5-7 step 
 drop you will be getting hit soon after. Real football. The defense is really intuned. Offense 
 hasn't lost a step. But the playbook and how you set up your plays seems the same. I can't complain 
 about this game. I have been waiting for a while for real football to return. It has.. And it name 
 is 2K sports. I bought NCAA at the same time. I haven't even put it into my 360 yet... Maybe next 
 week. the presentation is a little shotty. But the guys in the booth are funny and great. They 
 haven't lost a step either. I am glad that 2K is back in the pro football business. Because I really 
 do enjoy the 2K style of football. Soundtrack is really cool. Any time Rakim is on the Mic A+. 
 all in all a solid game. And as per usual 2K will make better games than EA. But all the little 
 Tiny Boppers will by madden. But it is nice to know that some of us old farts can have our football 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  When I first began playing the game... I thought... This plays just like the last one but I am 
 just glad that its finally here. After playing the game for a while, it began to trap my mental 
 and trap it some more... It began to grab hold of me and before I knew it... TIME... TIME had passed... 
 You know why? The player movements are so realistically rendered, you sort of don't need any turbo 
 button... Its like once Walter Payton turned the corner, he knew to speed up on his own and when 
 I tapped the turbo button, he did this thing that Walter Payton used to do once he was about to 
 kick the burners on. Gentlemen, we have been ran by turbo buttons and little gimmicks that EA has 
 made necessary for sports games but 2k, they really take things to a new level in which once you 
 play the game, you began to realize that knowledge of what to do in a situation become necessary, 
 not video game strategy... If you use the turbo button in this game and think that you can stop 
 and turn back to knock the ball down in a splut second- you will be burned... If you think that 
 going for the big hit on every possession is key... You will be burnt!! If you drop back with your 
 QB and a defensive lineman who is being blocked makes contact with you- you simply move your shoulder 
 and avoid him because realistically, making contact with him is not going to throw you back and 
 sack you. If a defender is committing to the right and you drop back left, they don't magically 
 shift with you and hunt you down... NO.. they have to regain balance and switch momentum which 
 (as it should) gives you the necessary time to adjust and look your recievers down which in turn, 
 makes having a Pocket Passer QB like Montana, actually worth using in a game... I have grown used 
 to scrambling out of pocket because slow QBs are pretty unfun (new word!!) to use in Video games.. 
 Now, I see the joy of using a poised QB. The sidelines are alive and moving... Your sideline will 
 brace your RB as he dashes to the sidelines.. Look at the crowd and see some interesting things 
 going on... Adjust the camara to your liking. No more restrictions to just one view... Make your 
 own players and really dig deep in uniform customization... For some reason, I hate white home 
 team jerseys... Change the stripes and colors of everything.. Helmets and all... I wish 2K would 
 cut it out with the different body structures and let us do the arms and such like old times but 
 it still works though... Its actually worth switching up players because every player in the game 
 has different styles and some of the players you may never have heard of may become favorites... 
 I have a new love for Johnny Unitas... great player... The negatives... well, to be honest... After 
 playing 10 games... I can't help but wish they added things like a mini-camp or maybe a few mini 
 game type things to run when you make a player (madden 95) or something else to make it interesting... 
 Maybe school yard football or street football on the side or something... I figure, why have all 
 these greats and not be able to take it to the street or the school yard... I love the new kicking 
 method of using the analog in a true sense... It actually makes you wanna kick field goals... Nothing 
 like dealing with a meter once you bake out with your homies and now you have to have a steady 
 eye... The commentary is what it is... Not horrible but Chris B. will always have a piece of my 
 heart on the 2K talk. Here's to WELL DRESSED AMANI TOOMER!! and MIKE AFTER DINNER MINTOR!!!! You 
 can't help but want to have a career mode and management options. Its almost hurtful to know that 
 these guys were working in the lab on this kind of mastery but couldn't put in a few things to 
 make us smile... Like fan email or rude trade rejection emails from other teams... But the feeling 
 of a late hit or a drag tackle from the back make feel good knowing that I will spend many hours 
 learning new ways to hurt people on the grid iron... Why, because any of us that every had the 
 blessing of stepping on the field know, you play for sport and honor, but if you see a opposing 
 reciever go for the catch on a slant and the ball is in reach, that is the glorious moment in alpha-male 
 existence because at that second, YOU control that next mans destiny... Do you hit for the hands 
 and knock the ball out, or do you test the team to see if their second string is deep enough to 
 go on... IN 2K8, you just feel like you have the control to decide... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkice
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Give the game a chance!! The lack of the NFL license has launched gameplay and strategy of football 
 to a new level. If you want to experience football as it was meant to be played please pick this 
 game up.
  
  Some might say the graphics are sub-par, but what they don't explain is that the level of detail 
 on the field is well beyond anything previously seen in a football title. From the activity on 
 the sidelines, to the 1000 animations put into the game, there are numerous ways to appreciate 
 the graphics in the game.
  
  One of the more enjoyable feelings is picking legends from your memories of the past and taking 
 the field.
  
  Even if you are a die-hard Madden fan, you owe it to yourself to at LEAST rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pierre2g
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Some of these guys posting low scores are paid EA sports publicity people for the negative. This 
 game is truly the direction football needs to be going in. the graphics are good and the gameplay 
 is awesome! Some will tell you that oh they don't have real NFL players current season in there. 
 Not to worry when EA's license is up, 2k8 is for right now as real as it gets when playing football. 
 The game is about teaching players football skill, no longer can you stand in the pocket all day 
 and throw bombs down field, timing is precious! The stiff arm the, shoulder charges, the spins 
 the juks, are insane. This game is going to cause Madden 08 pain and EA doesn't want that war! 
 If any of these guys had ever really played 2k5, they would know it beats the last 5 Madden games 
 made and it was created 2yrs ago. Here is why having the current NFL players in this game right 
 now doesn't matter. You create your team, then the fun begin its about getting the job done, the 
 tackle impacts, reading defenses, setting up the pick and even making challenges. When you get 
 online you can truly test your mettle! I was online last night, there were over 3500 players online 
 and 1500 active games! This is about to be a huge online live hit. Get in the season mode is neat, 
 unlike madden franchise mode, no need to juggle money right for free agents, create what you need, 
 gone is the superhuman player (100% in all areas) . This game is a must have! do let the Madden clones 
 fool ya! Who needs the cribs in this game! that is EA fluff. I guarantee you that the major magazine 
 reviewers (Gamer Informer, and other) on this game are in EA's pocket. The game is pretty damn 
 good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesrojao
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  IF only it couldve been the super bowl. This game is good not great, not fantastic, but enough 
 to kick back with the guys have a few beers and watch some legends play the game. The graphics 
 are outstanding, the player models, and the stadiums are beautiful. The one thing that makes this 
 just a good game is the depth. The draft is awesome but what about the other as I would call jobbers, 
 The game has no afterlife like madden, meaning when the season is done thier are no free aggents, 
 players retiring, no dynasty mode its like you just start right back over. I reccomend this game 
 with hopes in the future they can fix the certain tweaks. I also love the music their are some 
 great tracks that get you pumped up for game time. Another good feature is the taunts like after 
 a touchdown and a sack, you can put in out of a list of 12 which ones u can use. Other than that 
 I plan on gettin a buzz a few times a weak playin this with my buddies and nothin more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulberry997
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Although the season mode is rather dry, creating multiple teams to match your every football whim 
 more than makes up for it. Being able to form strategies for a game, by choosing which team to 
 use against the top guy in the leader board, then having it backfire, but then using your QB's 
 4th quarter comeback ability is so satisfying. Worth 60 dollars, but would have made me a true 
 fan had they returned to undercutting madden to draw the crowd. The collection of players allows 
 you to make your team based on anything , whether it be 4 deep threats and a laser arm, or 5 brick 
 walls and a scissor-kicking Walter Payton, or a lock-down D with all your points coming from a 
 kicker. The new attribute is totally refreshing from the bland 99-madden scale. Rather than ratings 
 there is a tier system of stars; including bronze, silver, and gold; as well as position specific 
 abilities for each and every all-pro hall-of-famer. Definitely worth picking up, whether you purchase 
 or rent, can be a great time for you and your buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madsqgrdn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is the bomb. As in 2k5 youre not going to turn it on and be blown away by anything .. thats 
 not how they work. Running is back. When you're going to notice this game is when you break on 
 through the left side with Barry Sanders and you have 2 blockers and 6 guys trying to tackle you. 
 Running in this game is amazing. 2k5 had the best running and blocking mechanics ever, this takes 
 it a step further because now the ai fights through your blocks and can reach out for you. On the 
 short runs you feel like you earned 4 yards in Curtis Martin style. On the long ones when you get 
 it just right you feel like Barry or Walter Payton... evading or just bowling people over.
  
  Look When I'm watching a game from the stands or on TV I cant see the individual blades of 
 grass or each thread on someones uniform. What sells me on the look of a game is the animations 
 not the texture maps. Thats what I keep hoping madden will get ... its about how they move and feel 
 when you're controlling them. This game has the best animation of any football game to date bar 
 none. The collision detection is almost perfect... and when you bullrush an unsuspecting guard with 
 Jerome Brown you feeel his pain.
  
  This is getting way long... If you're a football gamer who likes to go through multiple seasons 
 by yourself and draft, trade and scout players ... this game wont have any of that for you.. wait 
 for Madden. If you are like myself and love to match up against your brothers and friends online 
 and at home and have strategic, brutal, mood altering, fun, and tragic games... then get this game... no 
 other plays better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I have been an ESPN NFL 2K player since the Dreamcast and was broken up when EA bought all the 
 rights to the NFL. Visual Concepts has brought me back in to football and with great news I give 
 this review. Gameplay is the key to any game to keep the replay value up and playing for months 
 to years to come... and this game holds that important key. Calling audibles and knowing where your 
 guys are...... this game shines. The sounds and visuals are everything that the 2K series stands 
 for and this game does not dissapoint at all. The mixing together of custom players and gold/silver/bronze 
 players works well. The game was well thought out and runs at the smooth frames set that the ESPN 
 2K5 had. The value should hold up on it's own due to you can stay as current as you want.... using 
 players from whenever! This game is for any fan of the sport... and that is a major key to if you 
 like the sport of football or if you like the NFL patch... there is a difference to people that 
 think you can't play a game without a license... and are missing a really good football experience. 
 The hits and controls will pull you in.. and not to mention having Joe Montana run an offense in 
 HD is pretty sweet. All in all I am very happy to be playing a 2K football game on my 360.... and 
 will play this for a great while. The other mentionable thing is how this game is online. The lobbies 
 are set up as you would expect from 2K Sports. Quick matches are good and the LEAGUES are set up 
 like MLB. You will enjoy this football game if you give it a chance. Visual Concepts doen't give 
 up and if they get the chance to make another NFL license game.... I will be the 1st to buy.... but 
 this game holds it's own.
  
  The GameSpot review has the adds in the game ruining the experience.... I have to say there are 
 a few adds... but nothing like EA. They do not cram adds down your throat. The hit and misses as 
 saying it's a stripped and incompletely made game... I have to agree to a point in the season mode. 
 There is one season... but if there is another 2K football game... I think there will be an improvement. 
 This game is a great entry for the Nex-Gen platforms... unlike the Madden series that ran poorly. 
 This game online is a must for anyone that wants to play football against others. This game is 
 very enjoyable. If you are a real fan of this particular sport, you will be impressed. If you are 
 a person that only enjoys logos and trademarks... then you are missing a real gem of a sports game. 
 If you know the basics of football and have never played one before.... this game is a must to try 
 for the first time.
  
  -Madden VS ALL-PRO 2K8-
  The main thing to remember about spending money on either is how long will you actually play months/years 
 down the road. When playing MADDEN you will drop off playing it due to repetitive gameplay and 
 boring online options. ALL-PRO 2K8 will keep you going with online stats and great gameplay. The 
 2K Online lobby is one of the best in the business. If EA would have got the shaft like 2K did 
 with the NFL license... you honestly thing EA could have made even something half as good? They 
 wouldn't have even tried. If there would have a been an even playing field...2K would have made 
 a next-gen NFL game that would have put Madden's franchise to shame... just like 2K5 did. Graphics.... Game 
 run even...2K has better frame rates and solid tackle animation.
  Madden is robotic and repetitiive movements.
  
  Sound...2K has great announcers... recycled 
 2K5... not bad... EA has the awsome crappy voice-over the radio... guy. Crowds get into it... but 2K 
 has great stadium customs. NFL license would have helped 2K big time.
  
  Controls/Playability-2K wins this hands down. Audibles are great to manage and passing is on point. 
 Madden-same player screen play selection sucks... audibles they kind of copied for play calling.
 
  
  ONLINE OPTIONS and VERSES-2K delivers top notch on-line options and lobbies. Madden is dull and 
 really nothing major expected from them to come close to 2K's experience. Lasting OPINION-Both 
 games should have come out with smaller price-tags.... due to EA forcing you to be caught up in 
 commercials during game-play. 2K's budget, they should have added more advertisements... but did 
 a great job for what they had to work with. Knowing how games are now.... Madden will drop in price 
 before you know it, due to the game is LAST YEARS with a small amount of frame-rates added.
  
  If this is 2K's last football game... it was a great way to go out... without a major license... and 
 pushing EA to make a some-what better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOrmond
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  With 2K unable to use players or teams licensed by the NFL, it really made me question How are 
 they going to pull this off? . By using ex-professional NFL players, and using their own teams, 
 they pulled it off quite well. Pretty much to kick the game off, you build your own team. Each 
 team is allowed a certain amount of legendary players, such as O. J. Simpson, Jerry Rice, Steve 
 Young, ect. All the legends are set up into different groups going by their stats and special abilities 
 they have. There are gold, silver, and bronze star players, along with the rest of your team who 
 are non-pro players generated by the game. After picking your team, you choose your teams logo 
 and customize your teams uniforms. The customization is pretty limited, such as you can't customize 
 how your stadium looks, or change the name or location of your team since most of them are preset. 
 Once you have a team built, you're ready to play. Unfortunately, there aren't many modes to choose 
 from, and this game suffers from having no Dynasty or Owner modes. The only ones you can choose 
 from are from Season, quick game, practice, and Xbox Live. The menu can be brought up by using 
 the right stick, similar to what you have seen in NBA 2k7. Which in my opinion, gets pretty annoying, 
 but it's just a minor inconvenience. The gameplay is exactly how I remember it, nice and easy to 
 get used to. Passing and rushing are basically the same as NFL 2k5, but the kicking game got complete 
 face lift. It's similar with how you kick in NCAA, but with no meter, you have to time it just 
 right to get the best kick possible. The Field Pass cam was also a new thing, making it as so the 
 players reacted with one another while talking before, or after a play. Choosing plays haven't 
 changed, yet it feels like there isn't that many to choose from. It seems like there could have 
 been a lot more running and passing plays. Yet there are plenty of defense plays to pick from. 
 The graphics were very good. With the vibrant colors of all the stadiums, and the fans looking 
 much better from game to game, it gives the game's look much more lively. The game has an amazing 
 soundtrack, and in my opinion, would just be satisfied with just listening to Tom Sawyer over and 
 over. It was much better than what Madden and NCAA had to offer over the years. All in all, this 
 game was a great game to come back with, yet it was lacking a bit of what 2k5 had. It would have 
 been great if they added a Dynasty mode to increase the games replay value. If you were a big fan 
 of the old NFL series, you'll enjoy this breath of fresh air that 2k was able to provide. Others, 
 I would advise you to rent it first. With Madden 08, and NCAA coming out soon, there's a chance 
 you might up regretting your purchase, but I highly doubt it. Give this game a spin if you have 
 the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorporateHammer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the funnest football game I have played to date. It's all about the gameplay. Player animations 
 are fluid and have a great feel. The selectable animations for sack and TD celebrations are a nice 
 addition to the game. The graphics are solid not great, sound is pretty solid. My 3 year old nephew 
 was watching me play a game and said what was that , at the moment of collision. Player injury. 
 It was pretty amazing my nephew actually realized something out of the ordinary just happened. 
 Gameplay is excellent. So much to say about gameplay I don't know where to begin. Tipped balls, 
 tackling, breaking tackles, celebrations, the view of line men giving each other that extra shove 
 after the play, the bumping while walking off the field with the feel of actual competition. Having 
 said all that there is room for improvement mainly on the graphics side and weather effects ( I 
 have only played in the rain have not checked out the snow) . All I know is if EA didn't hold sole 
 rights to NFL content this would squash Madden. Also you should know I have been very critical 
 of 2k based on the lack of fielding in MLB and the same bugs year after year with NHL. This game 
 is like all 2k sports titles when compared to EA. Example NBA live or NBA 2k. If you said NBA 2k 
 then get All pro you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Family_Jewels
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a direct port of NFL 2k5. It has the ugliest graphics of any game on next gen consoles. 
 This game deserves a warning label saying how bad it is so it cant scam people into thinking it 
 has good graphics by its only videos and pictures. The gameplay is not an advancement in anyway 
 from 2k5 and certainly not equivalent to the 360 version of madden. You could argue about gangtackles 
 or other animations but madden 08 and ncaa 08 include everything this game has that previous madden's 
 and ncaa's didn't. The season mode is limited and includes much less than any version in madden 
 or ncaa. Even the kicking game is confusing and does not include a meter. This game is just plain 
 pathetic and i urge potential buyers to reconsider and not buy this abomination of a game. The 
 soundtracks not to bad though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vance_009
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  As a football fan will say, the Legends of the game made the game that is today. That can be told 
 today. 2Ksports has all ways do a good job with their NFL 2k games. So much that EA stop them in 
 their prime at 2k5 at gets the NFL L.. As 2k fans cry for the lost. Maddens fan enjoyed have NFL 
 teams, and today's players. Then came All Pro football a game that rebirths the 2k as a direct 
 threat to Madden.
  
  The fist thing you do is create your team, but you notice if you are on a standerd TV is that half 
 the players names are off of your screen. To fix this is a simplest thing, turn your xbox to stander 
 to wide screen TV. After that you can play the game with no trouble.
  
  After you make a team and start you notice two things. The Graphics are not as sharp to new gen. (Xbox 
 360) standard, and something that I personly miss. True play by play breakdowns from people who 
 know football.
  
  As you start playing the game you start understanding why 2k was so popular in 2004- 5. Gameplay, 
 the game runs smooth and hits are crazy. you never see a player go down the same way in a couple 
 of games. onfence is now tough that you have to plant your feet to make a good throw. Kicking is 
 now a tough thing to do. You have to go with the kicking leg to aim up your kick. At first you 
 will have a tough time making easy points at the 10 yard line. after that you can make far kicks. 
 But the power of the game is the online.
  
  With creating your team you can take that online. What that does is makes every online game a new 
 experience. you will never have the same team on a game. the reason why is people are different. 
 I personnel like have a heavy run game. in 5 minutes q. I can give the HB 20 or more times the 
 ball. but other then havening ranked game you can have leagues that show the players heath and 
 stats in that leagues. But I must say, coming from a Madden fan, this game is for the All Pro of 
 online jocks!
  
  With this game I can enjoy football the way it was meant to be played. With the men that made the 
 game as popular today to make video games of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottyyeahbaby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow what a fun game. I can't stop playing. I spend the first 40 mintues or so picking out my team 
 and changing the way they look. They onto the game. Really fun game with awesome graphies and sweet 
 tackles. I just couldn't believe I was playing with the all pro's again. Jerry Rice, Steve Young, 
 even OJ. I have played a few games and are totally fixing things up to make an azaming team. I 
 first had 2 ILB's with is a mistake. Only one is on the field for most the game. Besides little 
 things like this. That game rocks!
  
  I can't wait to get into weather situations and players getting hurt. It should be so much fun. 
 2K really did a great job with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy401
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Jerry Rice, Ron Lott, Joe Montanna, The FRIDGE, Kenny Stabler. Mike Singletary, Javk Lambert, A 
 great bueaty Graphics arn't what I have expected of it but I only have a low basic tele but the 
 gameplay was great one thing i loved about this game was the reach tackle scheme but... in the 
 huddle the qbs eyes look loose like its triend ti freakin escape or something just wish they had 
 also added the game to the ps2 so i could play it with my friends who dont have a 360 but still 
 i can invite the over on a great 2v2 gameplay but this was the best pro football fantasy, legend 
 game ever Just hope they make a 2k9,10,11,12,13,14,15, and so fourth......... Great game F401 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikePK
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  After a few years without the 2K series football around, no doubt there was going to be a good 
 amount of hype for this. What did the developers do with the time they had off is the question 
 I have...
  
  2K8 plays really well. If you're familiar to the 2K5 formula, you'll almost be right at home. A 
 few differences with kicking and on-field controls (which are mostly for the better...) will only 
 take you a game or so to figure out while you enjoy a vast improvement in animations, pass defense, 
 and some stunning moments where the computer will throw some awesome blocks during runs. Picking 
 the legends for your team is neat and will make you forget that you aren't playing an NFL licensed 
 game as a lot of your roster will be legends that you will have recognized from the past.
  
  However, the time spent tweaking the gameplay engine seems to have taken its toll on the presentation 
 aspect.
  
  Know all those annoying lines you heard from the announcers in 2k5? Yep, you'll hear 'em again. 
 There's some new dialog in this year's iteration, but you'll still end up hearing the same stupid 
 lines you were already sick of. This is really annoying, considering the time they could have put 
 into this and also considering that way back on Dreamcast they switched up the commentary enough 
 to where you really felt you were playing a different game every year. There's just no excuse for 
 it, especially on such powerful platforms.
  
  Another problem with the presentation is the boring overlays and menus. What happened to all the 
 pizazz of the ESPN game? They don't have the ESPN license anymore, but that shouldn't have stopped 
 the developers from at least imitating it well.
  
  The music is also annoying. I've always liked Rush. Now I can't stand Tom Sawyer seeing as how 
 I hear it about 5 times a game. Again, this may be nitpicking, but maybe imitating the awesome 
 NFL Primetime music would have been a better choice?
  
  As a whole, All Pro seems like it should have been a better game considering the 2 year absence 
 2K has had from the football market. Its a blast to play, but you still get the same 2k5 announcing 
 (that even annoyingly cuts out if you skip a replay just like it did in 2k5) . It's definitely worth 
 a shot, and is still the same counter to Madden's molasses-like pace, but a lower price tag would've 
 been appreciated considering the presentation is 2 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatchoKing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a long time, reading articles, watching videos. But when 
 i finally got the game in my 360, i was ALMOST blown away. For starters, the visuals arent terrific, 
 but they do the job, especially among the more famous legends. Creating at time seems shallow but 
 can get incredible deep with the amount of customization you can get from changing your coulor 
 scheme to how big the lines are going to be on your uniform, etc. The real depth comes from the 
 amount of strategyyou well have to put into your team. Do you want a Gold QB or CB? Do you want 
 a pass or run orientated defense and offense. But the real true pleasure of this game comes from 
 the gameplay. And its not just the way each player has there own individual moves or how you stare 
 in wonder as jerry rice cathes a deep bal with one hand. The stadiums and sidelines make a real 
 nice touch to the overall great presentation. The way the teams stop a player who was running into 
 the sidelines or how jets may fly over your stadium when you score a game. This football game is 
 everthing its knocked up too be, and too be honest im glad its finally giving madden an excuse 
 for them to actually make there games better. 2ks back. . . . let the games begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saidcortijo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game picks up from where it left off from. the graphics are a bit better than before, but 
 as far as options of dynasty-wack! Since not having any NFL (No Fun League) license, All-Pro 2K8 
 could at least have a ton of other goodies to play with, but alas it does not. The game play and 
 such is as usual really fun, but zombie EA players will not convert on that alone. The price is 
 also a bit high for a non-license game. I wonder why that is. If other people are wondering it 
 is not like Blitz. It does have structure, rules, and crap. I have been a big fan of fan series 
 since 2K came out, but you have to call a spade a spade. Lack of options mean only one thing... I 
 won't be playing by myself for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dionysus0915
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of 2k5, this outing in the series is a serious disappointment. To begin with the character 
 models are terrible, did they even try?? The music and sound effects are terrible!! The menu presentation 
 is lacking in every sense. It just feels like they didnt really care much about this game. The 
 stadium graphics are however much better then any madden game. The stadiums actually feel alive. 
 Now with all the legends of football it just seems like there is much more that could have been 
 done. Perhaps as the seasons go by more and more legends become available. So then u can draft 
 them then build them up to their legend status. Perhaps more stats for everyone. The non legend 
 players have no depth, just seem like shells. This isn't a well rounded game. 2k does add some 
 interesting ideas to the game with the special attributes which does add a new flavor to football 
 games. Perhaps if this season is well received 2k will spend a little more time and money on this 
 game, but overall this game is not complete and has little replayability from what i can see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddyd16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Video Game Football.... by that I mean its the closest thing to representing the game as it takes 
 place on the field. The Good:
  - Tackles seem like strength battles and not some preset feature were the ball carry can be knocked 
 down by the sneeze of a nearby defender.
  - Throwing a long bomb pass requires that your quarterback set his feet and arch his back to get 
 full strength (you can not launch a 50 yard bomb on the run)
  - The AI is responsive to your play calling and will eventually learn what your tendencies are.
 
  - The commentary is spot on with the action on the field no 3-4 play delay.
  - Overall animations are very smooth
  -Much Much more....
  
  The Bad: - Some Minor clipping 
 issues (not the penalty) but they are really only seen during replays and do not affect gameplay.
 
  - Generic characters can be nfl great or high school level - A few more minor non-gameplay issues
 
  
  Overall this is the most immersive game of football available for a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i'll tell you i was very excited when i got this game. I didn't know what to expect, but when 
 i first turned it on it was like a lil peice of heaven and a hint of relief. The first thing you 
 do is create a team, which is simple but should take you a long time to decide which legends you 
 prefer on your team. Huge selection, countless possibilities. I'm going to narrow down this review 
 into 3 catagories, gameplay, graphics, and a new one, presentation. Gameplay: Smooth, fun, fast 
 paced, just an all around fun time to play. This game has everything you could want in a football 
 game, huge hits (ouch) , great mechanics, very realistic motion, and of course, the top legends 
 of the nfl. The running is amazing, every move you do counts and it doesn't feel as dull as madden 
 does, it feels real and powerful. The passing is also fun, harder than the 2k5's but it'll definitely 
 be a fun thing to learn how to master. There is no michael vick type quarterback since the qb's 
 are significantly slower when running, but they get the job done. When you lob a huge deep threat 
 pass to a jerry rice, it feels awesome. No crazy cannon ball sound; the camera follows the ball 
 ALLL the way up, the crowd starts cheering incredibly loud, and if the WR catches it, it's an unbeatable 
 feeling.
  Defense is great aswell, big hits, a bunch of options on changing the LBS, DBS, w/e you want. Also, 
 the stars are felt deeply in this game. Graphics: Not much to say here. The graphics in this game 
 are unparrallel to any other previous football game, they're amazing. Really, they suck you into 
 the game.
  
  Presentation: This is what suprised me the most. Wow, the presentation is... unbeatable. Feels 
 like you're watching monday night football. Field pass makes you feel the passion of what's really 
 going down on the field, you hear the players smack talk, when a player isn't making catches the 
 QB acknowledges it, when it's a big 3rd down the QB incourages them. The challenges are awesome, 
 they show both the coaches and their reactions. The pre, half, and post game shows are all crisp, 
 they fill you in on what's going on and give you the stats perfectly. Bottom line, this game beats 
 any football game on the market, and IMO will definitely beat madden 100%. I suggest buying it, 
 renting it won't do it. It's an amazing game, it really is. Never underestimate what the combined 
 power of 2K sports and legends can do. The teams are all awesome, the stadiums are unique and fun 
 to be in. You should deeply consider getting this game if you're a fan of football, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game today and I must say, I really like it. Without the lack of an NFL license, 
 2k found a great way to make a really fun game of football. The concept of building your own team 
 from classic players really makes the game interesting. There are so many combinations I can't 
 wait to try. The gameplay is very solid and in my opinion, the graphics are excellent as well. 
 There are a lot of cool player animations going on (I actually saw a player shove another player 
 after a play ) . The announcers are very good and non repetitive and watching half time highlights 
 and end game highlights are good as well. The game does not feel stiff or scripted while executing 
 a play. It plays very well. I definatly would recommend it. I have played the NCAA demo (which 
 is usually very similar in gameplay to Madden) and while it seemed pretty darned good, I think 
 2k8 is, in my opinion a better game . As far as addressing lack of features, the only thing that 
 could be added of any real value for next time is a draft mode (which would detract from comprising 
 teams of classic players) , and possibly a career mode (which again is not of value as the classic 
 players have already had their careers) . To sum up... Think of this as fantasty football with great 
 ex players and YOU get to take your fantasy team into battle against other team owners. I recommend 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  For only 2 years The Madden football games were the only football games you could get that were 
 still releasing. For some odd reason The football 2K series dropped out and stopped making games 
 which were equal if not better than the Madden games. Now 2K makes a comeback with All Pro Footbal 
 2K8 a footbal game. Cons: The game isn't licensed meaning you have to create a team instead of 
 just being simple and picking a team. Some of the controls dont very well and some things are just 
 too confusing especially for newcomers in genre. Pros: The graphics in APF are gorgeous and well 
 detailed with realistic animations like tackeling and passing. The gameplay is solid and fun to 
 play with making APF better than Madden 07. Maybe Madden 08 will be better we'll just have to wait 
 and see in my final review of APF2k8 and Madden 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juniorgriffey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I am glad to see 2ksports return with a football title, however I am very disappointed 
 that it still looks like the current gen in the graphics department. The game play is solid and 
 I must say it was great to see all the legendary NFL players in a game. Eventhough I am a Cowboy 
 fan I would have love to see some more of the Steelers from the 70s in the game too. Anyway back 
 to the game... the online was for me pretty good only played 3 games and no problems however the 
 overall presentation was not that great. The sound was okay and the two announcers sound like they 
 were imported for the 2k5 game. With no franchise mode the make it or break it for this game is 
 the online feature so if you are up to taking your game online this game is for you ! I just wish 
 this game would have been alittle better then just a Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadkillion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Some are stating that APF is not worth a damn. I for one would have to say they are wrong. While 
 it's true this game lacks the all important franchise mode, I feel this game is solid all around.
 
  
  For it's debut on the next gen consoles, this is a welcome addition and alternative to other football 
 games..... Madden and Blitz.
  
  APF actually has a learning curve, which for some might be their reasoning behind not enjoying 
 the game. Your QB can make some great passes.... if you actually know what your doing. Trying to 
 run and pass aint as easy with this game. Which is one reason I'm digging this game.
  
  While the graphics might not be to somes liking, the gameplay is what really makes this game a 
 winner in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atraktiv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Thats what this game is about. Animations are fantastic, the customization is crazy as far as the 
 jerseys and helmets goes. They did a fine job with the stadiums and sidelines, they captured the 
 true football experience and its worth the purchase for those wanting great gameplay. I will say 
 the graphics aren't what you would expect from 2k tho basing it off on how great 2k5 looked, you 
 would have thought this being on a way more power system that they would have done something drastic 
 but by no means does it overshadow the gameplay. Don't really need to mention how great they incorporated 
 the legends in the game, the little stuff you will notice them do make a huge difference in the 
 experience. The Presentation is ok, the halftime show is good and shows some highlights, could 
 have been better as far as the announcers goes. Overall this game may not appeal to those hardcore 
 madden fans but it delivers for those who looking for that true football gameplay fix and those 
 who loved NFL 2k5. Those being alarmed by early reviews shouldn't worry about it, this game delivers 
 on alot of stuff and i recommend at least giving it a try some where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porterwarren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  All Pro Football 2k8 is a very good return to the football genre for Visual Concepts. Even though 
 the character models do not exactly match their human counterparts, I must say that the graphics 
 are still very impressive. The stadiums and fields are excellent and the animations are very smooth. 
 As far as the gameplay is concerned, it is very good and very innovative. APF controls bring a 
 new feel to the game of football in videogames. The inclusion of the legends from John Elway, Steve 
 Young, and (a pleasant surprise to me) Too Tall Jones is what gives this game such great flavor. 
 APF's only downfall would be a lack of features (franchise, mini-games, etc.) . Other than that, 
 this is a very enjoyable game and I don't believe it should be disregarded as a good competitor 
 against Madden football. Although I wouldn't recommend this game to casual gamers, I would without 
 a doubt recommend it to anyone who is a fan of football. Congrats on a solid return 2k! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotesagape
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely sidiculous. There's nothing new about it. It feels just like 2k5 and there 
 are no improvements. This game is worthless. It's a waste of every portion of the 64 plus dollars 
 I spent on it. If gamespot weren't closed I would have taken it back tonight and traded it in for 
 NCAA 08. I love the 2K franchise, but when you have 3 years to put together a game you can't release 
 something that's incomplete, and this my dear friends is incomplete. The graphics are to perfect. 
 But the graphics don't portray football in the least bit. When passing I feel like the computer 
 is controlling the quarterback instead of me. If you are looking for a 2k football fix rent this. 
 But you'll quickly take it back after playing what equates to a complete waist of time!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmackinit2005
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is completely like the NFL 2k series, but it contains as many game modes as games 
 like the original madden for sega.. There are only exhibition and season modes, and once you pick 
 your roster once turning on the game you cannot edit it... If your a die hard fan of the 2k series 
 you will probably like this game, although if you are not I would avoid it... Madden will hopefully 
 be worth the wait... I am pretty down for purchasing this game for 60 bucks... Over priced for 
 what you get if you ask me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vp2247
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  For this game, I had such high expectations. Looking at the picture the graphics looked great, 
 the gameplay looked smooth and fast, but now that I have played I start to wish I had gotten Madden 
 08. The gameplay is very slow as if it was Madden 2005. The graphics are pretty bad with the jagged 
 lines everywhere, and the flat field, but I will give it to VC and Take 2 for the close up camera 
 of the players. When you look at some players close up they look very good and detailed. The turbo 
 button... is pretty bad, you are supposed to tap the A button repeatedly but it doesnt work that 
 well. The team picking is good, as you can constantly add or take out teammates for whatever game 
 you are going to play with ease. The online games dont seem to have as much lag as the Madden games, 
 but will sometimes slow you down. The game has no franchise mode as you already probobly know but 
 I was ok without it, the single player really isnt that great and I advise you too only get this 
 game if you have Xbox Live. One of the best aspects of this game is the fact that each QB has strenghts 
 and weaknesses, so you could say that there is no best player. Whether its Dan Marinos accuracy, 
 Warren Moon's legs, or Johnny Unias's arm they all different strengths. The fright of playing constant 
 Joe Montana after Joe Montana, or Barry Sanders after Barry Sanders and you wont be seeing them 
 well, kind of. For every game I have played I have found a Barry Sanders but you know I did find 
 a Walter Payton. The game can also be very frustrating when passing the ball as the game play is 
 so slow it can be hard, but it feels more realistic cause you cant always just bomb the ball down 
 field like you could in madden. The game is more real than Madden not only by the passing and running 
 but with the tackling too. The tackles sound and look more real than the occasion Madden tap-tackle. 
 Overall this game is good, but doesnt take the 2k license to the next level like more people were 
 expecting, this game lets you make your own team and stick with them and do whatever you want but 
 I dont know how far it can go. This is a great start for the 2k franchise, and if they make a 2k9 
 I know it will be the best football game. If you are looking for a graphically impressive professional 
 sports game, get madden. If you are looking for a arcade type fun pick up and play sports game 
 then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoonToBeT2k7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I was an EA supporter for a long time. I loved my Madden and NCAA until about 2 years ago. The 
 debuts of EA's next-gen games were far from mediocre and I was looking for a sports title that 
 still carried it's famed gameplay. That game was All-Pro Football 2k8.
  
  2k8 beats Madden in almost every way possible. They have revamped their graphics, delievered very 
 minor glitches (very, very, few) , added to their amazing presentation, and also delievered a football 
 experience that is revolutionary to say the least.
  
  2k8 has changed football games forever, but ridding itself of the 1-100 rating system. This new 
 rating system allows users to play as their true life counterparts did, while keeping the game 
 on an even keel. For example, create a player. In Madden or NCAA, simply create a player that is 
 99 overall in everything and dominate the game. In All Pro, select 3 abilities. By keeping the 
 abilities limited, but also keeping them unique, adds to the greatest football engine ever made.
 
  
  Tack on thousands of more animations, real gang tackling, endzone celebrations, VIP technology 
 to scout the competition, zero online lag, and halftime/postgame shows. You have yourself the perfect 
 football game.
  
  This game stays locked at 60 fps, but it does have a few hiccups in some cut-scenes (nothing big 
 at all tho) . It is really nice to see a sports title done the right way, EA needs to take notes 
 and get ready. 2010 is just around the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, but it was a bit of a let down. I expected it to be better. The graphics seriously 
 need an overhaul. I felt like I was playing an X-Box game rather than a 360 game. Also, the defensive 
 play calling could be better. Calling a play for both the d-line and secondary seems unnecessay. 
 Just put it all together. Instead of trying to increase the variety of defensive plays by calling 
 line/secondary separately, the game should allow more options with the defensive formations before 
 the snap (like NCAA 2008) . Also, when I heard about the special abilities for star players, I thought 
 the game would give a whole lot more. It turns out that most of the players share the same abilities, 
 just in different combinations. Nothing really unique, or unique enough to amaze me. It would also 
 be nice to have more legends available to choose from (although admittedly many of the best are 
 there) . It's a good game, but I have to give my vote to NCAA 2008 for the best football game out 
 right now (I have both NCAA and APF) .
  
  Bottom line: Good gameplay, but graphics, play selection, special abilities, and commentary could 
 use some work.
  
  I really do hope, however, that this franchise continues. With some improvements and expanded rosters 
 of star players, the game could become truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fourlifeent
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  gameplay and onlline NUFF SAID!!!!!! Yeah it might not have the Franchise and all the features, 
 but its an addictive fun game that requires just enough strategy to keep you coming back. The graphics 
 probably could have been better and it might need a deeper single player mode, But Its a blast 
 to play against someone online. The Animations and different styles are dead on and the commentary 
 is delicious. The halftime and post game shows are pretty cool too. I recommend this game to anyone 
 who just want to have a fun football game and like to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Though not as good as the previous games from visual concepts, all-pro is a pretty solid game that 
 not all but most football fans might like. The lack of real NFL teams really hurts the game but 
 it still plays fairly good. The gameplay isnt as good and just doesnt feel as realistic. Everything 
 else though works fine but dont expect to see any difference from other football games. The throwing 
 is mainly the same and there arent any new features. The graphics arent to bad but dont look fully 
 next gen yet. The player animations are smooth and look good and the stadiums are pretty detailed. 
 The sound is nothing special. The anouncers sound decent and just about evrything else to. The 
 game does lack in features and doesnt have much to do. There is no franchise mode and the online 
 is pretty basic and lacks in features. Also, since you are playing with made up teams, its not 
 going to feel right. Though, the game does feature super stars from the past which is a good thing 
 though. Overall All-pro football 2k8 is still a large step behind EAs inevitable football sim. 
 The series needs a couple of years to catch up to Madden despite the fact that the madden series 
 is struggling as of right now. If you dont care about playing with real teams and would like to 
 play with super stars from the past, then its at most worth renting. This is one title that you 
 should rent first before going out to the store and pay 60 bucks for this. Others will just have 
 to wait and hope for the best fro madden 08 which should be good and better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shyne4u22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is great even thought i'm still confused about some stuff i love playing it. It just might 
 be better then madden. The graphics are flawless and there are so many ways to set up you team. 
 you and your friend could choose the same logo and sill have two completely different teams. Unlike 
 madden it seems that the commentators are actually paying attention to the game. they even call 
 the generic players by their generic name. I recommend this game for anyone looking for something 
 not by EA. The game runs smooth the only thing that i would change is the way audibles are set 
 up so that you could have more or they would at least fix Walter Payton's runs for glory. GO WALTER 
 PAYTON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whammer79
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game just is not doing it for me. I was really hoping that this game would be good- but it's 
 a big disappointment. Lousy graphics, not enough Legends, not enough features. This game will grow 
 old fast.
  The gameplay is slow. The player models look awful. There are a few nice animations, but that's 
 not going to be enough to make up for all the weaknesses of this game. This game feels like a last 
 gen game ported over to the 360. I know people are pulling for this game to upset Madden. But only 
 those who truly hate EA could say this game is better than NCAA, or what I think Madden is going 
 to be like.
  
  I got NCAA and that game is head and shoulders above APF. I would imagine that Madden will also 
 be amazing this year. But I will with hold judgement until it is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robman5601
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Finally a fresh air with football games, comes with APF 2k8. A very solid experience with with 
 great gameplay. Although it has great gameplay the graphics could use much touch up work and the 
 commentating is absoultuley horrible. It's very clear that the commentators voices were voice overs 
 from ESPN NFL 2K5. I really enjoyed the create a team mode that featured over 240 legends including 
 Barry Sander, John Elway and Jerry Rice. The game featured a good soundtrack. One of the bad things 
 was the QB control, the QB was very slow and the most successful way of passing was just dropping 
 back and throwing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothybprice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  The team setup is tremendous and well thought out. Graphics in the replay are pretty great. Reflections 
 and Hit Marks are spot on. If you like Fantasy Football this is going to be the ultimate game. 
 The game is good for the Sports Hack right on up to the Utlimate Fan. The legends are solid and 
 span almost every generation of football fan. I also liked the biasing to your particular game 
 type which you can adjust down to the position. (i. e. Passing, Rushing, etc.) Stadiums are orignial 
 and custom team and char. generation looks to be solid. Online play was extremely stable. I expect 
 to play a lot of hours on this game...... especially in mult-player mode. This is a good start for 
 2K and VC franchise and I expect some great things in the next several years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserAlexander
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I've already had a lot of fun moments with this game, and seen some legendary plays.
  
  Last nigt I threw a bullet w/ Dan Marino to Shannon Sharpe and Jack Tatum nearly picked it off, 
 but instead tipped it up and one of my none-intended recievers sprinted towards the ball and came 
 up with it on his way down to the ground. In another game I executed a flee flicker to Rocket Ismail 
 for a 53 yard touchdown which was all set up by pulling the safties in w/ short passes and running 
 up the middle - so they bit on the hand off... hard... and the crowd went ape.
  
  This brings me to a point about the game, which is that it no longer feels limited - if you have 
 a big gun like Marino, you can throw the ball 65 yards in the air with wobble and all. A screen 
 pass can be zipped out there in no time giving you a one on one with an unlucky sucka. I love defense 
 too, because the hits can get pretty vicious, or if you have a reliable guy like dick Anderson, 
 about three times a game he can read the play and wrap a guy up, he can't light them up like Butkus, 
 but it's great seeing him execute.
  
  The game has detail too, I was playing in the rain at the beast stadium (which degrades slowly 
 as do the uniforms) it was awesome. As the players got noticeably wetter and wetter the hits were 
 resembling a close up of an ultra sweaty boxer getting drilled by a knockout quality hook - a spray 
 of water as feet are pumping for that extra half yard. Contrary to popular belief you can create 
 or recreate any player you want. Yes there is a database of names, but you can type in the names 
 you want also - some just may not have the field annnouncer recognize them and call out the number 
 instead. But the database is quite substantial. Also you can edit their appearance to a degree 
 that could take you 45 minutes if you're stingy on a single player. The sports ticker was impressing 
 friends that were over, since they were real-world news stories popping up near the ticker giving 
 the headlines, but you can go on live and actually pull up a story too... for instance i pulled 
 up a dwight freeny signing to the colts for a rediculous sum of money and got a 3 page story. The 
 graphics are very good, but not gears of war. They do however seem much better depending on the 
 stadium - my home team is the assassins' in their default stadium which looks nice, however the 
 lighting isn't nearly as good there as it is in many other places. Full outdoor places look the 
 best IMO. The animation is simply the best out there though, and really makes this game shine so 
 that you have fist pumping moments as you pull off some great plays. The game is not 2k5 v.2 - 
 I've had 3 field goals blocked!!! On all-pro I got picked off 4 times (my fault, i'm still learning 
 to read the D- who can also disguise thier plays) The sound is good, it's got great atmosphere, 
 and I love hearing the crowd Boo me on away games, the stadium animatronics and announcer, plus 
 dan and peter really help make the game come alive. Value is great IMO. I KNOW that I will spend 
 at least 80 hours playing this game, which is more than I can say for 90% of the titiles that I 
 buy (I'm talking to you Splinter Cell DA) . I'll probably infact tilt closer to 150 hours or more 
 because they really nailed the gameplay on the field.
  
  To me this is a must have titie, and feel like the more people play it the more it will be appreciated. 
 It has the danger of getting lower scores if very little time is spent with it, but if you keep 
 playing you'll never have the same game twice. Even if this game doesn't sell well, it's an instant 
 classic and will be refrenced for quite some time just like techmo bowl has been. For me a MUST 
 BUY, and for everyone else a MUST TRY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemony_Venom77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  its made for the football not for the names of players the flow of the game is crisp and it is 
 nice to see the players talking no just to see there faces when if you look at the face it looks 
 like a crazy stalker an say thats LT i can see the crazy gleam in his ieye that says o wait thats 
 just gleam on his cheak on the Int's are what drew me in the are crisp like if the ball hits your 
 hands you catch it now in Madden they never gave me that thrill the DBs dropped balls that were 
 throwen right to them any football player in the NFL better be able to catch a football or they 
 shouldn't be in the NFL a game about the game play is just what we the football gamers needed so 
 this is where my money is going from now on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dionisus
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good game thus far. The gameplay is great, exactly what you would expect from 2k. The graphics 
 look a bit dated, and the complete lack of features is a bummer.
  
  Seems like a game that is missing something, would have gotten a 9+ if it had all the standard 
 features that we've come to expect from football games, such as franchise mode. Haven't gotten 
 a chance to run online with it. If online is a bust, then this game may have some problems with 
 replay value, seeing as it has nothing to draw you in offline.
  
  I really like how realistic the gameplay... it is almost frustrating. You had better come in with 
 a good strategy and smart play-calling, as you aren't just going to be able to cheese your way 
 to victory.... at least not yet. The DB's do an above-average in their pass defense, and the long-ball 
 wasn't as a hugely important part of the game, as we have seen in past football games.
  
  Probably a good buy if you play online a lot, but save your money if you are looking for a deep 
 single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2forever
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just got this game today. I'm very surprised how playing as the hall of famers can be so 
 good. i mean player models and faces were extreamly exact. also Touchdowns were so awsome. unlike 
 in madden, players did the dances and celebreation like they do in true life. It was cool, but 
 in this you feel so alive when you score a TD, fireworks go off, and it's just amazing. I would 
 like to see a much better graphical update, but so far it's been looking pretty good. If they can 
 do this with the previous players, who knows what they can do to the cureent nfl players. i just 
 can't wait until the nfl license breaks with EA. also, i will get madden , just to keep updated 
 with the current nfl players. but yea this game is solid, and is a ton of fun. have fun playing 
 this game people.!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaxel123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The best aspect of this game is easily the gameplay. It feels great in every aspect. Game pace 
 changes with the teams, meaning that if your playing against a defensive specific team, the game 
 will be slower paced, whereas a high powered offense may make the game more dynamic and explosive. 
 It's important to note that both styles of play are incredibly fun. Mode-wise is probably the biggest 
 complaint I had with this game. Because players are all established and supposed to represent the 
 player in the prime of their playing career, It doesn't make sense for 2k Sports to develop a franchise 
 mode, but the concept of some sort of dynasty system would add a great deal of longevity to the 
 single-player experience. Graphics-wise the game delivers in the stadiums and in the facial features 
 though the actual field does have that extremely flat look to it. The color palettes within each 
 stadium as well as a decent atmosphere from the audio help maintain a great experience, but the 
 do not however, help to elevate it. If you're looking for a unique football experience with great 
 online play and quite possibly one of the coolest concepts when it comes to the roster of players, 
 along with arguably the best and most polished football experience from a gameplay perspective, 
 then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToniteWeFade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Finally. F I N A L L Y. A real next gen football game. It only took a few years but was seriously 
 worth the wait. I gave Madden plenty of chances and time and time again they have failed. ESPN 
 2K5 was profound and amazing. All-Pro 2K8 is an extremely well polished and fun game. Generic or 
 non-generic players, this game would still own based on game play alone. The animations are awesome. 
 There are a ton of new animations and the announcers are always on top of things, which is nice. 
 The stadiums are solid as ice and the customization features make the game that much more fun. 
 If you're thinking, 'I wonder if this games like Blitz?' Well, its far from Blitz. Not saying Blitz 
 is a bad game, VC just went in a different, good, direction with All-Pro. I highly recommend this 
 game to all football fans. I'm no fan boy and people that like Madden may want to check it out 
 to see what its all about, even rent it; what do you have to lose? Nothing. The online league aspects 
 of this game will be great and thats what makes 2K games 2K games: the leagues, love'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stryker0310
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  If you question my opinion of this amazing game , then play it for yourself. You will not be disappointed. 
 When it comes to console football, I am the biggest critic. Gameplay, Gameplay, Gameplay, Isn't 
 that what it is really about. This game brings fluid gameplay along with so much more. Polish, 
 depth and innovation are just a few of the adjectives I choose to describe this game. The player 
 mechanics and improved A. I. have repositioned this game as the Next-Gen football leader . There 
 is however, one downfall to this game, it is the fact that it lacks an off-line franchise mode. 
 But as we all have come to the realization in today's gaming society, on-line play , or head-to-head 
 play is where true sports games separate themselves. Like I said before, GAMEPLAY, GAMEPLAY, GAMEPLAY. 
 There is a reason this game hit the shelves before the NCAA and Madden release. 2k Sports wanted 
 YOU to taste the sweetness and purity of football before the competition leaves a bad taste in 
 your mouth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
