-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alone in the Dark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/aloneinthedark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Abundant opportunities for clever item use.
 Dramatic moments pack a punch.
 Bucks many action adventure game conventions.
 May encourage pyromania.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control issues whether you're on foot or behind the wheel.
 Riddled with visual inconsistencies.
 May encourage pyromania.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 1,679 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eden Studios
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can endure some vexing technical flaws, Alone in the Dark can be a clever, satisfying adventure. 
 

  Playing through Alone in the Dark, you begin to feel a creeping sensation that something is not 
 quite right. This unease is not born of the dark, sinister plot or engendered by your unholy, malevolent 
 foes; rather, it is spawned from the sizable rift between the game's celestial aspirations and 
 terrestrial execution. There are a number of great elements here that are regrettably hampered 
 by pervasive technical shortcomings. This disconnect keeps Alone in the Dark from reaching its 
 full potential, but doesn't keep it from presenting a unique and often rewarding action adventure 
 experience for those with the patience to stick with it.  

  As the gruff, amnesiac protagonist, you make your way through a disaster-struck New York City into 
 Central Park, where you begin to unravel the many mysteries before you. One of the most intriguing 
 and well-executed elements of this adventure is the inventory and item system. The game allows 
 you only as many items as you can fit in your belt and jacket pockets; and, in a move that visually 
 subverts the convention of the vast yet unseen inventory, you literally open up your jacket and 
 look down to see what you've got. While it's never quite groundbreaking, this subversion does appear 
 in myriad ways throughout the game, and creates the feeling that there is something novel about 
 Alone in the Dark. You experience this feeling of novelty the first time you look down at your 
 limbs to heal your gaping bloody wounds with medical spray, but some of the thrill will dissipate 
 when you watch your blue jeans regenerate along with your flesh.  

           Sticking a hideous demon with a Molotov cocktail is ever so fun.      

  The limited 
 array of items you can pick up as you move through the world belies the complexity with which they 
 can be combined to serve your purposes. The explosive power of a plastic bottle filled with flammable 
 liquid is obvious, but what if you wrap it in double-sided tape, stuff a bandage in it, light it, 
 and stick it to an enemy? Then you've got a slow-burning Molotov cocktail perfect for blowing up 
 the hive that your spidery foe is returning to. Tape a box of bullets to the bottle, chuck it at 
 a cluster of enemies, and shoot it midair to unleash a decidedly nasty explosion. Poured out all 
 your liquid while immolating downed demons? Grab your knife and puncture the gas tank on a car 
 for a quick refill. There are multifarious possible item combinations, and while you'll generally 
 stick to a select few for killing enemies (flaming bullets, midair explodables, spray-can flamethrower) , 
 the game makes you flesh out your repertoire by demanding specific actions to solve certain puzzles. 

  Most of the puzzles in the game involve vanquishing the evil beings that are now the main inhabitants 
 of Central Park. Since all enemies can only be permanently offed with fire, you'll have to find 
 a way to make them burn, baby, burn. The most straightforward method is to grab a flammable object, 
 like a chair or a broom. Then walk over to any open flame and set fire to the object by inclining 
 the analog stick toward the flame. Wielding the blazing object, you target your foe, set up your 
 attack by tilting the stick in one direction, then strike by flicking the stick in the opposite 
 direction. It's a lot of fun to smack monsters with chairs, shovels, baseball bats, tree limbs 
 and so forth, and the analog stick actions you must perform to do so are a fun approximation of 
 your in-game actions. Alas, this fun is hindered by finicky controls and inconsistent hit detection, 
 so you'll often find yourself merely repositioning your weapon instead of striking, or clanging 
 it off of a wall that you could have sworn wasn't so close.  

  For practical reasons, you'll end up taking on most of the evil legion with your trusty handgun. 
 Throwing an explosive bottle and shooting it midair is a cinch, thanks to the aim assistance in 
 the form of a glowing trajectory arc and the slow motion that kicks in whenever you throw something. 
 Alternatively, you can pour flammable liquid on your bullets and fire flaming rounds at your foes. 
 Sure, this combo is a bit improbable and the gun should probably explode in your face, but flaming 
 bullets will be the keystone in your monster-battling strategy so it's best to suspend your disbelief. 
 However, firing these babies into monsters won't kill them unless you hit their fissures. These 
 are the livid scars left on monsters by the evil that corrupted them, and hitting them can be a 
 real pain. Combat certainly isn't anything to write home about, but there's definitely some satisfaction 
 to be had in scourging your enemies with flame after bashing them stupid with a heavy pipe.  

 
           Free-roaming fissures are formidable foes.      

  The few non-combat-related puzzles are clustered early and late in the game. Some of these creative 
 platforming sequences are part of larger, dramatic set pieces, such as your escape from a burning, 
 collapsing building. It's generally pretty clear what path you need to take, but figuring out the 
 necessary actions and carrying them out is still entertaining. Puzzles in which you set fire to 
 things are particularly fun, because the fire looks gorgeous and spreads realistically while the 
 textures on the burning wood change accordingly. The only problem comes when you need to navigate 
 precise paths, because you aren't exactly the most nimble fellow. Since you walk like a goon, you'll 
 sometimes have to maneuver excessively just to interact with an object. This sort of technical 
 awkwardness is not rare in Alone in the Dark.  

  Maneuvering issues become particularly frustrating when you are trying to hop into a car. Once 
 you manage this feat, you can do some neat stuff like check behind the visor for car keys or slide 
 into the passenger seat to ransack the glove compartment. Actually driving cars is less neat, since 
 the things handle like motorboats and will sometimes launch into the air when driving over the 
 smallest curb. They do take damage, but they do so in such an unpredictable way that sometimes 
 your car won't react much to bouncing off multiple trees, but the next impact will cause the hood, 
 doors, and entire roof structure to explode off the car like a  Mythbusters  experiment, leaving 
 you with a bizarro convertible.  

  In addition to the vast and varied Central Park, you'll also adventure through a number of well-detailed 
 indoor environments. These are all well done, and are at their best when integrated with one of 
 the many dramatic set pieces throughout the game. During these events the camera will often pull 
 out to a wider angle, giving you a greater sense of scope and harking back to the fixed-camera 
 roots of previous Alone in the Dark games. There are definitely some missteps here as well, and 
 the dynamic lighting can sometimes turn an immersive environment into a something's-not-quite-right 
 environment. The aforementioned fire is definitely a highlight, but sundry inconsistencies keep 
 the visual presentation from being as stunning as it tries to be.  

           1. Throw bottle. 2. Shoot bottle. 3. Enjoy the show.      

  These visual inconsistencies 
 carry over to the numerous cutscenes, so you'd better be ready for some for some strange hair and 
 wonky aftereffects. Despite the occasional pop-in and imperfect facial animations, the cutscenes 
 do a great job of adding weight to the already dramatic storyline. Playing as an amnesiac man who 
 wakes up in the company of men who mean him harm, you manage to escape and make your way to Central 
 Park where the dark, far-reaching story begins to unfold in earnest. The story doesn't break any 
 new ground, but it's well scripted and provides a few intensely dramatic moments, which are enhanced 
 by mostly on-point aftereffects that imbue them with a filmic quality. The whole game is segmented 
 into chapters and sections so you can skip around to them as if it were a DVD, but with no replay 
 incentives and achievements that reward not skipping, this feature will probably only appeal to 
 folks who get stuck on a tough patch and don't mind jumping ahead. Skippers need not fear too much 
 missed content -- every play session and every skip treats you to a "previously on Alone in the Dark" 
 segment that rehashes the pertinent story elements.  

  Alone in the Dark is an ambitious game that features a lot of cool gameplay and bucks a lot of 
 gaming conventions. Unfortunately, the technical execution does not match this ambition, and the 
 resulting roughness will prove too high a cost of entry for many gamers. Still, if you are craving 
 a game that tries new things with a reasonable degree of success, you'll definitely be able to 
 get some enjoyment out of Alone in the Dark.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (169 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Black_Knight_00
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning there was a great series: Alone in the Dark was the game that inspired all the 
 survival horror games that ever existed. Then, after years of slumber, someone decided to revive 
 the franchise and produce a cinematic sequel, inspired to blockbuster disaster movies like cloverfield. 
 The result is a spectacular and flashy romp, but the underlying game falls apart as soon as you 
 take control of the character.
  
  The camera is atrocious: you can't freely rotate it and sometimes it will refuse to tilt up and 
 down, so you won't be able to study your surroundings. You can toggle a first person view, but 
 it's so slow and clunky it's a pain to use. The character handles like a broken tank, in the attempt 
 to copycat Resident Evil 4's control scheme, they created a mess, where you will often move in 
 the opposite direction than expected. The combat is dreadful: there's more action in children playing 
 tag than in the broken lock on fighting mechanic, where you have to pick up objects and awkwardly 
 swing them to hit your enemies. It's slow, it's unsatisfying and you can't counter enemy attacks, 
 so it's pointless.
  
  The game also features half baked Prince of Persia climbing sections, but they are so poorly executed 
 they require a huge amount of trial and error to traverse them.
  Finally, the driving section, the rotten cherry on this huge crap cake: you have to speed through 
 a crumbling New York, dodging traffic and falling buildings to reach central park, while chased 
 by a big crack acting as a time limit. Unfortunately this section is so broken it's just unplayable: 
 the road will break at random, causing your car to get stuck everywhere and to flip 50 feet in 
 the air for no reason, also, mess up once and you have to start over.
  
  That's all I could push myself to playing, I don't know if the game gets better later on and I 
 don't care: the first hour was so painful I can't just wait for the store to open tomorrow to return 
 this game.
  
  It's so awful it puts its prequels to shame and so bad even the Uwe Boll movies can't compare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwamebeauvais
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  I love survival horror games, and I was extremely excited to hear a next-gen version of Alone in 
 the Dark was being released. For a game that has great potential up- and down-sides, I generally 
 wait a few months and let people play a while, then read the reviews and decide based on that. 
 Alone in the Dark is unusual in that there seems to be a huge gap between those that love it and 
 those that hate it.
  
  I hate it.
  
  In this day, with all the tools developers have at their disposal, there is no reason for a game 
 to be this clunky, awkward, and difficult to maneuver. The old "it adds to the suspense" justification 
 for impossibly difficult camera angles is irrelevant. Beginning a game by having you swing slowly 
 and painful by ropes is inexcusable. Doing silly and obvious tasks that have a high frustration 
 level is equally uncalled for.
  
  At one point in the beginning of the game, you have to get a fire extinguisher up a couple of levels 
 of broken concrete in order to put a fire out. First, why can't my character simply toss the fire 
 extinguisher up? This is about as ridiculous as not being able to swim in early GTA games. Then, 
 when you go on to complete the simple puzzle of placing it on a piece of concrete suspended by 
 rope and pulling it up, there's the potential that the momentum of the swing will toss the extinguisher 
 off and back down to the ground. That's ridiculous.
  
  I admit, I only played for about an hour and a half. I was so frustrated by the time I had to repeat 
 simple tasks like jumping from one ledge to the other or knocking a door down that I realized the 
 developers didn't give a damn about the experience. They just wanted to release the game.
  
  This is the worst Xbox 360 game I've played in two years. Nice job Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperB56
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I got Alone in the Dark along with a few other games, and this one, was actually okay. Due to the 
 fact that it was my very first horror game, I was a little nervous at first, but you really did 
 not feel the type of fear that you should feel in horror, because I was so caught up in the storyline, 
 I really didn't pay attention. But instead of doing what I usually do in reviews I am going to 
 list the pros and cons of alone in the dark.
  
  Pros: Anticipating, Intriguing storyline. Nice Graphics, Cool idea of looking in your jacket for 
 tools. great sound effects.
  
  Cons: Lame controls, hard to get used to, good plot but at times do not get involved with it very 
 well. Cool idea for looking in your jacket for weapons, but it takes to much time just to get out 
 your gun if under attack. Does not really fit the title of "Horror" Action Adventure
  
  Alone in the Dark is just like many other games, that have had brilliant ideas, but have had terrible 
 executions, If they plan on making a sequel, I would highly suggest renting it first. But though 
 the game isn't that scary, if you consider buying it you may be in for a little scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxstiggyxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Hello my names 'scare the crap outta you', but you can call me Edward Carnby.
  Wow, now I'm a huge fan of the Alone in the Dark series but this one will leave a nice, rotted, 
 fleshy taste to your mouth, it's that good, so what's the dealio i hear you scream as you run from 
 those infernal humanz, well you play Edward Carnby, traversing through the vast 843 acres of Central 
 Park, NYC, trying to figure out who you are? What you're doing? And why the hell this guy keeps 
 tellin me to blink? 
  Now i remind you that his game gives, sod all away until the end and that is one of its best features, 
 you slowly begin to understand the story but nothing is majorly released anyway, a bit further 
 in you acquire a weird lookin amulet and according to Theophile your supposed to know what to do 
 with it, erm excuse me? I've just been blinking for the past 10 minutes, but, sure enough it all 
 becomes clear as you progress and then the story begins to unfold, what's that? You wanna hear 
 more about the story? Well the games on the shelves go out and grab a copy, if you like the good 
 old survival horror games then you won't be disappointed, trust me, I'm a doctor.
  Let's talk a lil about the controls shall we? Yes why not, while i can agree no control set up 
 is 100% proof, this one is no acception to the mix, it offers a good stable set up, with thee best 
 in-game inventory I've ever come across, using Mr Carnby's jacket to do so, delicious, using full 
 potential of the control pad's many buttons of mystery the game flows much easier, and hay, who 
 knows, maybe one of those buttons will become VERY important towards the end? Just sayin you never 
 know.
  Now the inventory, using the first person view of Edward's jacket instead of the traditional pause 
 screen box malarkey, this way it offers a real time element to the game immersing you into the 
 story and not letting you go, with lots of items to go crazy with and different ways to combine 
 them you'll have hours of fun using them to kick Humanz ass, while a pistol is there it's kinda 
 made redundant with all the melee weapons that have more emphasis on them to use, only really needing 
 the gun when there's stuff to blow up.
  The scenery is phenomenal and i have spent hours exploring the gorgeous landscape, usually to my 
 peril, but what the hell.
  The storyline is so immersive and brings you back to play this game over and over again, with the 
 very innovative DVD selection feature even people who get stuck can see the ending, and you know 
 what, i thought that was a good thing, i mean, god knows how many times I've wanted to complete 
 a game, but couldn't due to one crappy part in the game and it just frustrated me, so DVD selection 
 good thing.
  The audio and dialog is some of the best I've seen in a long time and it was refreshing to be on 
 the edge of my seat throughout the entire game.
  All in all this is an amazing game and i honestly can't think of anything bad to say about it, 
 maybe they could have done away with the black water that consumes you, yeah, that was a bit annoying 
 to be honest, but other than that a must have for your library and one of the best games of 2008.
 
  
  Happy Gaming.
  
  Stiggy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the dark is the latest game in the series of the same name. And to be honest this is the 
 longest ive taken to make a review, I cant really explain why buts its probably becasue it took 
 me so long to think on what to talk about and how to say it. Now for the review.
  
  Gameplay: To be honest, Alone in the dark gives of an abosolutely abysmal first impression, trust 
 me i hated this game at first making me wonder why i bought it in the first place, thankfully i 
 played on and discovered one of the best survival horror games ever. Alone in the dark has you 
 play as Edward Carnby, the original character waking up with a spot of amnesia but thats all im 
 going to say about the story because otherwise that would be ruining it, all im going to say thats 
 its absolutely incredible. The funny thing about this is that one of the most useless weapons is 
 the pistol, because you can kill the small, weak ratz (yes thats what they are called) but you 
 can only kill humanz and vampirz with fire, so unless if you have and explosive bottle your pistol 
 won't help you much. The way you keep your inventory is by having edward look down inside his jacket 
 like you would in real life, this is also where you can combine items. For example if you dont 
 have a gun you can get a bottle filled with alchohol, put a hankercheif on the top, place some 
 double sided table around it, light it with your lighter then throw an an unlucky enemy. This is 
 one of the few true survival horror games in a long time, other gams are branded with survival 
 horror because you go round blasting zombies apart, in alone in the dark you are limited on items 
 so you have to think smartly on how to defeat your enemies and ultimately, survive. The best thing 
 about Alone in the dark is that its like you are watching a tv series on dvd, the game actually 
 has a dvd menu and when you continue is says "Previously, on Alone in the dark." I personally loved 
 this feature. Now for the bad, eden games seem to have never heard of checkpoints in this game 
 and the save game button does NOTHING, for example you are really far in an episode and you feel 
 like doing something else, you press the save game button and think you are done, you come back 
 later and press continue only to have it start you at the beggining of the episode you were just 
 on. Also the controls are a pain sometimes, like in 3rd person Edward can be almost impossible 
 to control. The funniest thing though is the glitches, there arn't any system crashes but the cars 
 are full of them, for example once i tapped into a lamp post and went flying out of the windshield 
 to my death, i had to laugh though.
  
  Audio: Alone in the dark is a mixed bag here, voice acting varies all over the scale but ultimately 
 the worst thing is the script, one moment its pure gold and the next its quite laughable. General 
 sound effects are good, explosions sound great, guns sound average and vehicles vary. Everything 
 else is good overall nothing too bad here.
  
  Graphics: Alone in the dark is generally good for graphics, they may not be of an extremely high 
 standard but they are good enough to get the job done. There is texture pop-in every so oftern 
 but its not noticeable, but there its a lot clipping issues scarred around the free roaming sections.
 
  
  Conclusion: Alone in the dark is not for everyone, if you are a survival horro fan you may want 
 to give this a try, if you crave a great story by all means buy/rent this game, everyone else though 
 i wouldn't reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battlefront21
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First off I will start with the cons, the driving in this game is way to clunky, have you ever 
 played Mario Kart? Well than you have a slight idea of how unrealistic the driving is. Another 
 con is that a lot of people don't like how it controls much like the old Resident Evil games when 
 you are in third person, so it's basically like your controlling a tank. One of the more complained 
 about things about the game is the incredibly clunky controls overall, it is very true that the 
 game does not control very well, it is very hard to get your character to do what you want him 
 to do. On to the pros of this game, this game probably has the best soundtrack that i have ever 
 heard, even better than Red Alert 3's heavy metal, yes that is a joke about Red Alert 3. But as 
 I was saying, the soundtrack for this game is incredible. I know a lot of people will disagree 
 with me on this one, but the story in this game is really good, yes it is a little cheesy at times 
 but it is still really good and compelling, it keeps you wanting to play until the game is done.
 
  
  Overall this is a good game, not a great game, but it is worth a rent, it has a compelling storyline, 
 and good first person controls So if you want a Survival-Horror game than pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevH1986
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  alone in the dark can be an enjoyable experience if you can brush aside a few of the technical 
 flaws surrounding it. it has an entertaining story which revolves around the main protagonist of 
 the series edward carnby, with the storyline presented in stages of episodes which makes the game 
 feel more like a series (which i thought was genius) . the idea of fire being the main tool to take 
 out the demons that edward faces addds a bit of depth to the fighting that ensues. also your item 
 inventory is great as well with you only being able to carry what you can in your jacket, selecting 
 items is also done in real-time putting that bit more extra pressure on you if you are in a tight 
 spot if your surrounded by a cpl of demons.
  the one major issue with the game is the controls.... there not very responsive and controlling 
 Edward can be a bit of a chore which can really put you off the game at times.
  
  overall alone in the dark isn't for everybody but at the most if worth a rental at least 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scampbell124
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  This game has one of the WORST controls of all time. The graphics look pretty good, but if you 
 can't at least move around without frustration what the heck is the point of playing? All of the 
 game testers for this one should be fired immediately. I'm a fan of the older PC game -- kind've 
 spooky ---and this game is NOTHING like the older game. If you're looking for some sort of nostalgia, 
 forget it. The story also is so-so and very shallow. The overall gameplay is somewhat boring and 
 not very hard.
  I don't grade games very often here, but when I do I like to award great games. I'm doing this 
 only to let you guys know not to waste your $$  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Some people think that the original Resident Evil (released in 1996) started the survival horror 
 genre, but that's not true. The survival horror genre started in 1982 with Haunted House, but it's 
 the game "Sweet Home" (originally released by Capcom in 1989 for the NES) that has been seen as 
 one of the first survival horror games. The first Alone in the Dark was released in 1992, and while 
 not the first, it revolutionized the survival horror genre and it's because of Alone in the Dark, 
 that we have games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill. It's been a bit quiet from Alone in the 
 Dark series. After The New Nightmare was released back in 2001, all we got were the crappy movie 
 from Uwe Boll in 2004. This Alone in the Dark game was originally set to be released alongside 
 the movie, but the game got delayed several times and now it's finally released for the PC, PS2, 
 Wii and Xbox 360. The following review is of the Xbox 360 version.
  
  Story
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game takes place in present day. Edward wakes up in a hotel, suffering from amnesia, and a 
 few guys, who want him dead. After escaping from one of the guys, the hotel starts to collapses 
 and he finds out something is seriously wrong. Eventually he ends up in Central Park along with 
 a woman called Sarah. Edward must find out what is going on and the secret of Central Park. While 
 the story is a bit clich at places and Sarah is annoying as hell. the overall story is pretty 
 good, despite the b-movie dialogue, and it somewhat became one of the reason I kept on playing 
 the game, the endings (there's 2) however are a bit bad, none of them give a good explanation of 
 why this is happening.
  
  8.0
  
  Game play
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game play is an odd mix of third person and first person. You can switch between the two perspectives 
 at will, but it's still sort of weird. You can do melee attacks in third person, but you can only 
 shoot in first person, it's odd. No matter which perspective you chose to play from though, the 
 controls are bad, it takes ages to get Edward to turn and pulling out your guns and secondary items 
 can be a bit annoying as well. It doesn't really help that the camera is annoying as well, there's 
 no 360 degrees camera, which is sorely needed for this type of game (though Resident Evil 4 didn't 
 have this camera problem) . The combat is somewhat a bit annoying. When you have a melee weapon, 
 you attack using the right thumb stick, it works well, but the novelty wears out after a bit and 
 once again, you need fire, which means you can't kill anything, unless you're lucky there's a big 
 fire somewhere. One thing I kinda like where the fact, that if you find a locked door, you can 
 just use a heavy item to bounce the door open. The problem is this takes far too long to do, especially 
 at the metal doors. And you'll end up throwing and shooting a bottle of flammable content at the 
 door, which is much faster. There are some sections where you need your flashlight out, because 
 some floors are filled with some black stuff that kills you in one hit if they grab you, and they 
 hate light. Problem is, these sections are very annoying. Even if you're using your flashlight, 
 expect a few retries before you can get through the sections. I hated the sections and it's a shame, 
 because I liked the idea of it.
  
  If you get wounds in the game, you need to use a health spray or bandage to heal yourself, which 
 I really liked the idea of and it works quite well, though it ain't exactly pretty to look at.
 
  
  The game encourages you to invent items in order to make new weapons and such, but in reality, 
 all you can make is a item that eventually causes fire, which brings me to another complaint, your 
 gun is useless in the game, unless you pour some alcohol or flammable liquid on your bullets, otherwise, 
 you can't kill anything in the game. While the game encourages you to invent, the inventory is 
 stupid. It's a hassle to switch between your items, as it depends on how much you nudge to the 
 left thumb stick, it can take ages to select the item you wanna use, further more when inventing 
 items, the game doesn't include any option to quickly do that invention, so you'll have to do it 
 all over again when you wanna invent a certain item. Another huge issue is that the inventory system 
 is in real time, the game doesn't pause or anything just because you wanna invent a item, which 
 can lead you to die, when you need to invent a few items or pour flammable liquid on your bullets, 
 it's just flat out annoying and it can be a real hassle escaping from the enemies as well.
  
  Then there's the driving stages, the controls are awful. Cars turn sharply and the car physics 
 are pretty bad as well, it'll fly into the air if you just as much hit a plate and a smaller object. 
 There's also some poles you need to drive through at one point to move on and sometimes the game 
 won't let you. It makes a driving stage which should have taken 1 or 2 tries, to take at least 
 5-10 tries before you can move on. Sadly there's a few of these car sections, but you can somewhat 
 forgive them when you have to drive around central park, and when you ain't in a hurry.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll see some evil roots, which you need to burn in order to proceed. Problem 
 is there's around 20-30 of them in total and while you can burn a few in some of the early chapters, 
 in chapter 8, around 25 or more pop up and the game wants you to take care of them, it slows down 
 the pacing, which is a shame and it takes easily an hour to burn them all.
  
  The puzzles in the game ranges from being easy and illogical, once instance, I had to stick a Motolov 
 cocktail to a tube and I had to use bandage for this to happen.
  
  5.0
  
  Length
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game is split up to 8 chapters and finishing them all should take around 8-10 hours. The game 
 let's you skip to almost any chapter you want from the beginning (except some parts of chapter 
 8) , while it's a daring concept, it does let everyone see the end of a game. Sadly, there's nothing 
 to unlock. No artwork, extra weapons, costumes and so on. The only reason why you would play the 
 game through again is because of the achievements, and even then, there a bit easy. Out of the 
 49 achievements, I got around 45 on my first play through. 
  
  5.0
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are somewhat mixed, the environments looks nice and there's some amazing set-pieces, 
 particular in the first 2 chapters. Sadly there are a lot of bugs, clipping issues and frame rate 
 takes a dips sometimes. The character models looks really great though, with the exception of Edward, 
 mainly due to his wounds looking really weird, somewhat like (quoting The Escapist) someone sliced 
 ham to his clothes. The enemy design is boring, it's just the same type of enemies over and over 
 again. The fire effects are very beautiful though, which is a good thing, considering you need 
 fire a lot.
  
  7.0
  
  Sound
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The voice acting fits the b-movie script, it ain't bad, but it's stupid to hear Edward constantly 
 use the magical F-word, it really kills some of the seriousness in some parts, particular in one 
 of the endings. On the other hand, the soundtrack is beautiful.
  
  8.0
  
  Overall
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Alone in the Dark has some good ideas, the story is good and the game is at times exciting, because 
 of the great set pieces. It's a brilliant game, that's sadly hidden away under bugs, glitches and 
 broken controls. Despite that though, the game is rewarding and it'll likely be able to satisfy 
 some adventure fans, and in the end, that's what saves the game from being a total failure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterj93
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I first saw this game it did look very cool and unique because of the control scheme, 
 the way to kill enemies (fire) and the awesome item customization but it turns out that not everything 
 is wonderful in alone in the dark. Some of the problems are that the controls really do suck, especially 
 when using melee weapons. The gun controls seem a little stiff at first but do get better after 
 the first few hours of playing. One of the worst things about this game is the awful driving sections 
 especially when you are escaping that earthquake thing. The story could have been told a little 
 bit better because you wont really love any of the characters because none of them have emotion. 
 Some of the good things though is that the unique way to kill the enemies, which is fire. But sometimes 
 it can get annoying using this same technique over and over. The graphics do seem fairly good for 
 the xbox but they aren't any thing amazing. Overall this a pretty good game but it surely isn't 
 worth a full purchase but maybe consider retail or renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok I will admit that I was waiting for this game for quite some time as AITD was one of my favorite 
 series for a while. Also with the newly introduced analog stick attack mechanism and amazing fire 
 propagation, this game seemed to be shaping up to be really good. What was promised to be delivered 
 with the game was intuitive AI, a fun game, great graphics, and some other things. Were going to 
 talk about what happened with the delivery of this game
  
  I have to mention this simply because its a problem that you WILL encounter no matter what. When 
 you do the driving missions, you will encounter problems with TERRIBLE collision detection. You 
 can hit a small crack that just looks like a simple texture and it will send your car flying or 
 just simply make you crash. This becomes a problem because the driving portions are already difficult 
 enough. You may be being chased or the streets are falling apart, but either way, unless you are 
 driving flawlessly (which is impossible) you will be stuck a LOT. There were times when I really 
 wanted to use the skip feature in the game and just go around the irritating driving things. Also 
 (for those of you who know what gating is) the gating in this game was absolutely terrible! You 
 really had absolutely no help if you got stuck not knowing where to go, you were pretty screwed. 
 Maybe you simply just hadnt leveled up enough, but the game never ever helped to push you along. 
 EVERYTHING was up to you, which some people do like. But when a game gets to a point where you 
 have to stop playing for a few hours because you are too frustrated to continue on, theres a problem. 
 Also there were certain sequences that were triggered by being close enough to a certain spot, 
 if you literally were not in the DIRECT spot, then you wouldnt trigger it. I went to a spot three 
 to four times before it finally triggered. After it doesnt trigger after the first time though, 
 you start to think "okay that cant be what I am supposed to do because nothings happening." I simply 
 feel I had to state the problems with this game early on, that doesnt mean that the whole game 
 is bad because of these though.
  
  So, now that we are past the problems lets go into what made the game ok to play still. The story 
 was a pretty decent one, you really felt for Edward and wondered what was going on with him. The 
 rest of the characters were also built up pretty decently. The ending was also a good one no matter 
 if you finished the Light or Dark ending. 
  Delivery- Yes
  
  Yes, the graphics were not terrible. the fire looked good, the creatures were pretty sick looking, 
 AI moved pretty well not the always blocky movement of snapping to a grid. Over all the graphics 
 were good, but nothing to really remember.
  Delivered- No
  
  The control scheme was decent. It took a little bit of time to get used to the in game Inventory 
 but after you got used to it, you could really use this to your advantage. The common misconception 
 with the Inventory is that you cannot change your items or weapons without using the inventory, 
 this is wrong however a simple push of a button can change your item you are currently using such 
 as the flashlight, lighter, so on and so forth. My only problem with the control was that Edward 
 sometimes moved like a blocky lumbering Arnold Schwarzanegger. Also the shooting problem with being 
 in first person could have used some final polishing.
  Delivered- No
  
  The puzzles in this game were all over pretty simple, they were not difficult at all. While it 
 was fun using the analog stick with a pole in your hands to pull a electrical cord out of the water, 
 it wasnt exactly difficult. The use of the analog stick was one of the only things that was promised 
 and delivered.
  Delivery- Yes and No
  
  Overall this game is really shotty and needed some polishing before going golden. Its allover a 
 fun experience but not a very clean game. Its really just an Achievement junky kind of game because 
 the achievements are quite easy to get. 
  
  Delivery- No
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I have to say, if this is the best Atari can do, I am not impressed. One of my all time favorite 
 game genres is the survival horror genre. I've played all of the "good ones" including Resident 
 Evil, Silent Hill, and some of the prior chapters in this game. So I was pretty excited when it 
 was announced that this fanchise was going to be "rebooted" so to speak. Unfortunatly it ends up 
 being a hodge podge of stuff already done in the genre, making this a lame title focusing on our 
 past. 
  
  So basically your the protagonist from the 1st incarnation of Alone in the Dark. You wake up to 
 several unknown men beating you and an old priest up. Then you have to escape the building that 
 these "cracks" are eating everyone (accept you) in sight. From there you go to central park and 
 try to figure out the happenings and goings on. Now I figured we got tired of attempting to avoid 
 large fans, electrical wires, and falling objects back in the Mega Man series on the NES. Well 
 apparently I was wrong, Atari brought all that stuff back, maybe hoping that since this was a nostalgic 
 run for the series, the gamer would want to deal with "nostalgic" traps. Yeah, I'm done with that 
 kind of gaming. Frankly the title belies what actually happens in the game, you are infact far 
 from being alone in the dark. 
  
  The graphics are good here and there. For the most part the people and creatures are animated and 
 detailed well. Fire is a main staple of the game and it's done well too. But the backdrops are 
 boring and not worth walking through. 
  
  The controls are exactly like that of the Resident Evil of old. You got it, the "tank" like controls 
 are back. Apparently Atari didn't get the memo that gamers have already played that way. This, 
 while comes naturally to the seasoned gamer of this genre will probably put off new comers. 
  
  The music is just plain annoying, it doesn't add and excitment, horror, or even any emotional 
 content to the game. So basically turn off the sound and put the latest Disturbed CD on. The sounds 
 are about the same. They don't do what Silent Hill made them do, and make the gamer actually afraid 
 of the dark. 
  
  I really hoped a lot for this game and it left me felling duped. If you are a fan of the series 
 (like I was) it will probably leave a bad taste in your mouth. If you are a new comer, there are 
 much better survival horror games out there. It's worth a demo and maybe a rental, but nothing 
 more. You are forewarned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosterbeast
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out horrible and gets even more horrible as it introduces new objects into the 
 game. As I tried to walk around the dark environment for the first time, it took me awhile before 
 I realized there was a blink button (come on) ! Right here I though to myself "this game could be 
 fantastic" that lasted about 10 more minutes! This game is just horrible with its controls 
 and environmental movement. Touchy between camera angles and character movements. Objects in this 
 game are way to difficult to use and switch between. This game tries really hard but just went 
 way to over board. The only reason why I did not give this game a score of 1 is the beautiful fire 
 effects. Best I have seen to date in a game! Many users may fancy a game of this calibre; it seems 
 to touch a certain type of gamer, just not for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eko_Eko_Azarak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game.
  
  I was very excited when I heard that they were revamping this franchise. The initial screenshots 
 and videos looked awesome, especially with the fire effects. Using fire as a weapon may not have 
 been original but it sure looked awesome. I saved my money and counted the days until this game 
 finally arrived. 
  
  I finally got the game and watched the opening movie. It was awesome, though the game didn't look 
 as great as it could have on a next gen console. One of the things I love about this game I noticed 
 right away-the ability to go from first person to third person view. Another great thing about 
 the game was the ability to use the aeresol cans to make small bombs and things like that, also 
 the inventory system is cool. This was something that I found interesting, opening the main character's 
 jacket to use your inventory. 
  
  Despite the story being slightly cheesy in some areas, I thought it was excellently executed. The 
 introduction of the female character seemed annoying at first but she ended up being important 
 to the story, which again I thought was great. There were a few puzzle sequences in the game, and 
 they weren't spectacular but definitely allowed for some interesting use of the games' physics 
 and fire effects.
  
  UNFORTUNATELY the gameplay just isn't there sometimes. The driving sequences were abysmal. The 
 camera is awful at times, and for this reason I cannot give this game a perfect score. The excellent 
 sound and presentation of this game do not make up for the game play flaws. And it's a damn shame, 
 too. With better graphics and a few minor tweaks in the gameplay this could have been one of the 
 best games out there for the 360. But not so.
  
  I hope I'm not the only one that feels this way. It feels like I tried to love this game but the 
 game just quit on me. But I persevered. I kept playing the game because of the things I loved about 
 it.
  
  And then. 
  AND THEN. 
  
  The end of the game happened. Having to go around Central Park. Burning. Tree. Roots. It is sad 
 really, how such a great game quit on me. 
  
  Because of the gameplay flaws and this terrible ending sequence, I cannot recommend this game. 
 It's a shame, because this game had so many things going for it but it just fell short in the end. 
 
  
  I'm still giving it a high score, because I felt that the parts of the game I enjoyed were amazing. 
 But I would say save your money for one of the other great games coming out this holiday season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asian-Hawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  After reading gamespots rather dissapointing review, I was in 2 minds about forking out 35 for 
 Alone in the dark but in the end i decided to take a risk and boy did it pay off.... mostly.
  
  I was impressed with alot of things in this game and had a "hoot" playing it 95% of the time, 
 with the other 5% being a mixture of frustation and dissapointment. Still even with its flaw i 
 thought it was a very good and refreshing gaming experiance and it is a game i would confidently 
 recomend to people.
  
  To make this review a little more to the point im gonna break it down with pros n cons and I akways 
 like to get the bad out of the way so here they are.
  
  
  
  Cons
  
  Camera angles frustate quite alot and hinder the experiance.
  
  Driving sequences are annoying 
 as the car handles like hot dog turd in your face!
  
  Graphics arent great. They dont suck by any means, they just look so-so.
  
  Game ends without 
 the satisfaction i need after finishing a good game. Game ending (s) confuse and make you think...."errrr 
 what" rather than "damn i cant wait to continue the story in the sequal"
  
  
  
  and that covers all the bad points.
  
  
  
  Pros
  
  Story is great combined with good 
 voice acting and cut scenes
  
  Game doesnt feel like a typical "ive played this game before" kinda game. It feels very unique 
 and new.
  
  Mixing things to create weapons is alot of fun as is throwing a molotov cocktail at your enemy 
 and blowing it up in slow mo in mid air just to see him burn! 
  
  Cinematic style of the game works very well. First time i saw the recap of what you've done after 
 you turn the game on again had me grinning from ear to ear so much so, I breifly had "and previously 
 on alone in the dark" as my facebook status!
  
  Game isnt stupidly short which i tend to find with alot of games these days.
  
  
  All in 
 all i think its a very good game and would recomend it to people but its not perfect. If your the 
 type of person who has very little patience then maybe the annoyances in the game will get the 
 better of you but if you can appriciate a game which i would class as a 'flawed genious' then im 
 sure you will have a great time playing this game (-:
  
  
  
  
  
  Ahmad Kholwadia a. k. a. The Asian-Hawk
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoscba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Even though it may have a few glitches it is still a great game, with an interesting storyline, that 
 is connected to the first one released in 1992. The most fun parts is the puzzles you must solve 
 to get to the next chapter, but some boss levels are highly annoying especially if you can't figure 
 out what to do. Combat situations are interesting and you have to think fast during combat. The 
 graphics are astounding and the objects you can fuse together like an explosive bottle+tape to 
 make a sticky bomb. Doors can be smashed open using handheld objects like fire extinguishers and 
 axes. Acheivements are easy to score since most things you do earn them like completing an episode 
 without skipping any chapters. The most annoying thing is the car glitches, because if you bump 
 your vehicle into a nearby bump or pole in starts to smoke and loses it's whole front, depending 
 on what part was bumped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Just a mess of a game the falls at every hurdle. I had to stop playing it otherwise I would've 
 thrown my controller at my very expensive TV and I can't afford to do that again.
  
  The game starts off bad and gets progressively worse the more you play. Only your unquenchable 
 thirst for achievement points will get you to the end but you may loose your sanity in the process.
 
  
  The control system is the main problem - it just doesn't work. For some unknown reason you can't 
 fire your weapon in 3rd person mode (like Res Evil 4) the viewpoint automatically switches to 1st 
 person view whenever you pull the trigger. And the combat is just plain ridiculous - you swing 
 a chair/pipe/baseball bat wildly in the direction of the bad guy and hope that luck intervenes 
 and you make contact. Oh and the rag doll physics are a joke; take a guy out and he turns to jelly!!
 
  
  I could go on and on and on but there's really no point. Just take my advice and don't buy this 
 game, don't even play it for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Let's just say that when i started to play Alone in the Dark i thought i was in for a treat. I'll 
 admit the start of the game was fantastic, and i was very excited to see what twists and turns 
 the game had in store. The controls were clunky and whilst the graphics were overall very pretty 
 there was the odd glitch. Imagine my dissapointment 10 or so hours later when i was driving around 
 a bland, deserted central park being attacked by monsters that ( annoyingly ) can only be killed 
 by fire. I feel for the developers, i really do, because they were obviously trying to create a 
 very deep, atmospheric survival horror game and whilst there are certain elements to the game that 
 you can really admire, such as the exciting, original story and the sound effects, it really let 
 me down in the places that i was hoping it would deliver, namely, the graphics, the voice acting 
 & the suspense. Whilst, like i said, the story is brilliant the game really does drag out certain 
 scenes and certain parts of the game really are a chore. The monsters are bland, unoriginal and 
 not scary in the least. Also unoriginal are the puzzles. This would be acceptable if it were a 
 pleasure to play, which, sadly, it isn't. It's probably one of the clunkiest, unresponsive games 
 i've ever played and like i mentioned earlier, i felt like it was a chore to play through the game. 
 I'm dissapointed it had to end up like this because this game really had potential, it had some 
 fanastic ideas that sadly just didn't get pulled off quite well enough. There are better games 
 out there then Alone in the Dark and it's just not worth your time and your money.
  
  Good:
  
  Gripping story.
  Great atmosphere at times.
  Some fantastic ideas.
  
  Bad:
 
  
  Unresponsive, clunky gameplay.
  Glitchy graphics.
  Not scary at all, very unoriginal shocks.
  Feels like a chore to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Making its debut way back in the early 90's, Alone in the Dark, which is known as the first of 
 its kind; is brought back to mainstream thanks to Atari and Eden Studios. With that in mind, Atari's 
 last big release was Smash Court Tennis 3, and Eden's last hurrah was Test Drive Unlimited. That 
 may seem like a strange combo approaching such a genre as survival horror, but rest assured this 
 updated version of a classic franchise packs quite the surprising punch. That is if you're a fan 
 of the genre. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The biggest appeal to playing games where you are trapped in dark areas with odd creatures trying 
 to feast on you is maintaining control. Right off bat, AitD may not please all gamers. The learning 
 curve with the controls is minor, yet the real hurdle I found was adjusting to movement and interaction 
 that resembles old school horror games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill. After playing so many 
 games in this genre that have seriously upped the tempo with easier controls and quicker action, 
 shifting a few gears down may take away from the 1st hour of gaming. 
  Once past this flaw, there is a candy bag full of fun to be had. I personally love these type of 
 games and since there is very few available compared to other popular genre's, there are many inventive 
 mechanics put on display worth highlighting. For instance, the inventory screen. Most games allow 
 you to pause the action and access whatever you may need such as a key or a weapon. With AitD, 
 you actually hold the button and look down into your coat full of gear in real time. Space is limited, 
 so you have to be kind of savvy in how you collect goodies. Being able to switch between 3rd and 
 1st person views is a nice addition also, and if used properly, you can overcome any situation 
 within the game easily.
  If you are one of the few gamers who can't stand transitioning between views, AitD kind of forces 
 you to stomach such things. The overall setting is New York's well known Central Park, where you 
 find numerous stranded vehicles that can be hot wired, searched thru, and you can actually shuffle 
 into every seat while in vehicles. Small things like this may seem pointless, but exploring the 
 environments shows that many areas offer little to no assistance with items. It may be wise to 
 take that extra moment to search every nook and cranny before tackling obstacles.
  Speaking of such, how about those monsters snapping at your heels! No worries; there is literally 
 a handful of baddies you'll see all game and most of them can be dealt with using the same weapons 
 and mostly fire. The variety in gear is short, but you can alter and mix them as you see fit. Sticky 
 bombs, fire bullets, flamethrowers, and a slew of objects that can be picked up and worked to whatever 
 advantage you may find for them. There are a few other perks to AitD that allows it to stand out 
 from the crowd such as analog control with objects and 1st person eye-blinking. Once again, useless 
 to some, but used nicely none the less in the few moments its needed in the game.
  
  VISUALS
  Most games are hampered by one thing in current-generation videogames, and thats how 
 realistic things look. If you are a cartoony title with bright colors, its okay to look silly. 
 If you boast real locations and human characters, the attention to detail is magnified by any critic. 
 Put all that aside and lets say if AitD came out last-gen, it would have been considered gorgeous!
 
  Instead, you get visually believable characters that are animated in very awkward ways. Not only 
 does this become a nagging issue with hit detection while fighting baddies; but areas that clearly 
 look passable seem to never give way because there is a magical 400 pound bubble around your character. 
 Once you have a good understanding of how to best interact with the environment, this problem ceases 
 to exist.
  Since were not talking about a graphics powerhouse, paying close attention to the mostly dark interiors 
 will reveal very little to fuss about. Like a well made B-movie, AitD is real good about controlling 
 perspective so that you see what is best for the adventure. After a few hours of seeing the same 
 locations, this is something to be extremely grateful for.
  
  AUDIO
  While creeping thru dark hallways and advancing towards impeding doom, music for this sort of genre 
 requires a tone that is really hit or miss. My memory of past Alone in the Dark games is mostly 
 visual, but I do recall the strong array of sound effects that ranged from bone chilling to down 
 right creepy. This updated adventure boasts similar traits. 
  Every object, light and heavy has appropriate sounds that clank about. Monsters, being so few in 
 variety sound about the same; yet bashing them with every object you can find is pretty satisfying 
 to the ear. When interacting with other characters or watching cut-screens, the dialogue work is 
 decent at best. At times it can be a bit over the top and hammy, but the dark orchestra themed 
 music really saves the overall presentation. 
  
  EXTRAS
  No online connectivity. Thats AitD in a nutshell. Which is not all that bad since its a solid single 
 player survival horror adventure. Especially one that offers nearly all achievements in one play-thru. 
 For any gamer who throughly inspects every area and feels at ease knowing no rock was unturned, 
 you can expect 900 points without any real hassle.
  For others who do come across bumps in the road and feel all hope is lost, fear not!; for there 
 is a feature in AitD that allows you to actually skip chapters with a TV show fashioned update 
 and no penalty. You may lose out on a few hundred achievement points, but the ability to jump back 
 and forth is pretty nice compared to straight frustration. 
  
  OVERALL
  I may have a soft spot for games that usually slide under the radar, but honesty is best when expressing 
 something you love. With survival horror games constantly evolving and numerous hot titles right 
 around the corner, most gamers might not care much for a 20 year old franchise that strongly sticks 
 to the old school formula. Truth is, why try to dramatically reinvent something solid when adding 
 your two cents is good enough.
  Overcoming the small issues with controls and cheesy story, you can easily breeze thru this game 
 in 8 to 10 hours and actually enjoy yourself. Fun and intuitive twists on old mechanics more than 
 make up for AitD shortcomings; and for me, thats plenty to hold my appetite until bigger titles 
 hit later this year. Definitely give this one a rental if you enjoy such games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark starts out with you lying in a bed phasing in and out of consciousness watching 
 two thugs talking about killing you. After that you escape and the journey continues. The storyline 
 is written like a tv show series which really adds to the pure awesomeness of this game. The walk 
 and stance of your character is just like Resident Evil 4 and the shooting system is first person. 
 The inventory and injury system are revolutionary. When injured you can look at your body for cuts 
 and bruoses which stay there till you bandage them up. The inventory consists of opening your jacket 
 and looking at all the stuff in your jacket pockets. The only downside to this game is some small 
 glitches and some frustrating controls but other than that a solid game. the voice acting is so 
 so but passable. definetly buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorien665
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Well I only played the first two levels (episodes) whatever they are called. By I had trouble staying 
 playing that long.
  
  You basically have to escape from various situations by solving puzzles and killing bad guys. Your 
 inventory is in your jacket with was a neat feature but also meant that you have very little inventory 
 space.
  
  When you needed to heal yourself you actually scroll through your various wounds and decide what 
 to heal.. and that was kinda fun!
  
  However the game was not my cup of tea at all.... the puzzles were fun but some of the gameplay 
 just annoyed me.
  
  It was dark and the graphics were quite good but I felt the game was a little repetitive.
  
 
  I rented it and am glad I did not purchase it, but it is possible I may try it again at a later 
 date, for now though it's not even on my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozt20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Pretty cool game. Something I will definitely play again. Cannot wait for the next one!
  
  Combining objects to create better and more explosive weapons has been done before, but it is done 
 in a very innovative way in this game.
  
  It was a very enjoyable game with enough suspense to keep you entertained. It will not be a waste 
 of your money to go out and buy this one!
  
  The character movement is something to get used to with 360 controller, but when you get the hang 
 of it, it does not spoil your game play experience at all.
  
  The puzzles in the game is pretty self explanatory, every area you have encounters, look around 
 and your surroundings will supply you with what you need, so you are never really left in the dark, 
 excuse the pun.
  
  There are a few Boss battles, very cool. Surprisingly easy though. Awesome game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this by saying that there are more than a few flaws to this game. It took me at least 
 a couple of hours to get used to the controls for the game. It was well worth the effort though. 
 What this game lacks in technical polish, it more than makes up for in sheer atmosphere and exciting 
 play. 
  
  I loved the graphics in this game. There were plenty of little details that made it feel realistic, 
 even as things were becoming so fantastic. I really can't say anything bad here. The sound was 
 equally good, with plenty of appropriate sounds for every action. 
  
  What makes this game stand out above so many others is the way the game dealt with so many cliche 
 concepts in survival horror games. The inventory system was great, having to look in your jacket 
 for items, and only being able to carry what you can put in there was great. No way are you carrying 
 five assault rifles and a missile launcher. The hand to hand combat, although difficult at times, 
 was very satisfying, as well as the many ways you can blow things up to destroy your enemies. There 
 were more things to make than I could deal with, which always makes the game seem full. The interesting 
 story and atmosphere made this a great game, despite it's flaws.
  
  If you love survival horror games, you have to give this one a chance. Anyone who has played games 
 for a while should have no problem picking up on the quirky controls and combat system.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games although it have some flaws and problems but for it worth 
 it is very good...
  
  first of all I think the editors gave this game a less rank than it deserves, it should get at least 
 7.5
  
  the story is so good though the end is not so cool and for a game like this the end was not like 
 I expected but may be it was like that so to make a chance for the second part which if there another 
 one I am so playing it, the characters are well made, and the places are good though it have kinda 
 creepy map but it is good.
  
  Alone in the dark have some things that no game has it 
  like that very good story, the controlling, and the puzzles some of these puzzles are so hard and 
 some of them are fun to do and solve but mostly the puzzles are hard in away I couldnt solve it 
 before I asked some of my friends...
  it is totally unique and one of a kind.
  
  normally the graphics are not very good but at some points you can notice certian things that makes 
 it cool, in this game there are a lot of fires that are well made and looks like real flames, in 
 the second episode where you drive the car there are some wall that fell to the ground that really 
 they are cool and well made.
  
  This game have some very special sound effects that sucks you more in to the game, have a great 
 soundtrack too.
  
  one thing that makes this game a little boring is at the end of the 7th episode and the beginning 
 of the final episode when you have to go burn all those roots and it is quite hard to do and boring 
 too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurabh123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Why is it that whenever Atari tries to make something really cinematic and awesome (remember Driver 
 3?) , it gets pulled down in the bog of technical stupidity to the hilt? Thanks to the original 
 Driver, i still take their games seriously. Coupled with the fact that i am a horror game fan, 
 i forced myself to buy a copy of Alone in the Dark (had read the review on gamespot and was buying 
 a 6.5 rated game for the first time!)
  
  The game's opening interface felt kiddish & disappointing! Cut to the opening scene and my joy-meter 
 rose up at the site of some awsumly detailed indoor environments. Plus cool additions like blinking 
 to clear your vision show-cased intelligent coupling of thinking with the graphical power of X360. 
 The game begins with you ready to die at the hands of the villain's men only to be saved by a supposedly 
 horrifying "crack" on the wall. The rest of the game focuses on your escape from the building & 
 trying to unravel the mystery of Central Park which hides the secret of all troubles! A lazy premise 
 actually... saved by some brilliantly executed cinematic moments!
  
  The game's environments are solid in terms of graphics! Light, smoke, fire, water, distances, buildings 
 - everything just looks too good! The complain area are character designs, who look grossly disfigured 
 and assembled like frankestein! (Barring Sarah - ur hero's mate!) . Monsters are better detailed 
 in comparison but show profound stupidity at times! The game's physics engine showcases some really 
 cool gravity, rope & environmental effects with satisfying results. The driving portions of the 
 game do not seem to benefit from this at all though, and considering the fact that i luved Driver 
 3 car physics, i was sorely disappointed by the dumb handling of all vehicles! Vexing technical 
 flaws include vehicles splintering at the slightest uneven road patch while making it smoothly 
 through jumps!
  
  But all's not bad at Central Park. The game is replete with moments that will make you say "WOW, 
 let's c that again!!". Whether it's car jumps coupled with some solid music during your drive to 
 Central Park or falling debris frm a chopper stuck above you on a cliff-side, you are simply gonna 
 love those moments! 
  
  There is no doubt about the fact that the developers had loads of cinematic elements in mind and 
 wanted to provide a movie-like experience, but were undone by technical glitches! Some really cool 
 elements are made of:
  
  - Opening your jacket to browse inventory while in live gameplay!
  - Combining items to create 
 more effective and usable items
  - Ransacking glove compartments, oil tank and sun-shades in cars for items
  - Slow-mo at strategic 
 gameplay times, including thrown molotovs for shooting them in mid-air or car jumps
  - Hanging & navigating from a building or cliff with debris falling all around
  - Intelligent 
 (but easy) puzzle solving elements
  - Visible wounds on lead character's body and consequent healing thru a health spray
  - Closing 
 your eyes to reveal spectral elements
  - Using lightsticks to keep dark ooze at bay
  - City destruction as you race to Central Park in your car
  
  The game also tries to give you 
 a sandbox style feel by forcing you to drive around the entire park in search of "roots" that you 
 must destroy to enhance your spectral vision & unlock later game stages. But unfortunately, collecting 
 items and destroying roots is all the park drive has to offer & you will dread the thought of driving 
 around the park given lousy car physics.
  
  Sound though is top class with music that gels well with the moments. Dialogue delivery is also 
 neat and saves story execution. The game however is just too easy with a surprisingly less monster 
 count and variety. Apart from normal zombie like monsters, there are spidery insects (2 varieties) , 
 bats and few game boss stages. Nothing fancy actually! But since all monsters can be destroyed 
 only by fire, the thrill creeps in from the urgency to create / spread fire to kill those creatures. 
 It must be mentioned that the environment is destructible and wooden objects can be lighted and 
 used in combat (i know that sounds cool but it's undone by frustrating controls again!) . You may 
 want to set things on fire to appreciate the fire effects which are simply the best in any game 
 i have seen so far!
  
  The developer's seemed inspired from many heavy titles. For e. g.: Making your way through a falling 
 subway car will surely remind you of Jurassic Park 2's falling trailer scene or Character gun handling 
 & walking will remind you of Leon in RE4. But many gameplay elements are original and credit must 
 be given to developers for them.
  
  Shooting needs to be done in first person mode only, which is as gross as Driver 3's first person 
 mode : (. Monsters do not chase you outside a particular area which makes it easy to complete your 
 task and run away in some situations! Though the game has loads of fog and night elements, it fails 
 to make them eerie enough to provide a scare. In my opinion, the game is a thriller and not a horror. 
 The camera angles sometimes tend to enhance your level of frustration and silly elements like character 
 executing walking motion against a wall on forward stick slide seem really dumb!
  
  Trust me, do not be swayed by the game's title or its ancestory! But look at it as a original which 
 can shine outstandigly if you can ignore those frustrating technical issues! Very good effort Atari 
 & Eden, but you'r still not there ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I was so certain this game would end up being great.... boy how wrong I was. It started off ok enough, 
 and I thought that I was definitely going to enjoy the entirety of the game. However, a couple 
 of hours in, everything just fell apart and felt so unfinished and slapped together. A good idea 
 just gone horribly wrong in my view. A very big let down, to say the least.
  
  Visually the game is ok in places, but as you progress, you notice many graphical glitches, including 
 clipping, and muddy texturing. The character models and animations are very stiff and leave quite 
 a lot to be desired as well. But, that is really just the surface of the issues here.
  
  The gameplay is a mess due to the shifty, wonky camera, and the broken feeling control of Edward 
 in general. If they would have just made this strictly a first person game, with free camera control 
 mapped to the right analog stick, like what is implemented in a FPS, the game would have faired 
 much better gameplay wise. 
  
  However, the dry plot, painfully dumb AI, sub-par enemy design, horrible driving levels, and awful 
 filler material for the sake of prolonging the game length would still bring the overall experience 
 down as well. Overall, a great concept, with some great ideas that is big on vision, but falls 
 flat on it's face when it comes to execution.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintSeven
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  While "Alone in the Dark" does suffer from several technical flaws, most of which revolve around 
 the character's clunky movement, this sort of thing can be worked around with a patient player. 
 Innovation in gaming technology is always welcome, and while many fall short, a few do manage to 
 rise to the top. But despite its shortcomings, Alone's unique features are definitely pointing 
 toward where video games ought to go in the not-too-distant future.
  
  The puzzles of Alone's gameplay, while not being too unique, are enhanced by their execution. Digging 
 around through your inventory and finding the right combination to get the job done proves very 
 satisfying.
  
  And while driving is anything but simple, it provides some entertainment that deviates from gameplay 
 that might otherwise become repetitive. While trying to drive the taxi into Central Park, I often 
 found myself laughing and learning graciously from my mistakes, rather than being frustrated at 
 having to start over. Which is unusual.
  
  While "Alone in the Dark" does fall short of it's mark, the successes of many aspirations merit 
 some grace. The unique gameplay and driving story present the player with an adventure that is 
 rather gratifying. And for the competent gamer who likes a challenge, learning to work with the 
 flawed controls to complete your goal (rather than against them) adds another obstacle that is satisfying 
 to overcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark was an old survival horror game, that started out good, but towards the end, 
 it started to loose its flavor. People are probably wondering if the new Alone in the Dark will 
 bring back all the greatness that was there in the first Alone in the Dark. The real answer to 
 that question is no. But, Alone in the Dark is still a good game.
  
  You play Edward Carnby. The game takes place in New York. A bunch of these cracks in the wall that 
 move appear and suck people in to them, and turn them into monsters. You have to take this stone, 
 and find the secrets to Central Park, to stop the madness.
  
  The problems with Alone in the Dark occur right when you start playing the game. THe controls feel 
 funny. The controls work, but is will take awhile to get use to, especially when you are playing 
 in third person mode. The combat works okay when you are fighting with a gun, but when you use 
 a melee weapon, you have to move the right game stick to swing the weapon. Another problem with 
 that is that you have to kill your enemies with fire, and sometimes it is hard to stick your melee 
 weapon into the fire and then swing it. Driving is also a problem. The car controls are nice, but 
 every thing in the environment, even small bushes stop you.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The character models look good, and the environments look good. There 
 are some ugly textures, that really bring down the graphics.
  
  The music in Alone in the Dark is amazing. I got the soundtrack edition, so I got a disk with all 
 the music. The voice acting is okay, not the best.
  
  If you want a good adventure game, or an easy way to get achievement points, I was able to get 
 1000 point pretty easy, then you may want to give Alone in the Dark a try. If you want the nest 
 big adventure game, skip this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  In this very disappointing remake of the horror survival game of the same title, there are some 
 cool moments, but they are not good enough to make up for the game's major flaws. The game itself 
 is very glitchy, and at times it seems as though it is stuck in the beta stage. Almost as if the 
 game had never been fully tested in the first place. The driving experience is horrifying (and 
 not in a good way) . It seems as though the car is being driven on ice and has no concept of how 
 an actual car would maneuver. This is one element of the game that should have been left out.
 
  
  The opening gameplay in Alone requires the player to blink as to keep their vision clear. An idea 
 that proves that realism not always a good thing to go for. The environments and enemies in the 
 game are dark, but nowhere near as creepy as in games like Condemned or Silent Hill.
  
  The items a player can collect in Alone are not very exciting by themselves, but when combined, 
 they make for some very unique weapons. Fire is a core element of gameplay in Alone and it is the 
 one thing that is done very well. The fire looks very good and even acts as actual fire would; 
 spreading across flammable surfaces and burning through items like chairs and doors in a realistic 
 fashion. Although the fire element in the game is a very good idea, it is not enough to save Alone 
 in the Dark from going up in flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badmedic
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  well i like this game in many ways. At first you learn the basic concepts of the gae such as the 
 combination mechanic, which in many ways is one reason that i like this game. At first you only 
 realy use the combos in very basic ways; yet as your skills improve so dose the games appeal. however 
 it is in no way perfect. The story is not very compelling and often leaves you a little confused. 
 I also like and dont like the fact that you can patch up you own wounds, in many ways this works 
 but the fact that every thing that you need to survive. This is also true with all of the other 
 thing such as bottles of explosive liquid. They seem to be found a little to easly and make the 
 gameplay to often easy. You can however skip forward form part of a level to another, wich is interesting 
 but often means that you dont try hard enough to finish the levels. The enemys are ok, but are 
 just like any other zombie in any other game. Over it all shapes up to be a good game with some 
 interesting factors, but withs some minor flaws which you should be able to get over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFalcon128
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the dark the good. Graphics, really enjoyed the real time fire experience. Repelling, 
 Making Weapons. The Bad.... WORST CONTROLS EVER. VEry annoying Mini Game involving Roots, VampriZ, 
 Fire Bullets that dont work?? and a really bad ending. The story was good, but again horrible ending. 
 BOTH endings. almost makes me wanna play 
  "Too Human"... well almost. Spectral vision should of been more explained, and used throughout the 
 game, not until close to the end. i would not recommend buying this game, its a rental for sure, 
 maybe even just a demo try. If the controls were better, than i feel that this game could of had 
 a chance. I guess some things should not have a sequel. And "Alone In The Dark" Is one of them. 
 "Alone In The Dark" or alone on the shelf?? u decide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  AITD starts with you're characters awakening from a slumber in a mysterious room with mysterious 
 guys who, mysteriously, are ordered to kill you. What a mystery! The whole story is somewhat mysterious, 
 with all the questions given half-assed answers by the end. The beginning is filled with promise, 
 and the end is so epic, that it almost makes up for the not-so-good middle and technical hiccups 
 throughout the game. But not quite. A huge part of the game and solutions to alot of the puzzles 
 involve COMBINING. You can make useless, retarded combinations (like an empty bottle with a glowstick) ; 
 or you can make really cool, destructive ones (like a Molotov cocktail with an ammo box taped onto 
 it) . The combination system is pretty deep, and there are about 90 possible combinations you can 
 make, but probably 50 of them are fairly useless. A lot of the game involves driving around Central 
 Park (where the bulk of the game takes place) going to various destinations. The driving could 
 have been WAY more enjoyable if there was more attention paid to it. The cars handle decently, 
 but you will often get stuck in the most ridiculous places. If you have to go off of a ramp to 
 reach your goal, you may have to try three times becuase the first two you might get stuck at the 
 base of the ramp. Also, hitting bumps or curbs might cause absurd amounts of damage to your car. 
 Sometimes going over a curb might tear your bumper off. Or crashing into a tree might somehow rip 
 your roof off and turn your car into a weird convertible (?) . The combat in the game is all against 
 only two types of enemies (unless you count bosses) : Humanz and Ratz. Basically zombies and little 
 spider-thingies. The game is never actually scary, but they could've achieved that if they had 
 more enemies, like dogs that were corrupted by the fissure (the main bad thing in the game) . You 
 can use alot of things in your environment, like baseball bats or chairs, as weapons by swinging 
 them around with the right thumbstick. It feels pretty good, but you will sometimes end up only 
 repositioning your weapon instead of swinging it. The only way to get rid of your enemies for good 
 is by setting them on fire. You can do this simply by setting your weapon on fire (if its even flammable) , 
 but the flames will soon get too big and you'll have to drop your weapon. Alternatively, you can 
 kill them by shooting fire at them with the Spray + Lighter combination, or shoot fire bullets 
 at them with the Gun+Flammable Liquid combination. What the game lacks in combat, it excels in 
 its puzzles. But there are only a few puzzles through the game. The game is a way too easy when 
 it comes to achievements, becuase I was able to get all 1000 Gamerpoints in the 6 days I had the 
 game.
  So, whatever you do, don't buy the game. Rent it if you're looking for a decent thrill-filled experience 
 and some easy gamerpoints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyphair2K7
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  As i said Alone in the Dark could have been a very good good game but really let itself down with 
 an awful amount of glicthes, terrible 3rd person camera angles and bad controls making it hard 
 for you to really enjoy the game. The vehicles cannot seem to drive over small cracks in the road 
 without stopping or flipping over and sometimes the roof just falls off even when you dont crash!!: ( 
 which is just plain stupid. Game is repetitive as almost all enemies die the same way and most 
 of the time your goin about to get 30 spectrel points, then 50 and then 75 without the game telling 
 you.
  
  There is some light at the end of the tunnel as some of the puzzles are fun but not enough to make 
 this go down in the history books as a good game.
  
  So if you are thinking of buying a game that is enjoyable alone int eh dark is definitely not the 
 game for you.
  
  7/10
  
  : (: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamchuff
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  ok i got this game even though alot of people said that it sucked, the controls are whack, the 
 driving is bad...
  
  i got something to say to all of the people who think that. "you are out of your mind!" the controls 
 are so easy to get used to and for people who think that a part of the game is to hard they can 
 skip a tiny part of it but not the whole level, if you wanna skip the whole level go for it.
  
  i think the whole idea of your own makeshift weaponry is awesome. you combine a few thing and 
 bam you got a explosive bottle with a box of bullets taped to it and blow three demons away. its 
 a great game you might have heard that the driving is horrid and if you run in to something you 
 go flying... that is a crock of ****! if you go into first person view you can rock them driving 
 skills. i recommend this game all the way, i went and bought it and i have no regrets. i have played 
 it straight through, and then went through again to see the second ending because it is a great 
 game.
  
  the bad guys might seem hard if your only gonna shoot them because you have to pop them in the 
 fissures on their body and they can be hard to hit if they are moving quick or crouched down.
 
  
  all in all i think it is a great game, dont take my word for it though, play it. i would play through 
 a chapter turn it off because i wanted to enjoy it, when you turn it on and start from where you 
 were, they play a recap so you will never forget the story. its a real good game. i keep repeating 
 myself so im cutting it here \  8
  
  adam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is definitely not the first in its series. There have previous games in this 
 series which prelude this game, but i have only heard of them so correct me if i'm wrong. This 
 game definitely introduces some new stuff to the world of gaming.
  
  For example, a new inventory system. The whole idea of having an inventory in the inside pockets 
 of your jacket is really realistic and really makes this game feel more real. Then there is the 
 skipping ahead in the game to a later part if your stuck at a certain part earlier in the game. 
 This makes this game not only a video gamers joy, but an inpatient gamer's bread and butter. But 
 you can't just boot up this game and skip right to the end, nope, you have to finish a certain 
 amount of the game before you skip to the very end. Which seems fair.
  
  Then there is the new interesting combination mechanic, where you can combine items in your inventory 
 to form new more deadly weapons. There is also the new mechanic of using the right-analog stick 
 to control your swinging motion. Also cool but not entirely 'never seen before' stuff. But then 
 the game pushes you too far with the new mechanics such as the blinking mechanic. I mean whats 
 that for? Why do you need to control your on blinking? I guess its all in the effort of making 
 you feel like your controlling a real human being.
  
  Well the bottom line is, get this game if you want. But i can't say i would recommend it, but i 
 can't say i wouldn't recommend it either. (But only buy this game if your into all the horror/action 
 & adventure games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is a game that had potential to be one of the greatest, but with many irritating 
 and badly executed game designs it makes it fall a little short. Yes their are still "good" things 
 in the game, for instants, walking around Central Park with your flashlight out, walking slowly, 
 it feels very thrilling and suspenseful. Another example, While I was playing I was driving a car 
 and I hit a enemy and crash into a wall I get out and wonder into a kitchen to find some health 
 spray, but I knew that their where enemies around the kitchen, I heard a little noise and my heart 
 started pounding in anticipation and fear of dieing. That is one of the few times in a game I felt 
 like "Wow, I'm going to die". The lighting in this game is very good and so is the fire, lots of 
 things in this game are very good. Now so far I've been going on about how good it is, but their 
 are two sides to this game. Driving for instants in very unrealistic and very bland, nothing really 
 interesting happens in a car. Also the combat is very, very difficult, To kill an enemy you "NEED" 
 fire and when in a tight spot your going to get killed. Also your have a very good inventory system, 
 the only thing is is doesn't stop anything from hitting you and you exit the inventory when you 
 are hit, so if you have some explosive liquid in your inventory, but you can't get it because of 
 the damn enemy hitting you relentlessly. The enemy's are fierce and won't let up for one second, 
 also they are pretty smart so your kinda screwed. Also your handgun that you have with you is almost 
 useless against enemies, it takes almost five clips to "KNOCK OUT" an enemy, also this "KNOCK OUT" 
 period is so short if you don't have fire you "NEED" to run away. I mean I get what they where 
 trying to do with this concept "Survival Horror" but the thing I don't understand is why their 
 is so much ammunition everywhere. I mean "EVERYWHERE" you think you where playing Resident Evil 
 4 with how much ammo their is everywhere. Also a verity of guns would have been nice. You have 
 a 9mm pistol and a .45 magnum, but it would have been nice to have a shotgun or a sub-machine gun. 
 Another thing is the stationary camera can sometimes be kinda weird, but when its over the solder 
 it is great. Also I don't really like that when you do a lot of things it forces you into first-person 
 like it wouldn't have been bad to have a over the solder firing like in Gears of War or Resident 
 Evil. I could go on and on about what is good and bad in this game but this is all you need to 
 really evaluate the game. Like I said it could have been fantastic it just got messed up somewhere 
 along the line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Slayer21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Alone in the dark series but I can't help but feel disappointed with Eden 
 Games because they had an amazing game and they let simple things spoil it. Now this game happens 
 to be one of my favourite horror survival games but it could have been so much better. The amount 
 of silly little glitches in the game spoil it for example the camera can be a little off putting 
 sometimes and the actions like piercing a petrol tank is annoying because you have to go into the 
 inventory and select the knife then pierce the gas tank and put it away again I just think it's 
 a little bit tedious. The games story is one of the best in the genre and these silly little flaws 
 don't stop this game from being great but they do stop it from being the amazing. Regardless of 
 the aforementioned problems the game is brilliant and well worth playing. just don't expect too 
 much from it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McLoone
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Simply Ingorrsing, very exciting and upbeat! It is so intense at some points which is really effective. 
 It's simple and versatile, and divorces the game from a genre obsessed with elaborate and contrived 
 clockwork mechanisms, achieving greater subtlety and cohesion in the process. Puzzles are individual, 
 and often special. A blood-smeared keypad has you scratching at the boundaries of your location 
 for a code, but the solution's staring you in the face. A car hanging over a cliff blocks your 
 ascent along a ridge, but you had the tools to pass it when you awoke. The best solutions are the 
 least prescribed: fashioning a time-delayed sticky bomb from tape, booze and cloth, or reading 
 the room and closing your eyes rather than staring at everything in sight. In its pomp, every room 
 is fascinating. You can pick up chairs, pipes and spades, push furniture around, slam canisters 
 and litter-bins into doors, shoot out rivets and blow up hinges, fish electric cables away from 
 pools of water with hooked branches, hotwire cars and short-circuit junction boxes. The right analogue 
 stick is like a prosthetic hand, allowing you to twist, swing and slam things as you please.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisons
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  OK i'm slowly beginning to have issues with gamespot and their reviews.
  they seem to give all the high marks to games that dont deserve them I. E. Braid?! please how can 
 that snore of a game get a critics choice. alone in the dark has one great story that keeps you 
 wondering whats going to happen and whats going on. the music makes the game, the strange chanting, 
 and the drums and the rest of the band hitting the right notes at the proper time. when you are 
 driving and all the ground is ripping up along you and behind you it gets your heart beating and 
 seeing buildings crumble and crash in front of you gets you on the edge of your seat. its the game 
 that grabs you and doesnt let go. i dont know what gamespot was talking about when they said it 
 had poor graphics, because i thought it had pretty stunning looks to it.
  i will say that the controls are the only problem some what laggy at times and changing the camra 
 angle and having to switch to first person now and then gets bothersome. other problems are to 
 small to really notice when you are into the game's action, but they can be solved with a simple 
 patch from atari. 
  dont expect Alone in the Dark to be scary like silent hill there are few parts in the game where 
 something jumps out of nowhere and makes you jump. 
  if i had to pick a game to relate this to the first one that comes to mind is Indigo Prophecy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_X5213
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the dark is the fifth adaptation to the Alone series, This time you take the role of Edward 
 Carnby, one of the main characters from the first game, as he tries to remember his past and solve 
 the mystery of Central park. Despite the bad reviews I've heard from critics ( and hundreds of 
 mindless people who follow the critics every word, without forming their own opinion ) I thought 
 this game was actually really good.
  
  Pro's
  
  An engaging story - ( albeit with it's share of clichs)
  about finding out what is going on 
 in this city that is going insane.
  
  Great music - I love the music in this game. From the chants when things get mysterious, to the 
 ROAR of an orchestra as you leap a hole in the earth in a taxi cab.
  
  Interesting combinations - The items you pick up ( IE, a can of bug spray, a handkerchief) may 
 be useless when used by itself, but when that bug spray is combined with a lighter it becomes a 
 makeshift flame-thrower! combine that handkerchief with a bottle of alcohol and you have a Molotov 
 cocktail! these items can be used in a variety of ways to really enhance gameplay.
  
  Cinematic feel - Escaping a blown up building only to fall out and have to shimmy across a ledge 
 while the building is still exploding? That's not a cutscene, you get to DO that. This game at some 
 points are just so cool and exciting that you will feel as if you are there. it sucks you in and 
 you become pumped for what's happening next.
  
  Con's
  
  Short - The entire game ( including a some-what long side quest ) can be completed in 15 odd hours. 
 You can still go after achievements and the like, but once you beat the game, grab the optional 
 side quest and grab all the achievements, you're pretty much done.
  
  Fire = requirement - just about every single enemy in this game MUST BE KILLED WITH FIRE. This 
 creates quite a conundrum when you have no items and there's no fire nearby. you have a pistol, 
 but it can't kill enemy's ( under most circumstances anyway.) this feels like a chore, running 
 from enemy's in desperate search of a place to burn them.
  
  Car Scenes - Many people loathed these scenes for their difficulty and steep memorization curve. 
 Also, many people complained of glitches ruining it. I NEVER ran into a glitch, I do however have 
 this on my list of con's because of the fact that they just feel weird. I can't say I hated them, 
 but sometimes it just felt wrong.
  
  This is a game that, Despite a few bugs here and there, is an excellent game that was worth the 
 buy for me. It's an interesting game that I REALLY RECOMMEND despite what the professional critics 
 say. Don't pass this one up. If you are on the edge, give it a rent, because for some people, this 
 is just not their game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I was still haven't played a survival horror game on my 360 , so when I saw the trailer about this 
 game I was extremely excited !
  Reading the early reviews from websites and magazines i started to feel that I'm going to be disappointed 
 but I still went and bought it and what a shock ...... It made my want to brake the joystick !
 
  
  First i will start with the good side :-
  The graphics are very impressive and will make you scared 
  
  The story is pretty neat with 
 many shockers and a t. v show like episodes .they got it write this way
  
  The music ... oh god how amazing it is . you will open the credits just to listen to the music , 
 its scary and gives you a great feeling that will push you to keep playing 
  
  After all these good qualities you would this this is the game of the year ! but noooooooo no
 
  
  Time to give the bad side :-
  
  The controls . the controls of this game could possibly be the worst controls on a 360 game it 
 will make simple fun actions turn into hard and frustrating and time consuming nightmares . killing 
 a monster or changing you're weapon or even opening a car door will be hard !
  and the same goes for driving , bad and unrealistic .
  
  At the end you should really give 
 this game a rent to experience the amazing audio and the unique story and dvd-like interface . 
 but there is no chance that this game deserves a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacardi0987
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I've never really played a game that has horrible controls until i played this game. I was hard 
 to move around change the camera around to see what i was doing. I feel that they spent too much 
 time trying to make "alive" environments then actually making a game you can play. If i were you 
 don't even spend the money to rent the game. Download the demo to understand how poor this game 
 is. The first 5 minutes of the game you are clicking in the right stick to blink. Come on now. 
 That would have been really cool to me like 10 years ago. The environemts in this came are cool 
 and i'm glad that they did try something new. I think the game needs a little more polish and easier 
 controls and this game would be good. How ever i would play a game where i have control over my 
 character then play in a really cool environment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmogazmo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  So here it goes from my personal experience; Upon playing this game.... it is Great. However i would 
 like to say in a rather segregated fashion upon how it all comes into a coherant form into my established 
 account; on why so?
  
  1: Story; Try and see for your self its one of the best; no point taking my word; rent it out.
 
  
  2: Problems; Can get repetitive especially when their aint no checkpoints and (driving the car) 
 can get immensely annoying especially when one small crash can obliterate you; i mean apart from 
 that it feels just like gta 4; the driving i mean. Also from some technical glitches; nothing a 
 patch cant solve.
  
  Every other segment i dont need to even talk about i mean those things are the ying (story - good 
 thing) and yang (Problems - bad thing) . Everything else is fantastic and yes it does have great 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeybt93
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most anticipated games of the year for me. I ha a gut feeling that this game 
 was to be one of the best. I got it and put it in my system prepared for fun. The game was fun at 
 first, but quickly got uninteresting and became little fun.
  
  The camera angles are all right most of the time, but you get the occasional messy looking camera 
 angle that makes the game just that much harder. It was a nice feature to see them allow you to 
 switch between first person and third person.
  
  The load times aren't long at all. There are loads in between missions and they only take a few 
 seconds. The load times definitely aren't a problem with this game.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't the greatest. Don't get me wrong, I think that the fire effects 
 are top of the line, but everything else is just plain looking. Not bad, but not great looking 
 either. The car graphics look horrible, but everything else is okay.
  
  The storyline is alright. I think they tried to make it out to be something that it wasn't. It 
 seemed a little cheesy to me. They definately tried to make this an epic experience, which would 
 have been awesome if the game was a little better.
  
  The gameplay was original. It was nice to see a new and creative way to present this action game. 
 Instead of bashing buttons in order to fight monsters you had you use the stick to move objects 
 around. It was new and refreshing, but at the same time it got frustrating at moments. In the end 
 I didn't enjoy those controls too much. The controls to drive I thought were some of the worst 
 the I had seen. They needed to improve the controls greatly.
  
  The game seemed to not have much of a hype by critics, but I had hype for this game. The game was 
 a complete letdown in my eyes.
  
  The music was original and was pretty good. I think that the music fit the game and was well composed. 
 The music was one of the few things in this game that worked out.
  
  Alone In The Dark didn't have online play. It was probably for the best because I don't know how 
 that would have worked.
  
  The voice acting wasn't good. I felt as those the people who did the voice acting had no experience 
 in it and were payed very little money. The voice acting either had no emotion or an emotion that 
 didn't fit that scene.
  
  Innovative ideas included those of fire use, real world rules, DVD style chapter select, and a 
 story that felt like a television show. The fire use looked good and worked pretty well. Real world 
 rules didn't exactly work well. DVD style chapters ere useful when you wanted to skip chapters. 
 The television effect is cool, but it would be better if the game had a better story.
  
  This game has no replay value except for a couple of missions. Other than those few holy s** moments, 
 the game is useless to play again.
  
  My last impression is that yo shouldn't get this game. I wish I hadn't wasted my money on it. This 
 game had great potential, but did nothing with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Another under-rated game by gamespot. First of all, this is a great game. Its kind of has a resident 
 evil 4 sytle but at the same time also keeps elements found in original survival horror games, 
 which i liked. The in-game physics i thought were excellent, as are the graphics and cut-scenes. 
 Its kind of deadrising styled also in the way that you can pick up different things to use as weapons. 
 Playing with fire is also a major factor of the game, which adds the enjoyment level. The item 
 changing and etc. can be a bit tricky if your just starting out, but I was good with it after the 
 first episode. You can also combine items to make them more effective as weapons or supplements, 
 which is also very cool. All in all, i think this is a great action game that was under-rated. 
 Driving cars is also really cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 932
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  First I want to say that I can't agree with the GS review! It's just lame.... and yeah, more words 
 is useless. I will say try it first, play the game for about 10 hours, then you can make a review 
 that have some sense!
  
  The game have some new ideas that make it fresh and new. 
  
  Before I begin to sound to much of "fan-boy" and "Mr. knowing all" then let me say, that I think 
 that there are to many people out there, that compare games like HALO, Gears of War, "Resident 
 Evil" and so on, with ALL OTHER GAMES!
  
  True is it, that AITD have errors and other things that cloud have been done better. That is something 
 that we / I can't forgive! Shame on you ATARI !!!
  
  But I most say, after play the game myself, I think that many of the people that have given this 
 so bad reviews, maybe need to play more games that don't remind of "HALO" and "Resident evil"
 
  
  Try rent the game first!
  
  GS don't seem to really understand this game. If it's not easy to play, if it don't remind of the 
 GREAT games, then they suck it seems.
  
  Yea its *very bad that it don't make us scared* COME ON GUYS!!! Not every game needs to: BUUUU 
 HERE COME THE EVIL BUGGY MAN MUHAHA!
  
  Why do it need to copy RE and SH? Don't know!? Good then we can skip that part.
  
  BAD:
  
 some tech. errors is holding the game back from a step closer to the top.
  It will seems that they did not test it enough before release.
  
  GOOD:
  Many new ideas that 
 make AITD a fresh blow ind the line of game's.
  Design, menu and story are nice and the TV series setup is just perfect!
  
  (sorry if I spelling 
 wrong or missing a few words)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reason
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Everything about AITD irritates to the extreme, Bad contols ,stiff thunderbird like animations, brain 
 dead puzzles, out of place driving bits etc, etc. This game treats you like an idiot it has your annoying 
 lady friend constantly remind you how to do the most obvious of tasks. It tries so hard to give 
 its self a cinematic feel throughout but just delivers a system that does not work. This game has 
 no frights, has no originality and aint anything to do my the original games that were so popular. Yes 
 there are some new ideas in how to kill your enemies ,but your forced to play by numbers, there 
 is no real sense of the unexpected and it feels so comic book. Even the first person view point 
 your forced to use when firing your gun, just dosent feel right. One thing at least the developers 
 let you have the option to play any episode straight off, hmm!!! good job so you could by-pass all 
 the boring and repetitive nonsense, AVOID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  
  Alone in the Dark follows the tale of a paranormal investigator who wakes up in a burning building, 
 unable to remember who he is and how he came to be surrounded by strange creatures and other unforeseeable 
 forces.
  
  He soon learns that he is Edward Carnby, the hero of the previous Alone in the Dark games. As he 
 makes his way out of the crumbling skyscraper he meets up with a reporter and photographer named 
 Sarah, and they flee into Central Park to uncover the mystery of Edward's background and the secret 
 behind a stone with mysterious properties.
  
  
  There are many inventive ideas at play in this game which most other games do not dare attempt. 
 It implies a fresh real world inventory system, and excellent idea on what it would be like to 
 be caught up in this type of situation.
  
  Alone in the Dark has some of the most realistic fire effects in a videogame seen to date. Flames 
 lick the walls to stunning effect; objects catch fire and can be used against enemies; and puzzles, 
 and flames can help light your way in dark corridors. At times, the flames behave so realistically 
 that you forget it's only a videogame. Not to mention fire is the only way to kill enemies (named 
 "Humanz") , which is an interesting game mechanic and forces the player to actually strategize their 
 attacks as opposed to just shooting senselessly until the enemy is dead. It's a fun new way to 
 play a survival horror game and actually recalls some of the older horror films where fire was 
 the deadliest of weapons against the undead. A smart move by the developers to keep things fast 
 and tense since you may not always have the means to dispatch the threats surrounding you. Although, 
 there are many different methods you can use to dispatch your enemies (Lobbing Molotov cocktails, 
 blowing up cars, using makeshift blowtorches, bashing monsters with burning furniture) your gun 
 (you only have a single handgun throughout the entire game) is pretty much useless against them! 
 Which is a first for videogames in particular videogames that offer you guns anyway, but fear not! 
 Using Alone in the Darks innovative combat and inventory system you can pour flammable liquid on 
 your ammunition to create "fire bullets." Not to bad huh?
  
  
  
  
  
  Speaking of innovative inventory systems. Alone in the Dark restricts you to only a few slots/pockets 
 in your jacket. And each side can only hold a certain category of items. Manipulating items in 
 videogames usually consists of pausing the game while you root around your endless supply of weapons 
 or puzzle items all the while the bad guys seem to have no issue with waiting while you take as 
 much time to put away the knife and poke around your items until you find that divesting rocket 
 launcher. Which really saps the realism out of action games. Not in this case! In Alone in the 
 Dark you pull up your REALTIME inventory by pressing down on the D-Pad which brings up your can 
 be jacket all the while monsters have free reign to attack you which puts a real focus on urgency 
 and tension. Things most survival horror games lack. For me the real sense of danger was ALWAYS 
 present and acting fast was commonplace near the end of this game. If this type of action sounds 
 too real to you, trust me it is!
  
  With all this good action and game play going on there unfortunately are some downsides that keep 
 this game from being a 10. First off the collision detection and physics in Alone in the Dark don't 
 always work as well as they should. For instance I tried to get creative, taping a bottle of explosives 
 to a steel door and stepping back to shoot it. Nothing happened. But when I lobbed the same bottle 
 in the air and shot it in front of the door, it burst into pieces, opening the way before me. 
 
  
  Next is the inconsistency of the controls. Alone in the Dark uses a mix of third and first person 
 views  the former is tank-like (Think Resident Evil 1) . 
  You pick up melee weapons and use the right analog stick to swing it. It's a nice idea but most 
 times ends up feeling clumsy and imprecise. Often you'll find yourself dying more because of the 
 controls then from actual gmaeplay. While this can be frustrating practicing these controls in 
 some of the "Safe" areas (Monster free locations) will help prepare you for the upcoming battles. 
 
  
  Alone in the Dark also offers driving sequences, which with the inconsistent controls carry over 
 to these segments as well. The cars in Alone in the Dark are not weighted correctly, and as a result 
 they handle strangely and are not fun to drive, surprisingly there are only three basic car models 
 in NYC. A taxi, cop car and something that looks like a 1985 Mercury Cougar and they all drive 
 equally bad. 
  
  Now enough with the bad back to the good, Alone in the Dark includes a clever DVD-like menu system 
 that allows you to fast-forward, right up to the beginning of the last level if you like. Doing 
 so brings up a slick recap segment similar to what you might see on an episode of 24. While there's 
 nothing particularly episodic about the story structure of Alone in the Dark, it's a cool addition 
 that lets you bypass some of the more troublesome parts of the game. Although I don't recommend 
 skipping since all in all it's a pretty good game.
  
  Alone in the Dark is a new thinking man's survival horror game. The puzzles in are well designed. 
 There's one in which you must reach a ledge in an underground storehouse with the help of a forklift. 
 First you must man the forklift, drive to the broken ramp, raise the debris with the forklift, 
 hop out and activate a switch which releases a metal bar that will hold the ramp up then proceed 
 to the next area. Most of these puzzles require you to think in real terms so burning or knocking 
 down a door with a sledgehammer is all within your means.
  
  As a huge fan of survival horror games Alone in the Dark has some excellent new ideas for the genre. 
 Nice visuals, great fire effects and valiant efforts at innovation make up for the frustrating 
 controls. There's a certain amount of old-school adventure charm in Alone in the Dark and a lot 
 of other games should take notice. Don't let the reviews for this game keep you at bay give it 
 a shot for yourself and you'll actually find some light in this pretty dark game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XylonEvilPrince
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark takes place in New York city. Something evil and seeking revenge is on the loose 
 after being released from it's prison in the Central Park. You are Edward Carnby a paranormal investigator, 
 but you have no memory due to a certain ritual which was performed on you. You alone must find 
 out what's going down at the park and destroy the evil being that is hunting you for some unknown 
 reason.
  
  This game is very fun, but it's tricky. If your willing to get used to some weird controls then 
 i would definetly recommend this game. For instance, in most games to swing a blunt weapon or a 
 sword you would usually press the RT (XBOX360) . However in this game to swing a weapon you tilt 
 the right joystick back (for a backswing) then forward to smack down your pursuer. Also, when driving, 
 It's very easy to get stuck, and with the roots of evil (literally roots) chasing you and destroying 
 the ground behind you, it's very hard to complete the driving portion of the game. Those are really 
 the only flaws i found in the game (apart from the fact that there's no mini-map. you must check 
 your phone every time you wish to view the map. 
  
  So.... the good things now. The animation is very detailed from the gaping holes in the earth to 
 Edward's 5 o'clock shadow. The cut-scene graphics are the same as the in-game graphics. The story 
 is told in an episode like format. When you continue the game it even says "Previously on Alone 
 in the Dark'' and then gives you a recall on everything that's happened so far. Also for those 
 of you who have trouble beating games like this or get stuck on certain parts and give up, this 
 game has the option of skipping to any part of the game without playing it. The game is also very 
 realistic. You can mix and merge many of the items that you find. For example, you can take a glass 
 bottle then fill it with gasoline (from a car whose tank you've pierced) then put a hankerchief 
 in the bottle and bam! Molotov Cocktail. Light it, toss it and watch the fireworks. Along with 
 a series of other objects that you can make, there is the car factor. You can start a car by hotwiring 
 it or you can find the key in various parts of the car. You can drive in 1st person or 3rd person. 
 As for combat the only way to kill enemies for permanence is to use fire. So i recommend my personal 
 favorite....... the spray/lighter combination. On top of all that achievements are very very very 
 easy to earn i earned 20 achievements in my first 2 hours. The inventory system is phenomenal. 
 you use your pockets in your jacket. I think it makes more sense than having your character being 
 mysteriously able to carry 20 guns, a baseball bat, a sword, a chainsaw, a machete, and various 
 other clothes and armors. So, overall based on all these amazing features this game earns a 9 out 
 of 10 from me. Check out my other reviews if you liked this one. i'm Phil - self- proclaimed game 
 reviewer. 
  
  add me as a friend if you want more of my blogs and game reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark has so much wasted potential that it's not even funny. A decent storyline with 
 ambitious gameplay elements falls short due to just because of bad programming. The game isn't 
 broken but it's clunky enough that you'll notice that not everything is right in the game.
  
  Usually I don't have a problem with the sound department, games tend to always sound the way 
 they're supposed to so unless it is poor voice acting, which AitD has by the way, I usually just 
 write off this portion of a review or skip it all together. Now I shouldn't say poor voice acting, 
 it's more along the lines of bad dialogue that made it sound like the voice actors really weren't 
 getting behind it in parts. For the most part the voice acting is at least decent. My main complaint 
 with the audio portion is that I'm dealing with a game where fire is an important element throughout 
 the game. Combustible things combust, the textures of the object on fire slowly become charred 
 and the object eventually breaks apart because of physics. It's kind of nice to watch and is a 
 nice little graphical event; however the sound doesn't reflect this. It's almost like watching 
 a video of a fireplace with the sound muted, sure it's pretty but the crackling and the roaring 
 of the fire are noticeably missing.
  
  I guess the pattern of the last paragraph will repeat itself throughout most of the review as something 
 that is pretty innovative and kind of works in one way is either missing something or is a bit 
 goofy in execution.
  
  The preferred mode of travel while you're making your way around Central Park is by vehicles and 
 seeing as a monstrous disaster just took place, abandoned vehicles abound. Let me start off saying 
 the good things. Cars controls are responsive, there are some neat tricks you can do with a vehicle 
 such as check the compartments for supplies, break open the gas tank and refill bottles or use 
 the fuel trail to blow up the car or you can simply shoot the gas tank and blow it up right away. 
 Too bad the car physics just don't feel right. Acceleration just seems way too fast and breaking 
 seems like the car is on ice. To get the fuel to leak out of the car you use a regular knife and 
 stab it through where the gas cap is. Now basic education tells me that a knife won't usually punch 
 right through a car side panel, the gas tank isn't where the trunk would be and the fuel leaking 
 out has to do with gravity meaning if I'm going to stab the spot where I usually would fill the 
 tank up, for gas to pour out, the tank would have to be higher than that. The benefits of the vehicle 
 portion are marred by unrealistic mistakes.
  
  Now when I say preferred mode of travel, I mean that the game does have portions of driving while 
 dodging obstacles that pop up or trying to outrun things. These portions break up the regular gameplay 
 but they're not at all exciting or fun simply because driving a car in this game isn't exciting 
 or fun.
  
  The game tries very hard to have a cinematic look as if you're playing a movie and I must say that 
 this Alone in the Dark does a better job of being a movie than the actual Alone in the Dark movie. 
 Levels are treated more like scenes in movies and if you're having difficulty with a certain portion, 
 you can simply skip past it. Another amazing touch is when you go to continue a game from where 
 you left it off, a cinematic of key story elements is replayed to catch you back up where you left 
 off which is a nice added touch.
  
  Conversely the camera angles often suck, things that happen in the background to give the game 
 a more epic feel usually look terrible (for example car accidents looking more like pinballs running 
 into one another, huge falling boulders being deflected by little pieces of metal as if the rocky 
 mass had no weight or inertia) and even the same moments can retriggering themselves over and over 
 again. What I mean is that a few situations like this occurred; the character walks down a corridor, 
 some gunshots and screaming are heard and when he enters the room these sounds came from, a body 
 falls out of the ceiling. It's a nice touch but when I left the building and went back in to see 
 if I missed anything, the same thing happened all over again.
  
  Gameplay has a bunch of interesting highs and lows like everything else in this game. All the weapons 
 in the game are actually everyday household items thrown in together in a quick improvisional way. 
 Bottles of alcohol plus rags plus a lighter and you have a Molotov cocktail. A plastic bottle of 
 flammable liquid, a rag and a lighter and you have a bouncing cocktail. Use two-sided tape on these 
 cocktails and attach a box of bullets and you have a shrapnel bomb. All the while the character's 
 inventory is actually just his coat. You open up your coat to find each of these objects tied down 
 and ready to be used and mixed.
  
  Unfortunately most of the weapon combos are pretty useless and you'll learn to stick to the ones 
 you like. Mr. Cranby must be a neat freak with OCD because even if you have an empty space on your 
 coat, some items can't be tied down to the left side and vice versa.
  
  Some innovative things are attempted with the controller during the game. When in first person 
 view, the right thumbstick can be pressed in to clear haze of debris from the character's eyes, 
 there's a brief CPR scene that changes up gameplay for a little while and melee weapons can be 
 swung side to side or up and down with some manipulation of the thumbstick. However, Edward's motion, 
 at best, feels stiff and mechanical, collision detection is often poor rendering gunshot or swings 
 useless and I simply wish the game would stay in first person mode all the time.
  
  The health system is fairly straightforward but different than most other health systems. When 
 you get hit, wounds appear on your character's body and get more and more severe the more damage 
 Edward takes. There are even some serious wounds that start a countdown timer that forces you to 
 hurry up and bandage yourself before time runs out. To fix these wounds you use first aid spray 
 for the regular wounds and bandages for the bleeding ones. This system works well except it doesn't 
 look good. The wound textures look like they're applied to the clothing and not the skin that lies 
 under the clothing and in GTA IV fashion, any healing done to Edward mysteriously fixes his clothes 
 also.
  
  Graphics suffer from the same pros and cons situation as the rest of the game. For the most part, 
 AitD does a good job of making Central Park look like a scary, hellish wasteland. The environment 
 is littered with enough foes, objects and municipal buildings to make it feel like a good rendition 
 of that famous park. Enemies come in all shapes and sizes from rats and bats to humanoid and larger 
 sizes. Buuuuut cut scenes sometimes have points of bad collision detection of just simply bad textures 
 and the variety of foes doesn't seem to be that high.
  
  The highlight of the game is that there's usually a female you're escorting though the park fortunately 
 the AI only attacks the main character and I've even tossed exploding bottles at the woman and 
 she didn't die. Yes I know that this isn't realistic but it makes escorting her so much easier 
 and that's something I'm too eagerly willing to overlook.
  
  There are some puzzles in the game that you'll have to use your knowledge of the game's physics 
 and items to solve them especially during the last level. This comes off as a little bit strange 
 because up to this point there are only a few scattered puzzles throughout the game and then literally 
 about six much more difficult puzzles in a row at the end.
  
  Surprisingly I'm actually having a pretty good time playing Alone in the Dark. It's by no means 
 a great or even a good game but it does try and succeed in being entertaining every once in a while. 
 The cons do outweigh the pros by a large margin but I wouldn't say the game entirely sucks. It's 
 simply an average entertaining eight hours spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing Alone in the Dark on the 360. When my 360 finally made 
 its way back to me from getting touched up a bit, I made haste down to the local Blockbuster and 
 rented it. I was really stoked that maybe I would have a good survival horror game to play. 
  I put the game into my system and watched the story begin. I should have known what I was in for 
 when the started with a weird blinking mini game during the opening scenes. Instead of coming off 
 as cool, it was more annoying and silly. One thing leads to another and I was now free to control 
 the main character. I then spent the next 2 hours fighting for my life. From what you ask? Monsters 
 coming up from cracks in the ground? No. From the cracks themselves? No. Central Park muggers? 
 No. What I fought was much more of a challange than any of the above mentioned foes. You see, what 
 I fought was maybe some of the most broken, unplayable controls to ever sneak there way onto a 
 game that somehow made it past the Atari QC department.
  To say that its hard to control the hero of this game is a dangerous and evil understatement. More 
 often than not you will find yourself bumping into walls, chairs, and anything else that is standing 
 still. I cant really even tell you about the later levels of this game or the story. You see, that 
 would require that I play the game for more than 2 hours, and I just dont want to take away from 
 my staring at the wall time for this game. 
  If you really feel the need, rent this game and find out for yourself just how bad a "Next-Gen" 
 game can really be. You would be better off walking through central park at 3:00am with 10,000 
 dollars taped to your body while you were blindfolded. Alone in the Dark is exactly where this 
 game should be kept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishakat31
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for a long time, I mean a LONG time, so when my husband 
 and I popped this in, planning to settle in for a few hours of gameplay, I was excited. That excitement 
 quickly turned to disappointment. We have the PS2 version, and at first, being HUGE fans of Resident 
 Evil, thought this might be a lot of fun, since at first glance, the graphics resemble some of 
 the earlier RE games. Anyway, gameplay quickly became very frustrating. The main character's movement 
 is hard to get used to and can make you downright dizzy, even after adjusting the camera speed. 
 We also discovered, while we were in the lobby of the building, when the first zombie guys start 
 coming at you, that evidently, you can't shoot over counters... ok... Also, one of the zombie guys 
 started doing a spastic little boogie after being shot that was obviously not intended on the part 
 of the game designers, and it really took away from the gameplay because it was actually downright 
 funny. They also just kind of stood there and stared at you, even as you got right up close with 
 a gun pointed in their face, but once you actually connected with a shot, they took 3 shots to 
 take down, which didn't make sense, since earlier in the game, it took one knock on the head with 
 a chair to take em down.
  
  Maybe we gave up too early, who knows, but it just got tedious wayyy too quick, and to me, gameplay 
 shouldn't be tedious, it should be fun. I really had much higher hopes for this. I'm sad, very 
 sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect example of something good getting hurt by being rushed. You can tell there was 
 no final testing before the game was sent out. There are some glitches that I had to use the skip 
 feature to get past. This game isn't all bad though if you can look past the terrible collision 
 detection in cars and some generic game lengthening things then you will see some of the most innovative 
 mechanics in a game to date. They had all the rite tools to make one of the best games ever but 
 they just aren't delivered correctly. The game has some real memorable moments that you will be 
 talking about for a while. It really feels like you are playing the best game ever created with 
 the worst controls ever created. If you are a horror game fan then you will be pleased to see some 
 truly wonderful innovations to the genre but their isn't enough pride in the world to make anyone 
 play this game the whole way through. Its really sad that something that has so much potential 
 ended up being so broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game back in Februrary when I bought Test Drive Unlimited. When the game was 
 reaching it's release date I checked out game sites to see if any early reviews were posted, and 
 of course I eventually ran into the numerous reviews on Amazon and have also seen the reviews from 
 IGN and GameSpot. Now I was honestly shocked by how this game was getting panned left and right 
 and just to my relief I decided to keep the game and try it for myself which shocked me even more 
 to how so many people can honestly hate this game. Then again, I realized after I beat it why this 
 game can be hated so much.
  
  
  Alone in the Dark is a game that requires the player to actually think, to use his or her brain. 
 Alone in the Dark is not your simple run and shoot and you beat it type game, it's not Call of 
 Duty where Activision just slaps a number at the end of it and calls it done. The problem I am 
 reading most is the controls, and this is what I don't get, if you have played Resident Evil (any 
 of them) . then you should be ok with this game because they are the same as any Resident Evil game 
 with the exception of switching between first and third person. Other complaints span to the infamous 
 59th Street scene when your driving through New York City. Once again I see no problem with this 
 as I completed it in one try, and during that one try I encountered no such things that ive been 
 reading like ''invisible walls'' or ''bottemless pits.'' In fact, I re-did the part in cockpit 
 mode which actually made the scene easier.
  
  I am actually glad I decided to go ahead and buy this game even with all the negative press, because 
 I am so sick and tired of the usual games were getting today which no effort was truly put behind. 
 Just looking at that list and looking at how Alone in the Dark is doing commercially; I now fully 
 understand why we have so many sequels. Gamers are getting stupid. Plain and simple, we are playing 
 the same games over and over again that there no longer needs to be any creativity anymore as all 
 the game companies have to do is slap a number at the end of a game and call it done.
  
  Alone in the Dark is not for simple minded gamers, and I am NOT sorry if that insults somebody 
 else who doesn't like it; unlike most games of today this game requires you to THINK, and more 
 importantly to use commen sense.
  
  The only complaints I see with this game are the repetitive roots you have to burn and that it 
 has limited replay value, and maybe the occasional glitch, but what game doesn't have glitches 
 nowadays?
  
  Overall I would have to say this is the most creative and innovative game of 2008, it has its flaws 
 but by no means are they 'game killers.' If you are interested in this game and would like a fairer 
 review of it, I suggest you go read the review at 1Up, or go to Youtube and type in 'Context Sensitive: 
 Alone in the Dark.' Other than that I highly recommend this game to survival horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willsi100
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of this genre of games (excited for the new RES next yr :D) .
  This game is a good game, I will have to say that.
  The graphics are impressive, I love the style 
 of the game, and the storyline is fun too.
  A good point to notice is the way it is set out like a dvd/tv series ("Previously on Alone In The 
 Dark") whenever you return to playing the game, where this will give you an overview of the story 
 so far.
  Another good point about this game is the way how your weapons are accessed by going into the characters 
 jacket, which enemies can still attack you at this point.
  Also healing yourself gives you a more realistic taste by spraying over cuts on your body, but 
 shamefully this looks like patches have just been places on the characters jacket. So if you have 
 took a slight beating by your zombie enemies you will look like you have had pancakes thrown at 
 your with maybe a bit of strawberry jam (or jelly if you American) added into it.
  Now with the worst point of the game, GLITCHES. This game has the most glitches in that I have 
 played for a long time. It really does let the game down a lot. Simple things like carrying a fire 
 extinguisher you will notice that the pipe bit on the end will swing through your characters body, 
 which at this point you will think why have they rushed this game to bring it out.
  But bringing this to a conclusion I would say yeah its a fun game, rent it, don't pay the full 
 price for it, but enjoy the good points of this game as there are a fair few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethuss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The game has amazing gameplay and puzzles. If you don't have pacience to solve puzzles so you may 
 not like it. But the graphics are very good and the story of the game is prety cacthing. The game 
 has few glitches but it does not desapoint you. Most of the objects in the game are interactive, 
 so when a door is locked, why stop there? Use a bottle of flamable liquid to explode the door and 
 explore the area. You got a huge map to explore and lots of places to go. Its an easy game to gain 
 gamescore, you can get the 1000 G easily The game does not scary you that much, there's lots of 
 blood though. From all the horror games that normally dont get a clear story and the violence and 
 gore are the only things that matter, Alone in the Dark have a very developed story. I really recomend 
 this game for horror game fans, like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChelseaFC91594
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game for $60 and then i got all the gamer score on it except for the achievement to 
 make all possible combinations. It has countless glitches and sometimes a glitch won't let you 
 finish a level so that you have to start the level all over again. I beat the game in about a day. 
 i recommend you rent it first and if you liked it you can buy it but it gets very boring after 
 you beat it. After I beat the game I sold it back for less than half the price. -_- It was a mistake 
 to buy the game. Waste of money and time. I could've bought a much better game with my $60 bucks. 
 So if anyone was wondering wether or not to buy the game don't buy it, but rent it. I don't know 
 what else to put about the game. But the best part was probably the bosses and the puzzles that 
 were included in the game. They are basically the only hard parts in the game. After a couple of 
 tries though you beat them wth ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The only reason to get this game is for the achievements becase they are easy to get. Ok the storyline 
 is ok but at the end of the game just sucks so mch its like they said ok this is the greatest ending 
 ever and one guy says are you sure maybe we should fix it a bit and the director says no people 
 will love it.......... dumbasses. anyway the graphics are atleast good the monsters are good too 
 but the biggest problem is the gameplay. the controles are very bad and the adventure isnt too 
 bad as well. But the acting is good and so are the characters so thats why I gave the game a 7.5 
 because its only worth renting and not buying. But thank god this doesnt have live mode in it. 
 Thats what made the game easy the get achievements. This game is kind of hard to get through the 
 next stage.9579 f64949 347347884 4843747 84378848 38834537 483843757 834837573 348375 348375 3584587 
 34873 348357 3e8458737 34857357 34858 348537 8743 83487573 85r847 8e587 834587 834587 348537 3857 
 34857 34857 e537 34875 358t7 3587 358 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah20s
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the rating they gave it I think that the graphics are amazing the action is intense 
 and you never know whats going to happen next. One of the best things I came to find out you can 
 contain all of your inventory in your jacket and you can mix alcohol so that you can make it more 
 explosive wrap double sided tape around it to stick to enemies or put a rag into it to make it 
 a Molotov cocktail and it can go into slow-mo as you throw something into the air and blow it into 
 a huge explosion with your pistol. The puzzles are fun and you even have to blink with a button 
 once in awhile to clear your vision in the start of the game when your coming into consciousness. 
 Also you have to blink to clear mucus that some monsters spit into your eyes and yes you can only 
 kill them via fire which there is plenty around. Its also extremely realistic how fire spreads 
 and breaks down wood and doorways you can even slam doors down with heavy canisters or fire extinguishers 
 with realistic joystick movements. One of the scarier parts is when you have to use a flashlight 
 or burning furniture to make this black stuff on the ground clear away otherwise it will swallow 
 you alive.
  
  Another amazing feature is when you get into vehicles you can not only drive them but turn on the 
 dash light open the glove box to search for items, honk the horn, turn off your headlights, etc. 
 So interactive! Thats why I say its one of the most interactive games I've played on the 360 thus 
 far. So check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, story, neat gameplay ideas, very creepy
  
  The Bad: Bad physics, stiff sluggish controls, bad combat, driving shouldn't be annoying, some 
 puzzles are badly set up
  
  I was so excited for Alone in the Dark for such a long time that I never thought it would be an 
 (almost) bad game. I don't want to rag on this game since the developers did try really hard, so 
 as a courtesy I'm going to start with the positives. The first thing you'll notice are the visuals; 
 they are amazing. The graphics have high res textures, amazing lighting effects, creepy fog, and 
 it's all very dark and surreal. You'll be playing as John Carnby who is trying to find out the 
 secrets of Central Park while trying to stop Lucifer from taking over the world through "The Path 
 of Light". In the beginning of the game everything is very cinematic and pretty fun. The game walks 
 you through the "mixing system" where you look in your jacket and mix tons of things together at 
 your will. If you want a molatov cocktail stick a handkerchief in a glass or plastic bottle, light 
 it with a lighter and BOOM! Hey you want it to stick to solve a puzzle? Add some sticky tape and 
 your good to go. Need to light your way through a dark tunnel but need it landed in one precise 
 area without it bouncing? Add some tape to that, or you just take an explosive bottle and shoot 
 it in mid-air... don't worry the John keeps track of the bottle in slow motion it's just your job 
 to time the shot. There are also environmental weapons such as setting 4x4s on fire and lighting 
 enemies up with them, use them to light your path, take fire extinguishers to put out fire, or 
 you can use them as battering rams to take down doors. While the combination system is really fun 
 it does have it's limits, but we'll get to the down sides later. The next thing you'll come across 
 will be the combat and there are more downs than ups too this. The one good part is you can use 
 anything at your disposal. While you can only kill the demons (they are pretty damn creepy) with 
 fire there are multiple ways to do this. Have a health spray, or any type or aerosol? Use your 
 lighter for a mini flamethrower. Another great aspect of the game is everything is seen visually. 
 There are no meters or bars anywhere, so your health is indicated by wounds on John's body. Bleed 
 too much and you get a timer to find some bandages fast. There are also car scenes, and Central 
 Park is kind of a much Grand Theft Auto type map where you can get in and out of random cars to 
 kill "evil roots" which are a huge pain in the you know what to find, but more on that later. What's 
 really cool is that if there are no keys you can hotwire the car to start it by matching colored 
 wires, so this gives the game a more of a "I gotta hurry and get the hell out of here" type feeling. 
 While these are the main elements of the game there are just way too many down sides. The physics 
 in the game are busted so everything is either really floaty, really heavy, or just plain wonky 
 looking. Nothing really moves around right in the game and this really sucks since a lot of the 
 game is built around physics. When it comes to combat the game just wants to hate you. While there 
 are very little supplies in the game to begin with it's so hard to kill 8 demons when you only 
 have one spray can. While you can only kill with fire is really dumb since you have a gun, but 
 it won't kill them unless you poor gasoline on the bullets. I found this really stupid and when 
 you try to kill the evil roots near the end of the game you will go mad trying to use the little 
 supplies you have for the root, yet trying to fend off the demons. The controls are just really 
 wonky and don't really work. In third person you can only move with the left stick and you swing 
 things around with the right, but the movement is just really limited. This really sucks when an 
 enemy is behind you and you have to fiddle with the left stick to get John to turn around. The 
 driving is also another pain since the physics really suck. You'll stuck on the slightest slope 
 or little rock and your car will go flying. Demons can come rip you or of your car... or rip the 
 car off you and it's really hard to shake them off. Thanks to the crappy physics you just slightly 
 bump something they go flying off yet they can jump 400 feet. The controls just feel stiff and 
 sluggish and they aren't very responsive sometimes, so this makes everything overall harder than 
 it should be. At least the last positive is the voice acting is good, the story is great, and the 
 DVD type skip feature really helps. I can't recommend this game unless you feel like struggling 
 through this annoying game. It's worth playing for the visuals, story, and great gameplay ideas, 
 but you'll struggle more than smile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bane6667
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics: not eyepopping but it works 8/10
  
  Gameplay: the abilty to use anything was never so good you could customize your weapons as well. 
 fire spreads nicely. huge map with alot of episodes you could never get stuck with the episode 
 fast-foward system (i dont know what the glitches are i havent seen a single glitch in this game) 
 9/10
  
  cons: if you hit a light pole with your car the light pole with wreck your car. sometimes if you 
 need a 2X4 to kill someone good luck finding it.
  
  Story: central park houses something that wants this thing called the stone and its trying to ressurect 
 something bigger than you can imagine 7/10
  
  score 8.3/10
  
  now i dont know what else to say because i dont have bare min words
  
  if you have Age of Conan 
 and you want a DT My name in game is Steak i need money and im lvl 41 and i think its nerdy too 
 but its bloody and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is an unfortunate victim of its own design. The game is practically begging you 
 to enjoy how immersed you can get into the story and game play. And for the most part I enjoyed 
 the story and the game play too. The graphics weren't that bad either and the scripted elements 
 in the game were kind of cool to watch.
  
  Now this is where the unfortunate part comes into the equation of Alone in the Dark. Bad collision 
 detection, terrible dialog, no end boss and even the story at times will take some huge jumps just 
 to progress the story.
  
  In the game you play Edward Carnby, the protagonist from the original Alone in the Dark. Of course 
 you don't know who you are at first, so you have to find out what has happened to you and what 
 this stone you were given is supposed to do. The dialogue early on feels rushed and as if the storywriter 
 was forcing you to take everything in the game as very serious with a lot of cursing and dramatic 
 speech. All this really did for me was question who hired the same writers for the awful movie 
 to pen this script for the game.
  
  Now the game did immerse me in the action. You have to control your melee weapons with the right 
 thumb stick, but the camera/character control at this time is reminiscent of Fatal Frame or Silent 
 Hill with the added feature of having to move the right analog stick to swing your weapon in an 
 either slashing up/down or side to side motion.
  
  The fire interaction is kind of cool and necessary since you have to set your enemies on fire to 
 put them down permanently. But the idea of pouring a combustible liquid onto bullets to give you 
 "fire bullets" is pretty out there even for Alone in the Dark.
  
  The collision detection could have been a lot better along with the physics design. There were 
 a lot of times where I would find the car I'm driving fly in the air or come to an immediate stop 
 if I hit a low 4in. railing on the side of the major roads. Well to be fair it only happened when 
 I hit them straight on. If I came in at an angle I could usually drive over them. Or if I was walking 
 through doors and other structures I would sometimes super impose in the middle of the broken doorframe. 
 For the most part these glitches were just bothersome but not overly distracting since I could 
 usually get around them.
  
  And my last complaint is there was no end boss. For a game that was screaming to have some kind 
 of final boss fight there was none. Just a decision to be made that determined what would actually 
 happen. I really felt let down by this because the earlier bosses were actually kind of cool to 
 face, even if they were pretty easy.
  
  Looking back at my complaints I realize that despite all of this I still enjoyed the game. Mostly 
 because of the immersion in the game play design, the graphics and the core story, which gets butchered 
 with the terrible dialog and the way the game forces information down your throat rather than incorporate 
 your back-story into the core story. 
  
  This is definitely a game worth renting for anyone that can get past these faults.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game is appalling. To say the game is poorly constructed, badly voice acted and has an abhorrent 
 story is a snow flake in a blizzard. This game has professed greatness behind a shroud of inconsistent 
 trash. The story, as it turns out, is probably the best thing in the game, and that isn't saying 
 much. You assume the role of Edward Carnby who starts the game in a burning, collapsing building 
 after just waking up to a bunch of weird goings on. Unfortunately you have lost your memory as 
 well, so you basically spend the whole game blundering around (yes, in the dark) piecing together 
 what you can to find out what is going on, why the world is going down the drain and why there 
 are zombies attacking you in Central Park. It's all just about as ridiculous as it sounds and that's 
 just the story (the good bit) . The story does a good job of keeping you engaged, having the occasional 
 twist and "cliff hanger" ending to each mission making (in a normal game) you want to play more. 
 The controls and everything else make the game a horror to play however. 
  So the controls are extremely clumsy with your character blundering around and complicated button 
 networking makes quick tasks take an age. Merely equipping a weapon to defend yourself requires 
 more than the necessary combinations of button presses. This gets very annoying when being attacked 
 by a dozen zombies who spit blood at you. Believe it or not, in this instance they incorporated 
 a button to blink. Yes i said blink. Despite being a third person game (mostly, you can switch 
 in and out of first person) you can still blink to clear poison or blood from your eyes by clicking 
 the left joy stick. Dumb? Yes! Pointless? Definitely! This only adds to the frustration felt when 
 in a tricky situation and the controls let you down. Every time you die in this game, it will be 
 because the controls let you down, not through any lack of skill or knowledge. The controls are 
 abysmal, and about as fluid as the Himalayas. 
  The poor controls ruin the game play. It is as simple as that. While there are some awesome features 
 such as realistic elements that can be wielded as weapons, the controls let the side down. You 
 can set fire to just about anything that should naturally catch fire (if not more easy than normal 
 life) . You can combine different items you find to make different weapons; i. e. combine a bandage 
 with a bottle of whiskey and you have a Molotov cocktail. This is cool and realistic, making the 
 whole "survival feel" much better. It does however contradict itself in some places, trying to 
 be too clever. In a game that claims ultra-realism, you can pour alcohol on your bullets to make 
 them "fire bullets" when you fire them. Also, you can combine realistic, harmless objects together 
 to make weapons, but you can't lift objects such as fire extinguishers above your head to a ledge 
 in order to climb up and use the extinguisher on the next level. You can't place the thing down 
 on the next level, despite it being chest height. You must place it on a winch, climb up the small 
 step, then pull the winch and raise the extinguisher to you. Realistic? I think not somehow. Another 
 thing is that you seem to always come across the same objects. Although you can do virtually anything 
 you want with your arsenal of household equipment, it is extremely limited. Spending the whole 
 game in Central park, you will come across countless bottles of alcohol, tissues, bullets and zombies. 
 Again, realistic? Not really. Lame? Entirely. So the claim of realism only really applies to one 
 thing. Fire: Fire is the big deal of this game and, well, even that is quite unrealistic. The most 
 realistic thing you do with fire is combine an aerosol can with a lighter to create a makeshift 
 flamethrower. That's it really. 
  Sound effects are pretty good on the whole, and voice acting is not too shabby. Central park certainly 
 sounds as spooky as it looks, and the visuals of the game are very good. Apocalyptic New York makes 
 the game look so much cooler than it really is. It looks best when wandering the park, avoiding 
 zombies and getting into any cars (note: The cars handling is appalling and worth avoiding as much 
 as the creatures that are hunting you) but that grows boring fast, and it certainly isn't worth 
 buying the game for the visuals. The controls are just too frustrating. 
  Elements of the game play that was deliberately put in really let the side down. The game contains 
 just about every bad thing you can imagine in a game. Bosses you have to kill with clumsy controls, 
 long, difficult, glitchy driving sequences with no checkpoints (die repeat till complete) , puzzles 
 easy to solve with the naked eye, but impossible with stupid controls, and many more. Right my 
 rant is done. Basically, this is a terrible game pretending to be something exceptional and classic. 
 Yes, in one area it does push the bar of physics in games, however for every step forward they've 
 taken a dozen leaps backwards. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salt_The_Fries
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  The game has been in development since 2005, and so was my anticipation. I'm an avid fan of the 
 series right from its inception, and finished every title from the franchise, so it was pretty 
 self-explainatory that my expectations were high. Were they eventually fulfilled? Find out by yourself 
 by reading the review.
  
  The last title from the series, Alone in the Dark: The New Nightmare was rather merely an update 
 of the original series up to the standards of the time, and it was not received very well. However, 
 this one really pushes the boundaries to the new heights... and lows.
  
  The game has somewhat of sinusoidal quality, it starts without any real introduction, which was 
 a welcome change in narration (absence of it) for me, but then starts off unconvincingly, and the 
 experience is hindered by multiple changes in perspective (while this adds to the cinematic presentation, 
 it can be problematic at times) , and controls that are quite hard to master, and it takes some 
 time to get used to them.
  
  Once one overcomes its slight technical flaws, the game can be very rewarding for the patient ones. 
 It seems like a love-or-hate affair, so those who were put off by the first episode, are most likely 
 to give up very quickly, and being extremely critical towards the game. But those who were not, 
 are going to experience one the most ambitious action-adventure games of the last few years.
  
  The graphics are, most of the time, very good, but the quality is slightly varying. Very nice 
 use of HDR and bloom. My major complaint is that the graphics in certain areas tends to be a victim 
 of screen tearing, plus facial expressions could be done better.
  
  The camera was never a problem to me, however multiple perspective changes were hard to get used 
 to at first, especially in first episode, in later episodes there are many dramatic angles that 
 enhance the tension. The varied angles suit equally varied gameplay sequences very well. I also 
 appreciate the necessity of switching between first- and third-person perspective. 
  
  Orchestral score adds to the dramatic presentation, and it's a very good compliment to the action.
 
  
  Sound effects are competent, but the voice acting is a bit uneven and sometimes unconvincing, but 
 it's decent overall.
  
  Controls are bit hard to master at first, but once I got familiarized with all the features, I 
 played intuitionally. "Favourite" system is very helpful. My major complaint in this area is difficulty 
 in running and looking back at the same time (I got to use my chin to achieve this, no joking) . 
 The controls are context-sensitive, and A has several functions. It triggers the running, it's 
 responsible for context-sensitive actions, and it turns the flashlight on. Some players might find 
 this unconvenient, and it's perfectly understandable for me.
  
  The plot is a bit cheesy, but I think it was meant to be that way due to the game's episodic structure 
 which leaves us wanting to know what happens next, like in some modern TV series which are undoubtedly 
 game's influence. Also, the summary after loading save is really great idea, and it keeps you on 
 track with the current events, and adds to the quality of the presentation. I didn't use skipping 
 chapter feature once, but I can imagine that it can spare some frustrating moments that can occur 
 sometimes.
  
  The AI is uneven and flawed. This is the area where the game somewhat lacks The creatures in the 
 game have both awkward and lethal moments, i. e. they're more lethal when you're driving a car and 
 they can easily jump on it and do serious damage in no time.
  
  The most impressive element of the game is gameplay. It is very varied, immersive, engaging, and 
 sans "roots of evil" sequence, it's not repetitive nor tedious. Eden Games put a whole lot of varied 
 gameplay sequences with very dramatic presentation that diversifies already diverse gameplay repertoir. 
 It's a bit of shame that driving sequences are underdeveloped, and it's very weird considering 
 how good job Eden Games did with Test Drive Unlimited. The vehicles have poor handling (but you 
 can eventually get used to that) , and the more significant con is that collision detection has 
 major flaws, like tiny, almost unnoticable bump can stop you permamently, and force you to replay 
 certain section. What deserves a praise is the immense feeling of realism when you're in the car, 
 you can turn on the lights, turn on the radio, or search the car for useful items, some of these 
 nuances really doesn't do anything, but the fact that you're able to perform such actions is really 
 neat. There are also 2 ways of taking control of the vehicle, either by finding keys or by hot-wiring 
 the car. It's a shame that you actually have to break the window to open the car only once, at 
 the beginning, because I think that it would add to the tension at later stages in the game.
  
  Some portions of the game reminded me of Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth, but improved, 
 such as healing system in which you use first aid spray and / or bandages in real time to fix your 
 wounds. There is dozen or more areas which can be visibly damaged, and the scars that are left 
 are visible during cutscenes. The mapping is somewhat cheesy as GameSpot noticed, but I'll give 
 it credit for effort. One matter that could be seen as con by some is that the game is over-abundant 
 in its possibilities to get rid of enemies to such extent that you have so many options available, 
 and yet you have no idea how to finish an enemy off, because you have too many possibiliites. I 
 think the game has very decent puzzles, and there is not a single moment that would be made "cheap" 
 just to force longer playing time. Every single puzzle has logical explanation and can be solved 
 very intuitively. I also liked the fact that the weapons are ineffective in combat against dehumanized 
 enemies, in my opinion this is what survival-horror games should be about, finding alternative 
 ways of disposing of enemies by using your grey matter. The amount of interaction with objects 
 is quite impressive. 
  
  Overall, while it didn't live up to my expectations, and containing noticeable and annoying flaws 
 and glitches, Alone in the Dark is worthy of its praise, and its pros overshadowed cons in my opinion. 
 It's just so hard to find such extraordinary game these days. Most of games nowadays seems to be 
 nice, polished products, but with dull and over-done content, yet appealing to undemanding masses. 
 Alone in the Dark seems to be exactly the opposite, in all aspects, and for that alone [sic] it 
 deserves a credit. It contains many innovations in terms of gameplay, inventory, interaction, and 
 objects' manipulation and its blend of varied action elements is quite unique. Some of the ideas 
 should be canonical in video games.
  
  Overall, a solid 8.0. I'd give actually give it 7.8 score on GameSpot scale, but since I'm unable 
 to do it, 8.0 is the closest score I can get.
  
  I'd recommend renting the game first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I've seen the reviews, I've seen gameplay videos, trailers, and everything else. From 
 what I've seen, there's no reason this game isn't completely kickass! Yet, the moment I rent it 
 and get it home...
  
  I'll go over the pros -- the game has decent graphics, and a couple decent systems, like item combining. 
 That's it.
  
  The storyline is disastrous, there's zero point to even trying to use firearms, or 99% of the weapons 
 in the game, due to the crappy aiming system, and the controls are just... UGH.
  
  I mean, first I started the game, and died a few times from falling off of a cable. "Hey, no biggie," 
 I said, "most games take a few deaths to get used to them." I got used to it in about 10 minutes, 
 but was still falling off buildings throughout the game. 
  The things that are supposed to feel spontaneous; combat, events happening where you have 5 seconds 
 to jump out of the way -- are poorly implemented. If you're in first-person view, combat is impossible. 
 If you're in third person view, combat's a pain in the ass. Jumping out of the way of a massive 
 object falling -- it might look cool, but it's almost impossible unless you're able to input commands 
 with lightning speed.
  
  I will say, though, that the inventory system's very imaginative, and well implemented, as is the 
 item combination... though, that was a pain in the ass in its own way, but it at least was worth 
 it. 
  
  Now, I'm not going to say Alone in the Dark is bad... but I hate the game. I will not ever buy 
 it. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenny_kko
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Me and my girlfriend were so excited to play this we got it on the first day brought it back 2 
 days later for Condemned Bloodshot 2 now thats a good game. take my work this game had soo much 
 potential behind it thats why its such a dissapointment, they could have made this game a runner 
 up this year for game of the year insted its gonna get disappointment of the year... who the hell 
 did they have working on the game saying the game is ready, yea the game is ready... ready to put 
 Atari out of business bunch of tasteless idiots. too many glitches the game just isn't fun well 
 for me anyways the original is 100x better, might not have great graphics but least you'll have 
 fun unless your not a previous fan of the game then give it a try but really dont!... dont listen 
 to people that say its great ot at least worth playing the only good thing in this game are the 
 gamer points other than that nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Edward Carnby is back to the master series of horror and suspence, only this time it is set on 
 the present, in New York. This will surely sound like a major inconscistence with the rest of the 
 series, but during the game it is all explained and the inicial strangeness disapear.
  The story begins with Carnby waking up in a strange room, where dark looking people are checking 
 his signs as well as trying to convince another old man to do something for them, the person who's 
 responsible for you is then ordered to take you to the rooftop and kill you. Of course things don't 
 go as expected and some strange force murders your enemy, from then on life as we know it hangs 
 in the balance, as an evil, ancient and very powerful force devastates not only the building you're 
 in, but New York itself. Carnby has to escape the collapsing building in what is certainly the 
 most beautiful and interactive action sequences to have ever graced a videogame, from using a fire 
 extiguinsher to break a door open to hanging yourself on the outside of the building and avoiding 
 falling debris and cars that fly stories-high with explosions. And when the famous detective finally 
 manages to escape the building he finds out the whole city's been torn upside down... And that 
 the answers lie in Central Park.
  First and foremost, the game is devided in "episodes". Now, you must be saying "Sow what? Halo 
 3 was divided into Acts..." Yes, but here it REALLY works like episodes from a TV Series: in the 
 pause menu you can "fast-forward" certain segments in the game where you are having some trouble, 
 or you can simply jump the whole episode (of course you won't understand the story then, and lose 
 many wonderful moments) . But still, that's not the coolest thing in the "episodic aspect", what 
 makes it so unique is that whenever you finish one of the episodes you get credits just like in 
 a TV Series, and, if instead of pressing "continue" you chose to quit and THEN choose "continue" 
 (from the main menu that is) , you get an introduction to the episode with the famous "Previously, 
 on Alone in the Dark...", there are even a few cliffhanger endings to some episodes.
  About gameplay, it feels strange at first, but soon you'l get used to it, it's nothing nearly as 
 flawed and hard as some people are saying, a very small bit of coordination will make you get the 
 controls just right. The "A" button performs various tasks, depending on the situation you're in, 
 like many games have done before, the left analog will either steer the car (if you're driving) 
 or move Carnby around, the right analog wil move the camera slightly (in thrid person view) , move 
 your "head" (in first person) or work as your "arms" control when holding an object such as a chair, 
 etc. The rest of the control is basically always the same thing, aim, fire, thorw bottle, etc.
 
  Your weapons are... many. You get a handgun (and thank God bullets are not a amjor problem here) 
 and liquor bottlles, and many itens that are useless by themselves, however, you CAN combinethe 
 liquor to your bullets, making them flammable, you can place a tape on your bottles, thyen a box 
 of bullets, then put a cloth on the bottle, and get yourself a VERY powerful molotov cocktail that 
 wil stick when it hits. Of course, you can combine MANY things for many purposes. That's very important 
 to killing enemies, thge humanoid guys anjd the demons only die by fire, and even then you must 
 hit their "scars", which are weak points, thus, blowing fire near then will most probably harm 
 those places killing them in an instant. A few times you'll be obliged to really fight the "humanz", 
 "vampyrz" (bat like little monsters that are a real pain) , "ratz", and "demons", most of the time 
 you can just run away and hope you won't get hit (and that's what you'll have to do most of the 
 time if you want to get out alive) .
  The riddles are not too tough to figure out, neither are there many in the game (till the last 
 episode that is, which has a whole sequence built out of "Indiana Jones" sort of puzzles) . Throughout 
 the game, wheneever you find yourself having to take "a walk in the park", you'll be able to steal 
 cars (not that their owners are still around, let alone alive to complain...) and move fatser through 
 the place, still, running over "humanz" and demons is no good, and they can jump as high as monkeys, 
 land over the hood and hit you as hard as they can, this forces the player to keep driving the 
 car as fast as possible when near monsters, so you give them a hard time grabbing the car. Also, 
 in the park, there are spots where "roots of evil" have grown, you don't have to burn down every 
 single one of them (unless you want one of the LIVE achievements) , but you MUST burn a few, in 
 order to strength your "spectral vision": whenever you go into first-person view you can press 
 the right analog down and Carnby will blink (!!!) , now that is most useful with spectral vision: 
 it shows you hidden signs (which is the reason you MUST have a certain level of the vison, in order 
 to progress through the game) and also highlights the weak spots of your enemy.
  Graphics are simply gorgeous, from scenario to character modeling, it's all perfect.
  However, 
 Alone in the Dark exceeds where many games have failed: soundtrack. It is awesome, the music always 
 kicks in in the exact moment it should, and lingers on 'till the sequence ends, making the "tv 
 series" feel even stronger.
  And even though you'll spend most of your time running for your life throughout a demon infested 
 park, or falling-appart buildings, the game's final scenario (literaly right in the belly of Central 
 Park) , is not a dumb cave or a emotionless tunnel: it's a sort of  
 that will remind you of the grand arquitecture from Bioshock and God of War, not that it LOOKS 
 the same, but it certainly will hit you with the same astouning feeling that the forementioned 
 games did, the kind that makes you feel impotent and meaningles when you're there.
  Alone in the Dark fails to deliver true horror or even suspence, but soon the player forgets that, 
 since the game gives a new meaning to "action", making its playthru an unique experience.
  The game is relatively short, and the ending, though it shall not be spoiled here, is a sort of 
 cliffhanger (there are two endings, both are kind of cliffhangers) in itself (is there an Alone 
 in the Dark: Season 2 comming? heheh) , albeit both endings are brutal to say the least, and really 
 follow the games mood.
  The game is most definetly a buy even for people who don't like action with a supernatural twist, 
 for those the game is worth its price because of its innovations alone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohsin111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I think this part of alone in the dark is best in the series i was impressed by the amazing visuals, 
 dramatic story and the feel of watching a hollywood movie. The story of the game is OK and the 
 dramatic cut scenes are keeping up the action puzzles are OK. Sound effects and music is fit with 
 the game. The game has daring design like we can skip chapters any time like we do in a dvd movie 
 and the camera is OK it always tries to capture the maximum action and view and we can also switch 
 to first person view.
  The games controls are weak. We can do several things with one button. The controls will always 
 make you mad whether you are in the car or on foot. There are some bugs and clippings that will 
 force you to restart. The facial animation is not perfect and the hair will look strange.
  Its like watching a movie without any break. The game features some of the cool game play and you 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  There's nothing stranger than when a game starts off with you waking up in a building with people 
 talking about a stone and your character has no idea who he is. Too add to that, there' s also 
 cracks in the walls which are sucking people in and spitting them out as zombies. That's basically 
 Alone in the Dark. You play as a man who is trying to find out what is going on as well as trying 
 to stop it. This game is a great game but you can't play for very long without running into an 
 annoying glitch which really brings down the game.
  
  First is the graphics, the graphics in this game will not blow your mind but they aren't complete 
 eye-sores either. One thing that really stands out in this game is the fire. They did an amazing 
 job with how the fire looks, spreads, and destroys. For a game that is completely based around 
 light and fire, it was very smart by them to make sure that it did look absolutely amazing.
  
  Next is the sound. If you were to add everything up, the sound is around average. The soundtrack 
 they have in this game can send the occasional chill down your spine which, if you're playing a 
 survival horror game, is probably a very good thing. The main problem is the voice acting. It's 
 just not very good at all. To make things worse the script is horrible. There's some neat twists 
 and turns but whoever wrote it really needs to lay off the swearing. It's not that there was too 
 much swearing because you certainly will see more in many other games, but it was out of place 
 and done out of taste. It seemed like your character could just walk up to someone random and say, 
 "How the **** are you doing? Isn't it a great ******* day?" Really, if they had taken out all the 
 unneeded swearing then the dialogue, maybe not the voice acting, would have been better making 
 it more enjoyable.
  
  One thing that does shine in this game is its creativity. You can combine items to make molotovs, 
 explosives, fire bullets, and the list goes on. These can help you solve the games puzzles which 
 are also very well done. Throughout the game you will have to think occasionally to get to the 
 next part of the game. You hear that? Thinking in a video game? Isn't that absurd? No it isn't. 
 Especially in the survival horror genre where this gen, the only thinking we've had to do in a 
 survival horror game is watching the time in Dead Rising. This was something that was needed and 
 hopefully will be carried over into other games of the genre this gen. But back to the game's creativity, 
 you can also use these to defeat enemies. Enemies in this game don't die unless fire has burned 
 their fissures or, an invisible crack in their body that can only be seen through a special type 
 of vision called, spectral vision. When your spectral vision is high enough, you can blink and 
 see an enemies fissures which you can then use these new items you create to kill them. The main 
 problem was, once you can see their fissures you notice they are always at the exact same spot 
 and the game becomes very easy after that.
  
  All of these things you can do with items leads into the combat. It's a very, very simple combat 
 system. Hold left trigger to lock onto an enemy, hit right trigger to use weapon, unless you are 
 shooting a gun where instead you just hit right trigger. When the enemy drops you drag their body 
 to a fire and burn them. Or if you have fire bullets, just shoot a fissure. As pointed out, this 
 game eventually does get easy but in the first couple chapters where you don't have alot to defend 
 yourself with, the combat is very fun and intense.
  
  One of the things that shines in this game is the horrific driving. When you are driving, if your 
 car hits a curb, it will slam into the curb and you will stop when in reality, the tires would 
 just go over the curb. The same happens with any object. You basically can't hit anything without 
 your car slamming and your character taking damage. The driving also is just lame and not enjoyable. 
 Really the only fun part about driving is the fact that you can hotwire a car. That's really how 
 bad it is.
  
  Now up to this point in my review, I would give this game an 8 with the driving bringing it down. 
 But what shines above all else in this game is the incredible amount of glitches. Cars will randomly 
 flip over when you get into them, your car will just randomly stop for a few seconds, which in 
 a couple of the driving segments, can mean you are going to lose. Due to bad collision sensoring, 
 you can hit an enemy or object and nothing will happen which is the most aggravating thing in the 
 game. I've died countless times, and had to kill myself a couple times in order to be able to move 
 on, because I use the last item available and the sensoring doesn't pick up on me hitting the enemy 
 or object I need to hit. This last one was an aggravating one too but I think it was just bad luck 
 for me. There is a level where you must use a tow truck as a ramp to jump a gap. You then go to 
 the side of the tow truck once it's at the right spot to lower the back of the ramp. When I did 
 this, I hit the switch and instead of lowering the back, the car jumped and split into two pieces 
 and as you'd figure, there aren't too many tow trucks lying around.
  
  All in all, I have to say this game impressed me. It did almost everything right including an ending 
 that surprised me, but because of a few problems that could have been easily fixed I can't give 
 this game any rating that would say it is good. So, I'll give it a rating as close as possible, 
 a 6.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnyboy12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  If you're reading this review, it's most likely because you're deciding weather or not to buy this 
 game. So I want to make this review a little unorthodox in the way that I really want focus on 
 some of the main conflicts and successes of Alone in the Dark instead of an overall general view 
 of the game.
  
  Ever since I first heard about this game I've been stoked. And then the tech demo video was released, 
 showing Alone in the Dark's (AitD) phenomenal physics and inventory capabilities which further 
 raised my expectations. When the game released I was surprised to log on to Gamespot and find that 
 it had been rated 6.5, it blew my mind. I debated on weather or not to purchase the game, with 
 each extremely positive review or terribly negative review swaying my decision. My main problem- 
 I worried about were the alleged "terrible controls", I figured they couldn't be that bad. I finally 
 came it upon myself to purchase the game (knowing I didn't have anything better to do anyways) 
 and I'm glad I did. I believe that this game lives up to it's expectations, there were only a few 
 main problems I had with the game. For one, the ending of the game can be truly disappointing, 
 it felt as though I had been working up to a certain point and then it just ends, but that's up 
 to you to decide. I also had a slight problem with the use of your inventory items. I just wish 
 there would have been more innovative puzzles to have the use of your inventory item combinations. 
 Other than that, I had no problem with this game once so ever, there may have been a few aggravating 
 moments but with this game's awesome features, they are easily overlooked. One huge question in 
 my mind is why the heck everyone is complaining about the control scheme! I'm sorry I have to vent 
 a little here but this is ridiculous. Do 50% of the people that reviewed this game not know how 
 to use a controller? I found it simply easy- both first and third person. The only times I ever 
 had trouble with this game were the first driving sequence where I would crash because of a small 
 mistake or one other time where I didn't know a certain inventory item could be used while doing 
 a certain action. Other than that I found the game just right. I loved to see how the main character 
 progressed through the story and I thought he had this cool shoot first, ask questions later personality. 
 The physics in this game were also great, just watching as fire spread across an object and onto 
 another, or how when a wooden object on fire would eventually crumble over time. The graphics were 
 good, but could have been a little bit better in some areas, same with the lighting effects. But 
 overall, I found Alone in the Dark another great game that should not be criticized for some minors 
 issues and technical flaws. It's ingenuity more than overcomes its shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotever99
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  this game has so much potential, and had some cool ads on tv, but dont be mislead. 
  it has some great graphics, and some clever and cool ideas for the controls, but it just doesnt 
 quite pull them off. it was one of the most frustrating games i have ever played.
  here are a couple of reasons i didnt like it:
  1. the ad made it look cool.
  2. you cannot 
 swivel the camera.
  3. when you are in first person view, it switches you back to an awkward third person view when 
 you are half-way thru doing something.
  4. its "innovative" controls mean that it is very hard, and you never know what u are supposed 
 to be doing.
  5. why is he walking? and why so slowly? isnt he supposed to be escaping a fire ridden collapsing 
 building?
  
  lol.
  
  there will be more annoying things but o-well.
  
  this game, like i said earlier, has potential but is held back by many annoying things.
  
  
 if you are into strategy and games like: call of cathlu or wateva it was, then this is for u. it 
 is an ok game to have because there arnt many of this type. but i wouldnt advise getting it.
  
  sorry if this review is a bit of a downer, but i was just stating my personal opinion.
  
 
  seeya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drknessfeeds
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The story is good, as a horror fan I enjoyed every bit of it. The controls are an issue but so 
 are the controls in all Resident Evils (except 4) , all the Silent Hill games. I don't see this 
 as any different both of the series mentioned above are well recieved and are just now addressing 
 their control issues. 
  
  Alone in the Dark is worth a purchase if your a fan of Silent Hill, Resident Evil or horror games 
 that seem to be rare where there is nothing but a flood of FPS. The game could use alot of work 
 and it is frustrating that only fire kills enemies making picking up axes, shovels or swords useless 
 unless its for puzzle pusposes. That is the only real peoblem I had with the game as it made some 
 fighting scenes very frustrating.
  
  At the very least if your a die hard Silent Hill fan it will hold you over till Homecoming is released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sesu1985
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  The game could've achieved greatness had it not been for clunky combat, mixed in with a bad lock-on 
 system that wears and tears on you. Controls are too slow or sluggish when you want to turn quickly, 
 and the control layout was too unique that I couldn't get used to pushing the right button I wanted. Driving 
 in the car is fun until its mission-based, then it goes downhill after that. When you imagine yourself 
 in a movie like world you expect to feel like you are the hero to the story, yet in AITD you will 
 constantly re-spawn, may get stuck in parts of the game that ratchets up the difficulty to a degree 
 in frustration, (and I enjoyed Ninja Gaiden 2) and yet the more you venture on, the more you realize 
 that this game could've been amazing. Its a diamond in the rough, problem here is it will not get 
 any more polished than it is. If you do plan on playing it, rent it before you decide if it was worth 
 the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  About the Game:
  Alone in The Dark take place in Central Park where you played as Edward Carnby. You happen to wake 
 up in a small place and you happen not to know anything or why you even in this place. The first 
 encounter you meet is Crowley who wanted the Gate key to open an Portal, but you lost your memories 
 and can't remember why you are here. Theophile knows exactly what is going on and he told you to 
 hold the stone the key to open the gate, you also will me Sarah a female character who helps you 
 embark a new journey trying to figure out why New york City is turning into a dark place.
  
  Graphics and voice acting:
  In Alone in the Dark the graphics are pretty good decent graphics, 
 sometimes when you are playing while walking sometimes when you either walk close to a rock or 
 a wall you can able to see through it's an glitch that need to be fixed. The Cut-scenes looks are 
 quite good but not great. The characters emotions are not that great, it seems stiff in a way when 
 they are talking in the cut scenes. The voice acting is average, sounds like an regular movie. 
 Sometimes the lines were given can be annoying while you do a mission. 
  
  Controls:
  The controls can be hard to handle, sometimes when you try to shoot an creature sometimes it takes 
 for ever to get the point where you want to shot the spot. Sometimes when you driving it can be 
 hard to control the car, climbing can be difficult as well. Also when you trying to get a good 
 spot it's difficult to see a good angle, this is the only trouble spot so far in the game that 
 the controls are annoying.
  
  Weapons and Medicine:
  The Bullets and Medicine are quite limited in this game. Because when you are serious injured where 
 you are not a point near a locker or bathroom you don't have any medicine to heal your self. As 
 well with bullets sometimes when you fighting your gun is empty and can't find any bullets to shoot 
 with. But I like the idea with the fire bottle when you can able to mix items that you can able 
 to destroy things. 
  
  Game-Play:
  The game itself is quit fun but sometimes the missions can take quite a while. Sometimes you can 
 get stuck in one mission and can't figure what to do next. Some puzzles can be easy to difficult. 
 But the game itself is enjoyable to play. Something new and different, but it similar to Condemned 
 games. I like the dark atmosphere in this game. For the achievements it's really easy to get and 
 it's not really difficult to obtain them.
  
  Last thoughts:
  Either you love it or hate it the game its not bad. For people who not sure to get, this game is 
 quite fun only the controls aren't the great but still to be pick up. But if you are unsure then 
 just rent it to see how you like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Since when did technical controls become a deciding factor if a game is good or bad? If a game 
 has difficult controls then it's not the games fault, it's the players. Sure, a number of times 
 I was fumbling around pushing the wrong button, but that all came down to me. 
  
  I'm a little under half way through and besides for some obnoxious glitches from the driving portions, 
 I have to honestly say that this has been an amazing experience. I can only hope that Resident 
 Evil 5 will be half as innovative as this game turned out being. And I don't mean this from the 
 unique inventory; I mean it from how the game was structured. I remember one instance I lured a 
 Humanz into a room where I placed a propane tank. After shooting it I was blown away. The entire 
 room engulfed itself, killing the Humanz and injuring me in the process. 
  
  I understand everyone is different. I was even second guessing renting this game after reading 
 all the negative reviews. All I have to say is my opinion has changed drastically once I sat down 
 and played it for myself. If you're like me, and you can adapt to the controls, then by all means 
 pick this game up and enjoy it for what it is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Resurrecting a flagging or dead franchise is a risky endeavor. Sometimes it works and the series 
 becomes relevant again, see Resident Evil 4. Other times it is the nail in the coffin, like last 
 year's Tony Hawk's Horse Beating Simulator. Re-envisioning Alone in the Dark should not have been 
 that hard, there were almost no expectations of quality. I know that the first Alone in the Dark 
 predates Resident Evil 1 and that it pretty much invented survival horror, but it has been almost 
 seven years since The New Nightmare. It doesn't help that the last time anyone even heard the name 
 Alone on the Dark it was as an Uwe Boll movie. All this game had to be was average, just remind 
 people that the series exists without offending them. Instead, Alone in the Dark keeps none of 
 its promises, lives up to none of its decidedly limited potential and is likely the last time anyone 
 will ever hear of the series.
  
  Like its titular and unseen antagonist, Alone in the Dark is the virtual father of lies. There 
 are good ideas here; fresh, new ideas that in a better game would have been noted for their potential 
 and stolen later. For example, inventory space is at a premium, there is no magic backpack to hold 
 every item in the game all at once. Storage is limited to what can fit in the players jacket, and 
 this is where it losing all credibility: the jacket can hold four wine bottles, a gun, a flashlight, 
 several boxes of ammo, a lighter, bandages, batteries and a quest item that cannot be dropped. 
 It was a good idea, but implemented in a way that was frankly silly: the portable hole backpack 
 was replaced by a clown car coat.
  
  Even Alone in the Dark's best idea serves only to focus the player on the games other glaring problems. 
 I understand that not everyone has several hours a night to spend on a game. I admit that not everyone 
 is either patient or stubborn enough to force through a game just to see how it ends, and Alone 
 in the Dark tries to remedy this. Most chapters and sections can simply be skipped via the DVD 
 like pause menu. A few of the last sections are not available right away, but can be unlocked relatively 
 quickly. It sounds like a good idea, a concession to the casual gamer, but in reality it is nothing 
 more then a stopgap solution to the game being at best unevenly paced and at worst just unplayable 
 in places. If every level was worth playing, or at the very least relevant to the story in some 
 way, there would be no reason to skip it. Giving me the option to jump to the end of a $60 game 
 because I don't have the time to play it (or because I can't get past something) does not replace 
 making the whole $60 game worth playing. I find it insulting that instead of fixing problems the 
 game simply gives me the option to skip them. If I skipped every problem, I would have been done 
 in a half an hour.
  
  Apart from these new and wasted ideas there is very little good to talk about. Of course the game 
 controls poorly, it's survival horror on the level of Resident Evil and Silent Hill, games that 
 controlled just as poorly two hardware generations ago and have since made a successful effort 
 to improve themselves. At least they had the common sense not to force the player into a car for 
 extended periods of time. Alone in the Dark features scripted chase sequences that boarder on Stuntman 
 difficulty but that feature no checkpoints. Each is an exercise of trial and error, only sometimes 
 the error on not even the players fault. Example: the first chase ends in a building that has no 
 apparent exits. The first time I got there I followed along with what I thought made sense and 
 crashed my taxi through a widow, only to clip through the building and fall into nothing. After 
 twenty minutes of trying new things I realized that my first idea was right, but that the rest 
 of the level hadn't loaded before I plummeted to my death. I had to break the window, then hit 
 the breaks and wait for the game to catch up. This was not good sign.
  
  I am at a loss as to what happened with Alone in the Dark. It takes new ideas and breaks them, 
 manages to get even the most established clichs wrong and is buggy and unfinished to boot. There 
 is nothing to salvage here. Even the end, a face to face confrontation with Satan himself, is boring. 
 How do you make an encounter with the prince of darkness boring and uneventful? Alone in the Dark 
 should not have been released; not even more development time, the supposed panacea for bad games, 
 would have saved it. It would have been a better idea to take what good ideas it had and give them 
 to more talented people while scrapping the rest, all this game did was make an Uwe Boll movie 
 look good by comparison, and I didn't think that was possible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oishio
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  alone in the dark is flawed many glitches a little choppiness. but the thing is it's fun F U N. 
 what other game do you make stuff out of other stuff to use as weapons. looking down at all the 
 compartments on your jacket with extreme detail. combining spreading and cutting different weapons 
 in your inventory to use to your advantage that is down right creative. and that is why i give 
 this game a 9.5. for the gameplay completly for the game the .5 is for glitches and popping. yes 
 they could've did more work on the game but they should just expand on that idea, thats one gamers 
 opinion. just rent it first and remember always remeber dont judge a game by the reviews. it might 
 be the best game you ever played or it might be the worst game you have ever played. pick it up 
 at you local blockbuster or rogers, or order it from gamefly.
  
  
  
  gamertag: Diabolic 0 xbox360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ska_dude101
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The original Alone in the Dark was arguably the first survival horror game ever. Series like Resident 
 Evil and Silent Hill followed in its footsteps, spawning one of the greatest 90's gaming fads.
 
  
  Alone in the Dark returns with its fifth game in the series. Originally to be thought to be a GotY 
 contender before release, the game can best be described as a huge let-down, but not one without 
 some redeeming qualities.
  
  Alone in the Dark follows the latest adventure of Ed Carnby, an amnesia-ridden, scarred hardass 
 as he tries to uncover the mysteries of the horrors that Central Park holds. The story is one of 
 the best parts of the game. Make no mistake, though, it's no Oscar-worthy script and the acting 
 isn't that good and it plays out much like episodes of a television drama. The game itself is so 
 much like a television drama that the game is divided into "episodes" and "sequences". Each episode 
 is about 40 minutes long, depending on how much trouble you have getting through certain portions. 
 However, the game does sport a rather daring episode select system (much like any tv-on-DVD disk) 
 that pretty much allows you to skip to any episode of the game at will. It guarantees that you'll 
 be able to see the ending, but also may tempt some to skipping to the very end.
  
  The gameplay sees the decline and fall of Alone in the Dark. It's a  
 One of the very first things you're asked to do in the game is blink. Yes, blink, as you are in 
 first person mode. I admit, the first thing I thought when I saw this was "Oh, please God, don't 
 make me blink every second in order to use first person in this game". Rest assured, you don't 
 have to keep blinking. Closing your eyes is incorporated later in the game, but it isn't required 
 in order to keep your vision clear (except in the case you get some poison in your eyes) . 
  
  Moving on, third person control is S-T-I-F-F stiff. This stiffness can make sudden encounters 
 troublesome. Driving segments are some of the most frustrating parts of this-gen gaming. Poor collision, 
 slippery controls, and unforgiving timing can make for a horrible experience. Enemies are often 
 difficult to kill using a gun, as you need to hit specific areas on their bodies with incendiary 
 bullets and, again, the hit detection and collision are off. 
  
  First-person controls are standard, if not a little dumbed-down, as there aren't any iron-sights 
 (perhaps a nit-pick but, as an FPS vet, it hurt a little) . The inventory system is arguable the 
 BEST part of the game. The ability to pick up trash and turn it into a weapon is great. An alcohol 
 bottle plus some double-sided tape and a bandage makes a great sticky Molotov to stick to the next 
 unfortunate baddie you cross paths with. Being able to take a screwdriver and puncture a gas tank 
 in Central Park to fill an empty plastic bottle is a great addition. The inventory system does 
 get a bit cramped, though, as the game does not allow you to throw certain items away.
  
  For the achievement addicts out there: Know that all of the achievements in this game can very 
 easily be attained through the course of the game. Less than two days after first firing up the 
 game, I had all 1000 points.
  
  Synopsis: Alone in the Dark features some of the most frustrating driving sequences ever made. 
 It offers up a generally unpolished experience that could have easily been passed up if it weren't 
 for the slick inventory system, haunting sountrack and daring "Episode" system. It's a short experience, 
 lasting around 8 to 10 hours, which does include a horribly boring and drawn out version of "game 
 value extension" that does leave a rather poor taste in your mouth.
  
  Story: 6 out of 10
  Gameplay: 6 out of 10
  Graphics: 7 out of 10
  Sound: 7 out of 10
  Value: 
 4 out of 10
  Achievements (Not factored into score) : 7 out of 10
  
  Final score (Not an average) : 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebrwnrobot
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  As Edward Carnby, you are looking to set things straight in a messed up New York City which includes 
 conspiracies surfacing in Central Park so you must fight zombies which makes for a pretty intriguing 
 storyline but Alone in the Dark simply doesn't make it fun to battle through the undead. With choppy 
 controls you will find yourself missing your enemy time after time and with no enemy health bar 
 you have no idea how close you are to killing the enemy. This game isn't hard but what makes it 
 easy to die is how hard it is to kill enemies. Not because they have lots of health, but because 
 glitches and controls are hard to manipulate to easily slaughter zombies. So what makes a successful 
 survival game like Resident Evil? 1) Good, fast-moving gameplay 2) Frightening sequences of blood 
 and guts and 3) Intriguing story and good controls. Alone in the dark has 3) and that's it. Not 
 hard, but choppy. Not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  at last a game with name of "alone in the dark" that make you to play until end; the game contains 
 all elements of srv-hor sereis and show you the best way of naraition;
  you are as a handsome man that want to be a hero and must be a hero; thye world want you die and 
 make you, but you force it to accept the truth; whole things are around the to be or not to be; game 
 force you (realy force you) to death; like the brigde mission and the hospital; but it dose not make 
 you crazy at all; you will like it and i am sure that the makers want this; the weather and day\night 
 effects are the best that i ever seen; but there is some graphical bugs; i kill a foe and then he/she 
 rise uo and went to into the wall; at the beging the controle show you some bad ass but at last 
 you force it to be calm and shine;
  story is so heavy and will make you to follow;
  you must try it and fill the atmosphier, then you understand me;
  at last i must mention that 
 i like this game and hope you will; GREAT XBOX360
  (WE ARE THE BEST AND WILL BE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantheman1500
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, First thing is first. Not sure why this is not getting better reviews. The controls work just 
 fine, the only issues on the control front is remembering to switch back and forth between 3rd 
 and 1st person. For example which is easier for what your doing at the time (3rd or 1st) . Another 
 thing I've read is that "Atari" came up with good fire effects and built a game around it. While 
 this may be true.... you can't tell, at all. It is a big part, as it seems to be the only way you 
 completely get rid of enemies. But this is the MOST innovative horror game I've seen to date. The 
 presentation is fantastic. The first 10 minutes of this game will hook you, and get you wondering 
 what will happen next. 
  
  I'm on Ep 6 Seq 4 there are a total of 8 episodes. Also to any achievement fanatic's this is your 
 game. I've never had this much collection on achievements prior to completion. Car scenes are good 
 and fun, except if you try to drive in the park. There is way too much to hit in the way, however 
 the chase scene close to the beginning is awesome and gets the blood pumpin. Also the language 
 should be re-evaluated by Game spot. This isn't Kane and Lynch. F bombs are dropped but nothing 
 outside of a blockbuster movie. But if you like movies, and you like games, and you like playing 
 games that are balls to the wall. You should check out this game. I suggest rental first, unless 
 you too have been playing this franchise since it's birth as well.
  
  An honest review, not a fanboy review!
  Menace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andypak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  This game allows you to use all items to beat/kill zombies. You could create your own weapons. 
 Think wisely before you solve the puzzle. The graphic is the best I have seen in all XBOX 360 games. 
 This game is very difficult to control. You have to always change between first point of view and 
 third point of view. The movement control of the two different points of view are different. Gamers 
 have to adapt it during gameplay. Although this game is hard to control, it's very challenging 
 and enjoyable to play. I recommend this game to all hard core gamers.
  
  create your own weapons. Think wisely before you solve the puzzle. The graphic is the best I have 
 seen in all XBOX 360 games. This game is very difficult to control. You have to always change between 
 first point of view and third point of view. The movement control of the two different points of 
 view are different. Gamers have to adapt it during gameplay. Although this game is hard to control, 
 it's very challenging and enjoyable to play. I recommend this game to all hard core gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game with great anticipation. However, after trying to play through the first 
 chapter, I had to refrain myself from throwing my controller at my hd tv.... omg! Trying to control 
 the character is SO AWFUL, I cannot even start to express my frustration! Let me explain, you are 
 constantly fighting the engine to obtain and control focus.... THIS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE! After playing 
 GTA4, I cannot accept such horrible player mechanics. I will admit the cinematic cut scenes are 
 impressive but get very old after 20 minutes. To my understanding concerning the history of this 
 title and the development process is one of a, "show us" why we should keep funding this product?"... I 
 feel the developers got so caught up in trying to impress management to keep funding the project 
 with video with the clips of recording the game displaying the visual eye candy, they lost focus 
 and missed the mark on the game play. 
  
  On another note, what is with the far east music? Don't get me wrong, I appreciate ethnic musical 
 melodies in games.... when appropriate. The score does not work at all considering the setting is 
 in NYC!
  
  I wish to sell this game..... anyone interested? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the first trailer of this game with the short haired Edward Carnaby and simply 
 blown away. Ever since then I've been checking up on this game every week. Now it's out and after 
 beating it, this game was worth the wait. Let's start out with the story...
  
  We start out playing in 1st person view all blurred out with no idea of whats going on and who 
 you are. After escaping an almost destroyed skyscrasper and making into Central Park with two other 
 characters you begin to unravel the mystery of who you are why is the world falling apart. For 
 a survival horror game, this is one of best especially for players who haven't played or even heard 
 of the original games. This games story puts mystery and action together so well that I never got 
 bored throughout this whole game. The dialogue is a little cheesy and the ending while not as bad 
 as Assassins Creed ending, it's not really satisfying, a little hard to understand and leaves room 
 open for a sequel but I have no idea how they could make a sequel because of the ending. Then again 
 who would've thought that the sequel in the series would SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! put Edward Carnaby 
 from the 1930's transporting to today?
  
  Now onto the graphics. The graphics look great overall from atmospheric use of fire, fog and shadow 
 to detailed characters and enviroments. The first time you see Edward as he looks at himself through 
 a mirror, the first word that should come to word mind is woah. Though not everything is perfect, 
 every now and then there is some poor animation in some cutscenes and in some memorable action 
 scenes the framerate gets a little choppy but that's about it.
  
  Onto the sound. The score in this game is easily the best in a survival horror game and might be 
 the best in a videogame ever. In an action scene the music busts out with the the orchestra and 
 everything where a part like when you're in the sewers you'll hear something very haunting and 
 creepy which makes the game a lot scarier. Sadly the voice acting isn't that great and sounds like 
 something out of a Resident Evil game. The dialogue isn't terrible but how the actors deliver their 
 lines is sometimes cringe-worthy.
  
  Onto gameplay. The gameplay here is either great in one part but bad in the other. The dvd menu 
 in the game is great and you can fast forward if you're stuck which is great but the fact that 
 you lose all your items can make you pretty much screwed in some parts of the game. Or using your 
 jacket to store items this a great and realistic idea but can be frustrating combining items and 
 that monsters can still hit you completely sucks. The fighting in this game is pretty good using 
 the right analog stick takes a little getting used to but sometimes when you want to hit a monster 
 you'll accidently reach your object out and could get yourself killed. Though if theres one thing 
 amazing in this game it's the fire. Fire burns realisticly and spreads so the first time you see 
 it, it will be one of those wow moments. There are some pretty cool puzzles in this game too that 
 are fun but can be frustrating. Driving in this game is decent. It has one memorable scene in the 
 beginning part of the game where you make it in to Central Park while the rest meh. The controls 
 out of all from driving to walking is okay. They take a little getting used to but you'll be fine.
 
  
  Overall I liked this game A LOT even if it did have some weak points. I give it a 9/10
  
  
  PROS: great story, detailed characters and enviroments, realistic fire, more atmospheric 
 than pop-up scary, fire shadows and fog look great, unique fighting controls, cool dvd menu, cool 
 and realistic inventory, lots of memorable action scenes, great beginning
  
  CONS: short, driving, a lot of frustrating parts, fire being the only way to kill enemeis can be 
 annoying, controls take some time getting used to, lots of glitches, cheesy dialogue and voice 
 acting, confusing ending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaejas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  If Eden and Atari had given us absolutely no sense of what Alone In The Dark (2008) was going to 
 be, it would have been the greatest surprise hit of 2008. These days developers are being hoist 
 on their own petard (aka: blow'd up) by their own desire to promote the work they're doing for 
 a return on the enormous budgets involved. It's practically as though the ratio of hype-to-hands 
 on enjoyment involves a penalty: the "but you pwomised us!!!" mentality. It's a problem, but it's 
 not up to us consumers to solve it or be nice, it's the frakking marketing department's problem 
 to not sell us a bridge while only giving the developers time to build a hammock.
  
  What's wrong with Alone In The Dark? Let's break it down into the common complaints:
  Swearing 
 - non-issue. GTA4 and Big Lebowski are far "worse". I'm swearing more than the characters do while 
 immersing myself into this world. It's freaky.
  
  Clipping - yes, this is a lack of playtesting time. Getting stuck in the geometry or behind a one-way 
 barricade and having to reload your game is not acceptable.
  
  Control - if you bother to look at the 360 instruction manual, you'll see that there are *4* pages 
 devoted to controls. This is not a GameCube game or a dual-joystick shooter. But complexity is 
 not a bad thing, and I feel the variety of things you can do is more interesting and less frustrating 
 than the limits seen in the original Resident Evil. I'm really interested to see how it plays on 
 the Wii.
  
  I think most people expected Resident Evil 4 1/2, and that's not where Eden's at. It took Capcom 
 10 years to get there. I think AITD is more on par with RE3, and I really believe they have refreshed 
 AITD and the survival genre overall with solid modern innovations.
  
  And now, what be rumblin' right (the innovations) :
  Fire - Hell yes. AITD does for fire what 
 Bioshock did for water. The only thing where the fire animations fall short is in the lighter flame. 
 Lighters don't look like that.
  
  Combat - Fire Bullets FTW. I find it terribly ironic that hell beasts would be only vulnerable 
 to fire, but whatevs. Being a gun-toting grenadier that also chops people's limbs off with medieval 
 armaments is something more games should crib.
  
  Inventory - real time & physically limited inventories are aces in my book. Carnby doesn't have 
 Adventurer's Pants, he's a Unabomber. 
  
  The music's great. The graphics are jim dandy, though I wish Carnby looked more like the guy on 
 the box art (younger) ; but bad hair and plastic skin isn't anything new in a video game. (Less 
 hair budget, more fire budget. Okay.)
  
  Finally the cinematic element: the chapter navigation is genius. There are many many reasons not 
 to skip ahead, but presenting that option to be accessible and varied is absolutely the right choice, 
 especially in this genre. This turns the notion of difficulty into challenge, and lets the player 
 decide what the best outcome and the best method to achieve that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDaddy878
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  First thing I want to say is that this game is fun. It has a cool DVD-like function that allows 
 you to skip parts of the game, and if you worry about missing out on the story, then everytime 
 you start the game, it highlights the key parts of the game starting with the phrase; "Previously 
 on AitD". 
  It's also very innovative. There is a variety of ways that you can combine items with other items 
 to make new things, which brings me to the 'jacket menu'. To use items, you look down at your coat 
 pockets and select an item in real time. This works very well, except for the fact that an enemy 
 might attack you while you try to pull something out. So far, this game may sound very good. Well, 
 it would be if it were not for some annoying gameplay issues, bad voice acting, and awkward controls. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  At first, this game starts out slow and the controls really feel weird. However, when you get used 
 to them, everything flows smoothly, that is, if it wasn't for the many glitches this game beholds. 
 The worst moments in this game would have to be the car sequences. The car handles horribley, and 
 you cannot even run through a lamp post. But this game holds some truely unique gameplay elements 
 such as the one's I talked about above. (item combination, real time item selection, dvd menu) 
 So if you are patient enough to learn the controls and die a few times due to glitches, you will 
 have a fun time with AitD. 
  7/10
  
  Graphics: 
  Your character, the monsters and Central Park looks great, but the other characters in cutscenes 
 and other environments look like last gen graphics. The lighting is good in some spots and bad 
 in others. The fire is probably the best looking thing in this game. 
  7.5/10
  
  Sound: 
  The bad voice acting really takes away from the creepy atmosphere this game tries to 
 accomplish. Everything from the monsters to the music sounds great, but the cutscenes are riddled 
 with bad lines and unnecessary language. 
  7/10
  
  Replay Value:
  With only one difficulty mode and easy achievements, this is a game you probably will only play 
 through once, that is if you are a patient person. This game is best as a rental. 
  6/10
  
  The Good: 
  - very innovative; you can combine items you find into anything you can, from 
 taped glowstickes to explosive, glowing molotov cocktails - fancy dvd- menu system lets you skip 
 tough parts - atmospheric music - great looking fire 
  
  The Bad:
  - horrible car sequences - even more horrible voice acting - awkward controls at first - not much 
 replay value - story is nothing special - weird techincal glitches - some annoying monsters
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bochoman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know whats wrong with you people, this is another great game that almost every critic 
 tear and destroy, the graphics look really good for me, and the chapter-like thing, just as if 
 you are watching a tv series is really great, the story is as good as a Hollywood script, apocalyptic 
 with his share of mystery and such things, the game-play is like none out there, it has some clumsy 
 camera, but nothing that you cant get used to, an all in all (except for the ending) is a pretty 
 great game.
  
  Some of the reviewers here state as a problem or a bad thing, that the game is not like Resident 
 Evil or Silent Hill....... THAT'S THE IDEA!!!!!!!!, why would you want a game that is a copy of 
 the others!!! that's stupid!!!, and by the way, not even those 2 games (Resident & Silent) are 
 the same type of game, RE is an Action-Horror game, and SH is a Survival-Horror game.
  
  To sum it all, Alone in the Dark is another under rated game that has the potential to be a must 
 have for 360 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Alone in Dark games used to be brilliant with puzzle making aspects that were unique and a story 
 that suits this and compliments them in every way.
  This can still be said about the re-incarnation of the series for the Xbox 360 and PS3. The only 
 thing that doesn't shine through are the awkward controls.
  
  New ways to play games are becoming relatively scarce now as publishers usually go for easy money 
 by making a FPS or a Party Game. When they go out of their way to make something completely different 
 they usually try to make it as compelling as possible to try and intrigue the largely popular FPS 
 shooter market (kinda like what Ubisoft did with Assassin's Creed did) . This game however does 
 not live up to the expectation (kinda like Assassin's Creed lol) .
  
  The story starts with you playing as a character with amnesia, which I know sounds clich but it 
 fits the plot and make it that much more interesting. It turns out you are the only one who stop 
 the terror that is happening to Central Park (it's pretty obvious what the "terror" is if you have 
 played it) . Along the way the plot introduces you to new predictable characters including Theo, 
 the wise old man you can learn a thing or two from, Crowley, the evil villain who wants it all 
 for himself, and Sarah, the female.
  
  It goes that you have to stop what is going on. Along the way though you will have to follow clues 
 and solve puzzles most of which do not disappoint. The good news is though if they do infact leave 
 you bored you are able to skip right by them with its DVD chapter select system. This addition 
 is welcome as it means like a film you can resume from set intervals and watch what you want. Also 
 if you do ever want to play it again to see the best bits (which is doubtful) you can quickly select 
 them and away you go.
  
  The major new mechanic though is the inventory system which unlike other games is actually well 
 organised. In other games, taking GTA for example, I keep wondering "Where in the hell is he hiding 
 those weapons?" and the only place he can attempt do doesn't much intrigue me. This inventory system 
 however is done all by the pockets inside your jacket. He probably has too many pockets of sorts 
 but again this is well executed. In actual fact the major problem you will encounter within the 
 game is that there is just not enough inventory space but realism wins in my opinion and combating 
 this problem is something you'll have to put up with. My advice is avoid, whenever possible, trying 
 to solve this problem with enemies in the vicinity as the inventory is real time and you can still 
 be hurt. Also when combining items together it is possible to make deadlier weapons like molotov 
 cocktails, molotov cocktails with bullets put on it and others. These do not disappoint and give 
 the player many opinions to kill the Humanz.
  
  Upon becoming hurt you can go to the healing view to fix up all cuts. This is done with medical 
 spray which miraculously heals all cuts except deep ones where a bandage is good enough. This I 
 believe to be a nice idea poorly executed like many other ideas in the game.
  
  Lets move into the bad. Lets start with controls. They are hard to adjust to but once you do they 
 can still be kinda frustrating. See all buttons have a use. Some obviously more useful than others 
 especially A which has multiple uses and can sometimes be frustrating because of it. Moving onto 
 car controls. They are SHOCKING. What put the idea of making lampposts you kill your car with, 
 a top speed you can reach no matter how badly damaged your car is and turning quicker than a hooker 
 about to make more money.
  
  Graphics were another thing I thought this game would win at but they are only good within the 
 first few seconds of the game when your vision is blurry . After this they all quite clearly lacking. 
 The lighting is the only good thing but when combined with last gen textures it doesn't really 
 compliment it.
  
  Overall I believe Alone in the Dark has tried to bring many more gameplay mechanics to games and 
 has done it in such a way where it just doesn't seem finished. The ending leaves it open for a 
 sequel (kinda) and if this does come to light then fingers crossed it will directly combat all 
 of what is wrong with the game. If it does this then it may be one of the best games on these respective 
 consoles. I guess now we wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoomstarPrime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow I am simply floored by this review. Alone in the Dark is the most fun I've had playing a game 
 in quite some time. The unique and semi-realistic approach to the inventory management combining 
 and using some ingenuity in there application, how this reviewer couldn't enjoy that simply floors 
 me.
  
  There are some relatively minor issues with the controls here and there. But once you get past 
 the second "episode" it never stops you from doing what you want to do (for me anyway) .
  
  And the driving sequences which the reviewer faults while heavily scripted are quite enjoyable. 
 And when you are driving through the city to central park is going to go down for me as one of 
 the most memorable gaming moments ever, and it only took me 2 tries. Trial and error...?
  
  Anyway I could go on but this is a brilliant somewhat flawed game. If you tired of alot of the 
 current generic crap thats been coming out lately you need to play this game.
  
  I posted the same thing at ign, you reviewers should be ashamed of yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Game for me was very expected and at all was not disappointed in it, yes with places management 
 inconvenient, but a general impression from game at me all the same excellent, on mine, at present 
 is the best horror from those that while exists, have your own opinion and do not listen to those 
 who is trying something to specify ;)
  The plot in itself quite good, does not suffice a few spark, but in a joint account not bad, game 
 not so short, but would not prevent it to make hardly longer, music in current of all game has 
 bewitched me and after passage of game I have immediately l founded the composer and downloaded 
 tracks, unique a minus of game I would like to note inconvenience of movement in stock when it 
 opens the raincoat, and still, the territory is given huge it was possible hardly to diversify 
 some kind of collateral missions when in the end go and simply burn trees, it would be possible 
 to add still any problem, finally - it is quite good...
  Ps execuse me if i made mistakes in what i am wrote, i am russian and english know not so well 
 )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WallyGamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I do agree that there are some flaws in it, I do like the fact that the enemies show a fear of 
 fire and act realistically. I found it an interesting new take on the Horror/Action/Adventure genre, 
 I do like the fact that whenever you continue from a saved point in the game, it refreshes your 
 memory to what exactly you have been through up to that point. I also liked the ingenuity and how 
 the fire really spreads realistically. I find it interesting, the number of combinations you can 
 come up with. It does have ambition, I do like how it has a pretty good mix of action with horror 
 and suspense. As a habitual gamer, I find it quite inventive. Some people say that the inventory 
 system is "not fun because it is in real time", I find it interesting that it IS in real time, 
 it makes you pre-think your choices so you do not waste time perusing the inventory, also I have 
 heard that it is hard to navigate the inventory, I don't find it difficult at all, I just use the 
 directional pad to navigate and I find things just fine. I hope this has been helpful in helping 
 you, the reader, in making a good choice. this game is not bad, could be improved, it is slightly 
 frusterating, but it is trial and error. Have patience and you will see that it is a great game, 
 albiet a bit flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, the controls are a nightmare, the puzzles are a joke, the graphics are inconsistent 
 with horrible animations, and the story/ dialogue is light watching a low budget 80's horror flick 
 (i. e. laughable) . As much time with it's many delays it took to develop this game, someone should 
 be fired over how broken this game is. It really is a $60 lemon. They might as well sent me a scratched 
 or broken DVD.
  
  The game has varying degrees of difficulty, all of the harded segments are always due to the terrible 
 controls and inconsistent physics engine. This only leads to complete frustration, instead of a 
 sense of accomplishment. It's only because of the controls that I gave this game a difficulty rating 
 of "Hard."
  
  Almost all of the games foes have to be killed with fire. And the ones that don't keep respawning 
 until you kill the nest with fire. Why!? Most of the baddies can be knocked unconcious with a stick. 
 However, the gun you carry does virtually no damage. Round after round from a pistol is less powerful 
 than a stick in hand. Despite being knocked out for a brief period they often get back up unless 
 you set them on fire. Nevertheless, if you are able to get a stick and set it on fire early, then 
 all you need to do is just bump into the foe and he will immediately burst into flames. This is 
 ironic since a lot of the enemies are in burning crumbling builds.
  
  I could go on for days, but I won't. Don't buy or even rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I really, really wanted this to be a good game ,and truly expected it to. Atari has basically put 
 the hopes of their entire company in the hands of this single game much like Eidos did with Tomb 
 Raider Legend. Unfortunately Alone in the Dark is the most broken ill conceived game I've played 
 since Two Worlds.
  
  Gameplay wise Alone in the Dark implements more first of their kind game mechanics then any other 
 game ever made. This sounds good, but actually seems to be the main problem with the game. The 
 entire thing seems like a tutorial, and rarely do you really feel in control. Not only that ,but 
 not a single one of the game mechanics actually work very well. The ability to use and spread fire 
 alone would have carried the game through it's entirety, but they decided to push on sacrificing 
 game stability, graphics, level design, and......... what's that thing called,.... Oh yeah, FUN. 
 Everything you can do has a much easier and dumber way to be done making 90% of the mechanics pointless. 
 Also, it doesn't help that they have lied not only the entire time during development ,but even 
 on the packaging. THIS IS NOT A SAND BOX GAME. It is a straight forward, walk down the hall game. 
 Never do you get to just run around and kick it. Every once in a while you'll get to drive around 
 narrow sections of central park, but the driving mechanics are so terrible that you can't wait 
 to get back in doors. On top of that the game repeatedly breaks it's own rules, and freaks out 
 into a glitchy haze. The game is close to broken, but is still playable.
  
  Graphically the game starts out good. The animations of the main dude, and surrounding environments 
 are amazing....... for the first 15 minutes, then the game nose dives and for the rest of the game 
 border lines of PS 2. On top of that the graphics are torn apart by jagged animations and insane 
 glitches.
  
  In all Alone in the Dark has a number of awesome ideas poorly performed. I have to tip my hat for 
 what they tried, but never should this unpolished and jagged of a game be released as is at $60. 
 Atari should have paid closer attention to this game and did what ever was needed to see that this 
 game came together in the end, but this is a prime example of why Atari is in the shape that they 
 are. Poor management, and no quality control is the death of any game developer / publisher.
  
  Dollar value $9.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudXentar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is nowhere nearly as bad. I had my doubts about the reviews so I decided to check it 
 out personally on Xbox360. And you know what, I'm glad I did.
  
  This game rocks so hard that the certain points made me shed a tear. You climb down while the ruin 
 parts falls from the calapsing building above. I was at the edge of my seat.
  
  Those who are interested in this game already know who is the main dude, so no use explaining it. 
 The graphic is good, the animation of Edward is good accept when he is walking on the edges and 
 some other parts where he would look like he is floating on the damn thing. The in-game menu ,where 
 you want to use items, are actually Edward's pockets which you access in real time making the already 
 tough battle even harder, but you can select weapons which you want for the quick equip menu so 
 no problem there.
  
  You can combine various items, like your flashlight and a gun or you can just hold just a flashlight 
 in the hand. Same goes for a lighter which can be combined with some items making it a weapon, 
 but also it is a stand alone item that you can equip. I know that this isn't important but it's 
 a really nice touch. When Edward gets hurt he will have scars and burns who will stay there (yeah, 
 even in cutscenes) until he heals them with a spray or bandages to close an open wound. Oh yeah, 
 the spreading fire makes your decisions to be done in a hurry.
  
  I don't know what the hell is wrong with reviewers, because the only bad parts would go to controls 
 who are really crappy making a fast decisions quite painful combined with a bad camera angle. Because 
 of that, the battle can be really annoying, especially when you are facing more enemies then once. 
 And driving a car could have been better.
  
  There are so many other good parts to say about this game but I shouldn't do it. You just rent 
 the game and see for yourselves. Epic fail my ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The original Alone in the Dark was my first PC game. I loved it. The sequels I was less thrilled 
 about and when I heard about this release, I winced. Then all those great technical videos came 
 out. Excitement level went back up. I was certain this game was going to be a huge hit with critics 
 and everyone else. The reviews stunned me but I was determined to try it.
  
  And I'm really glad I did!
  
  The number one complaint I've read about is the controls. I concur 
 that they are different and take some getting used to but I think that they've done a great job 
 with them. For the most part, it's pretty intuitive if you give it half a chance. First person 
 mode is exactly as you would expect from any other FPS game anyway so just getting around can be 
 done in a familiar manner.
  
  The graphics are really nice and I haven't noticed many glitches or clipping. Yes, they are there 
 but it's not tragic nor did it ruin my immersion. Overall, the fire looks amazing, the motions 
 of the characters are top notch and the lighting is perfect.
  
  The combat reminds me of a game called 'Die By the Sword' for the most part. Though slightly simplified, 
 the swinging is a nice touch. I think that it lends itself to the frantic aspect of the fighting 
 and you can really feel like you're beating something down for its efforts of eating you. Great 
 convention really.
  
  I like the way that when you load a game it does a TV show thing with the whole 'Previously on 
 Alone in the Dark' and catches you up. It's a neat idea and it also builds a bit of tension. These 
 people knew how to create suspense and it's always there hovering on the subtle and disturbing 
 music. 
  
  If I had to complain about things, I'd start with the voice acting. It was way over the top and 
 melodramatic beyond compare. Some of it could be straight out of a 60s Doctor Who if they were 
 foul mouthed. I don't mind profanity but this just seems unnecessary. 
  
  Overall, I at the very least recommend this game as a rental if not a straight up purchase. I got 
 mine at Best Buy and received a 10 dollar gift card with it so it was totally worth it. Give it 
 a try and be open minded with the controls. This is the kind of game that breaks the conventions 
 up a bit and it's nice to see that they aren't being cookie cutter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not-A-Stalker
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  My really crappy mini-review for Alone In The Dark!
  
  
  First let me start off by saying that this might be one of the most innovative games so far this 
 year. Sadly all the brownie points that I would give this game for being so cool are canceled out 
 by this games god awful controls.
  
  This games controls are bad. I mean bad. If there was a way to scream on the internet, I'd be doing 
 it right now. It's like Eden Studios took every game mechanic they could think of and threw it 
 into this game. Overall this is probably one of the most inconsistent games I've ever played. The 
 game just can't decide what it wants to be. A platformer? A FPS? A TPS? Puzzler? Action adventure? 
 Survival horror?
  
  This game is like playing a "Season DVD" of a TV show. Each level is treated as 1 episode and at 
 the end of each level/episode the credits roll! As small as it is, how cool is that?! And you can 
 literally fast forward the game whenever you want through the pause menu. Like if you don't know 
 how to get across this broken bridge or something, you can just pause the game and fast forward 
 to the next segment. But beware, by doing this you forfeit the achievement you receive for completing 
 this level AND you lose all the items in your inventory. I can understand the achievement, but 
 the inventory? How ****ing stupid is that?
  
  And you know what? I can realistically see this game becoming an actual TV show. Not a good one, 
 mind you. It could probably be picked up by The CW or ABC and run for 6 episodes or something and 
 then not be picked up again when Fall comes around.
  
  Right from the get go, before you even start the game, you can access every level/episode from 
 the main menu! And every time you skip a level/episode you get one of those "Last time on Alone 
 In The Dark..." segments you see on TV shows that tells you what went down in the last episode. 
 This game just reeks of awesomeness, but the controls kill it.
  
  Alone In The Dark is surprisingly epic in some places too. I did not expect much from this game, 
 but I was pleasantly surprised. I'm not very far in the game, and I hear that the game changes 
 significantly at one point, but I'm sure that the high point of this game will remain as the car 
 sequence in which you're driving to a museum with New York City literally collapsing around you. 
 This sequence was like, in the same league as the Snake/Liquid fight at the end of MGS4 and like 
 all of Shadow of the Colossus. Atari treated this game as their "high profile summer action flick" 
 and it really shows. It's a shame that the CONTROLS SUCK THOUGH. Why couldn't they have just copy/pasted 
 Resident Evil 4 or Gears Of War or Uncharted like everyone else does?
  
  And now, the inventory. The inventory is arguably the best and worst part of this game. There are 
 so many awesome combination's you can make with items in this game. For example, you can pour lighter 
 fluid on some of your pistols bullets. Now you can shoot fire! Shoot a table with that and it lights 
 on fire! You can throw a can of bug spray in the air then the game goes into a bullet time effect 
 where you can shoot the can in mid air, then boom! You can also strap some double sided tape onto 
 a glow stick, then throw it at a wall or down a hallway, and it sticks! I haven't found a use for 
 this yet, but I think that's really cool. But here's where the inventory gets bad. When you go 
 into your inventory, the game does not pause. Which means if the stuff you currently have equipped 
 isn't going to dispose of the monster running at you, you have to think fast. And unless you're 
 in a linear area, it makes organizing your inventory very dangerous because "Humanz" (yes, that's 
 what they call the humanoid monsters) can come from nowhere and attack you.
  
  This game is really cool. If it weren't for the controls, this game is an 8.5, easily. Luckily 
 the TV Show format and the inventory (kind of) save the game. If you can suffer through bad controls, 
 then this game is definitely worth taking a look at. Please don't write this game off immediately 
 just by looking at all the professional reviews, it's honestly not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OjinKin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Even though this game has a certain lack of technical quality in control, it is superb, the story 
 isn't bad at all, there are many games worst than this... Not a bad option for the afternoon spending... 
 The enemys are just the ideal adversary, the AI is just enough foe kicking their "arses", and getting 
 ous kicked as well, not necessarely GTA IV in terms of NPCs, but just good enough.
  The chapter mode is a good add on, the controls are the only things that make this game shameful, 
 anyway, i recommend it... :-) Nice One... This game reminds me of Vampire Rain, but the graphics 
 and ways of Alone In The Dark, are even better, the resemblance to Vampire Rain, perhaps is the 
 environment of the game, the darkness it shows... Maybe just my idea.
  Personally i think that the reviews it received was a bit rough on it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  That doesn't make any sense, cause why would low visibility impair your hearing? But that's not 
 important. Who cares about logic anyway? The developers of Alone in the Dark claim they do, at 
 least in terms of the way items interact with each other. While you may question whether shooting 
 at gasoline would actually cause an explosion, things like this make perfect sense in the context 
 of the game. And that's where the game's strength lies. Problems and the way you solve them.
  
  For a large part it's mostly a linear affair, but it's still rather rewarding and fun to solve 
 the various problems you encounter. Once you finally get to climb out of the sewers and into the 
 park itself, you get a bit giddy with excitement over your newfound freedom. Suddenly you're free 
 to roam a slice of the park, find objects, experiment a bit and figure out your own way to solve 
 a puzzle rather than figuring out the only way. There are hints at this earlier during the game, 
 but it really comes into its own right when things expand.
  
  When it comes to the story though, logic gets thrown out the window, trampled by a rhino and shot 
 between the eyes by a cannon of a great good size. It's a generic silly supernatural nonsense tale, 
 only it tries to be mature. Which means it's still pretty silly, only people say **** and **** 
 a lot. As if the attempt to be "mature" and "edgy" wasn't embarassingly obvious enough, Carnby 
 is from the late 1800's. Was the f-word even invented back then?
  
  Speaking of archaic things, why does Carnby control like the stiff he's actually supposed to be? 
 People have compared controlling Carnby to pushing a lawnmower around, a description I find rather 
 apt. It's not quite Resident Evil tank controls, but it is reminiscent of it.
  
  The game has a lot of control issues, and similar. Like if you open a locker you can't pick between 
 the multiple objects inside, you have to pick up the first one. When two objects are close to each 
 other on the ground you have to dance back and forth until the correct one gets highlighted. The 
 game doesn't pause when you check your inventory to combine items and whatnot, which can be rather 
 frustrating when you're surrounded by enemies. Inventory is too limiting. Can only carry eight 
 objects I think, and things like spray cans and bottles can only be stored in the right side of 
 your jacket inventory. You can't aim the flashlight or gun in third person. Camera tends to pull 
 inverted controls and various other forms of disorientation on you. Etc. Etc. Finally there are 
 two concerns of mine that require further elaboration.
  
  Melee combat is complete and utter garbage. Movement of the weapon Carnby has equipped is controlled 
 by moving the right analog stick around. The actual movement of the weapon is analog, the attacks 
 however, are not. You have a total of two attack, sideswipe and bash. There is no blocking. No 
 combo system. No camera control. What it amounts to is you spastically running around trying to 
 avoid the enemy's attacks while wildly swinging the weapon around at random, hopefully hitting. 
 Cause it's quite hard to tell the range of the weapon you have equipped. Furthermore enemies take 
 freaking forever to go down. And they don't stay down, in a minute or so they'll rise again, unless 
 you manage to somehow set them on fire. I just shoot them instead.
  
  There's this scripted car chase sequence fairly early in the game. It is ridiculousy annoying. 
 It is probably around five minutes long, no checkpoints, if you make a mistake you pretty much 
 die and have to start over. So it quickly transforms from a cool set piece to trial and error frustration 
 from hell. Slowly inching your way through the level, learning where to go piece by piece. Took 
 me ten tries or something...
  
  Frustration is sadly a common theme with the game, and it's why I haven't actually finished the 
 game yet. This crack keeps chasing me and dragging me across a chasm which I have to jump over 
 again and again and again, in order to figure out how to solve a puzzle. This is stupid. "**** 
 you anyway!" I said and turned the console off.
  
  But despite of how frustrating it can be, you want to like it, and sometimes you do. I reckon it's 
 worth checking out, at least a rent. It does deserve kudos for its inventive concept, which sporadically 
 propels it above all its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyg756
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  After seeing people shout abuse about this game the day before i bought it, i wasn't expecting 
 a amazing game. It didn't turn out to be a amazing game, but that said it was pretty good, at first 
 anyway. The controls are ok, i have played with worse, they are definetly not perfect though. What 
 this game does to you though, is unforgivable. A bit more than half way through the game, you get 
 a text message on your phone, its from this stupid girl that follows you around . Basicly what 
 she says is "FIND EVIL ROOTS!" and what they are is these stupid looking black things that stick 
 out of the ground. So what you have to do is basicly drive around for maybe an hour or two, burning 
 these stupid things, that are placed all around central park. The driving in this game is horrible, 
 which makes this part even worse. The game would constantly p*** me off by glitching my car into 
 trees and then throw hundreds of enemies at me, all of which began tearing my car apart. But i 
 managed to get through this horrible part of the game, and after this i got some pretty fun puzzles 
 to do before the end. Which brings me to the thing i hate the most... the ending. I'm not going 
 to spoil it for you people who havn't played it, but its awful. The worst ending i have ever seen 
 in a game, the whole game just seems like a waste of time after watching it. You are still sort 
 of confused of whats going on, but the most annoying thing is it just ends and you don't get to 
 find out what happens to the world at all. So would i recommend it?. No, maybe if you are really 
 bored you should pick it up, but trust me after going threw some of the better parts of the game 
 it all turns into a large pile of poo. Oh wait, the graphics are ok i suppose, so maybe the game 
 won't look like poo, but it definetly will seem like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunkstuff
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  The physics are amazing, The graphics are awesome, The Game is imaginative and new But! The driving 
 is TERRIBLE! And the game is stupidly hard
  The game is very good in places but is dragged down by visual glitches, horrible voice acting and 
 some really terrible driving. What I find weird is you can skip sequences (parts of the game) so 
 basically you could skip straight to the end of the game which is pretty pointless... this comes 
 in handy though when you get to the terrible driving parts which are not just stupidly hard.. The 
 cars are unresponsive and just annoying.
  The walking about is quite fun you get to burn a few people, climb down buildings, and solve some 
 pretty cool puzzles using the games really good physics engine. But it is still dragged down a 
 lot by its flaws that's why I wouldn't really recommend buying this game, rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay. WHY cant people just give this game a break, while it may have some technical glitches and 
 all that, this game is good. And after watching the ending credits, I wanted to play it more. And 
 I couldn't help but enjoy that voice saying, "Previously on Alone in the Dark..."
  
  3's, 2's, all of that low rating crap is something this game doesn't deserve at all. To tell you 
 the truth, I did rent this game, not because I thought it might suck, but because I finish games 
 very quickly. While this game doesn't have that high of a replay value, it's enjoyable while it 
 lasts.
  
  Story:
  You play as Edward Carnby, a man with amnesia, and a quest to find out his purpose in the currently 
 demon-possessed city of New York (most of the game is centered around Central Park) . Through the 
 story, (which is sort've confusing if you don't pay attention) you find out that Edward is included 
 in a prophecy that has to do with Lucifer (The Devil) , the world, and humanity being destroyed. 
 You start out slow, learning basic controls, the story, and you even get some pretty cool, and 
 intense scenes (which also involves the high-rise apartment room your in being ripped apart) . The 
 main enemies in this game are demons, from you know where. And they take over human bodies, making 
 them faster, stronger, and so on. (1) You have a companion throughout the game, Sarah, a New York 
 civilian caught up in the whole thing (she doesn't really attack enemies, or do anything like that, 
 but she does play a huge role in the story) . Suprising, the only thing that can kill the demons 
 is fire... fire. Which can lead to times of stress. 
  
  Gameplay:
  A cool original idea in this game is the inventory system. Edward is equipped with a sweet leather 
 jacket that has compartments on each side, letting him store essential items through your adventure. 
 That is where you keep your pistol, flashlight, etc. Smaller items, like your lighter, bandages, 
 batteries, go on the left side of the jacket. Big items, like fuel bottles, flares, glowsticks, 
 etc. go on the right side. 
  
  Puzzles... Now the puzzles are a tad frustrating. But here's a tip. This is gonna sound stupid but, 
 they give you exactly what you need for the puzzles. Just think a little. For example, there is 
 a sequence in the game where you have to pull a switch, but it's high up and the ladder to get 
 to it is broken. Now you have a forklift, and huge boxes (that you can jump on) . So, I wasn't thinking 
 about it, but I can use the forklift to stack the boxes like large stairs to get to the switch. 
 Yeah, not your first thought, but I got it eventually. That makes it hard not to skip some sequences. 
 
  
  There are, granted, some times of boredom in this game, where your left without enough equipment 
 to get the job done, like killing enemies, and killing... other things (NO SPOILERS HERE) . You will 
 spend a lot of time searching for FUEL containers to make fire bombs and molotov cocktails before 
 getting into the fight. Fuel bottles are the most essential items in this entire game. Next to 
 FIRST-AID sprays. 
  
  Controls:
  To me are fine, I heard that that was a problem for other reviewers. 
  AS for melee combat, I 
 enjoy using the 360's right joystick to control melee objects. I like the satisfaction of beating 
 a demon's skull in with a baseball bat. 
  
  Dialogue:
  Alright, I'll make this short. I dont mind the dialogue. I like the characters and their voices 
 don't "bother me". The dialogue isn't bad. Don't listen to other reviewers. 
  
  Replay Value:
  Sadly, Hardly any. Unless you skipped a part of an episode or skipped the whole 
 thing. You can go back and finish it. There are achievements for finishing the episodes without 
 skipping any sequence. 
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  If repetitive games don't bother you (like me) , you can stand a couple small glitches. And if you 
 play games every once and a while, BUT IT. 
  But if you blaze through videogames, RENT IT.
  I got around 900 out of 1000 gamerscore for completing episodes and doing things that anyone would 
 probably do.
  There are only around 5 others achievements that you have to go out of the way for. 
  So that's 
 that. Play it and enjoy it. If you don't then your missing out on a good adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by saying that Alone in The Dark is NOT perfect and there ARE quite a few minor to 
 sever glitches. 
  
  Some of these problems are small things such as the occasional, but not very frequent, framerate 
 slow down and a few popping issues here and there.
  
  Other glitches are much more frequent and do a lot more damage to the game. The good news of this 
 is that most of these glitches are car related and even then only at certain times. To be more 
 specific when you are in a high speed, adrenaline pumping driving sequence the game sometimes has 
 a bad habit of making your car jump 10 feet straight up into the air which usually gets you killed 
 or at least ruins the moment. 
  
  I have heard people complain about the "horrible" controls, but I myself found them very easy to 
 get used too. The first complication may occur when you realize that you have little control over 
 the camera when in third person mode, this at first seems very challenging but you will get used 
 to it quickly. The reason for this is that when in third person mode the right analogue stick controls 
 the object you are holding in your hands (example: you can move the flaming chair in you hands 
 to use it light your environment on fire or swing it at an enemy) . 
  
  The other controls problem I've heard is that people aren't too keen about the idea of using the 
 right stick to swing the object your holding. Swinging objects is done by setting up your swing 
 by moving the right stick in one direction then actually swinging by quickly moving the right stick 
 in the opposite direction. This may seem complicated and will take sometime to get used to, but 
 you will get used to in no time.
  
  The last two problems I have heard of I guess could be relevant issues, but they were not things 
 I had trouble with and those things are the story being overly complicated and the game not giving 
 you enough information about what you're supposed to be doing. This will obviously vary from gamer 
 to gamer.
  
  Another personal problem I had was I found the gun to lack punch even when loaded with fire bullets.
 
  
  Now that I have addressed these flaws I can talk about all of the good things this game has going 
 for it, which fortunately is just about everything else. 
  
  The on foot sequances in the game (about 80% of the game) are really good and can sometimes deliver 
 some incredible action sequances. 
  
  The story is epic at points and is very good at unraveling a complicated conspiracy and the backstory 
 of armageddon. The place where the story falls short is in character development. Now this isn't 
 saying the characters are boring, but they lack the depth of characters we see now a days such 
 as Andrew Ryan (Bioshock) and just about every character is Mass effect.
  
  The inventory and invention system is where Alone in The Dark truly shines. Your inventory is limited 
 to what you can carry in your characters jacket and on his belt. The only problem with this is 
 that for some reason your character can't put a lighter or a rag in the pocket of his jeans. The 
 invention system makes it so you will never find a scrap of garbage and have no use for it, from 
 plastic bottles to tape everything has an important influence on whether you have what you need 
 to get the job done.
  
  As an add bonus the game has beautiful graphics and an incredible soundtrack.
  
  In conclusion 
 Alone in The Dark has its share of flaws, but none of them can take away from the brilliance of 
 the game.
  
  This is a must play for anyone who likes innovation and a good armageddon tale.
  
  PS. I appologize 
 for the long review I kinda got away from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OXM-Madman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I don't see why people complain about this game. I've only been excited about AiTD for about a 
 month, and it has reached the target it was aiming for. It is very enjoyable. The controls aren't 
 clumsy at all, more intuitive, for example you have to actually swing your weapon with the right 
 analogue stick, blink your eyes to clear your vision, actually heal spesific wounds with a Healing 
 Spray by selecting areas with the left analogue stick rather than just selecting a health kid and 
 using it, etc, and it rarely feels that it is overpowering you only once in a while I have made 
 a mistake with the controls. I have rarely found glitches in the game, and the very most I have 
 found was in the end of Chapter 2, in a very cinematic car chase through a crumbling New York. 
 The car controls are also very arcadey and easy to play, although I admit that even the slightest 
 touch will make the car stop in a very overreacting fashion.
  
  Although the animations are fairly stiff compared to nowerdays, they are still above average in 
 comparison to Hour of Victory (the worst game ever made, period) , as is the look of the character. 
 The fire effects are really beautiful and it can be exciting while you try and end a fire as it 
 engulfs the walls around you! So far (around half way through the game) the only issue I have is 
 with the the DVD menu (which allows you to skip after a puzzle if you are finiding it too hard) , 
 and that issue is that you will lose your current gained items for your jacket (there is rarely 
 any gun ammo, so you have to combine items you collect and use them with your gun for greater effect, 
 i. e explodable plastic bottle + hankerchief = makeshift Molotov cocktail) at that current time 
 when you skip. Also sometimes you will throw the controller in anger at yourself dying, because 
 a lot of the time when you die, you know it's YOUR fault because you made a small mistake.
  
  Other than what I have mentioned, this is a really brilliant survival game revival, without 
 the horror as it really isn't that scary (only with jumpy bits, like a corpse suddenly apprearing 
 on the windshield of your car) . Buy this as it is worth your money.
  
  P. S: Feel free to really disagree with this review, as I have had a LOT of experiance with video 
 games and I personally found the issues easy to get over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Sucky controls, sucky camera, sucky animation and even suckier storyline!
  Steer clear of this game if you are ANY sort of an old school fan of games such as Resident Evil, 
 Silent Hill, Condemned.. EVEN the original Alone In The Darks.. this will let you down from a great 
 height!
  
  The game sort-of starts out promising and then turns dire.. every enemy pretty much must be killed 
 with fire... why? Who knows!! Next is the controls... a huge let down and unless you have a pen and 
 paper and can read maps.. you'll struggle.. Granted it does get easier to use after a few levels 
 but generally not well done!! Not to mention the shocking handling of the cars.
  
  The Camera angles.. don't get me started! An original Playstation game about a ball filled with 
 camera's rolling down a hill, where you only see what the cameras see, would have BETTER angles 
 than this pile of crap!
  Some might be thinkin that i'm pretty negative about this game but havin been working for Blockbuster 
 Games and having to plug it to customers, you kinda get built up with the hype about it.. so sure, 
 i played it, i PLAYED to level 5 (it has a function where you can skip to the end of the game/next 
 level if you get stuck) and i'd had enough, didnt really get stuck, the puzzles are really really 
 easy and offers nothing but problems.
  
  Rent it if you must, Buy it at your peril!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Ok I never really played the first game. I played a little of it a few years ago to see why everyone 
 liked it but it just wasn't my thing. But everything about this game from all I read, seen and 
 heard made it sound pretty good. Not like the best game ever but good non the less and thats pretty 
 much how it turned out. Nothing amazing. 
  
  Where to start? Well I'll go with the pros:
  
  -The action is there. (also a negative too) Some times the stuff you do is so action packed 
 in terms of "on your seat" its really fun! Like driving while all hell breaks lose.... literally! 
 
  
  -The physics and stuff you seen in the dev diaries is here too. And it is really fun solving puzzles 
 with it. Kinda of ashame though you couldn't do more with it. 
  
  -The story was good although kind of boring through most of the game until you start to get whats 
 going on. Until then your sort of considering if its actually going anywhere! But the story is 
 really good non the less.
  
  -The graphics are really nice. I got to admit I think if the graphics were bad this game would 
 have flopped. hey are what keep you mainly interested.
  
  -As I mentioned there are some really cool "WOW" moments. Theres some really unique things about 
 this game I liked despite my disappointment that I will never forget!
  
  -For some sick reason you have urges to blow up things, light things on fire, see how many ways 
 you can turn into a human rocket. The fire in this game just rocks! 
  
  Sadly thats about it. There are ALOT of negatives to this unique game:
  -The action is there 
 but sometimes its so ridiculous its near impossible to do. Such as I mentioned driving while hell 
 is breaking loose. I took me like 25-30 tries to make it through! From what I read most people 
 averaged about 15 tries. Of course I kinda messed around.
  
  -On that same note the game can be brutal since it has a wacky go back system after you die/load/whatever. 
 Say you run into a new action scene or a boss and you have about 1 hit left on your body (then 
 you die) . Well if you die it will bring you back right as the fight begins and its pretty much 
 an endless loop until after 30 some tries later you can figure out a way to kill the guy without 
 getting killed by these ultra 1337 zombie creatures that can kill quickly!
  
  Same goes if you perhaps don't have a way to kill someone! You'll get stuck with no way to kill 
 them so you run around like a mad man trying to figure out what do then! And of course if you reload 
 the section or skip to ahead or back you lose your achievement and your weapons. Well, if you load 
 your game you lose nothing but you start way back at the beginning of that section and trust me 
 its a pain.
  
  -Once again attached to that is the fact if you do something wrong and lets say you needed something 
 but now you used it or can't get t it because you didn't KNOW you needed it.... your screwed. You 
 have to reload your game or go back section. Which messes up everything.
  
  -The controls I think are a pain. Especially because the zombie like creatures are fast and theres 
 so much crap you can do that nothing is simple. So often times you'll die or do something wrong 
 (and die) because things just are to crazy to remember right. Or they pop up that second and you 
 have to literally within a second react.
  
  -Along with the controls is the YOU. Your guy moves like he has a stick up his butt. 3RD person 
 view is horrible because he just doesn't move well.... well not when turning. 
  
  -Another problem is you really have no idea what to do. True its kinda of a free roam. But even 
 when your at something that you maybe are suppose to do.... or even if it is something you are suppose 
 to do you often times will spend awhile trying to figure out what exactly they want you to do. 
 And a few times I found out the game glitched and I had to restart the section! This game gives 
 NO directions on anything. 
  
  Overall the hard enemies are just to much with the hard controls, difficult moving around and crappy 
 reloading system when you die. Its more then that really. The game needed work. Rent it for fun 
 but expect it have a few good high moments and alot of moments of throwing your controller at your 
 tv moments..... ALOT! It still gets a relatively good score because of its uniqueness and fun action 
 scenes still.
  
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biotoxic
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Alright just finished the game and i must say I am quite impressed ! Eden has done a great job 
 reinventing Alone for the current gen. The whole game is wrapped in a Lovecraftian mystique that 
 creeps around every turn! Graphically its a pleasure to behold and the lighting is spectacular. 
 The story itself is fairly linear ,common with this genre, but there is a certain sandbox element 
 as well witch is refreshing, although I felt like they could have taken the "world" element a little 
 further with more side quests and the like. the controls like everyone else is saying, are a little 
 funky and the constant switching from a cinematic angle to 1st person to attack was a pain ,but 
 there were a few places where I found the cinematic angle to be better then 1st such as rappelling 
 and puzzle solving. The driving has to be the worst controls in the game but luckily u aren't driving 
 THAT much, although I do wish here was some sort of "way point" system you could set yourself on 
 the main map, instead I constantly had to pause the game to go into a submenu on the "Phone" to 
 see my GPS which didn't really go along with the real time equipment and healing and took a bit 
 of time that seemed unnecessary. All in all the monsters are Cool (theblack pudding" type being 
 my fav ! ) the story's intriguing and its creepy as Hell ! (literally!) A definite game for any 
 horror fan ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominicancivik
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The story and cutscenes are great. The gameplay idea is great but can get confusing. Movement was 
 borderline garbage. If this was just cutscenes it would've been great. I think it just had too 
 much hype behind it. If they had less advertising, I think a lot of people's opinions would've 
 been a lot different. The story and cutscenes are great. The gameplay idea is great but can get 
 confusing. Movement was borderline garbage. If this was just cutscenes it would've been great. 
 I think it just had too much hype behind it. If they had less advertising, I think a lot of people's 
 opinions would've been a lot different. The story and cutscenes are great. The gameplay idea is 
 great but can get confusing. Movement was borderline garbage. If this was just cutscenes it would've 
 been great. I think it just had too much hype behind it. If they had less advertising, I think 
 a lot of people's opinions would've been a lot different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darobinson67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This franchise is and always will be a legacy in video games, although some of the new generation 
 of gamers that play this remake might be turned off. what i am trying to say is that i have been 
 playing video games since nintendo when i was 6, so therefore i have since known about this game 
 long before this remake came out and i love alone in the dark as a whole, i hope they make a sequal 
 to this remake. all in all though this game has some serious great qualities and some very annoying 
 ones at the same time. i was very excited to play this game but when i put it in my 360 and started 
 it up something just didnt feel right, the games storyline has a very old school survival horror 
 feel to it, but then the physics in the game are groundbreaking, as in setting things on fire and 
 then watching burn in real time. fire is also the only way to kill humanz (the main enemy youll 
 be fighting) . those are the two main things that i love bout the game, but i hate the controls. 
 They are way too complicated, lets just say if you ever find yourself surrounded by 4 or 5 enemies 
 dont expect to have enough time to make some fire bullets before they end you. also the left stick 
 is used to both move Edward but also the camera as well, that becomes a pain in the butt after 
 bout the first 5 minutes of gaming. im not going to go into the story line because i dont want 
 to ruin it. i'll leave you with one of the cooler features if at anytime you find yourself stuck 
 just hit pause and skip to the next seen, you can also go backwards. I dont suggest this though, 
 u wont get the achievement for finishing the level unless you complete them 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for almost a year, and now that it's out, I got nothing but frustration 
 out of it.
  
  First and the foremost is the fact that this game has the WORST possible controls ever conceived 
 by a man. Until now I thought MGS4 has the worst controls, but Alone In The Dark has by far the 
 worst control scheme - so far worse than anything I've ever seen, I doubt any other title can ever 
 beat it. 99% of all deaths you'll ever experience in the game is mostly because pretty much the 
 entire game consists of fight with controls rather than enemy.
  
  At some point you'll have to fight hordes of enemies with absolutely no source of weapons or medkits, 
 having to run extremely long distances and probably die so many times - you'll loose count after 
 first dozen of deaths.
  
  Every time pretty much any character in the game opens mouth - an obscenity comes out of it. And 
 I mean _every_ - especially the main characters. I have specifically counter how many times they 
 curse, and yes, there hasn't been a single sentence without an "F" word included in it.
  
  I guess by now I have completed about 75% of the game, and I'm honestly thinking about giving up 
 - it's nothing but frustration and very little fun.
  
  The game has had a very good potential, with its very nice graphics and weapon building out of 
 various objects, but the controls, changing camera angle and many other control related issues, 
 I can give this game more than 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  To take away the pain that this game has brought into my life?
  
  Graphics. Are ok. Fire looks great. Almost everything else is kind of a let down.
  
  Combat 
 is a disaster. Driving is very glitchy and frustrating. 
  
  Simple things like how your character moves can be a challenge, no thanks to the camera that can 
 at times drive you insane.
  
  I understand the concept of limited inventory due to the genre of the game. But execution of how 
 you handle your inventory as well as combine items can be a chore and a pain. That can also pretty 
 much some up this game. Great almost revolutionary ideas. Bad execution.
  
  Did I mention the absurd storyline. It would of been nice if they at least tried to keep the spirit 
 of the original alive. As that was the reason this game had been on my wish list for such a long 
 time. And I thought this sort of game was suppose to be scary? This isn't. 
  
  In the end consider this game the poor mans Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercer52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  This Game Has gone right where gta has gone wrong , wanna know whats the problem with gta , they 
 cared to much about making itREALand making the graphics look good and the polishing the 
 physics engine , but seriously who wants that , i mean dont get me wrong when i get a game i expect 
 the developers to have worked on the games graphics and engine , but when it gets to the point 
 that they just want me to admire that stuff and forget to have fun , that crossing the line , i 
 mean we all play to have fun and if the game has good graphics it can make it more fun , but when 
 they just put all thier hard work into the looks , thats just not right cause you ncant have fun 
 looking at the mona lisa 
  
  
  any way im gonna stop blabreing about whats wrong with next gen gaming
  
  
  this game is 
 really really fun and brutal i mean i dont wanna spoil anything but at one point there was this 
 hand print locked door and there was this dead guard with rocks pinning him down so you take a 
 sword and actually cut off his hand and open the door with , at that point i was just like wohaaa
 
  
  but it does have some bad stuff in it like the driving isnt that good , but there are other stuff 
 that compensate for it like when you get in a car you can actually hot wire by grabbing the wire 
 and the directinal wheel , and you can check the glove box for supplies of anything you can use 
 like tape and bandages or whisky or even a napkin 
  
  
  the core of this game is using anything in front of you how ever way you like to get past the puzzle 
 or the enemy infront of you 
  
  i mean you can use a bottle of gas combine it with A tissue and duktape to make a sticky time bomb 
 
  
  there are so many ways to get to the next level 
  
  like for example you have two enemies infront of you and the only thing that kills them is fire 
 
  
  ways to get past them
  
  1 - you can just get a woden chair and set it on fire and just bash thier heads with it 
  
 
  2 - you can make whisky or gas trail on the ground and make them follow you then when thier in 
 the spot you set the trail on fire with your lighter 
  
  3 you can just grab a gas bottle and throw it at them and just shoot it while its in the air 
 
  
  456etc 
  
  
  
  i mean you can do anything you think of any way you like
  and believe me its fun sometimes i just keep playing for hours just jerking around and make bombs 
 and messing with monsters it really really fun 
  
  
  
  but still the bad side is as i said driving isnt that good its kinda hard to pick something up 
 from you inventeory and combat is ok 
  
  but the biggest problem of all is 
  
  THE SAVE SYSTEM 
  
  first of all all the game is open for you from the beggining of the game 
 
  and you can just skip to the last level if you want some of you might actually like that and it 
 actually helps cause if you get stuck in some level you can just skip to the next part of the episode 
 your in , but sometimes you forget to save and shutdown your xbox and when you turn it on again 
 you go back to the beggining of the episode and you lose all the handy stuff you picked up like 
 a knief or bandages , ofcourse you can just skip to the part you were in but sometimes ( and i 
 mean most of the time ) you cant exactly remember the part you were in and you skip part of the 
 episode , and then when you start playing they show you the what happend previously ( similar to 
 the one on lost ) and you see some part you didnt play , thats really really annoying , but it 
 doesnt make the game that bad
  
  
  well thats my review hope you like it and thanks for reading it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Im sure your concerned that this game is not the one it meant to be for you to play, but don't 
 worry, if you are a big fan of alone in the dark, your going to love this game and im sure your 
 worried about the other official reviews, but most of them are untrue and left you wondered, but 
 enough with that.
  AITD is not the scariest game you ever seen, but there will be a couple of jumps here and there 
 and it will satisfy you eventually.
  
  sometimes the control will make you throw away the joystick because of the frustration that you 
 will have, but surprisingly you will soon get used to it, but you should train yourself at the 
 beginning of the game, but if you are lazy enough to skip it, then don't bother playing this game.
 
  the graphics is what this game counts, it looks really great and shiny at some points, but there 
 is alot of screen tearing and some glitches problems, but you will forgive all that, because eventually 
 it's alone in the dark and a great survival horror franchise of course and you will miss it for 
 the world.
  the gameplay is unique in it's own way and the combat does remind you a little bit like condemned, 
 and it's a good thing of course, so you can grab a pipe, bat, katana blade, chairs and many more, 
 also you can use them for puzzle solving.
  
  there is no difficulty settings, so the more you progress threw the game, the more it gets harder.
 
  i will not talk much about the storyline, because most of you know's it, i only menioned what's 
 important like, the pro and cons, so if you are a big fan of alone in the dark and like survival 
 horror games, then this is for you.
  
  
  P. S: from the beginning of the 3rd episode, the game will grow on you.
  you will see what i meant 
 by that :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the Resident Evil series and after liking Silint Hill Origins for the PSP I've been 
 tracking this game for quite some time. While watching the gameplay clips I was thinking this game 
 looks very fun and I am definitely going to get it. It's amazing how a game can look great while 
 you watch someone else play it and then when you play it yourself you feel like ripping your 360 
 out of the wall and smashing it with this game in it, and I rarely get "mad" and lose my temper 
 with a game. To start off, the controls are absolutely HORRIBLE. It totally ruins the game. Half 
 the time you press a button it does the complete opposite of what you're trying to do. For example: 
 you'll try to get into the driver's seat of a car and instead get into the back seat of the car. 
 You'll press the button to equip your gun and you'll pull a lighter out for no apparent reason 
 (all this while a hundred zombies attack you at lightning speed) . After the camera automatically 
 switches from first-person to third-person you'll try to walk straight and instead walk sideways 
 and fall off of a cliff (happened to me about 45 times within just the first 3 episodes and drove 
 me nuts.) The "A" button is run, pick an item up, etc. So if you have to run real quick because 
 a zombie jumped out of nowhere and there is an item laying on the ground next to you instead of 
 running you end up picking up the item and getting bashed to death. Same if there is a rope or 
 something nearby. The list goes ON and ON and ON. There are so many bugs and things they didn't 
 polish up in this game. Like you'll be driving and get stuck on a little rock and your car will 
 get stuck and the only way to start over is to find a cliff to jump off of or stand next to a car 
 and shoot it's gas tank to kill yourself so you can start over. If a couple of zombies corner you 
 - you can't get out or run away when you should be able to (there are gaps between plenty big enough 
 for you to run through, but it won't let you) . You're screwed and it is impossible to equip something 
 while 3 or 4 of them are bashing you. If you get half way through an episode and die you have to 
 start all the way back at the beginning and watch the unskippable cut-scenes over and over again 
 and that'll happen a lot do to you dying because of the glitches and complete crap controls. This 
 game is hard, but not because it's hard. It's hard because the controls mess you up. Also, a lot 
 of people have been saying the graphics are great and I beg to differ. There are a lot of great 
 things in this game and it could have been absolutely incredible if they would have fixed a few 
 things. I have now forced myself half way through the game and am debating whether or not to FORCE 
 myself through the rest since I paid $60 for it. I do not recommend this game. I can't believe 
 people are giving this 9.5's. God, someone shoot me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halvas
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  well the second i saw the first trailer i told myself that this game is a must buy....
  once i started playing i understood why the game got harsh reviews from the European sites.
  
 there was something about the way that the player walks and turns ever so slow....
  the controls is the only thing that ruined the game for me,
  they are awkward and hard to use.
 
  although in my opinion the graphics are great they can't cope with the fact that the controls 
 ruin the whole game if its you picking up a chair and holding it in front of you instead of whacking 
 the mad zombie that's trying to kill you or trying to take out your gun from the inventory in the 
 middle of a fight and instead ending up with roll of tape and a flash light.
  
  if you can think you can cope with the awful controls you can actually have some fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringTheBlood
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  For a game that had so much potential, they really blew it. The game could have been extremely 
 good if it weren't for the endless glitches, constant bugs and terrible 3rd person angles. Its 
 almost like they skipped the months of debugs and glitch fixes and just threw the game out into 
 stores. There was also times when i felt like i was figuring out how to work the game before they 
 even told me how to, which in my book, isn't really how its supposed to work, agreed? Don't get 
 me wrong i was impressed some what the story and graphics, but those alone aren't enough to keep 
 this game alive. I had to force myself through this game, and trust me, it was hard to do. All 
 in all, don't buy the game, its not worth your money, you'll be very disappointed but if for some 
 reason your bored and have no other games to rent to then hey what the hell, treat yourself to 
 some quality crap!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark was Atari's key to exit its downtrodden state. It had a very ambitious game that 
 included some great and intuitive ideas that would immerse any gamer. But, their final product 
 does not hold up like most excited people had hoped. I know because I was extremely excited about 
 the game including the new game mechanics using the analog sticks to control objects and combining 
 objects to create your own customized way to defend. I was also drawn in with Alone in the Dark's 
 promise for the use of fire as the main weapon against the zombie foes. However, many of these 
 mechanics lack polish and really inhibit the satisfaction that could ultimately be had if the game 
 simply played better. First, the analog stick does not respond as well as many might hope because 
 the motion is lagged from when you move the stick to the motion on screen. Also the combination 
 element sometimes can be extremely effective while the combining of other elements that seem logically 
 are not effective at all. Also the use of the inventory can inhibit play as well it can slow your 
 action as you are in battle with multiple enemies. Also sometimes the collision detection is way 
 off and many objects will just go right through your body. However, some aspects are very appealing 
 such as the music can draw you into the game. Also the graphical appearance of characters, objects, 
 and fire are well polished. Overall, if you can see past the many flaws Alone in the Dark can be 
 a fun and great if you enjoy horror. However, if you do not enjoy horror games you will not enjoy 
 this game like had been promised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvingamebeast
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When I went to pick up alone in the dark I had lots of doubts because of the reviews I have seen. 
 And all I want to say is the reviews are not true this game is as good if not better than resident 
 evil 4.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are great but some of the enviroments are a little flat.
  
  gameplay: 
 this game is not hard at all to play sure you may have to get use to eat but afther you get use 
 to it the game controls great. And I have to say this the character does not shoot off as soon 
 as you tilt the analog he moves exactly like leon in Resident evil 4.
  
  Enjoyability (not sure if it is a word but oh well) : I really enjoyed this game and I am going to 
 play it again in the future. It is everything you want in a horror game and more I mean come on 
 this game has cars, free roam, and lets not forget the mixing of items.
  
  Alright this is not bomberman, vampire rain, or any crappy game that deserves 4. This game is top 
 notch and it blew me away. I really was expected to be disappointed from this game but it is very 
 fun. 
  
  This game does not deserve 6, 7 , or an 8.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Azeus
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  To say that Alone in the Dark is ambitious would not be an understatement and cannot be even said 
 in any way better. In as much as i would like to be very objective about this i must add that i'm 
 among the fans of the series and enjoyed much of the previous episodes even though originality 
 was rare in those. The new Alone in the dark brings puzzle creativity back and along with it protagonist 
 Edward Carnby, evil foes and an intriguing story line. Unfortunately how this pieces combine to 
 create the ultimate game experience are far from exciting. At first it promises then as you play 
 30mins into the game the experience begins to fail and become more frustrating the biggest factor 
 being the control scheme. You find out that not only are you struggling to survive the horror of 
 evil but also struggling to survive the horror of control with various actions requiring several 
 buttons and sometimes sequences before before execution the most frustrating parts that give rise 
 to trial-and-error gameplay are the driving sequences which are just mediocre and hopeless. lighting 
 up bad guys is fun in everyway when executed but it is easier said than done especially when you 
 are faced with multiple foes. using guns is not very popular so don't hope to use a gun all the 
 time. With faulty control scheme comes clipping and inconsistent graphics. The game features some 
 very realistic background and character models at times and other times it looks flat and poorly 
 developed. you'll experience clipping, pop-ups and transparent objects that shouldn't be. the sound 
 in alone in the dark is very suitable for the theme and ambience and works well. 
  If you must play Alone in the dark which is recommended for fans of the series then renting the 
 game to play would be recommended atleast before you decide to get your copy just to give you a 
 sense of what the new episode feels like otherwise buy at your own risk and trust me it's not really 
 worth it..
  In the end Alone in the dark leaves you a completely disappointed gameplay experience that leaves 
 much to be desired and keeps you wondering what the Eden and Atari had invested so much time and 
 money doing with this piece of failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is a sweet new game to the franchise, it has some interesting features, such 
 as its trying to make itself like a television series, which is a neat feature, as well if your 
 stuck, you can just skip a scene, or, the entire episode.
  
  the combinding Items is really cool, because you can combind things like bullets with explosive 
 gas, I don't know how it makes explosive bullets, it just does.
  
  the physics are pretty good, but some objects glitch into something.
  
  the only flaws are 
 some glitches and the camera.
  
  all in all, this game is worth a rental.
  
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Linik 0007 review I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Far_cry-sniper5
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I havnt seen this game since 1998 and since the company that originally had it left it and now 
 atari took it, what the hell atari should stick to **** arcade games not ruining classics that 
 gamers have been waiting for for 10 **** years. some of the graphics i admit are good but then 
 you look at the game play you see right through the god damn graphics and see its a peice of ****
 
  , the driving in the game was **** come on atari when some one is driving towards you head on 
 collision you usually move but no they smash right in to you and your **** from the start. *and 
 im talking about "episode 2 , 59th street". some of the battling is good the story is good but 
 still atari has no right making this game suck for the rest of us.
  
  when people look at this game youd think that it will be good but no it was just terrible for me 
 and a bunch of other gamers you have lived off of survival horror. 
  
  and if any of you liked my review then please send me a message 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the dark is so strange from the basic design to the actual game it's rather hard to choose 
 where to begin. The best place probably would be the start of the game, the main menu. Alone in 
 the Dark doesn't play like a normal game even to start off, not only can you choose to start a 
 new game but you can also do episode selection. From the second you buy the game you can start 
 the final chapter. This idea is both confusing and rather upsetting, having to do no work to see 
 the end is rather cheap. As well though the games segmented form adds strange intermissions to 
 every chapter, when you beat every section the game ends, literally. The game goes to a basic splash 
 screen that you'll see after every section that asks if you want to save and then will give you 
 the option to continue or quit. The game doesn't just continue moving along like any other normal 
 game it actually treats every section of the game as a completely separate story. Besides the bizarre 
 format that the game is presented in though there are plenty of other things to keep you scratching 
 your head, for instance
  Graphics  The game doesn't lack in the graphics department. A game called alone in the dark does 
 well with its lighting and fire looks beautiful. The graphics style is very much like that of The 
 Darkness. Characters look good and the city of New York looks amazing from high areas. Visually 
 there is nothing which could be considered hard on the eyes. Bloom and light streaking is great 
 but can become bothersome in small tight areas where you find yourself being hit in the face and 
 blinded. Of course if you find yourself in a place where the world around you isn't going to hell 
 you'll probably want to take the time in certain places to look around and just take in the sight 
 of sunlight cascading through cracks in the wall while the flames glitter in the darker corners 
 of the room. 
  Story  The story is rather confusing especially if you're a fan of the alone in the dark series. 
 Mainly because you're thrust straight into the story as things take place, instead of working up 
 to the moment of out break you start off right in the out breaks beginning. This means you have 
 no idea what's going on or why, instead of starting off before the problem and being given some 
 story to explain things you just start off blind sided. This would be fine as a learn as you go 
 idea if the main character came off as having a I. Q above a soap dish, his single line retorts 
 and over all dialogue feels like he's supposed to be some super action star but in reality he should 
 be like a silent hill main, smart and resourceful with a cool head. From a players perspective 
 you really don't feel part of the story more like an observer. Of course this isn't the fact since 
 you do get to play but the presentation does well to make you feel left out of the story, like 
 you're just being pulled a long for the ride. This is only worsened by the horrid voice acting, 
 this game in many ways resembles the old resident evil games and this is most apparent in the shoddy 
 non-sense dialogue. While most games of the survival horror genre are getting better with time, 
 Alone in the Dark falls far behind in the story telling department. The main character (you) has 
 some of the worst dialogue I've heard in a long time, basic one liners and zero emotional response 
 from everything that's said to him. The character interaction is bland, dry and poor usually with 
 survivor horror games I find myself glued to cut scenes, but the side character girl you meet has 
 almost as poor dialogue as your character does. Most often acting tough and saying tough things 
 in a situation, while this could be perceived as a human response the same monotone voice acting 
 all the character have just feels like poor voice acting, not a on purpose action to portray the 
 human response in this kind of situation. 
  Controls  While there are many mixed reviews and opinions on Alone in the Dark one thing is for 
 sure, the controls are clunky. The controls / camera angles are an obvious throw back to the old 
 silent hill and resident evil days. An old school gamer myself, this made me squeal with joy at 
 first, until I came to realize it was done without any of the gusto of previously stated titles. 
 The ability to switch between 1st person and 3rd person view isn't a new idea in gaming history 
 but is a nice touch, overall though it feels that it would have been better if the developers had 
 only done one view mode and put all their work into that. Camera angles in 3rd person view are 
 usually out of place and restrict your view as is the problem with 3rd person view usually in these 
 games. 1st person view works wonderfully and helps you feel more immersed and a part of the world 
 but whenever you pick up an item or such the game automatically puts the its self into 3rd person 
 perspective which makes controls lag slightly and disorients you some as well. Mechanics also work 
 poorly, at the first real puzzle where you must raise a fire extinguisher up to another floor I 
 had a problem where the fire extinguisher got caught between the wall and the lift pad. The issue 
 being while the pad is up your character is locked in place, with the extinguisher stuck in place 
 I had to restart the area entirely since the pad got locked in the up position. The issue here 
 says to me the section system that they put in place was due to so many mechanical issues they 
 made it so you can just skip the part all together. Instead of fixing all the bugs they had the 
 low budget didn't permit them to do this so they just installed a system that lets you skip entire 
 areas so if you find yourself too aggravated by a certain bug you can just skip it all together. 
 The famous Advent Rising comes to mind in this instance, would it have done better if people could 
 have just skipped parts of the game they found annoying?
  The Overall  Unless you are a serious fan of Alone in the Dark or just a major fan of survival 
 horror both new and old school avoid this one, you don't even need to try it. Poor voice acting 
 and a broken over all status makes this game feel more like an unfinished rushed product. As time 
 passes Atari is going down in flames, this product truly feels under funded and under developed. 
 In spite of its short comings, shoddy dialogue and poor mechanics, there are plenty of moments 
 where you'll be amazed at the quality. Most notable is in the first chapter where while you hang 
 on the ledge of a building while it burns and falls apart, the pieces of debris fall and crash 
 along the sides of the building while you hang upon it. Also hot wiring a car is fun while frustrating 
 since you have a time limit. As well the most public piece of the game, the part shown in most 
 of the ads for the game, where you drive through new york city streets while it erodes from underneath 
 you is quite fun. The issue is this, clunky slow controls combined with poor camera angles means 
 you end up dying a lot. Before the intro of the game where the title comes on screen I ended up 
 dying three times, being trapped in a room while it collapses is fine but with no idea of where 
 to go and poor timing mechanics If you stay in the room for longer than a few seconds you get 
 stuck permanently and die regardless, you must take a step or two in just to trigger the sequence 
 and then quickly walk back into the other half of the room. As well the 'chase' scene where you 
 drive through new york city streets is great fun but you'll often find yourself dying without reason 
 as you went the wrong way without knowing it, purpose being two things, pathways are not clearly 
 marked and if you're really hauling through the city you end up out running the course changes 
 and go the wrong way either way. Fact is if this game was made by either Capcom or Majesco this 
 would be a master piece, but with Atari's falling budget and quality due to them going under the 
 final product if you really want to call it 'final' leaves a lot to be wanted. The sad thing is 
 that the people who actually made this (not Atari) had a great idea and despite poor support from 
 publisher Atari did a great job for what they had. Even with it's many mechanical errors and tank 
 like controls it's a blast when you get a chance to play without dying. Final thought though, the 
 chapter selection is absolutely a horrid idea. They liked it so much it's even a highlight on the 
 back of the case, it instantly though made me feel like I was wasting my time. If I can just fast 
 forward to the end why bother to begin? Also the idea of any game in my mind is to hit road blocks 
 and over come them. What if in Ninja gaiden you could fast forward past bosses you didn't like? 
 Then where is the challenge if you can just skip what you don't like? The point of any game is 
 to meet a challenge and over come it, the scene select system as they call it really seems to mock 
 the gamer tradition of overcoming obstacles.
  
  Final Note - While I know it seems I was only bashing this game the fact is this, its worth a try 
 in my book but i can see that most will not like it. If your a old school gamer from the PS1 days 
 and loved Resident Evil 1 and 2 and Silent Hill you should give this a play. It's old school in 
 everyway except graphics. The controls and even the way things move is very classic to the start 
 of the genre. The biggest thing for me though other than the mechanics is that the game feels like 
 it wans to be both resident evil and condemned at the same time, but fails to doe either very well 
 at all. As always i think any game that interests you should be a try before you buy game, but 
 i can honestly say unless your a fan of Alone in the Dark or survival horror in general you can 
 skip this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBurnTheFleet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The survival horror genre is one that very few games are able to master. Even when a game looks 
 good on paper, something always seems to go wrong. In this case, there were a list of things that 
 "went wrong". Possible the most annoying thing is the camera controls. In an effort to be more 
 like a movie, the game controls the camera for you, putting it in whatever position is most exciting, 
 even if this means that you can't see what's going on. Sometimes it pays off, but rarely. Another 
 big issue is the pace of the game. Obviously there's nothing wrong with a fast-paced game, but 
 there is something wrong with a fast-paced game where you can't move fast. On multiple occasions 
 I've been creeping (well not so much creeping and walking slowly and obviously) through a dark 
 hallway when something attacks me. So what would you normally expect to do in a situation like 
 that? You reach for the nearest weapon of course. Even doing that is an issue though, because instead 
 of just looking around for a stick or some chunk of metal and grabbing it, you have to look for 
 the one or two potential weapons in a room full of debris that you can't pick up. Then once you 
 find a good object, it can take you five to ten tries to actually pick it up as you take a step 
 to the left, and a step to the right trying to get it. All this your doing as some demon is slowly 
 killing you. There are plenty of other issues, but basically, the game is just "off". Nothing handles 
 quite right and it's disappointing because this game had such great potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakor
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be great. Watching all the videos that were released, and reading the 
 occasional bit on the web, I didn't consider this game could possibly fail. I was wrong.
  
  This is one of the biggest failures I can remember from my own personal gaming history. I played 
 the original when I was a kid, and I remember it quite well, but I am not basing my opinions of 
 this game on it's elder incarnation. This game tries far too hard to be a game that is like a TV 
 show. What you end up with is a TV show that you wish wasn't a game.
  
  The game has a lot of really interesting options that it provides you with as you go throughout 
 the story, but it fails miserably in execution. Sure you can combine items, but you can carry so 
 few of them you rarely ever will. Trying to fight one of the human (oid) enemies can prove extremely 
 annoying since he has no unarmed skills and must have a weapon of some kind to fight. If you happen 
 to be lucky enough to find a weapon that doesnt' break in one or two hits that's great, but often 
 you will find a chair or something similairily fragile to fight with.
  
  Fighting itself is often very irritating. Small enemies like bats or crawling things generally 
 have to be taken down with your handgun which of course uses up your bullets. When you get attacked 
 by a human (oid) enemy you will find your bullets highly ineffective. You are generally far better 
 off to go and find something to smack your enemy with and hope you can find something sturdy.
 
  
  Moving around feels tedious and unnecessarily awkward. I know they wanted to implement a fighting 
 system that uses the right analog stick to make it somewhat realistic, but it turns out making 
 moving and looking around far more difficult than it should be. Moving in first person doesn't 
 really rectify this as it has it's own problems. Moving in first person you also notice that even 
 at highest settings, you can't look fast enough to make it an effective alternative.
  
  My largest annoyance about this game is the fact that there are no well placed checkpoints in this 
 game. When you die you are forced to repeat the entire section that you are on, which often is 
 a considerable amount of game play. This would be easily rectified by the proper implementation 
 of checkpoints, but it isn't. The game features the ability to skip parts that you don't want to 
 play using an interface somewhat like a video player on a computer or video device. That's a good 
 idea except somehow they forgot to give you the ability to skip cut scenes. Why would I want to 
 watch the same cut scene 40 times before I finally manage to figure out what silliness you want 
 me to accomplish in order to move onto the next scene?
  
  To summarize, this game is a huge disappointment to me. I didn't have my hopes up greatly for this 
 game, but I did think that it would be quite a good game. This actually makes it all the more terrible 
 that the game ended up being as bad as it is. If you hate repeating things like I do, stay very 
 far away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyrazzle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I am a HUGE survival Horror Fan, and this is one of the biggest let downs of the Summer. I was 
 very skeptical about this game from day one... However being a fan of the series and and the Genre 
 I wanted desperately for A long enjoyable game to play this summer. This game which I bought and 
 later that day exchanged was a complete Failure. In short It's embarassing for ANY game company 
 to release such a flawed game both visualy with second rate graphics, horrible voice acting, TANK-LIKE 
 CONTROL which is probally the biggest woe of the game... It's just dissapointing to me to hype up 
 a game, accutually have a good concept and then go ahead and completely blow it... GameSpot you 
 guys were generous giving it the rating it got, because this game flat out blows !!!!!!!!
  
  Everyone do yourselves a favor save your money and you will thank me later, hey theres always 
 blockbuster !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timu080
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the major disappointments of the summer 
  so much hype for a mediocre game
  The central park atmosphere the publishers promised, I felt nothing.
  I also think that a game 
 that focusing on horror should have a proper sound
  Like the sound in Bioshock (the best horror game I ever played)
  The AI was good but not as good 
 as other game in this genre
  I liked the fact that the environment is breakable 
  But in the end the game can't reach the high bar of expectations he raised.
  The game is not 
 completely bad, the story is quite original And there are some parts when you jump out of your 
 seat
  (like the driving in the city were every building could collapse)
  The conclusion is that is a good game but a major disappointment
  And I hope the developers will 
 learn from there mistakes
  And finally give us a AID experience we want forget 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachdreamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  I just played through this game and I think its great. The graphics are on par with next gen for 
 sure, the story is compelling, its definitely challenging as you can see a lot of people posting 
 on here for help, and the fire is a next step for gaming altogether. Most people are having trouble 
 with the controls, I for one, have enjoyed the controls, made things seem more realistic and also 
 added another depth to the challenge even though the controls are pretty simple once you get them 
 down. Giving you the ability to use the right axis to control your attacks opened up a lot of new 
 things for the survival horror genre. Everyone has their opinion and I respect that but I think 
 this is a great game. Don't believe all the negative publicity, give it a shot, might be the best 
 survival horror game yet. All in all, i can definitely say this game is worth the 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjeragnarok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has the all around central gameplay that everyone loves. There is a great story to follow 
 while leaving you asking questions. The DVD menu chapter selection makes it easy for everyone to 
 reach the ending as well as keep up to date on what they have accomplished with the episode previews. 
 as people have said before it becomes an annoyance to kill enemies with fire, while i see that 
 as one of the plus sides to the game. It adds to the "scary" factor, while being chased and realizing 
 that your pistol becomes useless, you have to use makeshift weapons to neutralize your enemies. 
 If it weren't for the minor bugs and clunky movements, this game would have definatly recieved 
 a 10/10 for its driving scenes, amazing puzzles, and insane platforming. The gameplay itself is 
 easy with the autosaving every couple steps, so there is no replaying of annoying parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosgamer76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I just bought Alone In The Dark after putting it on reserve. My friend and I were pumped, we watched 
 just about every trailer/gameplay footage we could find on the game before hand and now here we 
 were at Gamestop getting our **** shirts with the new game in our hands. The second I popped that 
 game into my 360, I wanted to make love to the damn menu screen.
  The creator's of this game did a fantastic job with everything within it. While it does have it's 
 minor issues (game glitches, but i've only seen two and they really weren't anything so bad as 
 to ruin my gaming experience) . Let's take into consideration the graphics first, which right from 
 the opening sequence look beautifully crafted and equally as good as those games running under 
 the Unreal Engine (the fire I honestly thought was real fire) .
  The level of awesomness within this game is just... well... awesome. By awesomness I mean how much 
 the game puts you on the edge. Right smack in the beginning of the game you are thrown into a level 
 of chaos where you have no idea what the hell is going on, **** is being tossed at you and blowing 
 up all around you, you just want to continue playing until you figure out what exactly is going 
 on in the freakin' game.
  Now, let's get to the controls that everyone seems to be **** about. What's wrong with the controls 
 you ask? Well, if your a gamer who could actually play the original Resident Evils and Alone in 
 the Dark: The New Nightmare, absolutely nothing and that's only the movement that's like those 
 games, aside from that, the first person plays just like your typical first person and your standard 
 melee fighting plays unlike anything I've actually played before. The ability to use the right 
 analog to control your movement with your hands allows for more freedom to do things and there's 
 no other game I have seen that does that yet.
  Overall, Alone in the Dark is a phenominal game and I really don't understand half you people who 
 gave it such a poor rating. Sure there are some minor issues with the movement controls and some 
 glitches, but also take into consideration that this is the first Alone in the Dark game that's 
 been out for quite some time and there hasn't actually been a REAL survivor horror game in awhile 
 either. I truely believe they did a fantastic job transfering this into the next generation consoles 
 and it's totally worth the play. The people that rated it so ****ty probably just rated it that 
 poor because it's actually a relatively difficult game to play instead of something you can prance 
 right through like Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftAutor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark. It is perhaps the best survival horror game I have ever played. In fact, its 
 the only one that truly makes you have to survive. When you are hurt, you must bandage yourself 
 before you bleed out. It shows your cuts, gashes, burns, and scars. It also tears through the clothes 
 the character wears. Although Edward Carnby has no idea who he is or what is happening, you have 
 to admire his audacity and his Max Payne-esque voice. His hair and clothes move as he runs through 
 a terrifyingly huge recreation of Central Park. The vehicle driving sequences are amazingly fun 
 and action packed with stunts, slow motion and intense fights and chases. The environment is fully 
 interactive, you can turn on the car radio, check for car keys in the visor, turn on and off the 
 lights, open the glove box, you even have to put the key in the ignition or hotwire the car. The 
 world can also be destroyed, you can bash open doors with heavy trashcans and fire estinguishers, 
 and even burn parts of the environment and use that to light the area and defeat enemies. Cabinets 
 and drawers can be opened and they often contain supplies you may find useless alone. But when 
 you combine mosquito spray with a lighter... well... you'll see.
  The soundtrack is frightening and the voice acting is fairly well done. The graphics are amazing 
 but at some points seem flawed and show that this truly is a ported game. Which means it looks 
 slightly better on the xbox 360 and PC than the ps2 and wii. Which if it stayed on consoles of 
 high power, amazing graphics would not be sacrificed for somebody to wave around their wii remote.
 
  Also, Edward's leather jacket houses all the items he can't carry at all times in his hands, gun 
 and flashlight holsters, and places to hold ammo and items. This is realism to the next level. 
 He is no Max Payne who can hold 40 guns in his jacket, you must think which items you will use 
 and drop what you hope you can find later. That is something you would encounter in real life.
 
  The story is very unique and this is truly a groundbreaking game. Survival horror, but in an open 
 sandbox of a huge recreation of central park.
  The game has a little "last time on Alone in the Dark" feature to catch you up on what you've played 
 and clue your friends in on what game you've been talking about all week.
  This game eliminates the problems of most horror games, bad camera, unused items, unrealistic gameplay, 
 and lack of fear.
  Alone in the Dark has a 3rd and 1st person view to let you see where to go and experience the terror 
 from whichever angle suits you best. Even while driving.
  I believe this game is very underrated, that more reviewers should play the game enough to where 
 they know what they are talking about. Also look at the game from a realistic and optimistic point 
 of view. Every videogame contributes in its own way to the future of videogames.
  So I urge gamers to give this game a try, and see what the next level of gaming is. Realism. Purely 
 immersive gameplay. You are Edward Carnby. How long can you stay Alone in the Dark? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael39238
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Its not very often that a game tries to do something new and actually succeeds at it. Alone in 
 the Dark is not your typical game, and is far less focused on repetitive action that it is on creative 
 problem solving - with a gun, fire, chairs, shovels, wires, explosives, batteries, tape, you name 
 it.
  
  Where Alone in the Dark misses the mark are areas which are somewhat tried and true in other games, 
 so someone just popping the game in for a short spin might get a little bit of the wrong idea. 
 You need to get a little feel for the controls and the camera useage, the new way of dealing with 
 inventory, as well as the way that your jumping and manipulation of objects work.
  
  However, with something as clever as this title its just inappropriate to mark demerits for some 
 less than perfect execution on technicals. If this were Alone in the Dark II, I could understand 
 that. But this title is a first and its definitely worth picking up. You'll enjoy it no matter 
 what kind of games you like, because it forces you to think about your environment, items, etc, 
 in a far more realistic way, to the point where the places in the game have much more phsyical, 
 gritty feel to them than your typical game. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionary1200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game is very unique. There are great graphics. The controls are not solid 
 feeling. I think developers should make that their top priority, don't you? Anyways... the game 
 is very unforgiving and will crash your system a couple of times... the save system sucks. There 
 are really cool concepts is the game such as the horror concept, the story flows very nicely, and 
 there's lots of gore. I think the game prefers you to play in third person most of the time and 
 you change into first person when you need to. It just feels like the game wants to make you angry.... 
 I was really looking forward to this game... : ( Usually I tell people to avoid atari games because 
 they don't care about gameplay.... And look at me I didn't follow my own advice! That driving scene 
 where you race to central park. . . . Man! Head scratcher! Its another game thats better as a story 
 than a game. It just seems that they should have waited another year or something? They have everything 
 into place but it needs a lot of tightening up and bug removal. They probably ran out of time. 
 Sad. . . Truly Sad! I'll give this game a better score because its so rich with content and cool 
 animations, but as for gameplay . . . There are some serious problems! I usually put gameplay first, 
 but i'm evaluating its overall value.
  
  I dont like difficulty option because i dont think it accurately portrays the real difficulty of 
 the game. Its difficult because of messed up gameplay and easy killing enemies. So I'm going to 
 say hard because this game really pissed me off with its nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowen747x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  THINK classic Resident Evil meets Assassins Creed (kinda) and a little bit of that Tremor movie (minus 
 the snakes) but if youve seen it, think earthquakes.
  
  this game is not ment to be the BEST game youll ever play... but i do believe it is a LANDMARK 
 in VISUAL CONCEPTS!!! the cinematic ACTION that is seen DURING gameplay really is mind blowing. 
 could this game have been better? ABSOLUTELY... better lighting would help a LOT and certainly 
 better controls. but this game is absolutely NOT glitchy. in fact, i have seen NO visual glitches 
 and have seen my car get "stuck" only twice. the car controls just fine (not as good as gta but 
 cmon... this isnt GTA) which doesnt deserve its 10 IMO 
  
  i truely feel the work put in to this game is untraditionally high, the ammount of triggers (if 
 you know a little about programming) is just gotta be higher then any other game ive played... 
 especially during the driving sequences :D if your somebody who is tired of the standard RUN&GUN 
 then this is the game for U!
  
  for what this game promises, it pulls it off. amazingly detailed scenery makes for dramatic events 
 with AMAZING explosions. the walls break, burn and fall apart with great detail leaving you in 
 awe as nightmares dont seem so real, for todays technology anyway. the one thing i am uncertain 
 of however, is the 60$ price tag. either rent it or if you wait for its price to drop, you will 
 enjoy this game more. enjoy it alone, and enjoy it in the dark. :) 
  
  HIGHLY UNDERAPPRECIATED BY CRITICS except in the UK... and this will CHANGE the way new gaming 
 programmers look at their enviroments/actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Articfox6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Note: This review was conducted while still in the process of completing the game.
  
  
  Alone in the dark deserves way better tha those Sh**y A** scores everyone gives it. This game is 
 way better than alvin and the chipmunks or the incredible hulk. Some give it a 4 or a 2 or 3. Whats 
 with that? Are you just frusterated cause you cant complete the first mission or something? New 
 games are usually hard to get used to but I found Alone in the dark to be easy to get a hang of 
 the controls. Rent it if you must, but buying it wont kill you either. I thoroughly enjoyed this 
 game. How you have to think of ways to get by. Not super challenging but not crazy easy either. 
 I wish it had more complex puzzles but overall sitll fun. I give it an 8.4 but rounded up to an 
 8.5. Solid but could use a little more something... I always encourage co-op but not sure. Replayability 
 isnt too great unless its been a while since you have played it. 
  
  Sometimes you feel as if you cant hold many objects like situations where you need medical spray, 
 bug spray, glass bottle, plastic bottle, but ran out of room for something else. Same with other 
 side of your jacket. The story has many twists but nothing too drastic. The camera angles arent 
 the best but I havent made any mistakes because of it. Driving vehicles is fun but can be frustrating 
 because you run into a tree or pole or even a hill you cant get over but still, provides fun and 
 enjoyment. 
  
  
  Alone in the Dark has nice graphics in some areas but slacking in others. It can get annoying sometimes 
 when you cant find anything to fught with because you used it all up. Alone in the dark has a nice 
 feature which lets you choose where to start a mission at. It resembles a DVD in which.
  
  
  Overall Alone in the dark isnt for everyone (but which game is?) but offers a nice new look 
 at creativity and doesnt have any load screens except for the cinematics which were quite interesting 
 to me. I think this game isnt given enough credit but that is simply my opinion. This game deserves 
 a 7 - 8.5 as a score. Anything less is exaggerating because I played S***y games like cat in the 
 hat and many others (A memory burned in my skull for eternity.) and this game doesnt deserve to 
 be looked at and spit on just cause you read someones review and they said this game sucks because 
 I cant do anything cause I droped out of school and live in my moms basement and eat hot pockets 
 all day long and sit in the computer and say games that arent Call of duty or Halo suck. 
  
  
  It froze up on me after I got a fair ways through but because I enjoyed playing, I didnt 
 mind. Once you play and figure out a way to get by, you can go back and try experimenting with 
 other things. 
  
  One word of Advice- Fire is the best weapon in the game. Kills all the hostiles. End of story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Log1ck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  This could probably be the best survival-horror game ever made, unfortunately the game falters 
 from numerous glitches and bugs to make this game less enjoyable. The blink system is pretty innoative 
 as well as combining everyday objects into things to ensure your survival. The concept of using 
 anything as a weapon is cool, but the melee combat system feels akward and cumbersome. You can 
 drive cars and run people over, but obviously the experiance is not as fun as GTA 4. When I was 
 playing this game, I encountered numerous glitches. They range from when I was driving, I suddenly 
 died, to the game freezing on me entirely. This game has aot of potential but flawed in numerous 
 areas, keeping me from rating this game any higher. If there are patches to fix these problems 
 in the near future, I will gladly give this game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassboy9764
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Alone In The Dark is unrivaled with its environmental interactions. It has been done before, but 
 not game has truly mastered the art of using the environment quite like Alone In The Dark Has. 
 You can use virtually anything as a weapon and there will be countless times that your life was 
 saved by something as simple as a pipe or railing. The game's use of fire truly is revolutionary. 
 Sometimes it gets frustrating since the only way to really kill the enemies is with fire, but using 
 the fire is still so much fun. Anything that looks like it can burn, most likely will burn. Another 
 great innovation of this game is the ability to make your own weapons out of common items that 
 you find all over the city. You have a pistol, but this isn't the type of game that you can just 
 run through with guns blazing. Few things are cooler than crafting a deadly bomb out of a bottle 
 of gas, then throwing it and shooting it to watch it blow up in your enemies face. The graphics 
 in this game are also amazing, the lighting effects are not only beautiful, but the light itself 
 is an integrated part of the game play. There will be some puzzles in the game that require use 
 of light to pass. Which brings me to my next point, the puzzles in this game are top notch. Some 
 are small, some are big but they are all unique and memorable in their own way, and they ALL force 
 you to think. 
  
  Unfortunately, Alone In The Dark is no perfect game. It really could have been one of the best 
 games I've ever played, but there are some flaws that should not have made it through the testing 
 phases. The game did freeze on my once, but it didn't put me back too much because there was an 
 autosave about a minute before. There were a couple of minor glitches that caused me to become 
 stuck in a few areas when I was driving, but if you are careful you should be able to avoid this 
 from happening. The most hated thing about the game however, is the controls. I'll admit, the controls 
 are what makes this game an "almost, but not quite" scenario. All of the games frustrating moments 
 are because of the controls. Running while swinging a melee weapon is difficult, especially since 
 some enemies run away from you. The controls can also over complicate things and make doing some 
 of the most basic tasks into a challenge. Despite the sloppy controls, I have played worse and 
 once you get the hang of them, that certainly are manageable. 
  
  Alone In The Dark is not for everyone, but if you are a fan of Survival-Horror games that like 
 to try some different things, then this is definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omega0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Alright, if you haven't already seen that this game has got tons of up and down reviews from a 
 3.5 to 9. I have bought the game and i'm going to be down right honest with everyone in this review 
 and say this game is great. I'm a big survival horror fan. Any third person survival horror game 
 out there I will at least try. And this was no exception.
  
  Basic Thoughts:
  I actually got what the creators were trying to do. There trying to make this the first mini sci-fi 
 tv series video game. By giving the player the experience that there actually watching a mini sci-fi 
 tv series and putting you in control of the situation. Once you get that in your mind you can't 
 help but just wow brilliant. And it literally does that. By giving the player and unexpected beginning, 
 where your thrown into a situation you know nothing about. If you think of this game as just well 
 a game then your going to ask yourself why your playing it. But you have to keep the whole mini 
 sci-fi tv series thought in your mind to actually get it and to help you wonder what happens next 
 in each episode.
  
  Graphics:
  When i saw the screen shots i was impressed. They looked detailed and realistic. But thats not 
 the case. The graphics are a little above average i would say. Doesn't have the wow factor like 
 gears of war or assassins creed. This reason for that is cause the graphics isn't consistent, just 
 alot of frame rate issues. When cut scenes go up close to hi-def resolution on the characters you 
 get that wow factor. You see very detailed skin and textures. But when you get in the game play, 
 you ask yourself what happened the detail. Some environments get very low resolution. 
  
  Gameplay / Controls:
  Ok like i said before, you have to keep in mind the whole mini sci-fi tv 
 series in your head, you will enjoy the game alot more. When situations happen you cant help to 
 think Hollywood. Beside that fact, the real world physics in the game is awesome. You actually 
 have to think the best way to get around an obstacle. In some cases theres more than one way to 
 approach it giving you that feel that your actually in that situation. The game sometimes feel 
 scripted but what game doesn't at times. The consistent going to first person perspective when 
 shooting is a huge flaw in the gameplay. Because of that, the game gets 2 different game feels, 
 from a survival horror game which is expected, to a really bad first person shooter, think Alien 
 Resurrection for the psx or if you haven't played that a really lowered down F. E. A. R. . I think 
 thats where the game falls short. The first person view part of the game just kills the overall 
 experience. The controls is what makes the game falls short also. I'm a big resident evil fan, 
 i mean huge, the whole tank control im used to it. I can see why people can be frustrated at times 
 controlling the character, it isnt bad. With amount of actions you can do in the game well the 
 actual button controls makes the games at time frustrating as well. The buttons layout is complex 
 and doesn't feel like there all linked. I'm playing the Xbox 360 version, X is to jump, if your 
 hanging on ledge you think hey X will get you back up, nope pressing up on the left analog stick 
 is, thats what i mean about controls don't feel linked. It's a survival horror game so its expected 
 to have some control problems at times, But i got used to them after a couple of hours. Now for 
 combat the Right analog stick i think works fine. At times it gets hard, think of this more like 
 Fight Night controls. Playing Fight night for the first time is ridiculous, you have no idea what 
 to do at first yet your trying to playing it like you do know, this is the same for Alone in the 
 Dark. 
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack in this game is great. Music sounds like a big budget game. The problem is that 
 they didn't execute the music properly. Your walking in a hall and the music get louder and more 
 extreme like something huge is going to happen and then nothing actually happens. If they used 
 the music properly this would be an amazing musical experience. The sounds effect i think is great, 
 didn't notice anything i hated about it. The voice acting is another story at actual cut scenes 
 the voices are great, there sync with the mouths, but when it comes to a quick in game cut scene 
 it falls short. With the scripts dialog, think of it as a rated R tv show. The dialog could be 
 better, but once again I have to say you really have to think of this game as a mini tv series.
 
  
  Final Thought:
  I think this game is great, at most times the game makes you feel like your in that moment. With 
 the innovated chapters menu makes the whole experience better. I have only used it once, not to 
 further on in the game but just to see how it worked and I think if your new to the whole survival 
 horror genre than this will help. Skipping an episode and giving you a summary what happened previously 
 gives a true tv series feel. I know I said this a bunch of times but you have to view this game 
 as a tv series to get the full enjoyment of this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow0hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up Alone in the Dark and so far have found it to be a very enjoyable game. I 
 haven't gotten all the way through yet but what I've seen so far is an amazing game. I'll list 
 pros and cons I've noticed so far...
  
  
  Pros
  -Good Graphics
  -Enemy AI can be fairly challenging
  -Light mechanics are amazing
  -Physics engine is very 
 realistic
  -The game makes you think, not just follow the obvious clues.
  -The item system is very fun
  
  
  Cons
  -Enemies can only be killed with fire (most of 
 the time)
  -Controls can be a little clunky and leave you wondering where you're going
  -Lack of guns other than a 9mm and .44 Magnum leaves you wanting more
  
  
  For the most part 
 the game's flaws are not game breaking, the game's not perfect but really what game out there is? 
 This is a definite buy, I highly recommend at least renting this game. Do not let this one pass, 
 there is NOTHING else on the market like it and it is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulexec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Alone in the dark is challenging, it will take an intelligent person about an hour to adjust to 
 the control scemes and eerie camera positioning. Think old Resident evil, but super juiced up! 
 So, if you're stupid, and you know if you are, don't buy this game. You'll just run your head in 
 the wall praying for the only control scheme your pathetic brain can absorb, Halo buttons. Don't 
 fret, I remember when controllers switched to dual analogue, about half of the gamers on the planet 
 blew their brains out trying to adjust, give yourselves a pat on the back, at least you tards made 
 it this far. They even made AITD easily advancable with their DVD type system for anybody that 
 gets stuck. Idiots who must use this system to advance will not be rewarded like my fellow geniuses 
 and I.
  
  Once you get past memorizing the control scheme you will be treated to the most realistic fire 
 physics, I can only imagine the code written to create this effect. Not enough people appreciate 
 that. You also have a weapons creator like Bioshock, except you don't have to run through five 
 corridors to build weapons and ammo, the heat's all packed in your jacket. The story is engrossing 
 and immersive, by act three 'you will' be standing inside the game. The graphics are blistering 
 hot and dark, leaving the mind to wander into the deep corners of the abyss. Driving is comparable 
 to Mass Effect, and while challenging, it gives you a tense and uneasy feeling as you try to attain 
 your goal, which is exactly what Atari is aiming for. I would have given this game a ten, but no 
 current game is a ten. Hell, I just went to the Strip club with Dwayne on GTA 4 this morning and 
 the fool was spinning in circles at the entrance for ten minutes. I had to slap the -itch and push 
 him through the door, but that's a whole different review. I also hear about dummys saying the 
 name AITD doesn't fit because there is more than one character in the game. Fools, turn the lights 
 off when you play this game, for when you play this game, it is you who are Alone In The Dark. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamer22
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Turn the lights off... turn up the sound... and prepare yourself for an amazing experience!!!! 
 ALONE IN THE DARK!!!!
  
  I am blown away so far by this game! It is amazing how even just the first few hours of the game 
 showcase the amazing cinematic brilliance that is being introduced in th game. Now THIS IS NEXT 
 GEN!
  
  Visually this game does not disapoint and the music and audio is award worthy! Extremely immersiveand 
 there so too many WOW moments to evn ount them all and this is just in the first hour of playing! 
 Who cares about some of the bugs or control problems when a game tries so hard to show you a glimpse 
 of the future and leaves you with wonderment at every corner? These guys deserve WAY more credit 
 than what they've been getting so far in reviews... speaking of????? Where is gmespot's review???
 
  
  Buy it, rent it I don't care... just PLAY THIS GAME! :P you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galeria
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is, like described by most, a very ambitious game. Truth be told, it isn't perfect, 
 but it is an amazing cinematic experience. To anyone who has recently played the game of Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 game and enjoyed how the interactive cinema fighting sequences work, then, imagine 
 the whole game, or most of it, as a large interactive cinema (although a little more freedom than 
 Indigo Prophecy) . What the game does right is get you deeply involved in the experience and make 
 you feel like you are in a movie. With the right ambience in your room, you may even forget that 
 you are playing a game and believe you are watching a movie. 
  
  Now, many people have a nuance for the control scheme. I will admit there is a learning curve to 
 it, however, if you've played the Silent Hill Games or any Resident Evil games before the RE 4, 
 then the controls should seem familiar, albeit with a little more freedom that does take a little 
 getting used to. However, once you do get use to the controls then you will find a rewarding experience 
 in how the game was put together. In fact, for those people who played Silent Hill 4, there is 
 a weapon swinging mechanic in place for the weapons of Alone in the Dark and should feel rather 
 familiar. Now, there are some driving sequences in the game where the car you are driving feels 
 a like it is sliding rather than gripping the street, however, realize that this is meant to be 
 a scare thriller, not a racing game. You wouldn't go to a seafood restaurant, order a T-Bone stake 
 and expect it to be better than the seafood plates, would you? During the driving sequences, don't 
 complain about the way the car feels (though the response in ratio to the remote and the motion 
 of the car is better than other games I've played) but rather, enjoy the things happening around 
 you while you are driving, because it is rather thrilling. About the only thing I didn't enjoy 
 is the number of unnecessary cursing the game's characters give out. An F-bomb here or there occasionally 
 is tolerable, but for most characters to find the need to mention it at least once in almost every 
 cinema is uncalled for, and that is the reason why I give it the score that I have. I sure hope 
 that this game encourages other game companies to use the physics engine to similar capacities 
 and realize that within a game, real life things (such as shooting a door knob out to open a door) 
 can be applied with today's technology. Personally, I give it a 9 but it will probably receive 
 a 7 or 8 by Gamespot. Judge for yourself and enjoy the thrill of the summer action/thriller game 
 that Alone in the Dark is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fozzy360
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  I, for one, have been looking forward to AITD for a while now, but the some of the reviews that 
 have surfaced left me a bit worried, I picked up the game anyways, and I can honestly say I am 
 more than satisfied with the game. For one, the story is interesting bordering on compelling. It 
 may seem like a typical good-vs-evil yarn, but the presentation and TV serial-like aspect makes 
 the game far more interesting than some of the games that have come out recently. The voice work 
 is cheesy at times, but it gets the job done and pushes the story along nicely. Plus, the graphics 
 are good-looking for the most part, but there are some hiccups which turn to be noticeable annoyances.
 
  
  The gameplay is what is going to polarize most. For my part, the controls take some getting used, 
 since the game revolves around improvising weapons on the fly while trying to dodge some nasty 
 looking baddies. Veterans of Silent Hill, Resident Evil, or any old-school survival horror might 
 feel at home with the frequent fixed camera angles and tank-like movements. I am no such veteran, 
 but the controls weren't overly complicated and I was moving around like a pro in no time. There's 
 also a first person view, which I find the better than the third person, but it's not totally smooth 
 and can chug along at times. However, the ability to create your own weapons like sticky bombs, 
 mini-flamethrowers, Molotov cocktails, or improvise with existing weapons like pouring alcohol 
 on bullets to make flaming bullets or piercing a car's gas tank and using it as large bomb makes 
 the game stand apart from other games in the same genre. Not only that, but the crazy bossfights 
 and option to approach any situation whatever way you want makes it that much more appealing. Plus, 
 players can swing melee weapons about by using the right analog stick. You would move the stick 
 in the direction you want to swing, chop, or ram. It's different and takes some getting used to, 
 but the outcome is satisfying and spices up the combat a bit more. 
  
  In conclusion, improvising with weapons, pretty graphics, amazing (and I do mean amazing) score, 
 TV show-like presentation, interesting story, and (dare I say) innovative melee combat make up 
 the good parts of the game. Unfortunately, the difficulty, somewhat frustrating camera, finnicky 
 car controls and minor bugs keep the game from becoming great. Still, AITD is a very enjoyable 
 experience if you give it a chance. Here's hoping that Eden can continue the story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigorsnake
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  i dont like "alone in the dark" at all. way too hard to control, voice acting isnt that wow, the 
 graphics arnt that great and talk about button lagg. i started the game as soon as i got it. the 
 whole blinking thing at the start got on my nerves, controlling the dude is harder than opening 
 a can of soup. graphics wise, the first chick you meet in the game has weird looking legs and her 
 face is so blockky looking. ohh the intro was the worst intro i've ever seen. its fun to figure 
 out what to do but having a hard time doing it does not make a game fun at all. over all "alone 
 in the dark" should have been reviewed more by the makers. the makers spent too much time and too 
 much money in making a dead game. this game would have done a lot better if they focused more on 
 the control and glitches rather then the physics of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamianTV
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  This game plays a lot like a movie, but trying to do that gave it some really lousy controls. Thing 
 is that if its supposed to be a survival horror game and play like a classic survival horror game, 
 the action should match the controls. Fortunately there isnt an overload of action, which kept 
 my score from going lower but the game has a lot of faults. Theres a lot of bugs that needed to 
 be fixed before they released it. Such as having to restart a level because another character gets 
 stuck on top of you. Or slamming head first into invisible unmovable objects in the driving stage. 
 The combat is more annoying than anything. 
  
  The enemies arent too difficult, but it doesnt leave you with a sense of accomplishment when you 
 finally kill them. You feel like if you ever had to do it again you would end up playing something 
 else. The melee weapons are absolutely worthless. Easiest thing to do is to just shoot them until 
 they fall and drag their bodies to a fire as not to waste burnable items. Hence it feels more like 
 an action shooter with bad survival horror controls. Playing in 3rd person when in combat is just 
 asking for big bad to come rip out your spine. Now its not that the enemies are impossible, they 
 attack too frequently for survival horror and not enough for an action shooter. I died more times 
 trying to manage my inventory than from actual combat related deaths.
  
  The audio and voice acting is sub par, but acceptable. The vocalized chorus style music was more 
 annoying than it was and should have been replaced with something else. Non vocalized music was 
 pretty good. Its like going to church and trying to play Silent Hill Origins on your PSP while 
 the out of tune vienna choir boys praise something that youre really trying to not pay any attention 
 to. You just wanna turn it off and play your game in peace. It just didnt set the mood for the 
 atmosphere they were trying to go for.
  
  The graphics at this time are great, when they are not glitching out. It feels very cinematic, 
 and although its a strength, its also a weakness. Having a cinematic camera style that prevents 
 you from being able to see what you are supposed to do is frustrating.
  
  Frustrating is how I feel about having played this game. Frustrating controls, frustrating inventory 
 management, frustrating melee combat mechanic, frustrating puzzles, frustrating bugs, etc. The 
 thing that I think most developers really miss the mark on when trying to make games is that the 
 game is supposed to be fun. For a survival horror the fun should come from being scared, like watching 
 a good scarry movie. When you die in a comic game you should be able to laugh at the ridiculus 
 way your character bites the dust. Dying should be as much fun as the rest of the game. And for 
 the number of times that I've died in places that you just shouldnt die, it replaces the fun with 
 frustration.
  
  This game was very ambitious. Over ambitious and under achieved.
  
  RENT BEFORE YOU BUY THIS GAME, EVEN IF YOU ENJOY SURVIVAL HORROR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanJodyz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Alone In The Dark game is a horror first person shoter and puzzle all in one. What can i say the 
 game feels like a movie the way random and dramatic cinematics come to play at just the right time. 
 This game is not just a im going to shoot you and ask questions later this game requires more brain 
 then headshots. The way you can minipulate objects is amazing opening a variety of ways to kill 
 your opponet and makes the story more dramatic. This also opens a variety of choices you have first 
 aid spray you can chosse to heal your self or take down a zombie by using the lighter and spray 
 combination and burn that zombie where he stands. The puzzle in the game are exiciting you can 
 be climbing a building and all of the sudden a car explosion occurs causing a car to fly at you 
 while you are barely holding on to the side of a 30 store building. The combat is not hard but can 
 be hard for the none experienced gamers. The item menu for you to put items in your hand is cool 
 but hard you chose and item by moving the LS onto the item of choice and pressing A. not to complicated 
 right. wrong the slightest move and it will automaticly skip to the next item. you could very well 
 find yourself holding a first aid instead of the bottle of gasoline that you wanted. The item menu 
 is hard but give it 30 minutes or so and you will get the hang of it . Story is appealing and interesting 
 the gameplay even more so this game has truly been all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volvoshine
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  AITD is one of those games that makes you Sacred, Happy and Mad at the same time. At more than 
 one time during the course of the game I felt like throwing my Xbox 360 controller out the window. 
 Other Times I held on to it for dear life as I battled for my... (Edward Carnby's) life. During 
 some parts I was on the edge of my seat as Edward pulled together 80 years of lost memories.
  
  Game Design:
  During the course of the game I swung violently from love to hate and then 
 back again on the topic of game design. ATID graphics are in a word Stunning, Eden game's has created 
 one of the most authentic feeling Central Park I can think of in recent gaming history. Most of 
 the game takes place In, Under and Over Central Park. The very early part of the game takes place 
 just outside CP in a posh apartment\Office building. Most of the games that are set in apocalyptic 
 settings all suffer from the same problem. The apocalyptic-ness feels tacked on... Not so in AITD, 
 the entire world of AITD feels like it is in the throes of death. From the skyscrapers of NYC collapsing 
 around you during one of the opening sequences . To the hundreds of burning cars that line the 
 streets of CP, the atmosphere of AITD is almost palpable.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  AITD switches back and forth several times during the gameplay between linear and sandbox modes. 
 So to some players and reviewers it may be a bit jarring. I however found it fun, that you did 
 not always have race to the objective, but you could finish it on your own time. Eden included 
 the chapter skip for a reason. So parts of this game are downright hard, during my 1st play through 
 I skipped around some and then came back to finish them later.
  
  Overall :
  I enjoyed Alone In The Dark and I will probably continue playing it for some time to come. I do 
 think however that Eden\Atari could have spent a little more time on the fit and finish of the 
 game.
  
  (Semi-Spoiler alert!!!!!)
  
  
  I also thought that that the ending was ether... one of the worst Video Game endings ever or..... 
 it was a lead up to a sequel ( I hope and pray) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  when i first started playing this game i felt that the controls were very sketchy and kind of broken 
 but when you get further into the game and get used to it you will start to enjoy it. this game 
 is the most creative game of the year enviorments are beautiful and thinking of ways to kill enemies. 
 This game has outstanding graphics and is a blast. watching buliding collapse and cars explode 
 into mid air are very fun. This game serves alot of purpose and is very complex you will find yourself 
 stuck a couple times and may get frustrated while playing it but when you get by you feel very 
 accomplished. this game is very real from the fire to the characters. I would put this game up 
 there with one of the best for the year due to great gameplay outstanding graphics technicaly outstanding 
 and a very beautiful game. the story mode is not very long but you will get stuck in it alot making 
 it seem like you have played it for a while. The thing i really dont like is that you have the 
 opprotunity to go to ne where in the game even if you havent beat it you can just fast forward 
 to it i think its a waste because its a waste of game value you can be on the first mission skip 
 to the last and say you beat the game but other then this and a few glitches that will have u frustrated 
 this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btkmetalhead
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I have played and beaten (when the first came out) alone in the dark 
 1-3, and loved them and hated them simultaneously because they were challenging but fun, and had 
 cool stories as well.
  
  Enter Alone in the Dark 5, it's everything that Alone in the Dark wanted to eventually be. It has 
 harder puzzles, better action, and AMAZING storytelling. This new AITD could have a little more 
 action, but it really makes up with in heart-attack-a-minute gameplay style.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking, and the new inventory system is neat. They kind of took some cues 
 from the resident evil and implemented a cool healing system, which means you have to treat your 
 wound before they get bad.
  
  I haven't finished the game yet (chapter 6) , but what I have seen so far is nothing short of breathtaking. 
 My only minor complaint might be that the controls are a little fussy, but if you go into first 
 person mode, it's MUCH easier to get around those tight areas that are tough in 3rd person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyhitman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have been a AITD fan for many years and even seen the awful movie starring Christian Slater, 
 but when I heard that a new and updated game was coming out I could not wait. The game is awesome.. 
 the fire effect , the inventory slots , the way you can make your own weapons is amazing, but what 
 really makes this game stand out is the fire effect and the option to burn chairs, burn people 
 make bombs to burn people ETC.... There has been a lot of negitive reviews for this game, people 
 comparing it to RE... Come on People this game is not a RE game so stop comparing it . people are 
 saying what about the inventory slots only in a jacket, yeah that's an awesome approach. In real 
 life would you have storage containers that would hold all of your weapons thoughout the whole 
 game??? COME ON... AITD stands out in many ways that needs to be taken into consideration that 
 this game has many great ideas that needs to be thought of again in future games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telegorilla
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I rateed Alone in the Dark 4, the New Nightmare, in the top 3 of my favorite games of all time, 
 and #1 for the scariest. I reserved and bought two copies, one for me and one for my Son who also 
 loved AITD4.
  This new episode is awful. Controls, graphics, and dialogue are all clumsy, poorly executed and 
 difficult, even when you know exactly what you want to do and how to do it..
  And I was ready to LOVE this game. Too bad. Now I have to wait for Dead Space and Resident Evil 
 5.
  Looks like the curse of the "Bad Horrible Movie Adaptation" somehow managed to trickle into this 
 production as well. 
  I think that I've said enough, but the reviewer overlord that is running this thing is saying that 
 my word number is OK, but the character number is low.
  Hmmmmm......
  Well I hope everyone has a great summer.
  -Z- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnben
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Its a shame another great game ruined by a crappy camera and control system. Why god why !! Is 
 it that the developer is trying something new? Or are they so proud of their broken engine that 
 they are willing to ruin a beautiful game like this just to put their own unique stamp on it .There 
 have been so many games that have suffered from this problem that developers should learn from 
 those games mistakes not make another one. Anyone that plays alot of games knows how this games 
 camera and controls should have been its insane that the developers didnt .Dont they do consumer 
 tests before they release a game? If so i'd like to know who they tested becouse it certainly wasn't 
 gamers even moderate ones at that. The very first driving level though graphicly stunning was a 
 complete chore and by the fourth try through became the complete opposite of fun which is what 
 games are supposed to be. (you have to start from the begining if you die) Awful. This game is a 
 rent for sure and only if you have nothing else to play . I give it a 4.0 because any game that 
 doesn't implement a save anywhere function and a checkpoint system (for the forgetfull like myself) 
 looses 2 points and the broken camera and control (or lack thereof ) gets the rest. I've only rated 
 the game very hard becouse the only challenge here is trying to control your character I always 
 play through every game on easy first to determine if the game is worth playing through again on 
 the hardest difficulty safe to say this one is not. Such a shame MOVEMENT ON THE LEFT STICK CAMERA 
 ON THE RIGHT STICK IS THAT SO HARD? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  first of let me tell you, the controls might be a little awkward at first, but the levels are just 
 Amazing, great variety in levels, the first episode reminded me of that movie with the earthquake, 
 where people have to try and escape the building, but they're on the top floor (i think it was 
 called earthquake ho lol ;) )
  i rated the game hard, because sometimes you'll be brainstorming for an sollution to the problem 
 in the game, but i bet some of u wont have problems like me tho (tho i consider myself a pretty 
 smart guy :p )
  i must admit, sometimes i was looking for the sollution to a puzzle or something like that and 
 when i finally found the sollution i could kick myself in the head for not seeing it sooner.
  
  also, let me tell you, the controls feel a little awkward at first, like in all the resident 
 evils (except 4) but you can go first person too, so when you're getting stuck in 3d person mode, 
 or top view, just go first person and you'll be able to move around no problem.
  
  i read that someone said its trying to be resident evil 4... let me tell you, i love resident evil 
 4 and i love this game, but they're nothing alike.. if anything its like resident evil 1-3 etc. 
 with a mix of Condemned first person style, when u hold a gun its first person.
  
  the levels are spectacular, buildings coming down, rooms collapsing while you're in it, very cinematic 
 experience, tho when you reach the end of episode 1.. you're in a for a big treat, entire episode 
 2 is a Car level, you drive around the city, when.. omg.. THE ENTIRE CITY IS COLLAPSING lol, the 
 ground is coming up, cars are flying through the air, buildings coming down in front of you and 
 ou have to drive like crazy, evading stuff that is falling down on the road in front of you.. 
 but thats just a small part of the game, tho it was crazy haha :)
  it has a great physics engine.
  
  now let me tell you about the game itself, its not the survival 
 horror game i thought it was gonna be , i thought it was gona be like resident evil or condemned 
 or w/e , it is a bit of that.. but also you'll be looking for ways to get from point A to B, climbing 
 walls, swinging cables (as i already said, reminded me of the movie earthquake.. or poseidon the 
 boat movie)
  its not just about evil looking zombies and shooting them ;)
  let me tell you everytime i encountered baddies, i was a little bit disappointing cuzz i really 
 love the climbing, evading rocks falling down etc.
  not saying that the fighting is bad tho, if u get the hang of it you kill them np.
  
  let me 
 tell you this tho, puzzles get repetive, at start you'll be working your ass off looking for a 
 solution, ull get frustrated i tihnk (unless you're really smart and find the sollutions faster 
 than me ;) )
  but since the puzzles get repetive, later on in the game you'll know exactly what to look for when 
 you're stuck and you'll have no problems in finding the sollutions.
  
  all in all if you get the hang of the controls and you get the pattern in finding your way through 
 all the levels, its a great cinematic experience 
  and what i always love in a game, if it has pre-rendered movies, this game has got a lot of that. 
 and as far as horror goes, i can only remember 2 or 3 times that the game really scared me :p there 
 are some levels where you have to walk through the dark and you'll be like.. oh hell no.. 
  
  and the reason why im writing so much about the game.. cuzz im really excited about this game, 
 in fact im gonna go and finish the last episode after i post this review ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanMC117
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  In brief, it starts out absolutely brilliant, and, in something rarely seen nowadays, it maintains 
 steam all the way to the end, getting better and better until the unexpectedly Tomb Raider-esque 
 ending moments. The controls and camera are more than adequate. The graphics are fantastic all 
 around, not the best I've ever seen, but they are on the whole fantastic. The story is phenominal 
 and more importantly, coherent and complete. Yes, the ending is a bit abrupt, but that's because 
 the real ending, where you find out just what is going on, comes in Episode 6, not 8. The soundtrack 
 is one of the best I've ever heard, and the voice acting is realistic if not a bit overdone. The 
 game tries not to be many different genres, but rather create one cohesive, organic experience, 
 similar to reality. And it succeeds. It's on the short side, but longer than Gears of War and Halo 
 3, so if you had no problem with the length of those AAA titles, you shouldn't care about this 
 being on the 10 hour side. It's one of the greatest games I have ever had the experience of playing, 
 and I highly reccomend it. Now, the important parts, in more detail.
  
  What's probably become the most talked about element of the game since people started playing it 
 isn't the physics or fire, but the controls and camera. They are not only completely fine, but 
 also neccesary due to the nature of the game. Let me explain how they work. The right stick moves 
 Edward, up forward, left and right obviously left and right, and back to walk backwards (not turn 
 around, which is a little odd but doesn't cause any problems) and the way he moves is relative 
 to the camera when in third person. First person controls usual, though there seems to be a Butcher 
 Bay like delay. Most of the more adventure sequences feature dramatic, cinematic camera angles, 
 often times with the camera moving to show you a clue as to how to procede. Because of this, the 
 controls MUST BE relative to the camera. The right stick, when nothing is equipped, does temporarily 
 move the camera (to look around) but once something is in your hand, the movement of the stick 
 corresponds with the movement of the equipped weapon. This system is NOT clunky or difficult. It's 
 again, like the rest of the game, organic and intelligent. You have a chair in your hands, a fire 
 on your left, you move the stick left, he moves the chair left. You have a sword in your hand, 
 you pull the stick back, he puts it over his head, you slam it forward, he slams the sword down 
 in a slash, usually knocking enemies down. It's an intelligent system, but also instictual. Which 
 fits well with the rest of the game. But obviously, if the right stick controls his hands, it can't 
 control the camera. Left trigger throws objects, right trigger uses whatever is in the right hand, 
 be it gun or otherwise (say, zippo with a aresol can in the left hand?) while the shoulder buttons 
 move to the next item in each respective hand (I used this pretty much ONLY to draw the gun, and 
 not once hit the left bumper) and the face buttons are interact, jump, reload, and first person. 
 Click the right stick and you blink (first person) which eventually has an incredibly useful purpose. 
 Down on the d-pad goes to his jacket/inventory, left and right go to healing view. In conclusion 
 though, I never found the controls to be remotely hampering to the experience, and think Eden did 
 a fantastic job of making Edward so capable with a set number of buttons. I never once fell of 
 a ledge or died due to camera or controls. I did die many times because of some environmental puzzles 
 and one of the boss fights.
  
  The graphics are pretty impressive, not so much technically, don't get me wrong, they look amazing, 
 but rather for the fact of what they accomplished with the same engine. The third person, dramatic 
 camera adventure-horror elements feel great, the first person shooting elements look and feel like 
 the should, and the driving is suprisingly effective and fun (if not overly difficult.) Also, there 
 are a few scenes specifically, where you can't help but drop your jaw. Specifically, I'm reffering 
 to an explosion in the opening episode (you can see it at Gametrailers, but seeing it huge on your 
 own TV while you're playing is different,) a cab ride on 59th street (one of the most difficult 
 sequences I have ever played, in any game, period,) the end of a reunion in the museum (it's a 
 holy s**t moment for sure,) and the games last few areas, which come as a huge surprise (literally.) 
 There is often so much going on at once, and this is where the graphics are most impressive, not 
 because of the technical prowess, but more because of the workload the engine can handle with relative 
 smoothness. Stylistically the game is also very beautiful, with a realistic gritty style permeating 
 from start to finish. I will admit there are a few, mostly in the beginning, bugs and glitches. 
 I had two glitches, both RIGHT after checkpoints, where I had to reload my game. Both times I was 
 stuck on or in geometry. But it was, like I said, only 2 times, and nothing game ruining.
  
  While I don't want to reveal the details of the story, I will say this: it was engaging start 
 to finish. Not only was it engaging, it was also fantastic in that while the staff in the making 
 of says they were inspired, at least for the episodic idea, by Lost, it's in many ways the anti-Lost. 
 Every episode of Lost brings new questions, and only a handful of them are answered. In Alone in 
 the Dark, there are also many questions. But by the end they are almost entirely answered. There 
 is only one element of the story that was somewhat non-sensical but obviously neccesary for the 
 gameplay. I will put what this was at the end of the review so those who want to know what it is 
 can, and those who don't want to be spoiled won't be. You learn why and how the characters and 
 locations involved are, you learn the complete truth about who/what your enemy is, etc. And it's 
 interesting and gripping. And don't get me wrong, I love Silent Hill, but after playing 5 of them 
 (including Origins) I have to say, it's nice to have a survival horror game that makes sense and 
 can't be written off as "it's all a manifestation of a demonic child or your mind." My roommate, 
 a 21 year old female with no interest in games at all, watched me play almost start to finish, 
 and said she probably enjoyed it as much as I did, and that it was infintely better than the crap 
 on TV. That says something about the story (and the pace as well.)
  
  The soundtrack is great but there isn't much to say, you know? Atari released it on iTunes and 
 you'll see why, it's a really great score, better than most movies. The voice acting is good for 
 the main characters, but some of the random people you'll encounter are kind of silly, especially 
 towards the beginning. A girl at a window in the first episode screaming about the electric wire 
 coming off the wall stands out as a highlight, but it's more something that will make you grin, 
 not bring the game down.
  
  There are a few things that I have seen mentioned in posts or other reviews that I would like to 
 directly address.
  
  The first is the role of the female lead so to speak. I have seen (especially on the forums) people 
 saying that she was naggy and annoying and they wish they could kill her, but this was not my experience 
 at all. She is a very, very strong female character. In one of the making of videos they say they 
 wanted a female character who if Edward wasn't around would be able to pull off most of the game, 
 and I feel like she could. Yes, she freaks out at times, but who, male or female, wouldn't? She 
 plays a central role to the events that happen, and is never in your way. I never was frustrated 
 by "oh my god this stupid person keeps dying." Not once. I found her a great addition to the story, 
 and a great example for other games to take of a strong female character.
  
  The second is the now seemingly infamous "root of evil" sequence. If you don't want to read very 
 minor spoilers, skip this paragraph. Yes, between chapters 7 and 8, you have to go all over Central 
 Park killing (or burning rather) a huge amount of evil trees. There is a story reason for why they 
 exist, and there is a material reason you have for getting rid of them that makes some (not all) 
 of it mandatory. Some reviews said this brought the whole game down. But I'd argue just the opposite. 
 While yes, it does somewhat "artificially" lengthen the game (I'd say easily this one thing is 
 one third, maybe even one half, of the game) it's also putting into practice what they've been 
 helping you and holding your hand doing the first half of the game. Now if you have to light something 
 on fire, you don't neccesarily have a bunch of flammable bottles lying about. You have to figure 
 it out. Some of them are very easy to kill, while others take a lot of work. I will give you an 
 example of one that was my favorite. Obviously this will spoil one possible solution for getting 
 rid of one tree, but it shows the value of this part of the game very accurately. There is a tree 
 on a section of ground that is completely surrounded by fissure (the cracks) that you cannot get 
 to. It looks like you can get to it from the very hard to get to other side. But after maybe an 
 hour of trying, I realized you cannot. So I thought, what if I jumped a car over there? So I did, 
 and it worked. But I died since I couldn't make the jump back. Eventually, after much thought, 
 and many tries, I figured out that I needed to combine a flammable plastic bottle (glass breaks) 
 with some sticky tape, use some bandages for a wick, light it on fire, stick it to my car, jump 
 my car onto the tree area and jump out before it goes over the edge and before the bottle explodes. 
 Some timing aside (took a few tries) it worked! Brilliant! I've never seen anything like that in 
 a game before. And it's this, not to mention the survival aspect (I had to drive around checking 
 other cars glove boxes for healing spray and bandages, with 7 minutes before I bled out, just to 
 stay alive once) that really make this part of the game just a brilliant as the more scripted parts. 
 People have asked, is this a sandbox game? This part is, and it works very well, and is just one 
 piece of the brilliant rest of the game.
  
  So overall, I would say that Alone in the Dark really is a masterpiece, and is a must buy for any 
 gamer who appreciates good games. You'll get used to the non-standard control, and this really 
 isn't an experience to be missed. I'd say 9/10. 10/10 if they got rid of the minor glitches, but 
 somethings are going to fall through the cracks with a game this ambitious.
  
  Stop reading now if you don't want to know the story related spoiler I mentioned in the story section. 
 Edward is supposed to be immortal but if that is the case why can he die? But now see what I mean? 
 It's not so much a story whole, only a gameplay caveat needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattstar2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Alone in the dark has been one of the most anticipated 2nd tier games for the season, certainly 
 where the horror genre lovers are concerned anyway. 
  
  I on the other hand was excepting another stroll along bore fest with the occasional moment of 
 entertainment chucked in to make you think the game is better than it actually is.
  
  Surprisingly for me however I've found this game a hell of alot more entertaining than I could 
 have expected. True there are a few issues with the controls, but hey up until the final MGS all 
 those games had awful controls and maybe the graphics have the occasional glitch but look at GTA 
 4, thats full of them (I love both games btw) . What you do have, is a survival horror game that 
 constantly entertains you and doesn't ever seem to be doing the same thing over and over, there 
 is always something different to-do, and the introductory hotel based level gives you a sense of 
 being completely at the whim of some greater evil, its kind of a cross between die hard, towering 
 inferno and the exorcist, GREAT!!!!
  
  The controls do make the game a little in accessible to very casual/lazy gamers, but I seemed to 
 adjust to them very quickly, it would have made sense for the developer to put in customisable 
 controls, but not to worry, they are really not as bad as you may have heard. If anything they 
 add tension to the game by making things slightly more difficult to deal with.
  
  Well I love it and some of the controls are a bit naff at times but are easily better than any 
 of the previous alone in the dark games, certainly on par with the resident evil series. But its 
 up to you make your own mind up I think the reviews will be very disjointed as they all start coming 
 out, try it some of the things you can do with the physics engine are inspirational. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalclash
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  This game is broken beyond words, for anybody reading this review please do not buy it! This game 
 looked amazing pre-release but trust me it is bad! You will find yourself repeatedly doing the 
 same sections over and over and over again because the game mechanics simply DO NOT WORK! The 1st 
 time you encounter the black ooze on the floor that eats you regardless of whether you are trailing 
 your spotlight on it or not is a great example!
  
  Your character has the manageability of a concrete block, making it impossible to doge enemies 
 ranged attacks, and the lack of health only serves to further frustrate you. I won't event bother 
 commenting on the driving sections because I'm trying to cleanse them from my mind they are that 
 bad.
  
  This game has a lot of innovative ideas that could be used well in other games, unfortunately this 
 game is about as much fun as being punched in the balls by Mike Tyson in his prime! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendo1234
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  For the benefit of anyone frightened by the initial anti-buzz this game has recieved I will (without 
 oing into specifics) start with the bad. Alone In The Dark is deeply flawed, Eden Games' goal to 
 create a truly cinematic experience does at times act in utter detriment t the mechanics of the 
 game. Riddled with bugs and unintentional pitfalls, the game sometimes seems like it doesnt want 
 to be liked (my sentiments reflect many of the existing reviews) .
  Now the good. Alone In The Dark is a survival horror/adventure game unlike any other in its (sub) genre, 
 playing it is a fresh, surpising experience and i canteven remember thinking that about a game 
 its been that long. Realism is the focal point, with the real-time inventory and self healing system, 
 coupled with the real world physics of your environment really add to the experience of Edward 
 Carnby's journey. Combat is smooth, with a fiddly auto-aim being the only real niggle. 
  Apart from the gameplay, AITD offers a beautiful orchestral score and some inventive sound effects 
 (although these are rather sparse) . The story itself is intriguing while not groundbreaking and 
 the DVD chapter skip is both helpful to noobs and those frustrated by the games many 'die a million 
 time' set-pieces.
  All in all, AITD is a stunning experience which, unfortunately, many will remember for its flaws 
 rather than its obvious triumphs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetgloom
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Graphically Alone in the Dark is a formidable beast. The lighting, shadows and textures are amongst 
 the best we have seen, and far more impressive than any other survival horror game currently on 
 the market.
  The game itself whilst fun and innovative in some areas is let down by a clumsy control scheme 
 and some questionable descisions on the part of the developers.
  Some of the set pieces the game contains are truly awesome, yet mared by glitches with your character 
 magically appearing on the opposite side of the screen.
  The driving sections whilst fun and fantastic to look at (particularly the crumbling New York section) 
 would have been so much better had a checkpoint system been implemented so that when you die you 
 don't have to start from scratch.
  Last is the combat which for me is the greatest disappointment. The game is viewed over the shoulder 
 much like Resident Evil 4, yet whenever you want to fire a gun you are forced into a first person 
 mode. Its very fiddly. I like the option to play in first person, but its neither one way or the 
 other. Some parts must be done in 3rd person some in 1st.
  If a patch comes out to rectify theses issues then Alone in the Dark would easily get a 9.0 score 
 from me, fingers crossed it happens and soon!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of the game I was confused 'cause all the next gen was gone. Camera angles were 
 odd, character features were a bit Picasso and the whole thing played out as awkward but I decided 
 to let it all slide and see what the game has to offer. 
  Don't want to spoil your experience but it's not so hard or demanding to play this as it is a bit 
 frustrating at certain points in the game (driving missions) , other than that it a horror action 
 puzzle solving adventure like any other. 
  The game will play itself out in 8 episodes all varying in difficulty and lenght. 
  The storyline 
 is rather shallow although it is interesting to see how they figured it all in there, mutants, vampire 
 bats, Lucifer, Templars, psychedelic roots... you'll see. 
  Boss fights are way to easy, and the best thing about the game is the jacket that you have on that 
 holds your inventory. Combining stuff in the inventory is a lot of fun and it shows that with a 
 little imagination you can make a difference in the game-play. Other than that your foes are the 
 same all the time and once you choose your favorite poison to take them out it gets fun to take 
 them out. 
  puzzles are a different cup of tea all together and with a bit of common sense you'll get trough 
 them the only thing that can make them harder to solve are the controls and weird camera angles. 
 
  End of the game was poetic but not what i expected so that is all I'm gonna say about that. 
 
  Overall it was a fun ride, for all the horror fans out there good game not great but good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merzitar
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark (series) started 1992 as the start of the survival horror genre on the PC and 
 now they have finally released a new one after Alone in the Dark 4 and of course is Next-Gen.
 
  
  The game starts as you, Edward Carnby, waking up and not knowing who he is. He soon finds out that 
 something is destroying the city.
  
  So let's go into detail about the game and what it has to offer to its players:
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  The graphics are very nice apart from a few objects have bad quality textures but only things 
 that don't matter such as a cars sun visor.
  I was surprised at some of the graphics though as the environment falls apart, but not at your 
 own hands.
  There isn't any texture pop-up that I've seen so far, however there is some object pop-up when 
 driving fast in central park (You'll drive into something and then find out that it was an enemy) . 
 So overall, I liked the graphics of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game play was a bit of a let down to be honest. The controls aren't too bad, but could've been 
 better for example, 'A' lets you pick up, run, and open doors and can get a bit confusing. The 
 movement isn't exactly smooth either and can be very awkward to control in third-person view sometimes 
 when you're trying to escape enemies. I do like the way you can combine nearly everything you can 
 find such as a rag into a bottle and double sided tape to make a sticky bomb.
  Combat is quite good but can be annoying at times. To attack with a melee weapon, you hold the 
 opposite direction to where you want to hit using your right stick and then move to the direction 
 you want to hit if that makes sense?
  Now the 'Free Roam' isn't brilliant but it's good enough, same with the car controls but I think 
 we've all been spoiled with Grand Theft Auto IV.
  The main thing that ruins this game are the amount of glitches  Someone I know missed some important 
 story because of a glitch which didn't trigger the movie sequence so he didn't quite know what 
 was going on. There are a lot of cool looking action sequences such as one bit you're escaping 
 the fissures in your car in the streets of new york but that bit can also be spoiled by glitches 
 when you're driving and you hit something when there is clearly nothing there.
  Also, the story is too short with 8 Episodes that you can complete in no time.
  So some game 
 play in this game is good but is very annoying because of the glitches. Alot of the stuff on this 
 game is great though and has never been done before such as spreading fire and the different stages 
 of burning which is just amazing.
  
  SOUNDTRACK AND MUSIC:
  Brilliant! The soundtrack is very good and epic.
  The music in the game has a Bulgarian choir 
 singing along to very action-sounding music and is very exciting when playing the game or even 
 just listening to on your CD player ^_^
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS:
  The achievements in this game are pretty good with some secret.
  Most of the achievements you 
 can unlock when playing it through first time but some others may take a while such as 'Kill 100 
 Humanz' and 'Kill 3 Humanz at once' but most are easy such as Combination achievements and progressing 
 achievements.
  ------------------------------------------------
  
  So some of the game is very good, where as some of it is a bit poor.
  The game is also not very 
 scary but I don't think it is designed for that as the game is more action. There is also a pretty 
 neat feature they have included: When you load your game, it will do a 'previously on Alone in 
 the Dark' like a TV series would do such as Smallville or Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
  
  So overall I will rate this game a 7/10 mainly because of the glitches, the length, and the fact 
 that the game has crashed 2 times for no reason what so ever (but could be my Xbox 360) . The game 
 is defiantly worth playing or even buying It's just not as good as it could've or should've been.
 
  
  
  -Merzitar
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark is a series that's struggled since it's first ground-breaker. Always attempting 
 to be the next best thing but always forgetting what's needed and what's important. This new edition 
 for the current generation is no exception having some neat ideas here and there, the gameplay 
 suffers from games designers typical obsession with film as Alone in the Dark is a film to game 
 experience but without the film. The fact that the designers wanted to make the main menu and overall 
 experience like a DVD selection screen is only the first in many mistakes as one can simply select 
 the level, including the last, get a "Lost - like" briefing on what's happened in the story and 
 then play out the end level or even last "scene". So what's the point to this? Well it could that 
 some "scenes" are incredibly frustrating due to awful controls so you can just skip them OR it 
 could be that you can escape some of the most over scripted and linear aspects of gameplay you'll 
 ever find in a game this year or even ever. Alone in the Dark isn't exactly the most free-roaming 
 experience to come out this year and any areas that can be explored feel unnecessary to do so unless 
 you're looking for achievements. Nothing will be found to help you through the game and besides 
 you can just skip to the end anyway!
  
  Unfortunately as the right analogue stick is taken away from the player to act as your swing for 
 weapons etc the control of the camera view ultimately suffers. One can switch to a first person 
 view (if you're not holding a picked up breakable weapon/item) and has to switch to this view in 
 order to shoot the pistol but scripted areas and small cutscenes will take you back to the third 
 person view making you frustrated and confused. Combining items is the best thing about the game 
 however selecting items in the your jacket is sometimes clumsy and not enough variety is put into 
 what you can do and what you can make. The game comes with many small puzzles that can keep some 
 interested. As for the story.... well.... I wonder if Eden know the word "cliche"? The idea of 
 being trapped in Central Park was cool until you actually realise that it's just a park and there's 
 not a lot to do when there's only two of you. I wasn't wanting to play football or anything, just 
 if there were more characters/ survivor's you frequently interacted with, it would've made the 
 experience more immersing and perhaps psychological.
  
  What Alone in the Dark ends up as is a mess that no one has cleared up. It seems as though Eden 
 Studios have a severe lack of Games Testers because I'm shocked as to how such a hyped and intriguing 
 game came to have such bad design choices of gameplay and story and glitches! If you like frustrating 
 gameplay, linear level design, over-the-top scripted areas and a nice typically cliche story then 
 give this a go but for those of you wanting a game that feels professionally made then you may 
 want to wait for Resident Evil 5 or find Alone in the Dark A New Nightmare from the last generation 
 and have a play on that. Really, this one is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katarot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  was worth the 40 bucks i paid for it kept me busy for a couple of days could and should have been 
 alot scarier like resident evil 3 and eternal darkness loved those 2 games all in all alone in 
 the dark is a fun game to play it will keep you busy i dont really know how long iv played this 
 game because im not 100 % finished it but im near it im going to say rent it first because its 
 not got any replay value to it also should point out this game is 90% level based there very little 
 free roam
  
  good points i should mention
  
  game looks real good 
  can drive around central park running zombie like creatures over 
  steal cars well not steal 
 because there abandoned lol
  storyline is quite interesting 
  
  bad points 
  
  lack of guns you get 2 handguns the whole gun 
  inventory is too small
  wasnt that scary 
 
  
  thats about it for bad points lol 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneezebucket
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Alone in the Dark, a game i have been looking forward to for over a year has finally arrived. Just 
 yesterday i was reading reviews for this game, it has been getting mainly average scores. I don't 
 agree with any of these reviews. Yes it has flaws like any other game but none of them are game 
 breaking and can easily be overlooked if you foucs on the positives. I will start with the graphics. 
 The graphics are great and all but don't buy this game excpecting them to be the best looking you 
 have ever seen on your Xbox. The main problem here is the characters look a bit last gen and have 
 a 'plastic sheen' covering them and only have a moderate amount of detail in their faces. The thing 
 is though the characters tend to look great in-game, but in cutscenes the detaill goes way down. 
 You would think it would be the other way around. The enviroments in the game however, look spectacular, 
 everything is highly textured and still manages to look good up close. Effects in the game are 
 also very good, especially the fire which is used as a actual gameplay mechanic, not only does 
 the fire look amazing but acts in a realistic fashion, if the fire touches an object, that particular 
 object will go up in flames and can be used to kill the various enemies found throughout the game. 
 Fire also plays a part in puzzles, sometimes requring you to burn down something in your path. 
 Gameplay is overall very solid. Like i said earlier, using fire to kill your enemies and solve 
 puzzles in a good touch. The gameplay never gets boring as the game is constantly funneling you 
 along into the next amazing set piece with some action along the way. The gameplay is also very 
 varied, with on foot sections, driving sections, puzzle solving and fetch quests.
  Most of these are fine but the on foot sections works the best and thankfully, this is what you 
 will be spending most of your time doing. The driving in the game is fine and is used to great 
 effect in some set-pieces. Some reviews complain about the car handling but i did not see a problem 
 with it. Puzzle sloving is very clever and rarley gets tiresome, maybe becuase puzzles are solved 
 in a much more innovative way than in other games. The game falls flat on it's face with the fetch 
 quests, especially the big one near the end of the game. I won't say any more but brace yourself 
 for a long, dissapointing, mind-numbing quest.
  
  The controls for the game are complex but easy to use after you have taken the time to learn them, 
 after twenty minutes i had no trouble remembering what buttons to press. I know other reviews complain 
 about the controls being clunky and this is true to a certain degree but it is in no way game breaking 
 like some other reviews would have you believe.
  
  The music is very good in the game and is used to great effect in set-pieces, it's just unfortunate 
 the music is not really used elsewhere. Sounds effects in the game are nothing special as far as 
 i could tell. The acting in the game ranges form average to laughable. The script is bland with 
 no real imagination, with actors poorly delivering lines. The gameplay and graphics more than make 
 up for this though. There are other very small minor problems like occasional collision detection 
 errors.
  
  In conclusion, i would say that Alone in the Dark is a very well put together game that every gamer 
 should have in their collection. If you can overlook the problems with this game and see all the 
 things that are great about it, then you should have no trouble enjoying this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  First found out about this game about 2 months ago, and I wanted it as soon as I saw it. I closely 
 followed the game, watched all the tech demos, interviews, and trailers. So when my pre-order came 
 the day before release, I was incredibly happy.
  The first thing I noticed on the very first part of the very first level, was just how beautiful 
 the graphics really were. The voice acting was also very impressive. Then things started to go 
 a little wrong. The first "episode" of the game, is incredibly tedious, with very little action. 
 As soon as you first go into Third Person View, the controls feel a little clumsy. You start to 
 see a number of Graphical flaws, like hanging cables going straight through your own body, or you 
 find yourself stood in the bonnet of a car.
  Then, things start to liven up a bit. You stop noticing all these little graphical flaws when your 
 too busy expecting an attack at any moment. You become like an item-sensor, and find yourself more 
 bothered about finding supplies than continuing with the story.
  When you reach the first driving section of the game, the detail that has gone into it is impressive. 
 You can't just steal a car, you have to break into it, and then you cant just drive off, you have 
 to hot-wire it, which can be hard when your worried about the approaching horde of enemies. The 
 actual driving itself is pretty good for a game in which driving is not the main focus for it, 
 but considering the last game from Eden Games was Test Drive Unlimited, I feel they could have 
 done a little better.
  The free-roaming part of the game is fun, but at the same time, incredibly annoying. The enemies 
 are numerous, but the items supply isn't very plentiful, considering what you have to do to take 
 out the enemies.
  Alone in the Dark does beat all its rivals in one aspect though. The combat system. The combinations 
 of items in your inventory are numerous, and the results are amazing. The use of the analog stick 
 to swing any other items you pick up is equally impressive, and makes a nice change to the "press 
 Y to swing" in other games.
  And of course, the fire. I have never seen a game with such beautiful pyrotechnics. Not even Crysis. 
 I could spend ages at a time just watching it burn. It looks realistic, and it burns realistically.
 
  The injury system is also quite innovative, but that said, its also quite annoying, as your main 
 way of healing, can also be your only form of defence/attack.
  
  Anyway, I've rambled on a bit. Alone in the Dark is a brilliant game, and I dare say that it will 
 get alot of gameplay hours out of me, even if just for the free-roaming aspect.
  I doubt its anywhere near the standard of Resident Evil 5 when its finally released next year, 
 but until then, it will definitely do nicely. Could have done with a bit more work though, just 
 to smoothen out the rough edges that let it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cambi7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. The problems that people are saying about it are not actually that bad. 
 
  The control system is a bit akward but that adds to the sense of panic and confusion. Most importantly 
 you get used to the controls!! (they are not hard to learn) The inventry system is fantastic and 
 the items themselves are awsome to use and combine.
  The story is interesting enough if you are in to that sort of thing but it keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat giving you bits of information at a time. At least its fairly original (no evil cooperations 
 here)
  There are annoying parts to the gameplay such as some of the driving sequences but no worries you 
 can skip those with the "dvd" features of the game. This comes in handy in at least 2 parts of 
 the game.
  The graphics are very impressive (in parts) and the design of the park adds alot to the atmosphere 
 of the game. 
  
  The music is amazing!!!
  
  If you enjoyed RE4 ,or any other action horror game for that matter, try this one out................. it 
 will blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazyplayer-187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  when i bought this game i thought that it would have been a very medeocor game but when i started 
 to play it i thought that it was actually pretty good, firstly the graphics are probably the best 
 ive ever seen, and the puzzles and physics are challenging and enjoyable, the only flaw i can find 
 with this game is the controls are very clucky when in 3rd person view, but this can be fixed by 
 changing the view to 1st person. an other problen that i found was that the sond is naff, you cant 
 even hear it and i have surround sound turned up fully.
  
  overall i think that this game is very good but has some flaws so if you are looking for a head 
 scratching puzzler then get this.
  
  Unfortunatly for atari they spent 4 years on this and they thought it was going to a something 
 to rival such games such as MGS etc. but they failed. I still think that this game is very ambitious 
 and enjoyable but nothing revolutionary.
  
  graphics: 10/10
  sound: 3/10
  gameplay: 8.5/10
  controls: 3/10 (in 3rd person) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf_storm
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Whats he on about you might say ?
  
  Flawed and Masterpiece in the same sentence, well let me explain...
  
  After many months of 
 waiting for this game, I hurried back home with my collectors edition, even forgetting to do certain 
 pay day chores...
  
  Popped the disc in my 360 and waited with anticipation.
  
  After a pretty good intro and a "silent hill 4 - the room" - esque start, you finally appear in 
 3rd person view and continue the game.
  
  Without giving to much away, There is a section pretty close to the start which is incredibly frustrating, 
 until you figure it out, "it was oh ffs thats what you have to do", after dying 20 times, not alot 
 of help or clues were available.
  
  Graphics and general presentation are pretty good, textures are sharp and everything looks pretty 
 dark and scary, fire effects are pretty and realistic.
  
  Now here comes some flaws, the camera, deja vu ninja gaiden ?
  Thought i`d got away from dodgy 
 cameras but no, here we go again, switching to 1st person does solve the problem, but i dont see 
 why you should have to, ive always preffered the "character" on screen i. e. resi evil, silent hill 
 1-3 etc.
  
  The controls as well, take a little while to get used to, some times your pressing a button, "A" 
 for example and it doesnt do what you want, so you press it again, grrr. come on ffs pick the damn 
 "whatever" up or do the action etc.
  
  Thankfully the checkpoints are pretty close together, the game auto saves as well.
  
  Combat 
 is fairly similar to games like silent hill rather then resident evil, the "swinging" does take 
 a little getting use to.
  
  Does this guy like this game you may ask ? - Yes I do, despitre the quirks I`m really enjoying 
 it, I get stuck now and then but there is something about it, some charm that AITD has that just 
 wont let go of me...
  
  I must mention the sound, the music in particular is really stunning and dramatic, especially during 
 the "set pieces", I wont say what set pieces, you will know when they happen :)
  
  Voice acting is ok, no well known actors afaik but it doesnt really matter does it.
  
  On another 
 note, the game may be over quite quickly, unless you get really stuck or frustrated, i`m nearly 
 at the end of chapter 3, 8 chapters in all, each chapter I would say is do-able in about an hour 
 or less. 
  
  Ive read some other reviews that say the last bit is tedious but I cant comment there, only about 
 half way through, I may come back and add some final words when Ive finished the game.
  
  Should you buy the game or not ? - Well not an easy answer, some people will love this game, some 
 will hate it (lots of moaners on forums - no names gamefaqs) 
  
  If your a big horror adventure nut and cant wait for resident evil 5 or silent hill, then definitely 
 give this game a whirl, at least rent it if your not sure about buying... This game though has 
 so much potential to be, and dare I say it.... a resi evil and silent hill beater, but there is 
 just far to many flaws and glitches, its a game you badly want to love but cant, if that makes 
 any sense...
  
  So to sum up, AITD is flawed masterpiece and a potential 10 / 10 but on this occasion I`m giving 
 it a respectable 8 out of 10. Thanks for reading.
  
  P. s. (apologies for spelling mistakes and any bad grammar - it is nearly 2am as I type this ) :)
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Alone in the dark is a great game lush graphics good sound and some brilliant gameplay features 
 implimented. But what good is all this when the controls and camera are broken? Thats right 2 of 
 the most important things about a great game and both of them are total arse. Which is a damn shame 
 because this game could have made it to the 9/10 title. You walk around place to place doing objectives 
 etc just your normal action game but then they make it super fresh by making nearly all the objects 
 in the room not only interactive but you can mess around with them to make other such items. For 
 example a Healing spray can be used to heal wounds but can also be used with a lighter to make 
 a blow torch. Items to be used to break down locked doors, and many many other things which have 
 never been really seen in a game before which is brilliant!. But then we end up back to what i 
 was talking about at the start. The controls. Going into your inventory is a mission in itself, 
 it sends you to your coat and you have to use the analoge stick to pick which item you want. Problem 
 is it takes ages to get to the item you bloody want! then theres the camera which doesnt know if 
 its coming or going. One minute its a fixed over the shoulder camrea then its a cinematic corner 
 room camera which messes up your movement. Then when you want to use your gun you cant have over 
 the shoulder aiming, it ends up taking you to first person which is a pain when your in a rush 
 in combat. Its like the game was intended to be an FPS but somehow it works better in 3rd person.
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing a couple of glitches here and there but apart from that great eye candy.
  
 
  Sound: Good soundtrack and FX good voice acting but dialogue is patchy at times.
  
  Gameplay: Stuff thats never been done before added to a pretty solid action game.
  
  **** box: 
 Awful camera, controls are patchy, Whats the deal with the chapter skipping thing?
  
  Overall: Could have been a total belta, but as it is with poor controls and camera it ends up lagging 
 behind. Thats not to say this game isnt great because it is and is worth a go. But if they had 
 just worked on them issues it could have been awesome stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game is not like the previous alone in the dark games, in fact it is totally different and 
 seemed to step away from the atmosphere. Alone in the dark is one of the most exciting games of 
 2008. 
  
  The game feels fine in some stages, the controls feel awfully weak though. It's hard to move around 
 and the camera will eventually start to annoy you. The game feels almost broken and incomplete, 
 if only the developers delayed it until fall. 
  
  On the bright side, the game features a fantastic story line, voice-acting feels pure, the game 
 feels sophisticated which brings out recreation. The graphics are nice and the lighting is outstanding. 
 
  
  Don't feel pressured about the negative reviews been posted, remember they are just opinions. Sometimes 
 they could be right with some parts like the controls, camera and feels broken but doesn't mean 
 this game is the worst or most disappointing game of the year. 
  
  The game sure deserve a merit but if only the bad things were resolved before the release it would 
 of got a trophy. It is worth the time, The game has lots of action and adventure packed in and 
 reveals some mysteries that you would desperately wanting to know! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Alone in the Dark was being remade, I was all for seeing what they could 
 do with the series and try to compete with the hugely popular Resident Evil series by Capcom. Anyway 
 on with the review.
  
  Graphiaclly Alone in the Dark uses it's engines dark and light textures to a good extent, the contrast 
 of the two types are used well in the game creating more of an atmosphere that you are Alone in 
 the Dark. Dynamic lighting in the game is used very well, since that was the main focus of the 
 developer's engine, except fire of course. Fire in the game is a great technical achievement, with 
 it spreading across wooden object like any fire normally would, whilst not making the game engine 
 lag or being graphically deficient. Overall Alone in the Dark's graphics suit the game very well, 
 even though it may suffer from a few graphical glitches from time to time.
  
  As for the sound, I found Alone in the Dark to be quite quiet for some reason. I don't know if 
 this was thanks to my speaker setup, but I had to end up turning up the sound louder than I would 
 normally have too. Quality wise however, Alone in the Dark delivers. With each explosion, scream 
 of agony and voice acting sounding great. However, the voice actors I thought could get a little 
 annoying due to the fact that almost every second or third word out of their mouth was a swear 
 word. Overall Alone in the Dark's sound delivers to set an atmosphere, even though the voice acting 
 is annoying at times it's still great overall.
  
  The gameplay is the real hero for Alone in the Dark, using the X360 controller to it's full extent 
 it feels refreshing to know that you'll be doing far more than your average, press "Y" "X" "A" 
 "B". Also, the real-time inventory is a cool feature, giving it a more real feel than pressing 
 a button to open a separate inventory screen. Combining items is refreshing feature also, rather 
 than "Here's a gun, go kill stuff." Such combinations as a lighter and mosquito spray or a cloth 
 and bottle to form a molotov cocktail can be great fun to execute. The real time inventory is also 
 incorporated into the healing section, with yourself applying bandages and heal sprays to yourself. 
 Also Eden seems to have realised that people can only carry a certain amount of things, for instance 
 when I played Oblivion I could have tonnes of stuff in my "invisible bag" and still run around 
 at light speed. Overall Alone in the Dark's gameplay is refreshing, and something that most people 
 should enjoy.
  
  The only real concern I have about this game, are the driving sequences. In chapter 2 you will 
 have to go through one of these very sequences, and while it may have been an exciting and cool 
 premise, it's executed very poorly. Due to poor handling and buggy scripts. For instance, I crashed 
 into a car and had to remain stationary for a few moments and the road in which I would have to 
 go over in a few moments collapsed. Now, I know this was not meant to happen as afterwards I went 
 through the same sequence and the road collapsed after I had driven across it.
  
  All in all, Alone in the Dark is a refreshing or new experience, which survival horror fans and 
 gamers should enjoy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a great and scary game BUT there is a problem and that is the camera. This is one only 
 for horror lovers. I mean you can switch to first person but that does not solve the crazy camera 
 problem. If you have ever played Resident Evil 0 and you remember that the camera wasn't all that 
 then the camera in this is WORSE. But all in all this game is a good game if you can get past the 
 camera! Should you buy it? Well...... Yes i think you should if your thinking about it but remember 
 if your a casual gamer STAY AWAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  There is no other horror games at the moment (good horror games) and resident evil is not out for 
 another year or so. One more thing this game will last you probably less then a week. So go out 
 and buy this and if you're not too bothered wait till it is less money becuase it will be less 
 money! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
