-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: America's Army: True Soldiers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/americasarmytruesoldiers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A wide variety of customizable multiplayer modes.
 Weapons and equipment have a realistic feel.
 Interesting character-progression system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Moving around is clunky and awkward.
 Extremely dated visuals.
 Campaign will put you to sleep.
 It's a long ways from free.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 330 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game that began as a free PC download has made its way to retail shelves with this Xbox 360 
 iteration, but it looks as if most of the fun was lost in transit. 

  When America's Army was first released for the PC as a clever means of boosting military recruitment 
 numbers, there were two key factors working in its favor: It was both free and surprisingly fun 
 to play. Now that the series has arrived on the Xbox 360 in the form of True Soldiers, its original 
 appeal has taken a huge hit. Not only does it sport the same retail asking price you'll find on 
 every other premium current-generation first-person shooter, but it's also attempted a more realistic 
 feel, which has resulted in a clunky and monotonous overall experience.  

           These guys are lying down because running around will drain your will to live.      

 
  You can jump right into the online multiplayer, which is by far the game's biggest strength, but 
 given that this is an official Army game, it seems more natural to begin with Basic Training. With 
 a colorful array of drill sergeants guiding you along the way, you'll start out in target practice 
 on a firing range with a variety of genuine Army weaponry, and gradually move your way up to a 
 full-blown obstacle course. It's in that transition where you really see the game's strengths and 
 weaknesses. The guns feel and sound very authentic, and you can choose from a good variety of them. 
 Furthermore, through the use of customizable classes and skill-building honor points, you feel 
 a distinct connection to your firearms that you don't find in many shooters. But once you get moving, 
 things turn ugly.  

  "Awkwardly plodding" would be a nice way to describe how your soldier moves. It's bearable when 
 you're charging through an open field, but when you work yourself into a space with any sort of 
 obstacles nearby, this jerky movement makes it feel as if you're trying to parallel park a big, 
 yellow school bus. The item menu doesn't make things feel any more fluid. Say that you're in a 
 firefight and you want to toss a grenade. You'll need to pull up the radial equipment menu, point 
 the cursor to the frag grenade -- be careful not to select the handgun right next to it, as we accidentally 
 did several times -- and wait for the status bar to load up before you can throw one. After that, 
 you do the opposite to switch back to your gun. It's a needlessly laborious process that further 
 hampers the game's already-tedious pace.  

           Aiming your gun starts out tough, but you can improve your accuracy by collecting honor 
 points, although they won't make aiming at a concrete wall any more useful.      

  When you finish up with Basic Training, the next logical step is Wargames. This would be the equivalent 
 of a campaign mode in most games, but here it's really just an extension of Basic Training because 
 the majority of it is staged with no story to speak of. You're guided from one checkpoint to another 
 by the same boisterous sergeants found in training. At each stop there's a swarm of enemies you'll 
 need to take out, but these "enemies" are actually fellow soldiers dressed in militia garb, and 
 you're not "taking them out" as much as you are shooting them with paintballs until they sit on 
 the ground with arms crossed to signal defeat. What's more, these simulated dustups are few and 
 far between, given that most of the time you're basically being taken for a leisurely nature walk 
 by your commanding officer as he yells to stay close despite your presence literally two feet away. 

  Technical issues go far beyond mystifying squad orders. While playing through the Wargames missions, 
 there were several times when we witnessed a member of our squad engaged in a bizarrely protracted 
 firefight, with each participant crouched on the ground and pointing a gun directly at the other 
 with no more than four or five feet separating them. Whether this is an issue with the hit recognition, 
 artificial intelligence, or both, these moments really undermine the sense of realism that the 
 game tries so hard to build.  

  Bland textures and downright ugly character models further dilute the game's realism. The graphics 
 aren't bad to the point of distraction, but they certainly don't help matters any. Thankfully, 
 the sound design actually  does  help matters -- at least a little. The audio in True Soldiers has 
 some very nice touches throughout, including realistic gunfire, well-placed musical flourishes, 
 and elements such as heavy panting when your character tires, or the sound of kneepads sliding 
 on hard dirt when you switch in midsprint from standing to crouching.  

           With such lackluster character models, these two can't stand to look at each other.   
    

  If you're able to deal with the faults found in the core gameplay, the deep multiplayer goes a 
 long way to help the game. Whether online or offline, competitive or cooperative, there's a huge 
 array of customization options available for you to tinker with. You'll find the usual selection 
 of modes, such as team deathmatch and territory capturing, as well as other options such as 16 
 player co-op, where you can essentially create levels on the fly by choosing the number and difficulty 
 of enemies your team needs to defeat to achieve victory. The levels tend to be pretty massive, 
 too, which offers a lot of strategic options but also exposes just how terrible the movement really 
 is (especially when you keep respawning in the same spot in your base when the action is clear 
 across the level) .  

  In the end, True Soldiers' problems would be a lot more forgivable if the designers had stuck with 
 the series' budget-friendly roots. Ironically, the price has gone up while the quality has gone 
 nowhere but down. Exactly how far down that is depends on how much you can appreciate a slow-paced 
 shooter with more than a few nagging issues. But considering that you're paying good money for 
 the Army to advertise to you, those faults are especially hard to swallow.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hawk2008
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:31 pm PT
Review:  best online game besides call of duty. i like it cause u can only get hit by enemy bullets once 
 or twice and then u go down and some one has to heal you. takes place in modern times. not a lot 
 of people play it but if u can find a good game its really good. if u are a noob and u cant take 
 only getting shot a couple time go play call of duty its defiantly for you. it didn't get good ratings 
 but screw them people u no. i think u should try this game but i think its a really good game if 
 u have online cause its a multiplayer game. jfdhsaohgosah 9oghoahg dgah ohgsai ghoah godhoa ghdsoa 
 ghdosa gfodsa gid osap ahbosvfdqa bogsha godsag thats just so it lets me submit this. its so gay 
 it has to so long....... wat ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When I played this, I didn't find anything here having to do with war, soldiers, or any real guns. 
 The online is fine, even though noone even plays it, I don't blame them, this "campaign" was too 
 amazing that they had to quit. No, I'm kidding, I shouldn't have on a topic of a game like this! 
 The whole game is literally just army propoganda with the campaign literally being a training session. 
 All there is in the game is a training session which is a campaign. I wanted to at least shoot 
 a real dang gun, but instead, they gave me a paintball gun or something which made a small pop 
 noise. You don't shoot other people, you shoot pieces of paper, and tanks. Tanks, at least, can 
 hit your guy with HUGE balls of paint, which probably kills you. Either way, stay away from this 
 game. Not worth the money, I tried not making any assumptions before playing the game, and I didn't... until 
 I played the game. I played it for an hour and literally went back to the local gaming store and 
 returned it for Dora The Explorer: Playstation 1 version. I literally did that. It's is terrible, 
 I don't believe I spent 10 minutes typing this for a game as bad as this. Give it a try if you 
 enjoy training for the army, or if you want a heads up before joining the army, but if you are 
 just a gamer like me, do NOT buy this game. Not worth your time or the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak_20000
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  IT IS HORRIBLE!
  
  Never play this game, you will not like it, the only good part is the Multiplayer. This game is 
 horrible, no point in playing a game that has no way of being fun if you have no online ability. 
 Why would you want to play this game if it sucks? WHY WOULD YOU MAKE IT IF IT SUCKS!? The gameplay 
 is boring, the graphics are blocky, the controls are the same, but are no use in a game that is 
 boring. The story is horrible and has no plot.
  
  NEVER PLAY THIS  You will regret ever wasting time in 
 your life to play this game, so please, save yourselves the suffering that this game gives. I would 
 rather play Bratz than this game... It is said that "Nothing is as good as the first" And for this 
 game, that is extremely true. This is the perfect example of this statement, play it and find out 
 why, but try not to break the disc after the first hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I came at this game with the most optimistic approach and hopes, only to be extremely disappointed.
 
  
  I started off with the training, and when I was doing the training, I couldn't even aim right, 
 I had to qualify with an M16 and when I tried to scoot the aim a little to the left it jumped across 
 the screen. So I figured "ok, no big deal, I'll just make the sensitivity lower." only to find 
 out you can change the look sensitivity, you also can't change the difficulty. So after I retried 
 every mission of training about 5 times, I was finally qualified to play wargames. WOOHOO!!... 
 not.
  
  There were no actual missions, there was no actual fighting, you did training in order to do training 
 missions! The missions were done with paint bullets or something. So I'm almost at the end of my 
 first mission, only to get shot and killed, because I had to pick up some stupid AT4 or something 
 to shoot smoke at a tank, which I guess will just give me a face full of paint if I don't get it. 
 So I press X to pick it up, the icon disappears, so I'm like "ok, I got it, I ipcked it up" only 
 to turn around, try to blow it up, realize the AT4 isn't there, and I gotta pick it up again. The 
 tank blows me up, and then, and only then do I realize there were no checkpoints that whole map. 
 I have to restart the whole mission wchi probably took me 15 minutes to get there.
  
  Don't get this game unless you like extremely bad games or are one of the extreme versions of masochists. 
 I wanted to ignore the reviewers too. I wanted to try to enjoy the game, I mean, none of the reviews 
 had given me a reason not to try the game, they just said it sucks. Trust me, trust them, this 
 is not worth your time or energy playing this game. I think I'd rather go blow 50 bucks on Viva 
 Pinata and play that before I play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 3
Date: May 17, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game promised to be a realistic shooter, designed by the Army itself, that forced players 
 to use tactics and teamwork in order to succeed- ostensibly to offer average gamers an appreciation 
 of what it's like to be part of a real military unit. Sadly, the game utterly fails to deliver 
 on that promise.
  
  I would start by saying the graphics are last-gen but last-gen graphics would surely be insulted 
 by such a statement. Characters and environments remind me of shooters from 8 or 10 years ago, 
 no joke.
  
  Sound was hit and miss, with the weapons fire/effects being pretty good but voice acting being 
 horrible. In the interest of realism, NPCs call you by a nickname you choose from a list. "Good 
 idea, poor execution" is this game's mantra as the result sounds more like a voice you might hear 
 on an automated phone menu: "Your hold time is- 'five' -minutes". The straw that broke my patience's 
 back was the incessant panting your character produces, even after only one or two steps.
  
  Even worse is the frustratingly sluggish gameplay. Movement is jarring and imprecise. When 
 starting to move from a standstill, your character must first "wind-up" in a fashion I simply cannot 
 describe. The accompanying screen jerk made me want to vomit from motion sickness. Maneuvering 
 in tight quarters simply isn't possible. The menu system is shockingly overcomplicated- actions 
 as simple as changing weapons require a series of clicks and the resulting animation takes forever. 
 The hit detection is an absolute farce- it took me 8 tries to hit a stationary cardboard tank with 
 a rocket launcher from only a few feet away- the game simply did not recognise the first 7 hits.
 
  
  The real knife in the back has to be the "campaign," which is actually just more "training". You 
 shoot "bad guys" (your allies dressed in costumes) with paintballs and the cheesy "drill instructors" 
 follow you around, barking your objectives.
  
  This game should not be played by anyone, anywhere, anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kierlack15
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  First off just let me say that I have not rated a game in quite some time, but after playing this 
 game I felt that this particular game really needed to be rated from a FPS-lover's point of view.
 
  This game to was almost painful to play. I started the first mission on the easiest difficulty 
 and tried several times to beat it but was unable to, and I assure you that it's not because I 
 am bad at shooting. I have beaten the entire COD4 campaign on Veteran and I am level 45 in Team 
 Slayer in Halo 3. The problem for me was 1) the reticle of your gun is WAY too unstable. I don't 
 know what the US Army was thinking but the gunsight moves up and down at a ridiculous pace, faster 
 than any I have seen in any shooting game before by far, which makes it too difficult to kill enemies. 
 2) The AI is absolutely HORRIBLE. The enemies walk right to you and your army soldiers, and there 
 is no feeling of reality while playing. On the easiest difficulty of the first mission I stealthily 
 tried to come upon an enemy and immediately he knew where I was even though I had done nothing 
 to arouse suspicion and he had been turned the other way. One shot from him and I was down... which 
 brings me to the friendly AI. Your fellow soldiers walk at a snail's pace and you have to stay 
 with them. They do nothing to help you kill enemy soldiers and only hinder you, and when you are 
 shot and downed your friends take way too long to resurrect you, if they even do. 3) No checkpoints. 
 4) Although this isn't really a problem, it is fairly annoying to me. When you kill a person they 
 just sit down on the ground. I'm assuming this is all because the Army doesn't want to support 
 showing blood or American soldiers killing people and if that is the case I respect that they are 
 trying to appease the pacifists, but this is a FPS game in the United States, and to me there just 
 isn't nearly enough action. It gets very tedious seeing enemies simply sit down when they are "killed." 
 The multi-player facet of this game could be much better, and does not in any way compare to that 
 of other leading shooters, i. e. Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4.
  
  Unless you are Bill Gates, do not buy this game for the campaign, for you WILL be disappointed. 
 If you want it for multi-player, I would HIGHLY suggest finding the extra cash for Call of Duty 
 4 or Halo 3, and if it is realistic shooting you are looking for then get the extra 20 bucks to 
 buy Call of Duty 4 because its multi-player is amazing for Army-type online shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIlSwank123
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  GIVE THIS GAME A TRY If you're expecting CD4 but more realistic you'll be disapointed. This is 
 less a game & more a sim.
  
  This game is not CoD 4. I would not be confused if you h8ed this game. But If you loved It I wouldn't 
 be suprised. The good things are that it has great online, great guns/sounds, and it feels like 
 you're really there fighting along america's bravest. The Cons are that the controls take a little 
 getting used to, your guy feels like he's waddling, its not in the mid-east, the campaign is almost 
 non-existent, and there isn't a very large community of gamers online (even though thats not the 
 game's fault) .
  In the end you might find yourself playing this game hours on end, or you could be so frustrated 
 with youself for payin for this #&$^ you want to shoot you'reself in the face w/ a real M16. For 
 me I really appreciated this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USA1234
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  OMG this game sucked compared to what i thought it would be. First let me start off by saying on 
 the first level there is no checkpoints so if you died then that was it, start the whole thing 
 over agian, as far as sound and graphics they were pretty good, no, not the greatest but good. 
 Your commrades act like complete morons, and your team leader contradicts himself all the time. 
 Nothing cool about this game besides the fact you got to shoot a gun, and it is very realistic. 
 You do get to go to a training camp thing , but thats kinda plain. In my opion you could have more 
 fun watching grass grow then handling with the fustrastion and slowness of this game. I think if 
 the testers actually looked through this game and fixed all its flaws you would have a decent game. 
 Bottom line If your into slowpaced, boring, fustrating video games then this is the right game 
 for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OperatorBen
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The single-player is nothing special, in fact, it is boring. The game designers claim that it is 
 extremely realistic game, but I disagree. The tactics used in single-player would never be used 
 by any branch of our nation's military. Everything good about this game has to do with its multi-player. 
 It is by far one of the best multi-player experiences I have ever had in a fps. It is harder to 
 quickly aim your rifle, which makes it very realistic, and it gives the game an added degree of 
 difficulty. This is an aspect which I love. Also, the multi-player lends itself to tactics and 
 teamwork, something that I have wanted in an online experience, but have never found. I highly 
 recommend finishing the single-player campaign, because of the great weapons you will unlock. Multi-player 
 sucks when you are trying to win with an M16 with iron sights. Overall, if you have Xbox LIVE it 
 is a great buy, if not, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planecrazyjones
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Played the demo on XBOX-Live. I was honestly pretty impressed. Where so many military oriented 
 FPS' rely on intense theatrics to bring the presentation to life, this game does it nicely on plain 
 ol' reality. For example, instead of using a reticle bore-sighted to the center of your screen, 
 you actually have to aim your weapon and stare down the front sight posts to effectively place 
 fires down range. The individual movement is definitely blocky, but rest assured, so is the case 
 in real life and combat. The feel and sound of the weapons are dead on. I only recommend you turn 
 the volume up on your system to appreciate how loud these weapons really are when employed. As 
 a Combat Infantryman having served in Baghdad, Iraq, I found the the overall experience of this 
 "simulation" very accurate as far as a game can possibly go when depicting combat on the ground. 
 However, many I think will be disappointed in this game because of what the perception of combat 
 is like. Call of Duty 4, for example, is no doubt very intense and dramatic - and fun, but does 
 not really bring to reality the typical experience of ground pounding. Large battles are extremely 
 overwhelming, but they don't happen very often at all. "America's Army" is a down to earth, realistic 
 reflection of what being a soldier is like. I found it very gratifying. Again, if you think GRAW, 
 Call of Duty ect....... is what it's really like, it's all Hollywood. Great fun for sure, but Hollywood 
 all the same. Finally, this game can definitely use some polishing. The graphics could be upgraded 
 some, and the movement could be a little more fluid, but again, they are not so bad that they really 
 take away from the over all experience. I enjoyed playing this. 
  
  Caveat: What in heaven's name are they teaching you all in English these days? I've never seen 
 such horrid writing and grammar in my entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memphisking9
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  the single player on this game isn't very fun when compared to past AA games becuase all they are 
 are training games in the army your ammo is fake for gosh sakes. Also pretty short.
  
  the multiplayer is fun in my opinion it takes alot of strategy in some cases. the problem for me 
 playing as i sniper is headshots. see when you kill some one at first they don't die they just 
 are down kinda like in gears of war only you can't shot someone again to shot them while there 
 down like in gears. only thing is when you shot someone in the head they go down, there head doesn't 
 blow off! plus waiting when your down can be really boring!! the best thing about the multiplayer 
 though is that there is little to no lag!!
  
  overall id say the graphics arent much of an approvement or maybe even a step down from the series. 
 I would say if the price hasn't gone down yet id be suprised. if its like 30-40 dollars some place 
 round there i would recommend this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peralta775
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i am glad I did not buy this game. I have a buddy who loves military shooters, him being in 
 the military also probably has something to do with it. Let me paint the scenario for you as if 
 Bob Ross was doing it for you. We are on the way to his house talking about all stuff military, 
 as if I understood everything he was saying but I went along with it anyways. We get to his house, 
 pop in the disc and begin playing online. Bam, we were both just shot in the face with bad graphics. 
 What is this, did we just buy an Xbox game? I tell him no, you were just ripped off. The detail 
 of the characters remind me strangely of feces without the stink. This is suppose to be a next 
 gen game with next gen graphics. However even the first Xbox has seen better times.
  
  Hopefully the gameplay will save the game. Nope, we just been raped there also. The interface is 
 so clunky that it would make the tin mans movements seem smooth. The way the control feels when 
 moving the gun around? DOOM felt more fluid.
  
  I have nothing good to say about this game. It's on par with Soldier of Fortune Payback. I could 
 have cut and pasted my review for that, changed the name of the game and it still would be relevant 
 to this game. I don't know what the military was thinking when putting their name on this game. 
 Maybe they should have played it first before risking hurting their recruitment drive. This game 
 may make people think that war sucks in real life and not want to join. Maybe they should have 
 just done something with Bungie instead and convince people to join through Halo 3. Who knows, 
 anything else would have been better than placing your chips with this game. Getting your kidneys 
 taken during your trip to Mexico would have felt like an investment compared to paying $60 for 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennydiesalways
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game isn't GRAW so it can't be compared to it. If you played the first game 
 of XBOX (RISE OF A SOLDIER) then this game have better graphics and sounds. This game have a cool 
 multiplayer mode. But Ubisoft could have done better. I expected this game to be times greater 
 than its predecessor, but is only a little better, so this game its only an average. Maybe Ubisoft 
 can restore the ingredient that made (RISE OF A SOLDIER) a magnificent game. I think this game 
 is being a little underaprecciated because people are comparing it to GRAW 2, this game is AMERICA'S 
 ARMY 2 not GRAW 2, so it has to be compared with AMERICA'S ARMY 1 not GRAW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer review so i had the chance to barrow this for a couple of days and do the people who 
 makes this game actually play lets talk about the presentation the cover looks kinda of cool and 
 its an army web bassed tatical game and i have been waiting to play one for a while. The sound is 
 abosloutly horible the gun shots are crap every thing that you can name is crap the voice acting 
 is lame too... The graphics for a next gene title its abosolutly horible the textures look extreamly 
 dated and its just a shame to look at the gameplay its self is the main reason this game is so 
 bad when you are engaged in combat its not even fun what so ever and when you get shot you lay 
 on the ground bleeding out for like 2 minutes and wait for someone to drag you away or heal you 
 its sounds like a cool concept but it is rather boring because i just want to die so i can spawn 
 and not sit there for ever. so amercians is pretty low on my standerds it goes down there with 
 vampire rain and bomber man act zero and if it had better gamplay and graphics it may be fun...
 
  the presitnation 7.0
  The sound 2.0
  the graphics 3.0
  the gamplay 1.0
  the value 1.0 
  overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok, America's Army PC version VERY FUN, XBOX version NOT SO FUN.
  
  Its really Sad That The Original A. A is better than the 360 version, the controls are very clunky, 
 graphics are good because of GRAW engine. Training is very short the single player is supose to 
 be not as focused as Multiplayer but they are almost the same, both very boring. Single player 
 is just training missions which isnt a bad idea. But the online is suppose to be better, Competitive 
 multiplayer SUCKS spawn camping every match. The only good thing is Co-Op missions which there 
 isn't that many.
  
  They took out Special Forces Class on the Rise of A soldier and PC version you could advance through 
 ranks and when you hit one high ranking Sergent you could customize a M4 Carbine which was very 
 cool. On True soldiers No customization at all except choose a face.
  
  OVER ALL: If you have a PC just download A. A on PC ITS FREE yes FREE and True Soldiers you pay 
 money and True Soldiers IS DOWNGRADED. 
  
  I love America's Army I would love for them to try again on The XBOX but put in the cool stuff 
 from the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whywithgames
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok so graphics, Ai, controls, are bad story is bad, its just a bad game over all
  you might think is good because its from ubisoft but no its nothing like
  any ghost recon game. 
 its just bad. run run away! did i tell you
  to run yes run and never look back at this game. and if you are still reading 
  this you have 
 waisted precious time from your life, thats America's army: true soldiers a waist of time. Run 
 run run run run run run run run run run run run
  run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run 
 run run run run run runaway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pino4545
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is the very defenition of how not to make a game. I predicted this game was gonna be 
 crap before it even came out. As soon as i saw the screen shots i thought to my self, they are 
 using the same old game engine that ubisoft uses on all its games. I have played Rainbow six, Splinter 
 Cell, GRAW 1 and 2 and they all look preety much the same, its obvious to see that Ubisoft has 
 used the same played out game engine in every game, and so they do it again. This game has out 
 dated graphics, the game play is choppy, slow , and disastrous. I have always been a fan of Americas 
 army for the PC since it was released but this game belongs at the very bottom you trash can. They 
 should have gone with skilled game makers like Call of Duty 4 (Infinity ward) to make this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the worst games I have ever, played, and it is very glitchy, like the second 
 last level of training, you can't mave after you finish the grenade test, and on the game i rented, 
 whenever you run on multiplayer, you do deep breathing, which is really irritating. The worst part 
 is on the simulated combat missions called "wargames", whenever a enemy, you, or a teamate gets 
 wounded, or killed, they only sit down! that is lame! DO NOT BUY THIS IDIOTIC GAME!
  The only possible good thing about this game is that you can see your shadow, and your feet, but 
 they probally put more focus into realism (other than the sitting down thing) than anything else! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is most defiantly the WORST fps that has ever been made. O. k. so I go through the nine tutorials 
 that cover all the weapons and basic controls and I think ok let's go to war and kill some bad 
 guys right. Completely and utterly wrong; you go through a bunch of missions where you shoot non-deadly 
 guns at your own people. Just like paint ball! The worst part about it is a very very bad impersonation 
 of GRAW. The controls are kind of like what they were in GRAW and GRAW 2. THIS GAME DISGRACES GHOST 
 RECON!!!!!!!!!!!!! It's really that bad. When you walk/run it feels like you get 2 feet shorter 
 because everyone walks hunched over. I suspect that the online capability is not much better. I 
 never tried it because after the single-player campaign I could not take much more pain. I returned 
 this game to blockbuster the same night I got it and went to play Halo3. Buy that instead; they 
 cost the same some how. If you really want to take the risk of buying go head. I promise if you 
 do buy it you will hate your self for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The makers of the awesome Graw series takes a stab at America's Army. What were they doing when 
 making this game? I rented this and feel like i flushed my $5 down the toilet. This game is the 
 absolute worst i've had the "pleasure" of playing so far this year. This game makes Soilder of Fortune: Payback 
 look like a "AAA" title. 
  Controls are just broken, have fun with the sniper rifle. Graphics are decent, but a definate downgrade 
 from Graw. Seriously though, this game is so stupidly hard, you'll want to curse and scream in frustration 
 of what could have been. Your teamates are brain-dead. Constantly getting in your way, coming to a 
 dead stop during a firefight, causing you to be stuck..... and the fatal in game bugs. I had to reset 
 4 times in an hour. This is just unexcusable. Red Storm, you rushed this one out the door. I'll forgive 
 you this time, but time to get your act together.
  This game takes it's place next to Hour of Victory as worst 360 ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  true soldier, is 90% bad and 10% a perfect copy of graw you do the math. The game is pretty much 
 online based, which would make you think that its a great game. They think that they put all their 
 dedication into it.... WRONG, they were probably busy drinking coffee as the game was being made. 
 Don't get me wrong the game, has it's good things, at time you can feel the team work and you laugh 
 about silly mistakes. In the other hand, the rescues and whack and boring (and thats the best element 
 of the game) . the weapons are very limited and can be horribly in accurate. It would take you a 
 while to get used to it. The sniper is by far the worst weapon in the game, I dare you to try and 
 kill to people before they kill you LOL. The graphics are not bad and thats the 10% they are almost 
 an exact replica of graw 1 not 2, but 1. In a nut shell, The communication rocks, the graphics 
 are passable, the missions suck, the weapons suck, the game play is passable for 1 to 2 hours at 
 the most 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The demo for the America's Army game was awful and broken, and I readily assumed the problems would 
 be fixed by the time the full game was released. How stupid of me!
  I'm going to be honest. I could hardly play America's Army. In fact, I didn't get to really play 
 the online multiplayer much at all. Not that I didn't want to. I just couldn't because the game 
 wouldn't let me.
  The training for the game is like the other stuff you see in America's Army games, y'know, meant 
 to be like real Army training rather than just "here's how to play the game".
  The game follows up training with Wargames. Rather than having a legitimate campaign, they decided 
 to go with some crap where the player and a couple of AI buddies march around and complete objectives 
 against AI who sit down upon being shot. It's meant to be like a wargame, which is basically practice, 
 exercise, staying frosty, whatever you want to call it, in which nobody dies and everyone is isn't 
 trying to kill eachother, kind of like a game of paintball. That's plenty cool, but a real single 
 player campaign would've been much nicer. "Rise of a Soldier" had a much better campaign layout 
 in that there was training, and then there were actual missions in which the player was, from an 
 in-game realism point of view, in real danger against real enemies rather than fellow soldiers 
 dressed up as enemies.
  When I played, I couldn't remember seeing any competitive multiplayer modes. This is fine with 
 me, since I never play any player-versus-player modes in GRAW. However, for whatever stupid reason, 
 now only two players can play on a single console, instead of four like in GRAW and GRAW 2.
  The game has utterly broken player movement. The game forces the player to a first-person view 
 for whatever reason, and unlike the FPS view in the Ghost Recon games, this FPS view actually lets 
 the player see his own hands and weapons. That would be cool and all, except that the game still 
 controls just like GRAW (if not even worse) so that the act of trying to move around feels like 
 total crap as the player just slides around and shakes wildly and moves in a really odd fashion. 
 This movement is annoying any way you cut it, but would have been far better-suited to a third-person 
 view, which would already be programmed into the game since this is just a GRAW mod. Being a clone 
 of GRAW explains why moving around feels like crap, but it doesn't explain why they didn't just 
 FREAKING FIX IT, or at least keep the third-person view.
  The button placement also sucks. Have they never played a real FPS before? Could they not make 
 the controller configuration more sensible?
  The biggest problem that they just refused to fix was late-joining. When late-joining, players 
 are forced to stare at the player list while everyone else plays the game, and they can't actually 
 see anything until the game is over. However, if the player joins on time and dies, he can spectate 
 through the eyes of the other players, which is interesting and leaves something to look forward 
 to when the player comes back to life to rejoin the battle. The only reason I could possibly imagine 
 for having to look at the player list when joining late is so people can't cheat in PvP battles, 
 but who really gives a crap what crappy reason they could possibly have, FORCING LATE JOINERS TO 
 LOOK AT THE PLAYER LIST INSTEAD OF SPECTATING THE GAME IS OBVIOUSLY THE MOST STUPID DECISION THEY 
 COULD'VE EVER MADE FOR THE ENTIRE GAME OR ANY OTHER GAME EVER.
  I could not play the multiplayer. I couldn't. I would join a game, the game would start, then after 
 a few seconds I would be kicked out. This happened every time in the demo and it happened every 
 time in the full version. It wouldn't let me play multiplayer! THE GAME IS LIKE MULTIPLAYER-ONLY.
 
  The only, ONLY thing that looked better about the multiplayer compared to GRAW that I could actually 
 catch was when I saw a player name floating above an APC. I highly doubt that the player was driving 
 it, since GRAW has no vehicular control and a crappy game like True Soldiers sure as hell wouldn't 
 bother to program it in. More likely, that player had control over whether the APC would move forward, 
 move backward, or stop. Even though that's kind of lame how the APCs in GRAW just move on a set 
 path, it's still a step above GRAW multiplayer which had no vehicles, except for enemies who would 
 use vehicles at scripted moments (or send out helicopters) .
  The player models look like they were ripped right out of GRAW, which they probably were.
  The 
 game just adds nothing over GRAW or GRAW 2. In fact, thanks to a lifeless single player, crappy 
 controls & movement, and clear evidence that they didn't give a crap about the game, even if the 
 multiplayer was playable, the game would STILL be unplayable!
  Because the game adds absolutely no improvements whatsoever over GRAW 2, there's just nothing making 
 it worth any money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Well I just got finished playing Assasin's Creed, and decided to throw this little bit of a rental 
 in. Low and behold since I'm retarded I see the Ubisoft logo pop up and say "Hey this game must 
 be pretty damn good!" Well no it isn't it does this series no honor, and well Ubisoft were you 
 guys high when you made this?? The single player is a blatant rip off of the PC version's, and 
 it uses the same crap Graw 2 engine which errors like hell and looks like crap to. The realistically 
 of this game soon gave way to frustration. Not to mention the multiplayer aspect of this game, 
 WHICH I do believe this game was made to emphasize, SUCKED. End of story anyone who says this game 
 was good is wrong. Mabye they will fix it in a patch. But this one is something you should never 
 bother buying let alone renting. Buy Assasin's Creed instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNAKE8153
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Do not waste your time on this game. I was all excited because this game really had potential. 
 The concept of going through boot camp and moving up the ranks as an army solider sounded swell 
 (It would have been better if it were a USMC game.) The parts the really pissed me off were the 
 "wargames." I was injured and a teamate was crawling towards me to heal me. To my amazement the 
 other soliders head disappeared into my characters ass and froze up. So there I was dying with 
 another mans head up my but. Also there are no checkpoint for these missions which means you better 
 not mess up. And finding a multiplayer match is about as easy as field stripping a tank. This game 
 is FUBAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altmoonster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game, as I am a fan of realistic shooter. But quite frankly the games 
 single player mode is anemic at best and frustrating at its worst due to unclear objectives, and 
 glitches that make it impossible to finish missions at times. Unfortunately, since this isn't a 
 very popular game with the multiplayer crowd, the multiplayer opponents are few and far between. 
 This could be a great game, but the freeze in single player coupled with the lack of online opponents 
 really limit it's potential.
  
  The graphics are fine, the actual game mechanics are fine (it is the GRAW 2 engine after all) it 
 is just two major game crippling problems that lead me to give a low score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  You get 8 missions and 10 multiplayer maps. The multiplayer is where this game is at! I've played 
 them all... Rainbow Six, COD, GRAW, you name it and this is the most addictive online game to date. 
 The graphics are breathtaking and the gameplay itself is ambitious. A definite must buy for all 
 you First person shooter fans!!
  The only negatives is some lighting issues when entering or leaving the Observatory. One player 
 glitched and was locked in place in that map as well. And even though the gun locking up is part 
 of the game, it is a big pain in the A$$- when you are in the middle of a melee. I thought i would 
 be stuck on COD4 all winter, but this gem by UbiSoft made me reconsider. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
