-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Amped 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/amped3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Style for miles.
 Crazy storyline keeps you guessing.
 Lengthy and eclectic soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay can be bland, not so challenging.
 Graphics solid, but not impressive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 66 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 2,115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The wholly original cut-and-paste visual style of Amped 3-- combined with the manic, increasingly 
 crazy energy of the story mode -- make it easier to forgive the oft-repetitive and occasionally plain 
 gameplay. 

  They call it Amped 3, but just about the only thing that Indie Built's Xbox 360 launch game has 
 in common with the two previous iterations in this snowboarding series is the snow -- and, frankly, 
 it's a better game for it. While there have been moments of bizarre levity in its fairly straightlaced 
 predecessors, Amped 3 is just a big scalding-hot cup of crazy through and through. It's an exceptionally 
 difficult game to turn away from, even if much of the actual gameplay experience is comparatively 
 mundane.  

          Indie Built gets off its meds for its surreal new snowboarding game.     

  Taking a 
 cue from the direction that the Neversoft's Tony Hawk series has taken over the past few entries, 
 Amped 3 wraps up the single-player game in a linear story that puts you, as a unique-but-nameless 
 snowboarder, in the lead role. Aside from your blank slate, there's your crew, which is pretty 
 archetypal: there's Hunter, the spunky, mildly tomboyish girl; JDawg, who has snowboarding ambitions 
 beyond goofing around with the crew; Sebastian, the spacey, plus-sized Zen guru; and WeinerBoy, 
 who personifies a kind of spastic younger-brother energy. The story starts off predictably enough 
 when your crew's vacation fund money gets stolen and you get pinned with the crime. The rest of 
 your crew splits for Chile, bankrolled by a mysterious snowboarding sponsor. You head to Utah with 
 your new friend Dandelion, a reformed hair-rocker now devoted to the obsessive, slightly creepy 
 craft of scrapbooking, to try to earn back the stolen money and reconnect with your crew.  

  And then everything just gets weird. Without spoiling the experience, just know that, before 
 you get to the end credits, there will be ninjas, a yeti, a Soviet game show, a boy band that's 
 huge in France, an evil video game manufacturer, a tabletop RPG, faux-Mexican mayonnaise, and a 
 very specific homage to Final Fantasy VII. The actual narrative is a bit erratic, with certain 
 characters flip-flopping arbitrarily, and some conflicts are resolved pretty poorly. But the game 
 is so consistent in delivering unpredictably bizarre, funny cutscenes that you really can't wait 
 to see what happens next. And trust us when we say that, even though the story can be a little 
 uneven at points, Amped 3 features what is likely the most stand-up-and-applaud endings ever to 
 be featured in a video game. Ever.  

  A huge part of what makes the story so appealing -- and, really Amped 3 in general -- is the game's 
 incredibly inspired, enthusiastic art style. Cutscenes are rendered with 8-bit graphics, sock puppets, 
 full-motion video, anime, stop-motion animation, comic books, and stock educational film footage, 
 all the while pulling from influences ranging from  The Yellow Submarine  to  Entertainment Tonight 
 . From the menus to the actual game itself, there is a very distinct cut-and-paste, multimedia 
 ethic to the way Amped 3 carries itself, making the whole package exceptionally vibrant and really 
 tough to turn away from.  

  The aesthetics definitely overshadow the game's technical prowess, which speaks more to just how 
 engaging the art style is than any kind of graphical weakness. The biggest strength is its scope. 
 In all, there are six different mountains that you can travel to, and each one acts as a seamless 
 whole. Also, the draw distance goes on for a ways. For example, in one of the more dramatic moments, 
 you'll launch a hang glider off a massive cliff, and you can see the entire valley, right down 
 to individual trees, from thousands of feet in the air. The environments have a natural look to 
 them, though the game's not afraid to inject the courses with some huge jumps that would realistically 
 cause massive bone fractures, and massive, serpentine rails that no human being could actually 
 slide down.  

  There are always tons of other snowboarders and skiers on the mountain alongside you, all of them 
 doing their own thing, be it tricking off of jumps or just hanging out by the lifts. Unfortunately, 
 all of the other people on the mountain are apparently just apparitions, as you can clip right 
 through anyone without so much as a bump. It could be argued that this was done for the sake of 
 the gameplay, since all this extra snow traffic would undoubtedly slow you down. However, it doesn't 
 stop it from diminishing the game's immersive capacity.  

          The game's pastiche of visual styles is its greatest graphical strength.     

  The 
 game looks OK up close as well, with a pronounced difference in texture clarity and antialiasing 
 between standard definition and HD. Though even in HD, the improvement over the graphical detail 
 found on the original Xbox is incremental at best. There is a ton of bump-mapping on the snow, 
 as well as on the characters' hair and clothing. Although, more often than not, this just gives 
 the article in question that weird bump-mapped shine rather than a more-realistic look. Animations 
 look good, though there tends to be a bit too much "snap" between animation routines when you try 
 to execute a bunch of tricks in quick succession. Also, we noticed that, when in courses where 
 there were a lot of obstacles, it was not entirely uncommon for the camera to get snagged on some 
 piece of the environment. For the lion's share of our time with Amped 3, the frame rate was nice 
 and smooth, though there was a small portion of one of the late-game maps (viewed in widescreen) 
 that suffered a severe frame rate hit. It's a pretty minor point, but the severity of the choppiness 
 was quite pronounced, and it made an already-difficult challenge exceptionally frustrating.  

 
  Again, this is all just speaking technically, and a lot of these rough edges are made a bit more 
 forgivable by the wild artistic flairs that pepper the courses. One of the best touches is your 
 character's "awesomeness," which is actually an integral part of the character customization. There 
 are points when you'll be trying to impress bystanders with your moves, and every trick you pull 
 off successfully will activate said awesomeness, causing some colorful 2D art to come flying out 
 of your character. Different themes of awesomeness include Zen, sci-fi, urban, and arcade.     
 

   

  Among the most inspiring points in the first two Amped games were the soundtracks, both of which 
 opted to include a huge quantity of relatively unknown artists rather than go for a dozen or so 
 radio hits... and it paid off. The same ethos is at work in Amped 3, and the soundtrack covers a 
 lot of musical ground, including solid genre exercises in punk, heavy metal, hip-hop, trip-hop, 
 and electro. There are also some original songs that crop up when you're presented with different 
 challenges and during certain story sequences -- Menage a Brahs' "Bling 4 U" is the big standout 
 track -- and they hit the same sorts of bizarre notes as the visual style does. There's a ton of 
 voice work as well, which ranges from sounding blatantly amateurish to overly slick and professional. 
 Sometimes the range in quality of the voice work almost seems calculated, so that even when it's 
 bad, it still fits the mood. The game covers a lot of ground stylistically, and the sound design 
 keeps up. The only times we ever noticed that the system was flexing its Dolby 5.1 muscle was when 
 a random snowboarder would shout something at us as we cruised past, and even then the source seemed 
 locked in on a specific channel, rather than moving dynamically.  

          The gameplay in Amped 3 proves much easier and more accessible than its predecessors.  
    

  The actual snowboarding part of Amped 3 isn't really its strongest point, which is kind of par 
 for the course for the series. While SSX, the other significant snowboarding series out there, 
 has always been primarily a racing game where the tricks existed mostly to help you go faster, 
 Amped has always been first and foremost about the tricks. The first two Amped games were also 
 exceptionally unforgiving in some respects, which led to some really frustrating moments. Most 
 of that frustration has been dissolved in Amped 3, which now uses a trick system more akin to Tony 
 Hawk, though it's a bit more stripped down here.  

  One of the few remnants is the timing of the jumps -- by letting go of the A button right as you 
 leave a jump, you get some extra air. Conversely, let go too soon or too late, and your jump will 
 suffer. Aerial spins and flips are executed with the left analog stick, and you can add "style" 
 to your flips and spins by gently pushing the stick in a direction rather than just jamming on 
 it, which slows down time and also nets you more points. Aerial grabs can be performed by tapping 
 combinations of the X, Y, and B buttons, and those buttons can also be used to switch grind styles 
 when you're grinding on a rail. You can link together different types of tricks for bigger combos 
 with "butter," where you have to maintain balance on either end of your snowboard, which is easily 
 executed by rocking up and down on the left analog stick. The controls are responsive enough, but 
 it seems as though Indie Built overcompensated for the difficulty of past Amped games, and there 
 are times where Amped 3 can be forgiving to a fault.  

  Each mountain is covered in different challenges for you to take on, and you can view a map of 
 the whole mountain, along with any challenges that are available to you, through one of the main 
 pause menu options. From here you can select a challenge, and then have your snowboarder automatically 
 transported to the nearest ski lift. Alternately, you can back out to the main pause menu, and 
 choose to ride a snowmobile to your challenge instead. The challenges themselves cover a pretty 
 good variety. You'll pull off specific tricks for photographers, try to outtrick a pro snowboarder, 
 run through slalom gates, try to collect a string of special icons within a time limit, or simply 
 hit a high score. Some of the most satisfying gameplay in Amped 3 isn't when you're on a snowboard 
 at all, but rather, when you go sledding. You can choose to hop on a sled at virtually any point, 
 though there are specific challenges that task you with bailing off your sled in the most horribly 
 painful way possible. Thanks to some pretty good rag-doll physics, this mode makes it really enjoyable 
 to just abuse the hell out of your character.  

          A surplus of style and an enthusiastically strange story create a lot of goodwill for Amped 
 3.     

  The full online support of Amped 2 was one of its biggest selling points, which makes it a bit 
 disappointing that it has been all but stripped out of Amped 3. In fact, there's no dedicated multiplayer 
 game in here at all. However, you will happen upon a few sledding challenges over the course of 
 the single-player game for which you'll need a second player to participate. The game still technically 
 has Xbox Live support, though this is limited strictly to leaderboards.  

  It's too bad that the gameplay in Amped 3 isn't more compelling, considering how amazing the story 
 and the overall presentation of the game are. The upside, though, is that the gameplay is quite 
 forgiving, so it's not too difficult to get to the really bizarre and enjoyable parts. Those who 
 actually enjoyed the rather punishing nature of the gameplay in the previous Amped games may be 
 disappointed in the direction that Indie Built has decided to go with Amped 3. But the end result 
 proves to be one of the most original and refreshing games in the Xbox 360 launch lineup.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (196 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spazpol
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  As snowboarding games on the 360 go, you don't have much to choose from. To date we have Shaun 
 White or the aged Amped 3. At time of review Stoked hasn't been released, and even with a 3 year 
 gap, Amped 3 is still the stronger choice of snowboarding in my opinion. Granted the graphics are 
 not the greatest, but snowboarding games have usually been more about how good is the tricking, 
 and overall enjoyability of the game.
  
  The story on Amped 3 is bizarre at best. A tongue in cheek adventure that added pretty much nothing 
 to the game except filler. Thankfully the game is not based too much around that other then unlocking 
 the new mountains. When you get tired of shredding, you have the option to bomb around the mountain 
 on a mired of sleds or snowmobile.
  
  One nice feature to mention is the snowmobile, if you overshoot your mark for an event on the mountain, 
 it is not a complete pain to get back to where you are going. The challenges are just that, and 
 will test you on all vehicles, air, jib, spins, and even carving.
  
  Now the game is usually found in the discount bin or as a rental, I definitely say its worth checking 
 out if you are looking to spend some time this winter shredding on your 360 waiting for stoked 
 to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a really fun snowboarding game with some hilarious side-bits and cutscenes and minor 
 characters. The story is silly but the story also doesn't really matter -- its all about the snowboarding 
 (or snow sledding, or port-a-potty riding, or course designing, etc) . Looking back it really had 
 a lot of varied modes and a lot of fun challenges. The replay value is really high -- after 'finishing' 
 the game, I have gone back to this game many times when I just want to take a run down mountains 
 for fun. My 4 year old really loves the game too, and its a fun, non-violent game to play (except 
 for the over-the-top crashes, but the worst thing you see is your snowboarder grimacing and grabbing 
 his back after falling off a 1,000 foot cliff before climbing back onto his snowboard) . Fun game, 
 I highly recommend it for its replay value alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  the game play is good But Story was really WTF they could do better :)
  i ended the most impossible stun beated great high scores on leaderbaords on xbox live this game 
 did miss only one thing ?
  WHAT ABOUT MULTIPLAYERs May 2k SPORT Learn to make a 4 of it and put multiplayers
  hope shaun 
 white kick ass
  
  The Gameplay you ad acess to few character : nice costum model
  the big impresison of that time it that you fell you was in a cinematic
  you remember amped 2 
 ? or all other snow game
  well it never seem so real till shaun white snowboard happen so it a instant classic for me i played 
 all snowbord game in history
  this one was a sucess for trick variety & challanges i dream of a snowboard game with multiplayer 
 with leaderbord with friend playing it
  This game could have been much better if it ad only multiplayer
  
  So Watch for shaun white. 
 CAUSE HERE I AM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan689
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Game-play: 8
  
  Amped 3 starts out with a short tutorial that really teaches you all you need to know about the 
 game. From there the player is thrown into a wacky storyline that has you travelling to various 
 mountains to raise money, rescue your friends, and save the world from the villain. All the while 
 the player raises his respect by completing various challenges that are clearly marked with their 
 difficulty level. While at times the game is a button-masher, eventually one has to fine tune their 
 moves to get the most points and pass the harder challenges.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics are done quite well in Amped 3. The slopes are beautiful and populated by lots of 
 other people. The cut-scenes are mix of animation, pictures, live-action (mainly sock puppets) 
 each done with surprisingly good quality. This mix-up actually improves the quality of the game. 
 The player is kept guessing which kind of scene is coming next.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Admittedly some of the music was not within my musical tastes, they were all still entertaining 
 and more importantly felt as if they belonged in the game. The sound effects leave just a slight 
 bit to be desired of, namely repetitious after about 15 minutes of game play, but it is not bad. 
 The voice acting is very good. Your friends are portrayed well and the voices match them.
  
  Value: 6
  
  The value is lower here not because the game sucks by any means. The storyline 
 keeps the player involved and the missions fun. Unfortunately, after the storyline is complete 
 there is little to really keep the player interested, besides getting gold on all of the challenges. 
 During storyline = great, afterwards = fair
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  While I must admit I have never played a snowboarding game before. I was a little worried that 
 perhaps my lack of previous experience would ruin the game. Luckily, I still had a great time playing 
 this game. The story goes by kinda quick, but the challenges definitely add more after the storyline 
 is completed.
  
  
  Overall: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a snowboarding story with an amazing wacked out story. It really doesn't make any sense, 
 but it's plain out hilarious. The videos range from: stop motion, real life, animation, moving 
 mouths, and all sorts of crazy things. The snowboarding is semi realistic. There are 6 mountains 
 or something like that. You can use a snowmobile too. There are also 30 sleds. Ranging from coffins 
 to even hangliders. The game is very addicting. There are also many customizations like your board, 
 face, weight, boots, and many other things. The tricks system is very like Tony Hawk. I mean very 
 very very very close to Tony Hawk games. You can just snowboard around every run on every mountain 
 and that would be enough. You also have to stoke out people on many different parts of the mountains. 
 Money can buy you different kinds of accessories. The challenges are also fun too, but gets old, 
 because you eventually you feel like you play the same thing over and over. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Story: 10
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Overall: 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatergamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  the game (amped 3) is the best snowboarding game i've played. the game seems as if you are in a 
 comic book at times and the voises are mellow . it is very comical and every time you get sponsered 
 there is an amusing comercial for that product. though out the game you will go though obsticles 
 that make you very frusterated but if you keep on trying and you sucseed than before you get to 
 another hard part again you get some fun and easy parts. You get half of the gamer points by just 
 playing though the game. the game is hard to get tired of. (tatergamer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is superb. Second, I don't know why Gamespot gave it a dumb 7.6 because 
 its superb. You start in a little hill and in a bunny suit with your friends. You go down the hill, 
 just to get started. Then you customize your character and start doing missions to earn your character 
 some respect. Each mission has a little silly video to start it off and has normally nothimg to 
 do with snowboarding. LOL. The graphics are kind of nice but they have nothing spectacular. The 
 phisics are sweet compared to the ssx series. In ssx 3, you could backflip while slowin down. In 
 amped 3, you can do a 180 degrees and sometimes a 360 degrees on a little jump. The other cool 
 thing is that there are some missions in which you use a snowmobile and this is a very fun factor 
 in Amped 3. In all, Amped 3 is a superb snowboarding game and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't care for "Xtreme" sports games. I've played me some tony hawk, and a little bit 
 of SSX... but for the most part they just make me feel guilty about sitting on my fat butt playing 
 these games with a controller in my hand instead of going out and actually getting exercise and 
 living my life. But this game makes me glad that video games are my sport of choice. 
  
  Why? Because it's so untypical of any sports game I've ever played. It's about snowboarding, sure. 
 But it's also about lunacy and madness. Two of my best subjects in school. 
  
  First of all, the snowboarding. It's actually pretty fun. You get to ride down HUGE mountains with 
 tons of terrain and do tricks to your hearts content. The longer you play, the more tricks you 
 can do. I actually found myself trying to get better and better at tricks, instead of just not 
 caring and leaving the game to eat a pizza... which is what I usually do with snowboarding games. 
 
  
  Plus the game has customizable characters. Nothing new nowadays... but show me the game that gives 
 you the choice between a mullet, or an 80's flock of seagulls hairdo. Or the game that lets you 
 choose between a pink bunny suit or a giant gnome outfit. HA! You can't can you?!
  
  Now for the rest of the game. The madness, if you will. The presentation for the game is hard to 
 describe... in fact, I don't think I can describe it. My best attempt would be to say that it's 
 a mixture of adult swim, meets liquid T. V. (look it up kids) , and a hefty dose of LSD. The story 
 is insane. It's basically about a guy raised by arcade games trying to ruin snowboarding and make 
 the most evil video game the world has ever seen. And you and your crew needs to stop him.... Seriously. 
 And to tell this story, the game uses cutscenes that are unlike anything you've ever seen in a 
 video game.... ever.
  
  Let's just say that the scenes involve a variety of art styles. Things like old-school video games, 
 scrapbooking, Japanese Anime, crappy drawings, stop-motion animation, CGI, Old-style comic books, 
 sock puppets..... and the list goes on and on and on and on... things that I could tell you... but 
 you wouldn't believe me. I'm not kidding here.
  
  So if anything... you'll be entertained. I found myself laughing out loud way too many times than 
 should be allowed from a video game. In fact, I probably looked like a moron while playing it. 
 The end mission cracked me up and the damn thing has a musical finale.... That's right kids. A MUSICAL-FRIGGIN-FINALE!!! 
 When have you ever seen that in a video game?!!! And when is the last time you saw that in a sports 
 video game?! I dare you to give me an example. I double dog dare you.
  
  So if you like being entertained, and having a good time, and seeing the absolute weirdest, most 
 hilarious images you can imagine, check out this game. If you like realism with a dose of boring... then 
 get a different game and stay a miserable person.... jerk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, I wasnt interested in this game what so ever, i only got it because it was on a 
 deal. I really didnt think much of it, I played this for the first time, I have to say its surprisingly 
 good. I am an SSX lover from the ps2 and psp, and its quite different to amped 3. It has a good, 
 solid single player mode, in which you can do the story, or just snowboard on the mountains. Unfortunately, 
 there is no multiplayer what so ever, except the odd co-op challenge found along some mountains, 
 but there are only 2-3 of these, all the rest are single player. The challenges include getting 
 a certain amount of items on the challenge course, also theres some sledding ones. At any point 
 in the career, you can sled down the mountain, or get your snowmobile, and can even go up the mountain 
 with that. There are 8-10 mountians that you unlock whilst going through the story. The story is 
 really 'whacky', its so hard to describe, you really have to play it for yourself to know what 
 im talking bout. The story lasts quite some time, so you wont be disappointed. At the start of 
 the story mode, you create a character, and get to customize him/her. And the story will last maximum 
 8 hours. The graphics are probably the nicest on a budget game, they are really sharp and clear. 
 After you complete the story, you can just snowboard, sled and snowmobile on any mountain. Acheivements 
 wise, this game has pretty easy acheievements, you will get 500 points in one playthrough by just 
 doing the story, and the other 500 are just free boarding and impressing onlookers, but honestly, 
 this is the only thing that might make you play it again after you have done the story, there are 
 just so many good games that are better than this, that this wont be played for sometime. The last 
 time I played it was 3 weeks ago, and it hasnt been in my xbox since. Still, this game is very 
 good for its price, i recommend it to anyone that wants a cheap, solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Considering that these two games are for two platforms, it doesn't seem right to be comparing the 
 SSX series to the Amped series. But, you just have to. The thing is one of these games has what 
 the other doesn't. And that game is Amped 3.
  
  On the positive side: The park construction kit is a fantastic new feature that allows you to place 
 objects anywhere that you please. 
  
  On the negative side: The game has some good graphics, but they just didn't look 'next-gen' to 
 me. Also, their is no live multiplayer.
  
  Verdict: My negatives for this game are very minor setbacks. This is a great extreme sports game, 
 but it falls just short of a must-have unless you are a hardcore Amped fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion-King
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 is the best game in the series, without a doubt. It looks the business, whilst at the same 
 time giving you a refreshing storyline. I found the storyline great, I know many people thought 
 it was annoying and irritating. The finale was a bit disappointing but other than than it was fun. 
 Amped 3 allows you to take whole mountains by storm, by gaining reptutation from other people on 
 the mountains. Once you own a mountain, everyone will like you, and you will feel like you have 
 achieved something. (Owning a mountatin is in fact an achievement) . For those who are familar with 
 Amped, you still have the media callouts, and some of elements of the original have been kept in 
 this game. Game modes, like impress the hottie, low rider, and sled trauma, (a game mode where 
 you must inflict as much damage on yourself as possible) are just some of the different things 
 available in the game. Of course, you can create your own boarder and customise them and their 
 stuff. You can also build your own park or add stuff to the games mountains. The multiplayer on 
 this game really disappointed me. There isn't really anything much to do with another player. Its 
 a laugh for an hour or two but after that I got bored. All in all, Amped 3 has a real 'cartoony' 
 feel to it. I don't mean the graphically but the gameplay itself is 'cartoony', those who own the 
 game will know what I mean. Basically, if you are looking for a snowboarding game, this is definitely 
 the best around. Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartm11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is going to rock youre socks if you know how to spot a good game. For those who want it 
 they should start saving up their pennies. It starts out as a little bit boring (you might go to 
 sleep) , so turn off the controller when not playing cause it uses a lot of battery. Unlike the 
 other Amped 2 it has a realistic storyline not as in going from different rider rank to rank but 
 one where you do actual challenges and get money and stuff added to youre stash. There is a few 
 weird challenges like the kitty glitter which is annoying and the snow quest which is reasonable. 
 The cut scenes which are quite annoying and frequent make this game a little less enjoyable because 
 they are so random. A few real mountains from Amped 2 completes the gaming experience for Amped 
 3 which is a great game all round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is the follow up to the previous two titles on the Xbox, and puts you in the role of a 
 custom created character who joins up with some snowboarders to own the slopes.
  
  The character creation options are fairly broad considering how unimportant a part of the game 
 it is, you can choose from a variety of outfits, goggles, gloves and boards, and unlock more as 
 you progress throughout the game.
  
  The games story is basic enough, but what really shines is the sheer amount of insane, geniunely 
 funny humor in the game, from talking hands that just want some bread, to ninja anime style shorts 
 with hilarious dialogue, Amped 3 is packed with rediculous humor that gives it a bit of distance, 
 not taking itself too seriously.
  
  The gameplay in Amped 3 consists of you choosing a mountain, although you only have access to one 
 before you advance the storyline, and a starting point on that mountin, you then have free roam 
 around the mountain. Completely free to travel to whatever challenges you wish to participate in, 
 you can even ride a snowmobile around instead, or at any time, instantly teleport to a starting 
 location on the mountain.
  
  The core of the gameplay revolves around completing challenges, of which there are several main 
 types, media callouts, which have you showing off to the press, and some more obscure challenges 
 such as slaloms, or hurting yourself as much as possible coming off a sled. Media callouts are 
 viewed from the perspective of whoever is filming you, which can be very disoreinting, especially 
 when the whole idea is to get a high score, you need to be able to see the ground properly to judge 
 your landing, but often you have to guess when to stop tricking. This isn't a major annoyance as 
 most of these are very easy to accomplish, but it can get on your nerves.
  
  Completing thse challenges nets you large amounts of respect, and some cash, the more respect you 
 have, the more challenges, and areas of the various mountains you open up. You can easily progress 
 through the game without doing all of these challenges, but you will likely see a fair few of them, 
 as to break up the story you will sometimes need to complete challenges for a certain amount of 
 respect points before the next storyline mission becomes available. This is not as bad as it sounds 
 however, these intervals are just short enough to spread out the gameplay by a little longer, but 
 short enough not to cause annoyance.
  
  For the most part, the controls are slick and register well, you can cut your way through the snow 
 with relative ease, occasionally, you will be attacked with snowballs, blocking your vision, which 
 can be extremely offputting during challenges, but happens rarely.
  
  Amped 3 has a wide variety of music to appeal to all sorts of people who might be into snowboarding, 
 however for those that perhaps don't like rap music, there are no playlist options, and like the 
 majority of other games, Amped 3 doesnt take advantage of the custom playlist feature, although 
 it would greatly benefit from it.
  
  Amped 3 certainly isn't the longest game in the world, with around 5 mountains, all relatively 
 large with the exception of the first, they can take you a while to get through. But if you're 
 determined, the main story can easily be finished in a weekend. But you would be missing out on 
 a large portion of the game by skipping the optional challenges.
  
  Overall, Amped 3 is a very enjoyable experience, with a lot of optional gameplay that could last 
 quite a while, what with one of the games achievements requiring you to have a gold medal on each 
 of the games 250+ challenges. Although this game would have greatly benefited from a custom soundtrack 
 option, the music within the game is still one of it's highlights, it manages to please most tastes, 
 while inkeeping with the games humor, and never being too serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathangreen21
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is enjoyable throughout. The graphics are pretty good to say when it came out for the 
 Xbox although there were some bad points about the game. It isnt the usual snowboarding game like 
 SSX and maybe not as good but a great alternative if you are looking for fun. I bought this game 
 as a bargain and it was well worth the money I paid. The game has a variation of challenges which 
 are fun to play but can get annoying and difficult. The Kitty Cleanup challenge was the most hated 
 challenge for me as I found this the hardest. The controls on the other side are pretty easy to 
 pick up with a useful special mode. The park builder is also very useful, if you are struggling 
 with a challenge. The last bad point I saw in this game were the cut-scene videos, they were sometimes 
 too wacky and had no real story. Other than some of the bad points (which dont ruin the game) 
 it is a fun, enjoyable game! 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game byut it is also very short which is kind of disappointing because 
 it is a very fun game. The game doesnt really have a storyline, well it does but it kinda goes 
 wak after the second act. Its a hilarious storyline though that includes things from puppets to 
 drawings of dragons. There are 7-8 mountains that you can ride on and most of them are very fun 
 to ride on. The funnest ones are the 2 that you get for beating the main storyline because they 
 are filled with rails and jumps to go on. There is also no multiplayer which i think could have 
 been an excellent add on to the game to keep the game lasting on.
  
  Overall, i would say to rent this game because it will only last a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  When I got Amped 3 I was pretty psyched to play it seeing as how the first two Amped games are 
 in my opinion the one of the three greatest snowboarding games ever (along with the original 1080) . 
 One thing that I was not quite sure about though was that the game didn't have any multiplayer 
 which was one of the best things about the previous games. This Amped is more about the story than 
 anything, and even though some enjoyed the whacky antics of the main story, I did not find it that 
 amusing at all and I was skipping the cutscenes more than not.
  
  Amped 3 has a very short single player experience, which is really the only experience in Amped 
 3. The lack of multiplayer is very disappointing. That is no problem however because even though 
 the story was in my opinion mediocre at best the objectives and challenges are fun for the most 
 part. I say for the most part because unlike in the previous Amped games you don't upgrade your 
 riders stats. This means that some objects are super easy and others will have you cursing that 
 game and throwing your controller. I was able to cope with this though until about the last hour 
 of the game when I was thrown into a super difficult challenge that took me about fourty five minutes 
 to do, because honestly I was not prepared for it. The other fifteen minutes I spent on the last 
 three missions, yes the last three missions, two of which are not even snowboarding missions. This 
 made me very angry at the game.
  
  This review is very short, because Amped 3 is very short. The single player lasts about ten hours 
 and chances are that the finale will disappoint you to the point where you will be running to trade 
 it in the second that you complete it. Seeing how there is no multiplayer at all the game has little 
 to no replay value. The music in the game isn't even that great. Amped 2 opened my eyes and ears 
 to some very good unknown bands, but most of the artists in Amped 3 are bands and songs that have 
 been played on the radio for the last two years. Honestly if you came up to me and asked me if 
 you should buy Amped 3, I would say no. I would simply suggest that you purchase both Amped 1 and 
 Amped 2 seeing as how they are both backwards compatable and are four bucks a piece. They will 
 last you a lot longer than Amped 3 will especially since you can play Amped 2 on Xbox Live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a good snowboarding game that is short on content. The story of Amped 3 has your created 
 character traveling from mountain to mountain completing challenges. There are seven mountains 
 in the game. Three are huge with sections that you unlock after completing challenges and the rest 
 are smaller maps. The utscenes are very weird and use 8-bit graphics, full-motion video and more. 
 The story mode is very short and won't take you more than a few hours to finish. Also there is 
 no online modes and after the story is over there isn't really any reason to play it any more except 
 to get the remaining achievements. Amped 3 is a good but may be only worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rico15NL
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  First, the graphics.
  The graphics are good but not perfect, they had to do more with the mountains on the background. 
 Ill give it an 7
  
  Now, the game.
  Amped 3 is a cool game, you dont have to snowboard all the time.
  If you dont want to snowboard 
 for a while, you can go sledding or hop on a snowmobile. The story counts five acts but its not 
 difficult so you finish the game quickly.
  When you finished the story, you can go further with all other challenges, there are seven mountains 
 you gan go, so there are plenty of challenges you can do.
  On each mountain there are bystanders you can impress. If you impress the required number of bystanders, 
 you get an achievement.
  You can also build your own piece of parc.
  Ill give this an 8
  
  The whole game gets an 7.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dynamonic
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  There are so many snowboarding games, that it is just difficult to decide which one to get!
  However, I'll tell you the truth, I am not a big fan of snowboarding games but this game just has 
 a little magic to it.
  This game isn't a normal snowboarding game, despite having a lot of the features of one, but it 
 contains a comedy (and sometimes plain stupid) storyline. I'm not going to go into to much detail 
 about the storyline but what I will tell you is that it's generally you and some friends who have 
 to take on some sort of evil lord of the mountains. The way the story is carried is quite clever 
 really and I can't think of any other similar game. Each act of the game carries a different theme 
 with different characters, and the cut-scenes vary between each of them. From hand-puppets, to 
 scrapbooks and to Communist propaganda TV shows, there is guaranteed to be something in the story 
 to make you laugh!
  
  Gameplay
  
  Putting the story aside, the game takes place between different mountains in which you use a map 
 screen to decide where you want to go. Once you've selected the mountain, you select the area in 
 the mountain you want to go. Rather than your generic 'race down the slope' style gameplay from 
 other snowboarding games, there is a huge variety of activities to do, like your normal race, collecting 
 kitty litter in a time limit, cause as much damage as you can in a time limit plus much more! There 
 is plenty of freedom in what you can do on the different mountains!
  The game is made more fun by the ragdoll physics your character has, which can be really fun to 
 watch as your character tumbles off the snowboard and rolls for about one minute down the slope, 
 whamming obstacles in his path and you can almost feel his pain!
  This game does have multiplayer, but it is very basic and seems a little tacked on. It doesn't 
 even offer Xbox Live support for the multiplayer leaving you to play with one other player in your 
 household using a second controller. To make it worse, there is only one gameplay style for it 
 too, and that is to simply drag each other down a set path, trying to injure yourself as much as 
 possible! This may sound fun, but it gets boring and repetitive very quickly.
  In fact, the only feature that supports Xbox Live are the leaderboards, which, as you can guess 
 aren't that interesting unless you love being 1st place!
  In terms of difficulty, the game is generally very easy to get into and still easy to complete, 
 unless you're attempting to get every gold medal in the game to get the last few achievements that 
 the game offers.
  
  Graphics
  
  While okay, the graphics are not much of a step up from the original Xbox. Yes, the snow looks 
 convincing and you can see for miles but the antialiasing is not up to scratch and the detail on 
 characters and obstacles are very basic. Some original Xbox games surpass this in terms of graphical 
 detail.
  
  Sound
  
  One thing you'll notice about this game is the huge number of songs that are in this game, with 
 more to be unlocked. Otherwise, the sounds are generally your basic snowboarding sound.
  
  Value
  
  Considering this game is so cheap to buy now, it is definately worth a look at, even 
 if you're not that interested in snowboarding games. There is plenty here to keep you occupied 
 for some time.
  
  Overall, it's a good snowboarding game that should keep you happy for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a good game, for what it is. The graphics are not mind blowing, but then again I didn't 
 expect them to be. If you are a fan of snowboarding and are looking for a way to extend your joy 
 of the sport into the summer then its a game I definetily recommend for you. There are going to 
 be some people that don't like the game because of the way it plays, and because it can get repetitive, 
 but if you enjoy it for 10 minutes you will enjoy it for its duration. the quick and dirty:
  
  Graphics - definetily not system braking, but then again, how good can you make snow look?
 
  
  Sound - Great soundtrack, stays true to the genre.
  
  Game play - simple to get a hold of, but I would imagine that Amped 3's game play style is not 
 for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game is not what I was expecting at all. It starts with you snowboarding down a mountain in 
 a pink bunny suit and then on a load of crazy missions from see who can get the most hospital bills 
 to insane stunts on jet skis. The story is linked together with a mad serious of cut scenes linked 
 with each of your friends personalities. One of these is a bunch of action figures showing you 
 what to do and another links the story together through japanese anime style cartoons and hand 
 puppets. This has got to be the funniest game I have played in a while. The gameplay and controls 
 are very simple the graphics are ok. However I did find the game pretty boring at times and sometimes 
 extremely irritatiing when your trying to pull off one move and end up doing something entirely 
 different. If your looking for a game that is both fun and humorous then bye this. If your looking 
 for a more serious snowboarding game then I wouldn't reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Novanglus
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Once you get past the crazy Japanese animation and odd claymation, you can find a good solid snowboarding 
 game worthy of the carrying the Amped title. Being a long-time fan of the series, I was a little 
 annoyed at the new style that the developers took, and was hoping for a more down to earth game. 
 But besides the very odd (and honestly annoying) cut scenes and storyline, the game play is incredible. 
 The new mountains are huge and leave for endless exploring and allow for new routes and jumps every 
 time. I really enjoy going back and cruising down my favorite spots on the mountain and flying 
 around on my snowmobile, which is another GREAT addition to the game. The controls are good as 
 well as the graphics. A definite must have for the xbox 360 especially for a fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel924
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 has to be one of the most eccentric games released for the 360, mixing strange challenges 
 with cutscenes that would probably be prohibited from view in most countries (but it wuld be ok 
 in Amsterdam) . The value of this game comes down to the basic essential question: how much do you 
 enjoy cleaning up cat poop, being slapped around and forced to jump through circles by a clown, 
 and watching videos about weiner land? I know the weiner part sounds fun, and maybe thet cat poo 
 if you pretend to play with it, but believe it or not, it gets old. Also, when you tell your girls 
 you got a gold medal for cleaning up cat poop, they never seem to understand the impressiveness 
 of the situation. However, amped 3 includes many hours of insane snowboard tricking that really 
 cannot be matched by an other game out there. Theres nothing as sweet as the taste of a 720 breakfast 
 roll in slow motion (with the exception of real food) and although the game is fairly short, by 
 the end you are pretty much a godlike snowboarder and any more challenges would just be like beating 
 a dead horse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargersROCK42x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 is probably the coolest and only worthwhile snowboarding game ever conceived into the gaming 
 world. Ive played others... not that good. THis is soo funny, whacky, goofy, and excellent. I love 
 the cut and paste sorta graffiti style along with all the other goofy animations like anime, hands, 
 sock puppets, and others. It all fits in with the story line full of hilarious dialouge and great 
 missions. Although the gameplay could be stale and controls arent the best, this game still rocks. 
 But Im just saying, the graphics arent that much better than an Xbox game. But assuming you bought 
 this and you enjoyed it, Amped 3 would be spinning in your Xbox360 for many years to come. I think 
 this game is awesome and underappreciated, end of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakShow11
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is definitely a game worth playing if you liked Amped 1 or 2. This game is so much fun to 
 play like the other two games . Its one of those games where you go out and buy it not knowing 
 what to expect and you are instantly hooked on it until you beat it. Overall the graphics are pretty 
 good not the best by any means but i have seen worst graphics on the 360 then this. The game is 
 all around pretty good you can go play it and have fun. So i would say if you still havent tryed 
 this game and are interested go rent it give it a shot you may really like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360-gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is way too unapreaciated. Ive had this game for 1 year and i still play it almost every 
 day. This game never gets old and the tricks you can do just seem SO fun. There is a huge variety 
 of tracks and NPC's to choose from. This game is all about speed and tricks. The funnest part of 
 this game is you can change from a snowboard to a sled or to a automobile ANYTIME you want, Even 
 when you are doing a 360 in midair! There graphics are amazing for a 2005 game. you are able to 
 see every leaf on the bushes, all the snow tracks and even the clouds move! The snow is awesome, 
 you can even here the birds flying above you! Everybody should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  My idea of a snowboarding game is SSX 3 on the GC - excellent visuals, dribble-inducing sense of 
 speed and vertigo &amp; coolness in spades.
  Amped 3, however, is much more fun to play. The insane storyline and cutscenes, coupled with the 
 manic visual effects make for something truly unique and enjoyable.
  
  VERY few games have ever made me laugh out loud, but Amped 3 does it every time I play. I love 
 the 'awesomeness' effects that you get when you impress enough people on the slopes with your mad 
 manoeuvres and the 'batter yourself up as much as possible' sledging basis is stupidly funny when 
 you've had a few beers with your mates.
  
  It's true that the basic gameplay is not as fast or slick as something like SSX 3, but then SSX 
 3 is fantasy. Amped 3 is more of a down-to-earth snowboarding experience and captures that 'off 
 to the slopes with your mates' feeling just perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I am a big an of Snowboarding games, but I must admit that this one was a bit of a let down. - 
 I did like the story mode. It was a bit short and the Story was ok. It is a nice way to unlock 
 some stuff and learn how to play the game. I finished it a little to fast
  - The Graphics is really good. And when I say graphics, I mean the 3d ones. The menu's and all 
 the other extra stuff is really like someone cut stuff up and pasted it all over the screen. This 
 is not a very professional approach, BUT it really is fun to watch and adds another spin to the 
 look of the game. I would not say that it was a badly designed game at all where looks come in. 
 I actually liked it.
  - Sound. Good. Well as good as it gets with Snowboarding games. The Music is absolutely fantastic. 
 I will give them that. I would like the soundtrack now thanks.
  - Game play is a bit repetitive. You do the same things over and over. Sometimes to your irritation 
 as you cannot seem to catch enough of those little Cat Nip things. Hours waisted on that!!!
  - Achievements are ok. I am not personally a big fan of trying to unlock all the achievements. 
 I think there is just enough. Unlike Other games where you have to do the most impossible things 
 to unlock achievements.
  
  What I would of liked to see in this game would be some type of Racing or challenge thing. It is 
 a single player game most of all and this is a little bit of a let down. If I had to choose, I 
 would say leave Amped 3 alone and get SSX. This is an average game. Not something special, but 
 not a total disaster either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 was a 360 launch game that many people have played so this will be a brief review
  
  Gameplay 8
  Amped 3 delivers some of the best snowboarding game-play since 1080 Snowboarding 
 on the N64. The boarding is predominantly trick-based, but is very forgiving and is bags &amp; 
 bags of fun. As well as snowboarding there are also sledging, snowmobile riding and hand gliding 
 mini-games. The only criticism is the occasional unforgiving slalom and magic gate challenge that 
 may have you exploding with rage and frustration.
  
  Graphics &amp; Presentation 10
  Purely on its original visual style this game would easily get a 10. The cut-scenes and vignettes 
 that string the story together are pure genius. The quality of the witty writing, crazy animation 
 and video production is the best seen in any video game. The actual levels are great to look at 
 with some fine snow and weather effects. All the in-game characters have super smooth animation 
 and look cool as you string your tricks together.
  
  Sound 9
  Again, the cut-scenes and vignettes are the highlights with some brilliant quirky music, voice 
 acting and sound. In-game the sound effects and music are equally good.
  
  Value 7
  The games story mode is fairly easy to complete, which is a good thing as you get to see all of 
 the vignettes. There is no online mode, but some simple co-op challenges are provided for offline 
 playing. The achievements are designed to keep you playing, in particular the awesomeness goals 
 for each mountain. I picked up Amped 3 for less than &pound;15 in my local Game, which was great 
 value. You too should be able to find a pre-owned copy out there.
  
  Tilt 9
  Amped 3 is just huge fun: from the forgiving and spectacular snowboarding, to the brilliantly witty 
 vignettes that accompany the story. The visual style is highly original, funny and funky, which 
 really adds a real layer of quality to an already great snowboarding game.
  
  Overall 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccc1005
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  If you were an Amped 3 fan you will love this. Adds some more new challenges (not just media/high 
 scores anymore) , and the stuff like sled trauma is wacky and fun. Not a big fan of the kitty cleanup 
 challenge but I like all the others.
  
  The story left some to be desired, seemed to be pretty quick and very odd, but at least it added 
 something to the game.
  
  Graphics are OK there is only so much you can do with a snowboarding game anyway, and some of the 
 mountains are HUGE, and with 200+ challenges there is a lot to explore and do on each of the mountains.
 
  
  Few gripes:
  -Seems much easier to land tricks in this compared with the first 2
  -Style points are much harder, difficult to find the right point on the controller, I seem to either 
 stop spinning or keep going full speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I really like the visual style that Amped 3 puts forward. It really looks and feels like snowboarding. 
 I know that they have mucked with physics a bit in order to make this more fun, but from a pure 
 enjoyment perspective, some of the runs are really breathtaking!
  
  The story presented is pretty weird and cornball, but a lot of that is what makes it so much fun 
 to progress. I have ot admit that it is a little TOO cornball for my tastes, especially a couple 
 of the side characters.
  
  Still the challenges are very difficult near the end and they ramp up to those challenges nicely. 
 I never was bored with the game - it's all great fun and offbeat.
  
  I'm not sure that there is much replay value in the actual story mode - it's painfully linear and 
 there aren't any challenges that change (no choices) . Still they have packed in so many other challenges 
 and events that it really doesn't matter - you could be kept busy for a long time trying to perfect 
 all of the different challenges offered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge snowboarding guy, but I really loved Amped 3 for Xbox 360. I first became aware 
 of the game when I saw it had been nominated for Best Story by Gamespot. com in 2005. A snowboarding 
 game with a great story? Intriguing
  
  Well it does have a hell of a story. You will almost certainly laugh while playing the story in 
 this game. If you enjoy fun, you will laugh. From sock puppets chasing the elusive yeti, to a Soviet 
 Union game show, to a scrapbooking obsessed former hair metal groupie, to WeinerLand, to Emag Live: 
 the video game destined to destroy the world and so on and so on. Completely ridiculous and completely 
 fun.
  
  The gameplay reminded me a lot of the Tony Hawk series, except a bit easier (which I like, cause 
 I suck at Tony Hawk) and a lot more fun. There are way over 200 challenges in the game besides 
 the story line, and each one yields rewards and gets you one step closer to the Snow God achievements. 
 The challenges can be repetitive at times, but when they're a lot of fun, that's not necessarily 
 a bad thing. I wouldn't have minded twice as many sled trauma challenges (where the goal is to 
 injure yourself as badly as possible on a sled [usually not a sled, maybe a mattress or a port-o-potty 
 or something] ) .
  
  Any snowboarding game where the tutorial mission involves racing down the slope in the giant pink 
 bunny suit is awesome. After reading that sentence you should already be ordering this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I managed to pick this game up cheap recently, so i thought i'd give it a spin. I didn't like the 
 menu style but outside of the menu the gameplay is great. I can't comment on how it feels to the 
 last amped title as i didn't play that. You get to travel to different mountains and perform in 
 different missions, however i don't understand the storyline. A great feature to me is being able 
 to customise your rider, changing their clothes and boards.
  
  But overall this game is quite good and if you can pick it up cheap then i recomend you give it 
 ago! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonic24k
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game got somewhat of a low score and i think deserved a little better. If you're a snowboarding 
 fan, this is a must. If you're not, i would consider this game to be part of your collection for 
 the fact that it will supply most of your comedic needs. The artistic layout is extremely original 
 and just plain funky. The soundtrack was surprisingly good as well. I heard a lot of music on here 
 that i liked already, i heard some music i didn't think anyone else knew about, and i heard some 
 music that i never heard before that i now like. If you really don't want to take my word for it 
 though, you can download the demo on the xbox live marketplace. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I figured that with all the uncertainty surrounding this game, I'd write up a review of how I feel 
 about this snowboarding game. So after playing through it quite a bit, I felt I was ready to give 
 an accurate perspective on what this game is like. My reviews are based on several factors, including 
 lasting appeal, graphics, etc. So without further ado, here is the review.
  
  **Introduction**
  
  For those of you who don't know what the Amped series is all about, it's 
 a snowboarding game. From the original Xbox's launch to later in that big black box's life, the 
 Amped series has been a milestone in snowboarding games, bringing realistic physics, fun gameplay, 
 and unique style to the mix. Now, here we are, at the launch of the Xbox 360, and we have the latest 
 installment in the Amped series on our hands. With mixed reviews not very many people can really 
 perceive whether or not this game is worth it or not, but I assure you, it's worth every penny, 
 depending on how much you pay for it.
  
  **Graphics**
  
  Since this is usually the first thing you look at when you see a game, we'll start with the graphics. 
 To be honest with you, at first glance, this game isn't very impressive. Bland, uninteresting snow 
 textures, and no fancy lighting tricks to be seen. However, upon closer examination, this game 
 features some impressive next-gen tricks. Amazing draw distances (how far you can see) really make 
 you feel like you're a part of the mountain. A minimum amount of texture pop-in also compliments 
 this, and with an even closer look, the character models are actually pretty well done, though 
 nothing amazing. Upon even CLOSER examiation, the snow is very detailed, with streak marks and 
 snowmobile marks scattered across the landscape. The trees look alright, nothing spectacular, but 
 not bad either. The backgrounds, however, steal the show. There's nothing like hurtling down a 
 huge, snow bleached mountain with an amazing mountain in the backdrop is something that really 
 makes up for everything else. Other than that, everything looks decent, the trick objects look 
 alright, but thats to be expected, how good can a piece of wood really look? Another thing worth 
 noting is the amount of people on the slope at a time. It's pretty cool seeing other snowboarders 
 around you as you fly down the hills.
  
  **Sound**
  
  As you spawn at the top of the mountain, you hit the A button, and listen to the muffled sound 
 of snow crunch beneath your board. Then, with a push forward, the glide downwards begin, the shuffle 
 of snow crunches beneath your slick board, and the powder around you gracefully flies up. The wind 
 from your descent howls in your ears, and you turn to avoid a tree, sending a flurry of powder 
 flying into the air with a whoosh. The sound in Amped 3, as you can imagine, is pretty spot on. 
 Snow sounds great as it flies through the air when you carve through the snow. The grinding sounds 
 are pretty good too, and when you glide on the rocks, you can hear the grinding of pebbles beneath 
 your snowboard. The soundtrack is definitely worth mentioning, with an enormous amount of tracks 
 to choose from, ranging from heavy metal, to electronica. A wide variety of genres really makes 
 it so that you can enjoy the music pretty much whoever you are.
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  Unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot to say here. The game suffers from a lack of Live features, 
 and even more painfully from a lack of a solid split screen game. The most you can do for multiplayer 
 is co-op challenges which, while still fun, really don't last very long at all. The co-op challenges 
 aren't restricted to select challenges, and are usually very scarce, with about 2-3 co-op challenges 
 per mountain. Again, they are still great fun, but they don't last long at all. Amped 3 would have 
 really benefitted from a great Xbox Live experience, but instead, receives at least a nice leaderboard 
 system, which gives you a nice streamlined interface to look at and compare scores with. This is 
 definitely not a game you'll buy for the multiplayer features.
  
  **Singleplayer**
  
  Amped 3 makes up for its shortcomings in Multiplayer with its entertaining, and lengthy, singleplayer 
 mode. A crazy, hilarious story mixed with a number of excellently balanced gameplay challenges 
 make for a challenging, yet not impossible, mode. Something worth mentioning is the hilarious plot, 
 which consists of extremely random cutscenes. These are not only bizarre, but extremely entertaining. 
 Sock puppets, scrapbooking, and more! All congealed very nicely to fit the punk-style of snowboarding. 
 It's a great experience, and one that will leave you in stitches in more places than one. The actual 
 game is awesome as well. Sometimes you'll have to complete some challenges to advance to another 
 part of a huge mountain, other times you'll have to find work and execute some insane stunts to 
 earn some cash to move to new mountains. It's really a varied experience that never gets old.
 
  
  **Controls**
  
  You may have heard from other sites that this game is hard to control. I don't know where the heck 
 they got this, maybe they had a monkey test it, but even then it wouldn't have been hard. This 
 game is pick-up-and-play. If you have ever even spent 10 minutes playing ANY snowboarding game, 
 you will learn this quickly. And, to make it even easier, the game gives you hints (which you can 
 turn off) all throughout the story mode which get increasingly more informative as to special moves 
 and techniques as you progress. The only real problem here is the occasionally wonky camera, but 
 that goes away fast. It doesn't get much easier than this.
  
  **Presentation**
  
  Now here's something that Amped 3 delivers in spades. The presentation here is very well done. 
 Easily navigated menus, slick interfaces, stylish pop-ups, everything here is well done. Hardly 
 any load times is a much-welcomed addition, and you will spend maybe 10 seconds max waiting for 
 it to load when it does enter the load menu, which is even entertaining as it is, believe it or 
 not. This is Amped 3's strong point, and it really shows.
  
  **Lasting Appeal**
  
  With a lack of a real multiplayer, sure there isn't a whole lot of replayability, but with the 
 insane amount of challenges and unlockables, this game could very well be something you'll find 
 yourself playing weeks after you beat the actual story. Still, even with all that, there isn't 
 much to say about the lasting appeal of Amped 3, though it will last you about a month or two at 
 least.
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  Amped 3 is a great game. With an enormous amount of challenges, unlockable content, and well-balanced 
 achievements, this game is definitely worth a purchase. However, I would HIGHLY recommend finding 
 this game used, as paying $60 dollars for a game that has no solid multiplayer features is a bit 
 steep. The common price of a used copy of Amped 3 will run you about half that, usually around 
 $35-40, which is a steal for the fun that is to be had with this game. Is it worth $60? I would 
 have to say no. Is it worth $40? Yea, easy. So if you're looking for a game to satisfy your hunger 
 for crazy, insane, no-nonsense fun, here it is.
  
  Check out my blog for more reviews, stories, and all sorts of crazy stuff!
  
  http://infamousanarchy. blogspot. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 has all the of the correct ideas and characteristics of a Classic game. So why isnt it 
 then? I hear you cry from the back of the room. Its defiantly a good solid and down right fun 
 game but it does have a few flaws. Firstly the Story (Or should I say, lack of) . Now I understand 
 this is just a snowboarding game, not some massive RPG but the story was very vague and towards 
 the end it felt very rushed out. The Cut Scenes were a joy to watch and if anything probably one 
 of the strongest reasons to play this game through again.
  
  The Levels also towards the end of the game felt very rushed. With the last 3 or 4 levels only 
 having one very small area to board in. It would have been ok had they not set the tone with the 
 mammoth first 3 levels with multiple areas and routes. The music was amazing. There is definitely 
 something for everyone in there and I defy anyone to tell me there isnt at least one song they 
 like. Overall Amped 3 is a good solid game with hours of enjoyment, even after the short story 
 is finished and the final rushed levels have been played to death. This is a good indication of 
 things to come for the 360 and I look forward to Amped 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was a bit difficult for me to get into, but I think it may just be my age beginning to 
 show.
  
  You start off with a bit of player customization and start with basic activities to get used to 
 the controls as an in-game tutorial. For those who have already played games in the Amped or Tony 
 Hawk series, there isn't really a lot to learn.
  
  The game has a good look, feel and sound to it, but the game is geared toward the younger, alternative 
 crowd. I think that crowd will love the game, but the style was a bit overboard for this aging 
 gamer. I could not force myself to pick up the controller after about two hours of play.
  
  You may want to rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldylocks33
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  A great addition to the series. Probably the best so far in the Amped line-up. Very good pick-up 
 and play ability. Doesn't take a whole lot of time to get the controls down. The story is a bit 
 on the short side, but what story there is, is very entertaining. Not extremely immerse story but 
 all of the cutscenes are extremely wacky and different from the last. A great display of mixing 
 up the style of the cutscenes. On the gameplay side it is pretty much your typical skating/snowboarding 
 controls. You board around several mountains and when you find a mission you want to do, you stop 
 and press X to do it. There are several different types of missions throughout the mountains and 
 you earn money for doing them and achieving bronze, silver, or gold on each. You can also do co-op 
 minigames where you are on sleds of various shape and size and your sleds are attached by an elastic 
 band. You try to knock off your buddy from his sled before reaching the jump. Once you reach the 
 jump you eject from your sled and fall, trying to see who can hurt themselves the most and rack 
 up the biggest hospital bill. You can also pull out your earned sleds at any point in the game 
 and try to rack up a hospital bill by yourself. There are also snowmobiles you can hop on at any 
 point in the game. The soundtrack is amazing. I am a fan of a lot of the bands on the soundtrack 
 already so I have a bit of a bias. But they have a lot of underground bands that are very good 
 along with some bigger names. The visuals I find to be very very good. But I have friends that 
 disagree. But they are agreeably a step up from previous gen in any case. Overall a good game but 
 could definitely be rented if you don't plan on keeping it for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead48
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a present, I wouldn't have it otherwise. The story mode was a lot of fun, but 
 too short. You could rent it and finish it in 5 hours. But then I did all of the mini challenges, 
 which are fun, but can get very repetitive. I played Amped 2 and it is a lot harder for me than 
 this game. It is harder to do tricks with the other joystick than just the buttons. I advise to 
 do what I did with Half Life 2. Rent it, and keep it until y ou beat it. You will save a ton of 
 money, unless you want to sell it togamespot along with another Xbox 360 game and get a new game 
 for 10 bucks (take adavantage of that, it's a great deal. The Good:
  Fun for a snowboarder (which I'm not)
  Nice and easy
  
  The Bad:
  Too short
  Too easy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall its a good game. The form of the menu's is very basic, clean but awkwardly set up. It seems 
 liek the people who designed the game were tripping on acid. The graphics get the job done as they 
 should considering its on a 360 platform. The music to the game is amazing. Its mostly rock, emo, 
 or some kind of pump up music. Whether your a fan or not, it gets you going. Your blasting down 
 the mountain with some nice music that makes you feel like your the best boarder out there. The 
 value for the game is relatively weak, for one main reason. You cannot play split screen two player. 
 This is by far the games biggest weakness. If you want to play a fun, challenging, laugh out loud 
 snowboarding fest, give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavien3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this is the greatest snowboard/sled/snowmobile game i've ever played because who doesn't want funny 
 places like weinerland or all the crazy awesome stuff like that. sik graphics and wicked fun. what 
 kind of games do u like, if it's skater games then you'll love this game u will have great fun 
 with this game, hey they kind of talk like me too!!! YAY!! if you are a skater like me you will 
 also have fun with this game because it's what you do in awesome cartoonish things and of course 
 !! WEINERLAND!! the best thing that has come to mind except the fact that it is kind of bad because 
 of the multiplayer, because it's only mini games, maybe it's better when your on Xbox live but 
 i don't know because i've never had that, overall great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperactive1
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  As a standalone game, this snowboarding game is decent. Not good. Not bad. There are some high 
 points like the amount of style and originality in the games graphics, themes and design. And there 
 are some low points like the wack cutscenes/storyline and the abundance of them.
  But this game as a sequel is a travesty.
  Amped 2 was a pure masterpiece that I still play to 
 this day. I don't think many realize what a challenging and fresh gaming experience Amped 2 offered. 
 Unfortunately, almost all that made Amped 2 the genius that it was (is) has been done away with 
 in this awful followup. The amount of customization to your character has diminshed plus the ability 
 to quickly and easily make a favorite song playlist has been removed. The challenging controls 
 that made the previous title fun and fluid have been replaced with a user friendly (hard to wipeout) 
 scheme that is geared more towards the ridiculous than the realistic.
  I could go on but I will just say if you have no expectations going in than you may not be disappointed. 
 But if you're like I was and are hoping for an extension to the gaming experience you loved in 
 the previous title, you're in for a big-time letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  So here I am at Amped 3. I remember slobbering over the very first Amped for the original Xbox 
 but I never could have imagined that a snowboarding game could be pushed this far. First of all 
 I have to say that if you snowboard don't even bother reading my review, just go out and buy this. 
 But if you need a little bit more than that, read on. Gameplay- The gameplay in Amped 3 is probably 
 one of it's shining features in its large amount of explorable areas. Some of the mountains have 
 more than one face to ride across, and there are plenty of tasks scattered throughout each face. 
 The control scheme has been tweaked quite a bit from the older Amped games, but in being different 
 the new control scheme really isn't that horrible. In fact, the control scheme seems to fairly 
 compliment the gameplay in that it allows you to pull off many insane combos in a short amount 
 of time. This speeds up the games trick system a bit and compliments the crazy mood of the games 
 menus. Sure, it's a little bit more unrealistic than Amped 2, but unless you are looking for a 
 more serious simulation (like Amped was realistic anyway to begin with : p) you won't be dissatisfied 
 with Amped 3's setup. But one of the biggest notable feature in the new Amped is the ability to 
 switch to different rides at any point during your venture down the mountain. In this way, it is 
 possible to never end a run, switch to a snowmobile, and ride back up to another part of the mountain. 
 One missing aspect from this is the ability to walk, but with sledding, snowmobiling, and even 
 hang gliding, I never seem to miss walking that much and the game still comes together nicely. 
 A handy editor is also available if you find a nice place for a ramp and with a few tweaks to a 
 trail you can make your very own sessioning spot in the backcountry, which doesn't hurt. 10 out 
 of 10.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in Amped 3 are noteworthy for a snowboarding game, mostly in the clothing 
 animations. However, they lack in comparison to some of the other games on the market currently. 
 You should keep in mind though, that there isn't really much graphical power needed in processing 
 a sheet of white across a landscape. The only real suggestions I could make would be that powder 
 would manipulate in a more realistic way, but again the graphics are impressive, and they don't 
 disappoint in looking like a next-gen snowboarding game. 8 out of 10
  
  Sound- This is where the game starts to lose some of it's fans. In truth, sound effects are great 
 and all, and Amped 3 captures them, but what a game really comes down to is the soundtrack. Amped 
 has always been known to deliver a wide array of different musical tastes, and Amped 3 delivers, 
 if only in a different way. Amped 3 does have quite a few good tunes, and I personally think they 
 are great to ride to, but some people have been disappointed in the quality of the soundtrack. 
 Again, it is a matter of personal interest, but for safe measure, 7 out of 10.
  
  Value- So here is where it all comes together. How long should you expect to play Amped 3? Well, 
 it really depends on your interests. If you are a snowboarder, don't expect to put this game down 
 for a while, and when you do, expect to return often. As far as the normal gamer goes, if you have 
 any passing interest in action sports, this may be worth a buy. I will warn you though, no online 
 mode was applied and no downloadable content is available. Bottom line, if you are looking for 
 a fun game with personality and have run out of ideas for xbox 360, buy Amped 3. It may not have 
 online, but it has plenty of replay value and makes for quite a few good laughs. Who knows? Maybe 
 this might convince you to try snowboarding for real or if you already do it may just quench your 
 thirst for snow during the summer months.
  
  My score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everythingj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start this review off by saying that I love to snowboard. I'm not one of those mountain 
 jocks that goes up every weekend and builds my own kickers with the utility shovel from my all-purpose 
 back-pack, but i've bombed my fair share of steep hills around park city and big bear, and i truly 
 appreciate the ease and flexibility that comprises Amped 3.
  
  Essentialy, the game has been made in a fashion that is true to it's sport. It's a little whacky, 
 very humorous, a little overly trendy, and acrobatically, incredibly pleasing to the eye. If you've 
 seen the video review on gamespot, than you've probably been briefed on the entertainment you get 
 from watching the crazy cut and paste cutscenes. Yes, that part of the game is very different and 
 unique to this franchise, but that isn't at all what's sold this game for me. I didn't even watch 
 most of them.
  
  The fact that there are hundreds of runs to choose from, over 8 different mountains, some with 
 multiple faces, multiple dozens of tricks, lots of board and character customization features, 
 and much much more, is what has made this game a staple for my xbox 360 playing time.
  
  Let's take a look at some of the gameplay.
  
  One of the things i didn't like about the gamespot 
 video review for this game, was that the reviewer said the 'game gets a little repetitive' when 
 going through the story objectives. To me, that's like saying any madden football title is by default 
 repetitive because all you do is 'play football for everything' That comment doesn't make any sense, 
 it's not repetitive, it's what you are supposed to be doing. Just like playing any tennis game 
 means you spend most of your time playing tennis, or skateboarding to skate games, the bulk of 
 amped 3 will be spent on the slopes. Whethere that is exiting or dull, is completely up to how 
 you ride. Essentially as you progress thruogh the game, you will unlock more runs, more mountains, 
 more objectives, more gear, and more editing tools. You start off with the begining of a casual 
 trip of friends on the north star mountain in tahoe, and bomb hills that take you to utah, chile, 
 and the dc mountain lab at the end of the game.
  
  The type of objectives you complete vary often and sometimes involve you following behind a pro 
 trying to out trick them, navigating way points on a snowmobile or board, or even just trying to 
 try and crash your sled as hard as you can seeing how bad your guy can eat it down the mountain. 
 There's more than enough stuff for you to choose from while you accomplish the story line, and 
 arguably the best part of the game will come when you are through with it for the first time. The 
 big selling point for me on this game comes from the replay value, which in its turn the bulk of 
 which comes from the park editing tools. Basically, this game allows you to unlock park goodies 
 such as rails, fun boxes, staris, hills, etc, and place them anywhere you can snowboard in the 
 game. So if your cruising down a hill and see an awesome spot for a rail or kicker, go ahead and 
 plant one there and see how much air you can get.
  
  Another great thing the game does is score every objective you do, and compare them to the leaderboards 
 on xbox live automatically. So If you want to show you are the best there is on a particular jump 
 or rail, you coul plan out your best trick and try night and day to throw it down, and maybe in 
 doing so land yourself a spot in the top 10 for that objective. It's a pretty good feeling when 
 you land an awesome trick after an hour or two of trying and find out that you were top5 in terms 
 of scoring for that objective.
  
  So all in all, that is pretty much what constitutes Amped 3. Theres plenty to go around in terms 
 of runs, gear, tricks, objectives, crazy cutscenes, park editing, and imagination to boot in reguards 
 to how you decide to play.
  I highly recommend the game, unless you are the video review nerd from gamespot who thinks snowboarding 
 in a snowboarding game is 'repetitive.'
  'man all you do is snowboard around.. that's like so.. lame!'
  'NAy sir! to you i say that thou 
 are lame.'
  Snowboarding rules.
  
  game pros;
  total freedom on the mountain, easy to access different runs,
  lots of different tricks that 
 look great and fun to do, plenty of gear, incredibly random cutscenes make for the occasional l-o-l. 
 good replay value, a wide arrange of music to pick from and easy to customize or mix up.
  game cons;
  kind of cheezy graphics in the game engine cutscenes (may be better on an hdtv) no 
 real 2 player mode, or live versus mode. the mountains at the end of the game don't have as many 
 runs as the starter ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demolition93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  if you just purchased a 360 and your proboly low on cash pick up this its cheaper and its just 
 plain fun to describe it best theres so much you can do its more than just snowboarding, even if 
 you dont snowboard this is easy to follow and fun to see the biggest bails you could get or craziest 
 trick, you can go tubing ,sleding, hangliding, snow mobile and much more, so its more than a snowboarding 
 game, good for any age a friend has this, if i had a 360 (yeah right!!) this would be the first 
 game i got! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wootcolors
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin the review I will say one thing. This game has two similarities from Amped 2. The 
 first being it involves snowboarding and the second being you get extra points for showing off 
 where photographers are. After that there is no way you could tell they are in the same series. 
 The gameplay is quite good. It has your SSX esque snowboarding action but it also has some really 
 cool other stuff like the sled (sled missions involve causing the most destruction to your body 
 as you possibly can) and the snowmobiles. If you like SSX you are going to like this game A LOT! 
 The graphics are very nice and if you have a hdtv prepare to be dazzled by the very unrealistic 
 but still awesome looking visuals. The sound is pretty cool. The sound effects are pretty nice 
 but the real sell here is the extreme hilarity of the voice acting. The game is on aver $30-$40 
 dollars now which is a pretty good deal for a 360 game. You are probably going to want to rent 
 this first because it does get a bit old. Overall a solid snowboarding title that is defenitely 
 worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Amped 3's unique flair can be likened to a college kid making a mixed drink - take a little bit 
 of everything, throw it in a blender, and you wind up with something that, amazingly enough, goes 
 down pretty darn smooth.
  
  Although the graphics of the game are great, it's really the way the visuals work that make them 
 so impressive. The cut-scenes use a mix of puppetry, anime, cut-and-paste, and scrap-booking, and 
 it actually works quite well, especially with the manic tone of the story. The in-game visuals 
 don't push many boundaries, but they do look good. However, certain issues do crop up with certain 
 textures, especially when close to rocks or certain trees. At close range, these textures can look 
 downright ugly.
  
  The gameplay of Amped 3 has departed from its unforgiving forefathers, opting instead to focus 
 less on realism and more on style. Tricks are relatively easy to pull off, although this gamer 
 had a hard time figuring out how to use new tricks unlocked via different events throughout the 
 game. That leads me to my major gripe with this game. The tutorials given teach you the basics 
 of the game, but go little further than that. No explanation is given as to why you'd want to collect 
 the game's "bling," or what money can do for you in the game. Other unlockables, such as new sleds, 
 are not given an explanation either, instead leaving you to guess at how to use those unlockables.
 
  
  Other than that minor gripe, the gameplay is fast, loose, and fun. It's also varied, which helps 
 give the game some sustenance. Not only can you snowboard, but you'll also sled and snowmobile. 
 While the sledding and snowmobiling aren't as fleshed out as the snowboarding, they are still amusing. 
 In a nice touch, you can also use the snowmobile to quickly reach areas you might have missed with 
 the snowboard.
  
  There is a story in this game, but honestly, you'll be watching it more for the sheer amusement 
 of the cut-scenes than anything. While the story itself is fairly weak, the individual cut-scenes 
 are nothing if not brilliant.
  
  Soundwise, the game is a mixed bag. The voice work here is great, given how crazy the game allows 
 its characters to become. The sound effects sound good, but rarely stand out. The same goes with 
 the music. With over a hundred tracks, there's bound to be something there that you'll enjoy, but 
 you'll be hard-pressed to find it. The primarily indie music can be great one minute and horrible 
 the next, but it really depends on your taste.
  
  Give this game a try. You'll be pleasantly surprised at how quickly you'll become addicted to its 
 gameplay and its crazy cut-scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worst games I ever played. The story line is horrible and the characters 
 are sooo fruity. This has to be the gayest game I have ever seen. Weiner Boy??? Are you serious? 
 The game play is ok, if it actually lets you play. Way too much talking. Some of the graphics are 
 ok but there are a lot of noticeable flaws with it. This game is definitely a rental, if that. 
 Luckily I have Game Fly so I sent it back the same day. You probably will too. Good Luck, I hope 
 you take my review seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rene9ade520
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  I will write more once I have finished playing through the entire game, but I am absolutely let 
 down by this title. I am currently a student of game design and I have to say, this title seems 
 poorly conceived and horribly executed. While I do like a few new key features such as the new 
 Amped gauge and how ALL onlookers give kudos for the tricks you complete, however, far too many 
 bad choices where made during the creation of this game. I also feel mislead by the title. Originally, 
 I got into the series because it was the first solid, enjoyable and realistic snowboarding game 
 I had ever played. Amped 2 then reassured me and found a welcome place in my collection. While 
 slightly unrealistic with the over the top tricking abilities, Amped 2 made up for its slight deviation 
 of realism with great gameplay. But with the third title in the series, and the change in developers, 
 I feel Amped has strayed so far from its origins that I no longer wish to play it for the same 
 reasons I fell in love with the series in the first place. Sledding on bulking propane tanks (or 
 whatever they are) , a heavy emphasis on Emo, and **** looking cartoon like characters that play 
 out the roles of Amped 3s poor storyline are exactly the opposite of what I wanted and have come 
 to expect from the series. If 2K Sports had at least named the title "Amped: Underground" or maybe 
 even "Amped: Cheap Sell Out", then I would feel just in purchasing the title. But, as it is, I 
 feel absolutely no need to pay sixty of my hard earned dollars on this game. Shame on you Gamespot 
 for giving Amped 3 the highest rating out of all three entries. I have a feeling you only did so 
 because of the slight, and I do mean SLIGHT, graphical improvement. Does this really look like 
 a next-gen title to you? And, where's the solid gameplay? I believe it is this sort of rating that 
 corrupted the Tony Hawk series. As for innovation, credit should only be due if the new concept 
 is solid, which, in this case, could not be further from the truth. I can only hope the series 
 betters itself and finds its way back on track with the fourth title, should it ever come into 
 existence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  this is the strangest game i have playerd in a long time. ive never played any of the amped series 
 before but i was under the impression it was a serious game. turns out its not its F'ing Crazy.
 
  
  the graphics and gameplay are fantastic and its easy to pick up and play.
  story line fairly big and with all the additional challenges this game will last a while.
  
 
  the game recreates the fresh powder, xtreme sport feel as much as any other games of the same Genre (SSX) 
 but also adds in SLeding, Hangliding and Snowmobiles to the equation.
  Soundtrack is quite large and varied and you can customise the playlist, add this to the create 
 a boarder feature and youve got an instant classic.
  
  one additional note i'd like to make is how quickly you can generate gamer points i managed to 
 get 550 in less than 4 Hrs.
  
  this game is definetly one to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 may technically be the sequel to the love-it-or-hate-it series started on the original 
 Xboxbut dont let yourself make assumptions about this one. Although its gameplay keeps quite 
 true to its predecessors, the mood around it couldnt be more different. Instead of a conservative 
 style that keeps the focus squarely on play, Amped 3 kicks things up with an outrageous, schizophrenic 
 art style that lends the whole game a surreal, crazy, and ultimately enjoyable vibe. At the same 
 time, though, the gameplay isnt always what it could be, and it can feel plain and frustrating 
 at times (the latter of which is especially true in the later half) . So while Amped 3 has its 
 problems and isnt for everyone, its short, manic story mode makes it perfect for a rental.
  
  You begin your sojourn through the story mode by building a rider, a process that will likely 
 be familiar to you if you fancy yourself a fan of extreme sports games. You choose from a variety 
 of different faces, hairstyles, clothes, boards, and so forth, and when you finish, youre ready 
 to roll. Amped 3 chronicles the misadventures of you and your amateur crew of snowboarders, who 
 are trying to save up some cash for a nice trip. Meanwhile, your best friend J-Dawg has dreams 
 of making it big with a sponsorship, and when the vacation money is mysteriously stolen and you 
 are blamed, well, needless to say you need to set the record straight and reassemble the crew that 
 has since split up.
  
  The story of Amped 3 is by far the craziest of any game released this year, and is arguably one 
 of the most manic productions in a videogame ever. The game makes use of a variety of art styles, 
 and by the time the game reaches its conclusion, youll have seen regular in-game cutscenes, stop-motion 
 animation, sock-puppets, claymation, full-motion video, homages to NES games, and more. This gives 
 the game a schizophrenic energy and fast pace, and youll truly enjoy each cinematic that comes 
 your way. Also of note: the games ending is hands-down the best of any game this year.
  
  Indeed, this games art style is unmatched  however, its gameplay will feel instantly familiar 
 to fans of the series. The dual stick principles of the first two games have been pushed aside 
 for a more streamlined (and arguably more favorable) system that is more akin to the Tony Hawk 
 series of skateboarding games. After hopping off of a jump, you use the left stick to control your 
 flip or spin, and you use a face button (or a combination thereof) to pull of grabs. On rails, 
 pushing a face button will switch your rider to a different style of grinding. You can also pull 
 of a tail butter, snowboardings answer to a manual, to link together combos.
  
  Youll find that this is all you really need to know to get started, and each facet of your riding 
 will be tested throughout the game via a small handful of different challenges. There are two different 
 types of checkpoint challenges: one variety has you running an air or rail line while demanding 
 you soar through all of the checkpoints in the right order, while the other simply challenges you 
 to get to the last checkpoint, while the ones in between give you extra time if you need it. Another 
 type of challenge has you following a trail of collectable whatnots to see if you can gather enough 
 to beat the challenge. Theres also the obligatory high score challenges in there, too. Trying 
 to wreck up your rider as much as possible to earn the biggest hospital bill you can and trying 
 to impress sponsors in the Sellout challenges are other distractions.
  
  Amped 3 then goes on to follow a fairly predictable pattern. In order to unlock the next part of 
 the story, which will get you closer to unlocking the next mountain, youll need respect points. 
 You earn respect by completing challenges. So, by using the trail map, you choose a challenge of 
 your choice, board over to it, and give it a whirl. Your performance on the challenge will earn 
 you either a bronze, silver, or gold medal, and each of these comes with a varying amount of respect 
 points. You get a fair amount of leeway in terms of what challenges are available for you to do 
 before you move on, though none of the different types of objectives are particularly unique or 
 inspired. It merely provides a solid breath of content that serves as more of the same for extreme 
 sports fans. No more, no less.
  
  But this approach works well for Amped 3, a game that should take you about five or six hours before 
 you reach the ending. Of course, theres still objectives left to be completed, and you can try 
 to own the mountain by impressing other riders or try to get all gold medals to unlock some achievements. 
 But unless youre really into the style of it all, a rental is probably all you need here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HightimesBX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Completely insane and hilarious story that's actually good and very VERY entertaining, 
 Soundtrack provides some good music, Presentation is off the wall.
  
  The Bad: Not really that hard of a game, and a little too easy to master, Gameplay is pretty bland 
 and boring, Not enough depth to the challenges, Graphics are good but the mountain is the only 
 thing that really looks "Next-Gen", Pretty short at only roughly 4-5 hours.
  
  
  
  Amped 3 is a game that can be called nothing short of INSANE. What appears as a simple Snowboarding 
 game at first, takes crazy turns with amazing style and absolutely INSANE cutscenes, to produce 
 one of the most insane games on the 360, if not in general.
  
  Amped 3 is pretty much a standard affair when it comes to gameplay. The gameplay usually consists 
 of a trick system. You hold down certain buttons to do tricks, and hold other buttons to modify 
 your tricks. There's also ways of maxing out your scores, with "Zen" moves and even "Butters" (The 
 Amped 3 version of the manual) . While the game is fairly in depth with the type of tricks you can 
 pull off, the gameplay overall is just fairly bland. Tricks after a while become extremely easy 
 to pull off and rack up gigantic scores. While the game includes some interesting gameplay mechanics, 
 such as riding Sleds and Snow mobiles, the game never really has much going for it in fun and exciting 
 gameplay.
  
  So why is Amped 3 so insane? Well it's story mode is the main reason. In Amped 3, the story mode 
 is the only real mode you can play through. It starts off pretty simple. You're robbed of your 
 crew's money and become blamed for it. It all just seems overly cliche and just bland, However 
 when playing through the game, it just becomes flatout insane. Cutscenes start having all sorts 
 of satire and comedic elements, that you WANT to play through the story. There's Anime, Sockpuppets, 
 Pieced together paper stuff, Cartoons and more. And it's all.... completely..... CRAZY. Most of these 
 cutscenes do a fairly good job of progressing along what is a good overall story, and their just 
 so funny that you'll want to play the game (Even though it's not really that fun and becomes repetitive.) 
 Just to see the next story cutscene.
  
  The way you progress to more story cutscenes, is to do challenges and earn respect. Challenges 
 have a decent amount of variety. There's Media Callouts, which simply involve pulling off big tricks 
 infront of a camera and reaching the target score, using mainly a certain type of trick. There's 
 Kitty Trail chases where you're basically just collecting a line of items, Magic Gate challenges 
 which are almost a copy of the Combo Line challenge in Tony Hawk and more. These challenges are 
 somewhat fun for the first hour or so of playing the game but then become somewhat boring and bland. 
 
  
  In some challenges you'll be able to drive a Snow Mobile and a Sled. The Sled challenges are quite 
 fun and involve you simply crashing into whatever you can to inflict the max amount of damage possible 
 to your character. There's also support for 2 player Sledding challenges. For Snow Mobile's though, 
 it's mainly driving through gates to earn more time on your clock. Most Snow Mobile challenges 
 are time based so you must keep passing through gates correctly to earn more time.
  
  For the most part, all these challenges become boring after a while, mainly because they're so 
 easy. It's pretty nice though that most story related challenges tend to change up the action nicely. 
 Technically Amped 3 is a very impressive game. The mountain levels you actually ride on, are pretty 
 huge and have a huge draw distance, allowing you to see most of the mountain. Overall Amped 3 looks 
 good in gameplay, but the story cutscenes look just incredible. While they aren't THAT good, the 
 graphics will be nice and easy on the eyes with it's smooth framerate and a few nice touches here 
 and there seal the deal.
  
  One thing the graphics do well, is put other people on the mountain besides you. This creates one 
 of the game's only interesting mechanics, The "Stoked" mechanic. Basically after filling up your 
 top meter enough with doing high scoring tricks, you'll see a little explosion and a stat box on 
 the top will say "0/100" or so people. When this happens, you have to pull off high scoring tricks 
 to impress people. Once you cap the amount of people you can impress, you own that part of the 
 level. This really has no affect on gameplay, but it does tie in with the game's achievements.
 
  
  Amped 3 also does a very good job with sound. The cutscenes are incredibly done and all are voice 
 acted. Some of them are so funny, that i've had instances where I dropped my controller. The voice 
 acting is great and the game also has a pretty good soundtrack to go along with that. There's a 
 ton of genres and ALOT of songs. The one issue though, is how some songs just feel really bland 
 (Most of the rock stuff) leaving very little to catch your attention after hearing them. The actual 
 sounds of the game are pretty good in their own right too.
  
  In closing Amped 3 is nothing short of a game that needs to be experienced. It's insane story mode, 
 with INCREDIBLE and HILARIOUS cutscenes are the star of the show here, but it's backed up by a 
 wonderful stylish presentation both with graphics and sound. While it may not have a whole lot 
 going for it with gameplay, it is worth it just to play the next story mission. Buying or Renting 
 the game is going to depend on personal taste, but it's definitely certain that one way or another, 
 you should play Amped 3.
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS: The achievements in Amped 3 are pretty simple but will require playing through the 
 whole game. The hardest of these achievements will be the last 2 and the "Own the Mountain" achievements, 
 which require playing through levels over and over to impress the required amount of people. You 
 can get about 500 points just by playing through the story mode though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadrock2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a crazy snowboarding game from the developers 2k Games. In this game you play as - well, 
 yourself, you get to create your character - Male or Female, form what i remember at this part 
 of the game there isn't much to customize them with, obviosuly you have t unlock new gear through 
 story mode. The game plays real clean with no hiccups, it looks and feels great and somehow doesn't 
 feel repetitive.
  
  So why the hell does this game only get an 8.1? i hear you ask! Well although Amped 3 is on the 
 whole a good game there is so much room for improvement - heres what i liked and what put me off 
 a bit;
  
  Pros:
  + It's craziness, really it's the craziest game you'll ever play.
  + The snow and mountians look gorgeous
  
  Cons:
  - Story mode is pretty weak
  - Graphic's 
 could be much nicer
  
  The basic storyline to the game is pretty weak as i said, basically you are on a snowboaridng holiday 
 with your buddies when you trip money is stolen, so you have to get the money back and re-unite 
 with your crew, but it doesn't end there, thtas all i'm going to say as i don't want to give too 
 much away.
  
  Amped 3 sucesses in a lot of ways, one thing which will attract you to the game is it's sheer craziness, 
 at first you wonder why it's jsut really weird but, it definately adds value to the game as the 
 cut-scenes are hilarious. There is a total of 8 resorts to explore, each very different and usually 
 divided into three parts, there's lots of things you can do on the mountain if you can't bothered 
 with the main storyline, you have to pull off Media Callouts - these are just like tricks for the 
 camera, like you have to do a spining or a rail trick for example. Then it moves on to some more 
 'crazy' stuff, like collecting kitty glitter (err yeah) tricking through hippy circles, and snow 
 quests (just beat the hi-score basically) . A few of these i really find funny - in particular the 
 Trauma Quests in which you sit on a sled then jump off and try and hurt yourself really bad, its 
 incredibly fun. To add more replay value to all this the 'quests' can be beaten again and again 
 to acquire and higher score or even better a bronze, silver or gold medal. Although there could 
 be a better range of 'sub quests' to beat the game feels unusually non-reppetitive, i found myself 
 really surprised that i don't get bored doing these challenges. But - if you do get bored you can 
 always try and get people 'stoked' no, this doenst mean soaked, its a term used in most extreme 
 sports for when someone think's somethink is totally crazy/radical etc. These are great you must 
 build up a meter by doing tricks and then you'll be in awesomess mode where you have a time limit 
 to impress the minimum number of bystanders on the snow, That's always good fun doing. 
  
  Ok, so there are some bad points among those, though there aren't many they do certainly damage 
 the overall rating i gave. The graphics are nice, but they aren't the best, the character models 
 are spot on though, but there are a few glitches, just ride into a mountain and you'll see what 
 im talking about, that pretty much sucks. The control system feel's great but you don't get that 
 sense of speed like you did get in SSX on Tour, it's quite dissapointing really, and sometime you 
 are bashing your control stick because your character won't do a manual sort of trick, now that 
 really bites. The soundtrack to the game is just horrific im sorry to say, i didn't like any of 
 the songs used, and if you did like them well thats your choice, i though they sucked pretty bad, 
 but still i've got my MP3 to listen to while i play so it's not that bad, having said that the 
 character voices are awesome. What Amped 3 doesn't do so well is its frustration mode, now there 
 isn't a real frustration mode there it's just it doesn't help..... For instance I had to get up 
 this relaly big hill in 10 seconds goign through these gate things that give you extra time, it 
 was quite hard and i was running out of time, i went through a gate but it didnt acknowelage i 
 did, so i ended up failing the mission, it annoyed me a lot. Also there was a media call-out on 
 a rock and i kept falling off the rock because it gives you no control when you are on there = (. 
 
  
  There isn't much else to tell you all, the game is definately worth checking out, especially if 
 you are even remotely into snowbaording or and extreme sport for that matter, it delivers very 
 well and is utterly enjoyable, weird, but fun. Maybe not worth it's 49.99 price tag, as its not 
 the best 360 game out there, but now it's 17.99, a total bargain if you ask me. I rate this game 
 8.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AfterAscon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Its a snowboarding game. Ive played one, so then Ive played them all. There are two types 
 of people, those who agree with that statement and those that dont. Unfortunately an opinion can 
 never be wrong, just mis-informed. Anyway I believe the later of the two options to be true, because 
 I feel there are two types of snowboarding games, the first being a realistic simulation of the 
 sport, which the first Amped was categorised in. The second type is an Arcade take on the sport, 
 with such residents being the SSX series of games. Amped 3, however, in my opinion breaks the mould 
 and seamlessly blends realism with an impossibly comical arcade element in the game. 
  
  I never played Amped 2 on the Xbox, so I cant judge the extent of the changes that occurred between 
 the last game and the current instalment, but I was however a fan of the original and have a fair 
 few hours of experience with it to judge the differences whether for better, or worse. On first 
 impressions the two games hardly seem like they should be part of the same series. Amped had it 
 roots quite noticeably in realism with the occasional burst of insanity. Amped 3 looks mad from 
 the get go, with its outlandish graphics flashing across the screen, sometimes not looking out 
 of place in 1960s episode of Batman. Even though it seems manic, remnants of the core game play 
 still shine through. This kind of odd-ball style persists throughout the game, and oddly enough 
 it suits the game very well, matching the comic aspects of the game almost perfectly. Be it from 
 the sock-puppet character, the anime spoofs or even the snow sharks (personal favourite) , all these 
 different, yet over the top styles work well together making Amped 3 presentation very polished 
 and easy to enjoy.
  
  The controls have been fully utilised for use in Amped 3, every buttons has a function, and these 
 even change depending on what mode of transport you opt to take. For the most part, the controls 
 are easily accessible and works well, allowing even a novice to pull off visually brilliant tricks 
 with ease and enough depth to keep you coming back to master (which is essentially to complete 
 some tasks) . Although this all seems very well and good, there are problems which everyone is likely 
 to encounter. I found that when going up to some jumps, if you tried to perform certain moves by 
 using one of the four face buttons, then sometimes the button presses werent registered, causing 
 challenges to be failed by the lack of points you could of accumulated, this could simply be an 
 error on my behalf or signs of realism, I however, just dont know. Though this can be only called 
 a slight problem because you can just as easily learn to play around it, simply by delaying you 
 actions slightly, so far this tactic has worked, though I feel it makes getting the gold medals 
 somewhat impossible. Thats only a problem if you want to collect all of the achievements.
  
  As you would expect from a next-gen game, the graphics would to be nothing short of amazing 
 and Amped 3 doesnt disappoint. It does for the Xbox 360 what the original Amped did for the Xbox; 
 it showcases the potential of the console. As you would expect from a game that uses real mountains 
 to host the game, the visuals are hardly going to varied or ground-breaking. The mountains essentially 
 consist of white snow covered slopes, clear blue skies, and you destination in the distance, which 
 is only hindered by trees rather than draw-distances. The trees themselves all look the same, which 
 is to be expected and they good all look nice, they are however seemingly re-used every where. 
 However, once you take off from a big jump you get to see how impressive things can be, draw distances 
 are old skool. The 360 has the power to eliminate them, and Amped 3 shows this off in leaps and 
 bounds (literary) , when gliding though the air you get to take in the breath-taking scenery, it 
 almost looks realistic at point, the ability to see everything on the mountain doesnt discourage 
 this either. Since Amped 3 is a launch title it doesnt boost the best graphics on the 360, but 
 this is an early title in the Xbox 360s life and the graphics obviously arent as good as they 
 could be, but as a launch title and compared to the games of last generation they still are stunning.
 
  
  Overall the sense of realism is always kept at arms length while Amped 3 shows how great fun it 
 can be to play, but this is how the developers intended it to be, have it roots firmly rooted in 
 realism, but allow some freedom for fun. Amped 3 takes the Snowboarding genre to the next level 
 and leaps suiciderly from it like a ninja on a snowmobile (almost possible to do in game) . Amped 
 3 is a quality game, which can be pickled up for about 15 online, which makes it a must have in 
 my opinion. Go buy, NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmhockey9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment to the Amped series sends you on a wild ride through the snowboarding world. 
 Even with a practically nonexistent multi-player, Amped 3 will give you many hours of play even 
 after the story is over. So, strap yourself into your bindings, Lets Ride!
  
  After a short intro to the games story, you find yourself smack dab in the middle of creating 
 a new character for you to play as. With choices over, gender, body shape, tattoos, facial hair, 
 facial features, clothing, board, bindings, and even a dialogue style, the game offers many different 
 ways in which your character can be customized. After having completed the creation of your character, 
 you find yourself at Northstar Mountain where you meet your crew, JDawg, Hunter, Weinerboy, and 
 Sebastian. When you and your crew win prize money that will be used for a trip to Chile from a 
 competition that you and your friends have just competed at Northstar for, the money is stolen 
 and you are the alleged robber of the money. Your friends decide to leave you behind when they 
 go to Chile because the money you had supposedly stolen would have paid for your share of the trip. 
 Something seems wrong to you, so you head out to set things straight, not knowing of the bizarre 
 adventure you are about to embark on.
  
  Throughout the rest of the single-player mode youll find yourself performing outrageous tasks 
 to reach your friends in Chile and clear your name. To advance in the story, different challenges, 
 twelve altogether, must be completed for more respect points so you can unlock more story missions. 
 Along with furthering yourself through the story, you will also be able to unlock more new gear, 
 sleds, and music tracks. Of these challenges probably the most innovative and fun one is Sled Trauma, 
 where you get a sled and try to give yourself the highest scored injury when you fall or throw 
 yourself off the sled. Another challenge that separates the single-player from other games is the 
 Awesomeness Challenge, where when you fill up your awesomeness meter, people will start paying 
 attention to the tricks you are doing and will/may become stoked if your tricks are impressive 
 enough. There are some pretty standard challenges, too such as trick attack mode, known as Snow 
 Quest, where getting the highest score possible from your tricks before time runs out is the goal. 
 
  
  As you continue to advance throughout the story you will find yourself seeing the story in different 
 ways from anime like scenes to sock puppet show scenes. It is just better that you see for yourself 
 because this is just what makes this game one of a kind. While telling a story that is just meant 
 to be fun, it goes and tickles your funny bone giving you a memorable experience throughout the 
 game. 
  
  Amped 3 offers a very easy system of controls that you can just pick up and play. Especially, if 
 youre someone who has ever played another extreme sports game then you will be immediately comfortable 
 with these controls and may find them to be easier than most other games. In retrospect, if this 
 is your first extreme sports game then it will only take a matter of minutes before you feel like 
 a snowboarding pro. The A button makes you jump and when in the air the A, X, Y, and B buttons 
 make you do tricks, along with different placement of the analog stick spinning and flipping you 
 and even slowing down time in your trick if done the right way. Alternating on pulls of the left 
 and right trigger makes it possible for you to carve. Many of the more intricate moves will come 
 naturally by hitting off certain button combinations or by just moving the analog stick up and 
 down or down and up for a move called butter.
  
  Besides just snowboarding you will find yourself, sledding, snowmobiling, and even hang gliding. 
 They offer a new perspective of playing the game and add on extra hours of playtime with their 
 own specific way of making the game easier to navigate or more amusing by just being a vehicle 
 of inescapable injury. The controls for these other modes of transportation down, or even up the 
 mountain, are very simplistic and offer another way to just pick up and play. 
  
  What about the multiplayer, you may ask? Well sadly, it is just one minigame that is a competitive 
 form of Sled Trauma, called Fling Fever. While it is amusing to play against your friends in this 
 mode for a few times, the minigame wears itself out quick because of a lack of locations and just 
 the repetition of the same competition over and over. And just to be a bit more annoying you cannot 
 just choose to play multiplayer, you must find an icon on your trail map that corresponds to multiplayer 
 and then ride towards itmaking it less appealing to just go and play. What a lacking part of the 
 game. I mean, wheres the trick attack mode? Thats where the real competition is at in these extreme 
 sports games. This lack of multiplayer even extends to Live, where the only form of competition 
 is comparing your all time high score on challenges to someone elses. It is a real disappointment 
 to know that the game that once sold due to the fact it utilized Live so well, now really has no 
 Live play whatsoever. 
  
  The soundtrack that comes with the game is decent. With an offering of a variety of genres, you 
 will find something that you are bound to like. Most of the soundtracks tend to be made up of indy 
 bands and music made strictly for this game. While most of the songs are bearable at worst, some 
 are just plain stupid it is a good thing there is an option to turn certain songs off, namely 
 the songs made strictly for the game. 
  
  As you begin furthering yourself through the story, new mountains will become unlocked, seven in 
 all. Only three of these mountains really are mountains though, the rest are just one trail or 
 a tiny snow park with rails and half-pipes. After having played through three massive mountains 
 in the earlier part of the game, it came to pretty much be expected that the last 4 would at least 
 equal if not surpass the vastness of the first three.
  
  This game has no real stunning look to it though; even with an HDTV. Amped 3 looks like it could 
 have been done on the Xbox. Character detail is low compared to other Xbox 360 titles and the terrain, 
 although very vast, is lacking a true to life texture that you would expect to be seeing in this 
 generation, even this early. 
  
  For all who love getting your Xbox 360 achievement points with a game, you will find that a majority 
 of the points to be had are simple to get just by completing an act or getting people on the mountain 
 stoked. While the last two, which definitely take a decent amount of patience, are completed by 
 either medaling in every challenge possible or receiving a gold medal for every challenge possible.
 
  
  This game could have still been so much more though if it would have just implemented a multiplayer 
 both online and offline and would have had more of a next-gen makeover in graphics. With an easy 
 set of controls that anybody can pick up and play and just plain fun challenges, Amped 3 can be 
 given the benefit of the doubt because of its single-player that offers an uncanny adventure to 
 the brink of ones imagination and sense of humor that cannot be passed up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Well tis 3rd edition to the Amped snowboarding series is actually better than the first two. Amped 
 3 is one of the best and craziest launch games for the 360. The story line is that you and your 
 friends are raising money to go to Chile. Then the money gets stolen and your blamed. Then it gets 
 crazier from then on. The gameplay graphics in the game are really good but it feels stale. The 
 Sound FX and Music in the game are perfectly matched. And the graphics are lucious and freakin 
 funny! With the mixture of normal animation, theres anime, canadian, sock pupets, and hands!!! 
 Its hilarious and indie built mixing with 2k was a great idea. The customization factor isnt soo 
 huge but you do get alot of freedom. The games sense of style is just soo awesome and insane, it 
 cant be beaten. This game is perfect for anyone who wants to get a new 360 game. Trust me, its 
 sooo worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummidontknow14
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Amped 3
  6/10
  You'll Die of Pity
  
  Two weeks ago I rented this game from gamefly. com and as I opened it up and started playing the 
 main storyline I liked it. I couldn't stop playing. Going over the same jumps, same hills, and 
 same rails. I had a blast doing flips, grabs, butters (or manuals) , and grinds. Then there was 
 the story.
  
  Story 4/10
  What can I say about the story? It sucks. period. First you are on this mountain with four of 
 your friends: J-Dawg (full of himself) , Sebastian (spiritual) , Hunter (the girl) , and Weiner Boy 
 (your best friend/ buddy) . That's right, your best friend is named Weiner Boy. Throughout the game 
 you get blamed for some stolen money and you have to pay up (I wonder why you don't go to jail 
 for stealing $5,000) , Weiner Boy gets captured and you have to save him, and J-Dawg has a hit single 
 (only in France) and you have to save the world from the horror of his awful music. Sounds like 
 your average skiing/ snowboarding movie. right? WRONG! The cut scenes are filled with lame crap 
 that try to get you to laugh, but never happens. From lame stunts such as hand puppets to action 
 figures. There's no funny part in this game. You'll be forced to chuckle from the crappiness the 
 cut scenes consume. I was saved by the torture of this game, for if you press the A button you 
 can skip the stupid cut scenes and I recommend you do so. They are unbearable. Trust me, you're 
 better off not seeing them. 
  
  The storyline only took me about 4-5 hours to complete because there's no challenge (for the story 
 mode that is) . Do this, do that, do this again. It's all the same. The objectives are usually marked 
 for you. You'll feel like following the white rabbit from Alice in Wonderland into a hole while 
 playing the storyline. The only challenge is the side missions. They consist of Slaloms (going 
 through gate after gate to get to a certain goal) , Media Stunts (show off your skills to the camera) , 
 and Magic Circles (get as much points as you can while going through these gates) . Some are almost 
 impossible like some of the Slaloms where they don't give you enough time to get gold. But some 
 are simple and take one try to get all three medals. You have to be real determined to play game 
 after game of the same stuff that get progressively harder as you unlock mountains. 
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay in this game is like your average SSX game: snowboarding. Now, I 
 haven't played the other Amped games so I can't compare it to them, but I will compare it to SSX 
 Tricky. Where SSX Tricky had tracks, Amped 3 has mountains. If you beat the game you get all seven 
 or eight mountains (I don't remember) to snowboard on. The first two levels are actually decent. 
 They are Northstar and Snowbird. These levels were really fun to play on and I loved them. Valle 
 Nevado was something different though. It was mediocre to say the least. It had a huge mountain, 
 I'll give it that, but I'd crash land and be stuck in the same place for seconds before I could 
 get back up and continue to snowboard. I know it doesn't sound like much, but it happened frequently. 
 After that the rest of the levels are pure crap. Every single new mountain you encounter only has 
 one section on the mountain where Northstar, Snowbird, and Valle Nevado all had about three of 
 four sections on the mountain. This makes the last mountains unusable. You don't feel any sense 
 of free-roam like you did in the first three mountains. It's all in one cramped space. At the end 
 of development of Amped 3, developers must have got pretty anxious to get it out on the launch 
 of the 360 because all the level design for those mountains stunk as much as the cut scenes. 
 
  
  After finalizing the snowboard functionality in the game the developers thought of some different 
 things that could go down a mountain: snow mobiles and sleds. The snow mobile is so crappy the 
 only use I found for it is to go up a mountain without going all the way to the top. It can't even 
 go down the whole mountain backwards which is what I really wanted to try doing. 
  
  The sled part of the game I likeda lot. See how well you can kill yourself while going 30 miles 
 an hour down a 45 degree angle. It was really fun. You could see the person go down the mountain 
 wiping out like mad with the physics engine. Hit him with a rail to the head 100,000 points! Go 
 down a steep cliff 50,000 points! You can also watch him go down the entire mountain if you want 
 to. This was incorporated into the game well. Get so and so points in single bail and you get a 
 new sled! WARNING: There is nothing special about the type of sled. It's just a fashion show. 
 
  
  Achievements 4/10
  The achievements in the game are real easy. Finish storyline, impress people, and some others that 
 will take you five minutes each if you put your mind to it. The only hard achievements are the 
 last two: Lesser Snow God and Supreme Snow God. For the Lesser Snow God you have to play and get 
 a medal in every challenge in the game and the Supreme Snow God you need to get all gold medals. 
 All this takes is time and I can see me getting these last two achievements I need to complete 
 the game very shortly. The rest of the achievements are simple.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  Nothing special. Not using the full power of Microsoft's new machine, but couldn't be on the Xbox. 
 They use puppets. What kind of graphics do you need for those?
  
  Replay Value 4/10
  It may be fun when you forget about it five years from now, but not after you beat it. 
  
  
 Pros
  Addicting first few levels
  Sleds
  Easy Achievements
  
  Cons
  Poorly designed later levels
  Bad Cut Scenes
  Crummy storyline
  
  Pass it on to someone 
 you hate. If you want to torture them, this is the way you do it. Do not play this game without 
 parental supervision, you'll die of pity. Rent it if you want, but only if you want the achievements. 
 And buy it if there's a drought of games and it's under ten bucks. 
  
  Posted also on gamefaqs. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake11977
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  I have never played a funnier game in my life than Amped 3. Yeah, it looks decent, controls very 
 well and has tons of content. But the story mode and bits of story-within-story are hilarious. 
 The creators of this game were definitely on drugs, but the result is an utterly laughable (in 
 a good way) experience. Anyone who enjoys a nice dose of Comedy Central will love this game. Character 
 models in the game have visible 'edges' which can sometimes be annoying, but you have the ability 
 to buy objects and place them anywhere on any mountain. That ability is underestimatible. The missing 
 option of a two player race (there are 2 player 'quests') immediately ruins the ability to customize 
 your mountain, and what could have been an added twist to the game. I would have liked to invite 
 over my buddy and run him into and object that wasn't there at his house and vice versa. Online 
 play isn't in thegame either, although there are some leaderboards on live for 'quests' you complete. 
 Online customizable mountains and what not would have been the culmination, but were not addressed 
 in Amped 3. Still, it is enjoyable, funny, with lots of things to do (silly things like cleaning 
 up cat poo) . I sound like I'm raggin on it, but AMPED 3 is sooooo close to being a near perfect 
 game, and is definitely fun for people of all ages. I haven't bought it yet, but I plan on it unless 
 another snowboarding game comes out for 360 that has the qualities I think Amped 3 missed. ABSOLUTELY 
 WORTH THE RENT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the ssx series this game is not for you. This game is not what i thought it 
 would be. the gameplay is not very good. The snowboarding part of the gameplay is done very well 
 but everything else fails. The multiplayer is miserable. There is no freeroaming on the mountains 
 like in ssx and the mutiplayer can only be accesed when you go to a multiplayer challange. Worst 
 of all the multiplayer problems is that there is no xbox live available. The other gameplay problems 
 are with the sledding and riding of the snow mobil the handling of them is just not what it should 
 be. The graphics are good and smooth the only problem is that there are a few small graphical glitches 
 that i have noticed. The sound is great. There are a whole lot of songs in this game and they are 
 good songs in my opinion. This game is atleast worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3's unique flair can be likened to a college kid making a mixed drink - take a little bit 
 of everything, throw it in a blender, and you wind up with something that, amazingly enough, goes 
 down pretty darn smooth.
  
  Although the graphics of the game are great, it's really the way the visuals work that make them 
 so impressive. The cut-scenes use a mix of puppetry, anime, cut-and-paste, and scrap-booking, and 
 it actually works quite well, especially with the manic tone of the story. The in-game visuals 
 don't push many boundaries, but they do look good. However, certain issues do crop up with certain 
 textures, especially when close to rocks or certain trees. At close range, these textures can look 
 downright ugly.
  
  The gameplay of Amped 3 has departed from its unforgiving forefathers, opting instead to focus 
 less on realism and more on style. Tricks are relatively easy to pull off, although this gamer 
 had a hard time figuring out how to use new tricks unlocked via different events throughout the 
 game. That leads me to my major gripe with this game. The tutorials given teach you the basics 
 of the game, but go little further than that. No explanation is given as to why you'd want to collect 
 the game's "bling," or what money can do for you in the game. Other unlockables, such as new sleds, 
 are not given an explanation either, instead leaving you to guess at how to use those unlockables.
 
  
  Other than that minor gripe, the gameplay is fast, loose, and fun. It's also varied, which helps 
 give the game some sustenance. Not only can you snowboard, but you'll also sled and snowmobile. 
 While the sledding and snowmobiling aren't as fleshed out as the snowboarding, they are still amusing. 
 In a nice touch, you can also use the snowmobile to quickly reach areas you might have missed with 
 the snowboard.
  
  There is a story in this game, but honestly, you'll be watching it more for the sheer amusement 
 of the cut-scenes than anything. While the story itself is fairly weak, the individual cut-scenes 
 are nothing if not brilliant.
  
  Soundwise, the game is a mixed bag. The voice work here is great, given how crazy the game allows 
 its characters to become. The sound effects sound good, but rarely stand out. The same goes with 
 the music. With over a hundred tracks, there's bound to be something there that you'll enjoy, but 
 you'll be hard-pressed to find it. The primarily indie music can be great one minute and horrible 
 the next, but it really depends on your taste.
  
  Give this game a try. You'll be pleasantly surprised at how quickly you'll become addicted to its 
 gameplay and its crazy cut-scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotlavaman
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  
  I was mostly a fan of the amped series when it came out. I played it with my friends and had a 
 blast, for a short while and then it all became a little to repetitive. Amped three brought right 
 in and i had a blast, for about two hours. After that is all seemed to fall apart, one of my fondest 
 memories of amped 2 was the splitscreen freeride mode, that was what made having the game worth 
 it. I didn't like ragdoll physics but that was ok, i didn't like that crappy controls for anything 
 besides the sled and the snowboard but that was ok too. Whta put the final nail in this games coffin 
 was the crappy-ass coop mode. WTF is that all about??? Mad props to the cutscenes and overall presentation 
 to the game but it felt like there was something missing when i played it. Towards the end i was 
 only playing it for the cutscenes. I usually like extreme sports games and this was defintiely 
 the best single player game in the series but i prefer to shred the pow-pow in a more multiplayer 
 friendly environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Amped 3 is it's in escapable in-your-face presentation, which 
 depending on your own preference and sense of humour, will either make or break the experience. 
 In this reviewer's terms however, the former rings true. Amped 3's whole vibe and approach, just 
 like it's insane aerial manoeuvres, is completely off it's head. Action figure movies, bearded 
 hand puppets, and anything else that can be crammed in with a cartoon or j-pop influence assault 
 the player while spelling out the criteria for the numerous goals on offer. You'll either love 
 it or hate it, so maybe check it out with a rental first.
  
  Graphically, like most of the first rung of 360 titles, it doesn't captivate or totally mesmerize, 
 but it does run rings around Amped 2. The frame rate is excellent, and there's a much more rounded 
 off look when compared to it's last-gen prequels. It is a shame that the player customisation couldn't 
 have received the same type of attention to detail as Oblivion or The Godfather - the advert saying 
 "you can make your character look just like you" is a lie. Though there is only the plot-advancing 
 cut scenes where your face is actually visible, you'll generally be staring at the back of your 
 head almost all the time. Still, you people at 2K, if you advertise it we expect it to be in there. 
 Shame.
  
  The story itself is by-the-numbers, but it's jazzed up with all the zany goings-on, and generally 
 it works. You'll play on just to see what crazy junk gets thrown at you next. The gameplay has 
 had an overhaul so now the player basically has a jump button (A) and three trick buttons (X, Y 
 & B) , which simplifies the gameplay (ie: land on a rail, press X-Y in succession, then in the same 
 rail press Y-B in succession, voila, basic combo) . Honestly, these changes serve the gameplay experience 
 immensely, and it's here that Amped 3 leaves it's predecessors for dead. 
  
  There's a seemingly endless supply of music to float down the slopes to, with more being unlocked 
 as the player progresses. Unfortunately, as in most games of this type, it's cheesy rubbish that 
 you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy. When will developers stop using in-game music as a promotional 
 tool for unsigned or newly signed formulaic artists? Some of the electronic stuff is okay, but 
 generally the music on offer is dreadful. I recommend putting your own tunes on for this one instead 
 (I've found Chemical Brothers and the old B-52's stuff to be best suited) .
  
  The approach to the presentation was bold, and not everyone's idea of entertainment, but those 
 responsible should be applauded for applying a fresh coat of creativity to what could have been 
 "just another extreme sports title". Amped 3 isn't perfect, but it is a substantial step forward 
 for the series, and to date is the craziest time you will have (virtually) sliding down a mountain 
 on a snowboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say that this game was one of the most boring gaming experiences I've had in years. 
 I kept on playing it until I beat it 100% expecting a game that everyone has been raving about. 
 Instead I got a game that lacks so much.
  
  The gameplay is terrible. If you enjoy something fun, just stop reading this review right here 
 and look elsewhere. If you enjoy a boring experience that won't provide any fun moments, please 
 continue. Words can't describe how boring this game really was. The controlls are clunky and the 
 mountains are all uninspired and look about the same in each one you go to. The story is pathetic. 
 It tries to be funny, but doesn't come close. I guess you could say it was a hit or miss. For me, 
 it was definitely a miss.
  
  The graphics are just meh. They are decent. Not good. Not bad. They are just OK. The sound was 
 alright as well with some licensed songs and decent voice acting.
  
  The game is over all too soon lasting just a few hours. Well in my case, I couldn't wait for it 
 to be over. But, if you are looking for lasting appeal, it sure isn't here. Amped 3 flopped incredibly 
 hard and should deserve a rent. A buy is out of the question. Look elsewhere for quality gaming 
 entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is probably one of the most stylish games in a long time. It adds a brand new cut and paste 
 style that I've never seen before. 2k Sports took a huge risk with venturing into that territory 
 but overall turned out great.
  
  Career mode is one of the craziest things ever seen in a video game. You imbark on a journey with 
 the likes of J-Dawg, Hunter, Sebastion, and last but not least Weiner Boy! Each character has a 
 very likeable personality that will have you laughing til the end. The games frequent cut scenes 
 are hit and miss humor but when it hits get ready for a good belly laugh. In these cut scenes you 
 will see all types of film from cartoon, anime, the trademark cut and paste, and even some claymation 
 not seen since the days of Gumby. The story line is so original and adds a lot of value to the 
 gameplay. The game is not a burden to play through and is something I would easily do again.
  
  This game is extremely short but enjoyable. It is unlike anything else in the series and is 
 in my opinion the best in the series. I can't wait to see how 2K Sports Improves on this great 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDGRUNTY11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  In Amped 3 you create a character and play through a messed-up storyline that is in some points 
 pretty funny. 
  
  The gameplay- Easy to learn and remember controls, cool tricks (but definately not realistic, although 
 not as fake as SSX) 
  
  Graphics- the different mountains you can travel to are each humongous and i think there are nine 
 of them. the mountains are all highly detailed and so are the players.
  
  Sound- everything sounds real in this game, when you grind a rail it sounds like one, and it has 
 over 400 songs (which i personally didn't like but there are always playlists and you can connect 
 your ipod to your 360)
  
  Value- It is very addicting to play the first time through but after that all you have to do is 
 go the mountain over and over again so if you beat it in one day which you can then you probably 
 won't be playing it much more.
  
  Tilt- I liked this game though it was fun and addicting while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichealRoboto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the best on the Xbox 360. I had a ton of fun with it. THe Graphics 
 are just amazing. You can do so much. You can snowboard, Go sleding, and go snowmobiling... SNOWMOBILING, 
 that is awsome. This game is like seeing Dane Cook in person, its that great. I think this game 
 has some really good levels too. You can go snowboarding in Snowbird, than go to DC moutain lab, 
 than to LAAX, its crazy. Once you start you cant stop, its a great game. 
  I only had a few problems with this game. Somtimes when your snowmobiling, its kind of hard to 
 control. And some times its hard to balence on rails but other than that this game is awsome.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_Dom
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  This is fun game no doubt about it but the thing is that it's too damn short.
  The quirky characters add a good amount humor but the real money makers are the cut-scenes. These 
 30 to 45 second shorts range from canadian sockpuppets to quick talking anime to stop-motion rpgs. 
 These are all very odd and at times hilarious and keep you coming back for more but once the gane 
 was over and there were no more to watch I found myself bored and uninspired to continue playing 
 anymore. Bottom line game is intersting but too short theres not much replay value and even at 
 a deducted price of $40.00 this game isn't worth the buy. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Amped 3's gameplay is fast, easy to learn, and enjoyable. But, after about 5 hours you 
 learn how to easily get points and basically pass by everything with a breeze, so the difficulty 
 is not much of a problem. There are a possible of about 200+ mini-events, which will run you quite 
 a bit of time. The story line itself is wacky and fun, the strangest you'll ever see in any present 
 game, and it'll run you about 4 or so hours. The mini-events will begin to get repetitive, but 
 running down the slopes is kind-of fun too. Also, you can add, and build, in your own items for 
 the slope.
  
  Graphics: Probably not next-gen graphics, but everything does look decent. The rocks look okay, 
 and the snow is the likes of SSX. Overall, a solid graphical engine.
  
  Sound: Lots, and lots, of music. So much music you can unlock music. Great sound, great acting, 
 and overall great sound.
  
  Value: Lots of mini-events, solid story-line, 15 unlockable achievements, build your own items 
 on a slope, lots of moves, and a small co-op event.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Big difference from this and Amped 1 and 2. Different makers made this game, so 
 to be expected. This game has the best main story I've ever played (I, too, am a random person, 
 so I found it was kind-of to my style) . I beat the storyline in a day, and am working on some other 
 parts. Great for a rental, maybe for a buy if it lowers in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeniceMenace
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big snowboarding fan, but I thought I'd give this game a try. I had no knowledge of any 
 previous versions of the game either. It was quite a surprise playing the game.
  
  The gameplay of the acutal snowboarding and skiing is not all that great. It's easy to learn, but 
 it's not the kind of activity that lends itself to something that challenging. Of course you can 
 learn and master new tricks, but it doesn't seem like that much of payoff to really accomplish 
 the tricks.
  
  What made this game really interesting and fun was the immersive world of the snowboarding characters. 
 This game does a great job building a story and world around something as simple as snowboarding. 
 The character interactions are fun and not obtrusive into the gameplay. I was actually looking 
 forward to them. Usually in a game I skip most of the filler, but in this game, the filler was 
 great and entertaining. 
  
  I give this game big props for creativity and creating a game that makes good use of the tools 
 and technology of video games. You have cool short films, interesting graphics, and a simple and 
 fun story worth paying attention to. 
  
  Overall, this game is definitely worth a rental and worth playing with friends that can laugh along 
 with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sesso204
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Although i really like the game, people who are big fans of the first two Amped games, may be dissapointed 
 with this one. This game is not realistic at all. I don't mind it. The mountains are big (well 
 most of them are) , and it is fun to be able to do so many challenges and stuff. The story is really 
 quick. You could easily finish it in a day. But if you like snowboarding games, this game gives 
 you lots of choices like customization and free gameplay. You can ride snowmobiles everywhere. 
 (The snowmobiles aren't that great, but they are helpful) . You can also ride sleds (which can lead 
 to some pretty funny things) . Overall, this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptQuebon
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Sure the game is fun and has a nice presentation/style, but they completely killed the realistic 
 controls that i loved about that franchise.
  Graphics are ok, but nothing dazzling.
  You no longer have complete control over your spins and flips and they scrapped the best grabbing 
 scheme yet in a sb game they had in Amped and Amped 2 for a multi-tapping-button system. 
  
  I played most of snowboarding games that ever came out since cool boarders, and for me amped 
 2 was the pinnacle of sb games, so i was really disapointed of the new direction the dev team took. 
 Lets just say i liked it more when skills were needed to land a nice bs rodeo 5 with the melon 
 tweaked just at the right moment, ( ill have to wait for the BC patvh that includes Amped 2) . 
 
  
  Its not all bad, the carreer mode is preety interresting but they killed all possibility for me 
 to innovate in style like used to with this last installement. 
  PS. Just crossing my fingers that the future SB game with Shaun White from ubisoft will rock, TH 
 project 8 looks nice too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33t_gamer_88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  well, i recently beat amped 3 and.... well..... lets just say its kinda weird
  the graphics are solid but not impressive overall, just average, nothing that realy stands out 
 on a next-gen console, but the gameplay itself is fun and also funNY, it has a few humourous features 
 like injury mode where you basicly ride a sled down a hill and hit stuff to try and injure your 
 character, this is fun if your nice and pisse. this game is definately better and funner than its 
 predicesor but it is not graphicly superior in any way. if you are a fan of snowboarding games, 
 you owe it to yourself to at least check this game out... if you are someone who is looking for 
 a game that will impress you visually on the next-gen 360 you should prolly avoid this game because 
 it is highly average.
  
  PS this game has a lenghthy and impressive soundtrack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibanezx360
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 30, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  its a good game but most of the videos have nothing to do with the game. its a little weird if 
 you ask me. the boarding is fun but it is so fantasy styled. if you are in to fictional games this 
 would suite you quite well. i only ride the hang glider i unlocked i dont even snowboard on it 
 to be honest. its fun at first but trust me your going to get bored it happened to me and i didnt 
 think it would. just rent it first and see if you like it that much and then buy it if you do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Amped 3 is actually a pretty good game! I never would have thought that this game would be 
 a good game after the popularity of it died out after a few weeks... This was a fairly early XBOX 
 360 game when it released but it plays like a newer one.
  
  PROs+
  
  The catchy wacky story makes you wonder what is going to happen next. Numerous mountains with different 
 areas make for a new experience every time you pick up the controller. Many corporate sponsors 
 and actual clothing lines. Amped 3 has much better graphics than I would have expected. I thought 
 the clothing had insane grpahics same with the boards and other gear.
  
  CONs-
  
  I do not like the grpahics on Weiner Boy and any other Twiggy tight pants character. The challenges 
 can be quite boring after a while... and it seems it takes for ever to reach a new mountain. Graphics 
 on the snow are not that special and the combos are pretty hard to keep going. Unlocking moves 
 is pretty annoying and some of the characters are really making me want to kill the voice actors!!!! 
 LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Amped 3. At first, a cheap knock off of SSX. But actually, it's just a knock off of SSX, except 
 this knock off is definately an improvement.
  Though Amped 3's gameplay and concept are straight forward, and the graphics (next though they 
 may be) are not that impressive, the story is twisted, the soundtrack is ace and the cutscenes 
 are all wacky!
  Snowboard down mountains, where the powder is fresh and the trick ops are plentiful. Amped 3 also 
 features a new trick system, which is (suspiciously) similar to the THPS series.
  Another fact that doubts the game's value, is that it's only 17.99 at Play. com! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimyGoblin
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Just what was needed for the 360, a game that isn't so pretentious and programmed to a corporate 
 agenda. An enjoyable game, with an over the top, bright, loud and obnoxious story running along 
 in the background, with the ability to pick up and put down at will.
  
  My 14 week old daughter was entertained by the bright, garish colours, and interesting sounds and 
 music. Whilst my mental age is (albeit debatedly) higher than hers, I found the game a break from 
 the first person shooters and tactical stress of most of my other 360 games.
  
  This, was made even more enjoyable by the fact that I only paid 17.99 for it from Play. com..!! 
 Bargain entertainment.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I was running out of games that i was actually interested in playing when i came across amped 3. 
 its the first game in the series i've played and i was actually really pleased with it. the storyline 
 is totally crazy, the cutscenes are hilarious (most of the time) and the plot is pretty much from 
 a saturday afternoon sci-fi movie (but this time its a good thing because its supposed to be corny. 
 unlike some other games *cough* farcry *cough*)
  
  anyways,
  
  aside from a little cliping and a couple of glitches i had the game was pretty solid visually and 
 the control was fine.
  
  the graphics could use a little work. not quite what the next-gen systems should have but not ugly 
 either. 
  
  the song library is massive but most of it isnt my type of music. i won't be bias though, i respect 
 the amout of music.
  
  if you can pick up a used copy the game is worth buying because of its high replay value and tons 
 of challenges. gamespot commented on the games lack of variety however theres actually quite of 
 lot to this game that goes way beyond snowboarding. there are around 200 challeges that you can 
 receive different medals for and live rankings for. challenges range from getting a high score 
 to collecting items to riding a porta-potty down a slop through some rings. oh, and did i mention 
 the hang-glider?
  
  this game blew me away to be honest. i'm super picky and i was expecting garbadge. this is one 
 of the few times that i disagree with gamespot and give a higher rating than a lower rating.
  
  this game is solid.
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 16, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  amped 3 is a game that i donot usually pay. but i got it anyway caus emy friend told me that it 
 was an all around fun game with lots of playtime. so i picked it up and now im hooked. graphics 
 dont meet 360 standards but the gameplay is awesome. the story is wacky and wierd and there are 
 some funny parts aswell. it seems to be easy but ive only finished act I. so ima go play now. if 
 u liked amped and amped 2 i suggest u get amped 3 if u havent already. there is tons of boards 
 and gear u can choose from. there is also this cool thing called awesomness. its great add to the 
 games substance. get it or else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyshock
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 16, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for something similar to SSX on the 360. The graphics, of course, are spectacular 
 in Amped 3. I felt the storyline was like a train track guiding me more than I wanted. I just wanted 
 to break away from it a bit to have some mindless fun doing tricks that are impossible in the real 
 world. However, the creativity in the cut scenes made me forget about most of the game-play attributes 
 I didn't like. I mean honestly, the cut scenes had me cracking up. If you want a good game to rent 
 or buy cheap, you might want to think about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say Amped3 is the best snowboarding game I have ever played in my life. IT is a 
 very fun game. Amped3 is a very unique game like the humor in it is very odd but at the same time 
 it is hillarous. If you have a good sense of humor I would bet that you will love Amped 3. The 
 graphics in this game aren't the best for a Xbox 360 game but they are pretty good if you ask me. 
 The story mode is pretty easy in amped3 but there is a lot of different things you can do if you 
 want to get all of the Achievments. There aren't many setbacks in this game the only bad one that 
 I can think of is that there isn't any multiplayer. I really wish there would have been multiplayer, 
 it would have made this game a little better but I still think that Amped3 is a great game. I would 
 reccomend buying this game because of how much fun it is. Its a really really really fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalDeath101
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 on its own is what I would call just another attempt at a snowboard game almost as bad 
 as the Transworld snowboarding games. The choppy feel when spinning off jumps just takes the realism 
 and fun out of just taking runs to see great aerials and push yourself to do that extra turn. The 
 automatic jibbing of rails also sucks the realism out especially when you just about think you 
 clear one, but alluva a sudden your full 50mph momentem is suddenly swept to the right down a rail 
 (real damn realistic) . When compared to Amped 2 it could make a grown man cry, I'd have to say 
 this should be added to the long and ever growing list of bad sequels to great games. The silly 
 story line is geared towards 12-18 year olds and is very boring in its attempts at adding reason 
 or purpose to the game. 
  The only thing that could be judged as positive about the game is the free roaming mountains. However, 
 like when snowboarding on a real moutain sometimes you just want to hit that last jump or grind 
 that last rail over and over until you've got it down for felt like you've accomplished your goal 
 for the day.
  They did not allow Amped 2 to run on Xbox 360 as a backward compatible game, I guess they new Amped 
 3 would suck so they didn't want competition, and if they make an Amped 4 I hope whomever they 
 hired on to help with Amped 3 is canned by the time it comes around.
  
  Graphically for what the Xbox 360 can offer this game is sub par.
  
  This game is right in 
 there with SSX as another bogus boring and silly snowboarding game not aimed at real Snowboarders. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  When i first rented amped 3 i was thinking "Another easy 1000 gamerpoints" but then i played the 
 game and was like WTF this game is the weirdest game ever created whats with sock puppets and other 
 strange things. The gameplay is fun but no SSX game it can get really boring once you've mastered 
 your snow board but wait thats not all you can ride a snowmobile go sled riding with a friend to 
 see who can get hurt the most or ride a hand glider through the air. I recomend buying this game 
 to any extreme sport junkie but other than that i would rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  What does Indie Built do when Amped 2 flops? They come back with a hard-hitting crazy fest of sock 
 puppets, snow gods and a weird story.
  
  The story starts off normal. You start out at Northstar, where it's Easter weekend and the resort 
 is about to close for the season. You and your crew J-Dawg (Aspiring Pro) , Hunter (Thrill seeking 
 "Hottie") , Sebastian (Buddha Border) , and Weiner Boy (Kung Fu Apprentice) - have been saving your 
 pennies for a trip to exotic Chile, Where the five of you will keep riding all year long... or until 
 the money runs out. It's a good plan... that goes right down the toilet by the end of Act 1. Then 
 everything gets really, really insane.
  
  The controls have been changed for the better and for the worse. The button layout is different 
 this time. You no longer use the Analog stick to do tricks. You now use the buttons to do the tricks. 
 The controls now feel more like a Tony Hawk game then a previous Amped game. The only main problem 
 with the new controls is their is no grind button. This means if you jump and their is a rail next 
 to where you are jumping you are going to cling towards the rail. The controls are now less sluggish 
 and tight. But now its just to easy to land insane jumps. The controls make the game feel less 
 realistic. But the controls for the sleds are really good. But the snowmobile controls feel like 
 your driving a tank instead of a snowmobile.
  
  The graphics are good but not great. The game doesn't take full capability of the Xbox 360's power. 
 This game could have been put on the Xbox. There is more detail then graphics. Now instead of the 
 blobs of snow being kicked up from the board, now its more separated and looks more realistic. 
 You can also see grooves in the snow.
  
  The sound is where this game does great in. There are tons of music tracks. A lot of the tracks 
 are from bands that are on Independent record labels. There is music for everyone from Rap to Punk 
 to Heavy Metal. The tracks cover a lot of genres. But the sound effects sound like they have been 
 rehashed from old Amped games.
  
  One of the best parts are of the game is the cut scenes. These cut scenes are just wacky and bizarre. 
 But the style of the cut scenes and the game go really well together. These scenes range from sock 
 puppets, toys, 8-bit characters and more. Just the menus of the game feel artistic and fun.
  
  Sadly, there is no multiplayer. I was really hoping to tear up the mountains with friends. 
 There is always Amped 4 to look forward too. The only things that come close to multiplayer are 
 the leader boards. Which you can only get if you have Xbox Live and some sled challenges which 
 aren't all that fun to play with a friend. Sure smashing your guy down the mountain is fun. But 
 it can only be fun for so long. Then it just gets repetitive.
  
  Another cool thing they added this year is the park builder. The only time you will be using this 
 is if you can't get a high score. I never had to use this because its just too easy to get high 
 score. So this ends up being a cool but useless tool.
  
  Overall this is a good game with a great story. But falls short in some areas. This is a rent or 
 a buy. It just depends on your tastes of these types of games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I just played through Amped 3 and I was suprised by how much I did enjoy this game. I have not 
 played a snowboarding game since 1080 back on the N64. 
  
  First off, the game has some of the most trippy cutscenes I have seen in a game in a long time. 
 They are funny an inventive if not too wacky sometimes.
  
  The gameplay is solid although for me it took a while to get used to the controls and they felt 
 a little non-responsive at first but after playing for about an hour my skill caught up. Amped 
 3 has a solid amount of things to do and a decent story line but what is really fun is the fact 
 that you can choose what to do and when. It's kind of like GTA in that sense. You can spend hours 
 just going up and down the mountain doing challenges.
  
  The Graphics are good but obviously could be alot better considering the hardware it is on, but 
 it is the best looking snowboard game out there. The framrate is smooth and collision detection 
 is solid. The physics an sometimes feel odd but it never really hampers anything.
  
  The sound is also done very well with a good blend of rock and pop to board to. Voices for character 
 are your typical stoner, but they are done very well non the less.
  
  Overall I would say that Amped is a great game that could have been amazing if developers could 
 have bumped up the interactive elements and truly used the 360' power.
  
  If you are dying for something different in the snowboard genre then give this game a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  
  Amped 3 is yet another 360 game that I would never have played if I wasn't thinking about my gamerscore. 
 I have played most of the SSX series and never really heard much about this edition brought you 
 from the 2K sports imaginations. Needless to say I was pleasantly suprised by this game in terms 
 of overall presentation and humor. 
  
  Ironically for a snowboarding game, the actual art of snowboarding takes a backseat to the quirky, 
 insane, and almost hysterical storyline for this sports title. The first scene in the game introduces 
 you as a character wearing a pink bunny outfit, the kind that you might see at a theme park being 
 initiated into a "crew" of snowboarders each with their own unique personalities. This sets the 
 pace for an outright creative and zany storyline as events unfold in just about every format you 
 can think of. One segment might be portrayed in Anime, another segment has toys reinacting the 
 plot point, and even hands and sock puppets with those oogly eyes get cameos into being the narrative 
 to the story. The game even pays ode to old school nes games like Megaman and Sonic with minor 
 cutscenes that are obvious pardody to these series. Needless to say if you can't wrap your brain 
 around the story then you probably aren't going to be playing very long. 
  
  Technically the game plays smoothly. Each mountain slope you ride on loads all in one shot and 
 you can make it from top to bottom without hitting a load screen (about time people!) and the characters 
 are rendered pretty nicely, especially the special outfits you get (like the bunny suit) . The snow 
 has advanced texturing to it and can be noticed on open flats nicely. The mountains are set up 
 with tons of paths and runs you can take and each actual resort you go to gets obviously more complex 
 as the game progresses which is also nice. Aside from snowboarding you can also ride sleds, throw 
 snowballs, and even use a snowmobile to get around - really awesome feature if you miss an event 
 challenge area and have to backtrack up the field. 
  
  Progressing through the game is pretty straight forward. Scattered across the mountain are different 
 events with different goals - most pertaining to racking up a certain amount of points under time 
 conditions but other variants like collect-a-thons or rider challenges mix it up. Most events you 
 can score bronze, silver, and gold and any event you place in you get 
  "Respect" points that help unlock other events or areas of the map. The system is really good and 
 leaves a lot for you to do while not feeling locked into "stages" like other games. However, there 
 are a TON of events you can participate (something like 1500 gold medals you obtain in the entire 
 game) so expect a lot of snowboarding to unlock all of your gamer points or if you are a completionist.
 
  
  One feature I thought was really unique was how the game interacts with Xbox Live. Every single 
 one of the 1500 events ranks you if you get a gold with anyone else who had done the event and 
 scores a gold. It happens instantly and even gives you your percentage and ranking vs everyone 
 on xbox live for each event and overall. It's pretty cool to see that one some events you place 
 in the top 50 while in others you really have to work to get in the top 1000. However, it also 
 shows that this game can easily be manipulated as a lot of the scores are ridiculous (like the 
 newer Tony Hawk Games) and the actual snowboarding system makes getting high scores a sinch.
  
  The actual gameplay in this game is where all the positives turn into negatives. This game 
 is REALLY easy to combo and in fact at times feels like you can make it through the entire mountain 
 in one big combo (especially on the harder levels where jumps are more requent and help keep your 
 combo alive) . Plus the wipeout system is really out of wack with the character animation so very 
 often you land jumps you shouldn't be or fall when you clearly landed perfectly and can be EXTREMELY 
 annoying on some of the events that both time you and keep you on a strict course. Another gripe 
 I have is that there is absolutely no RACING aspects in this snowboarding game. Everything revolves 
 around combos or passing through rings to extend your time and felt it would have been a cool feature 
 to have racing. Lastly, there is no penatly for repeated moves. So you can in theory keep doing 
 backflips and get the same point value (which is greater than say a 360) so things get stale quickly 
 unless you stop caring about your score. 
  
  Just to touch on it the voice acting and music is well placed in this game and adds to the overall 
 environment. 
  
  Overall I enjoyed playing this game. The best two parts of this game was the story and how the 
 overall mountains were set up. The humor and openness to the game kept me entertained for quite 
 a while but attempting to do all the missions and events got sour very quickly especially once 
 you learned how to rack up points quickly. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrca
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. When I first got it, it seemed like the usual Amped game until you get into 
 the first few story missions. Then you run into the "Zen" Challenge (You'll know what I mean when 
 you get to it) which was a little cheesy, I decided to continue a little longer and then it begins 
 to get a lot better then when you first start to play it. When you do the mini challenges it is 
 really fun trying to get gold on the challenges and then when you do you get your name on the leaderboard 
 for Xbox Live. That was a great addition to the game by the Amped crew. It keeps me playing challenges 
 again and again. While I haven't gotten first I have gotten in the top 10, 2 times, and the top 
 20, a few more times. When it comes to learning controls and other stuff it is very easy but a 
 few take a little longer to know. This is definitely a game to buy if you have finished the rest 
 of your games. At such a low price it is worth the few laughs and fun entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is the third edition of the Amped series; hence the name Amped "3". This is one of the 
 funniest games made and will keep you hooked for quite some time. It may get repetitive sometimes; 
 but this is a must have for snowboarders, and for everyone else, it IS worth a buy; at least rent 
 it and try it, you'll be surprised.
  
  Gameplay - 8 - It's your average snowboarding game, but with tons of extras!! You now can do more 
 than board, you can sled and go on snow mobiles! The missions are very clear and interesting; some 
 are easy and some may take more times to complete than others. Very solid.
  
  Graphics- 9 - The graphics are amazing. Nice crisp surroundings, and good looking character models, 
 but not the best, they could be improved a little. But overall, great looking game. 
  
  Sound- 7 -The games voice acting is great, nothing spectacular, but still very good. It sounds 
 good when the snowboard is on the snow.
  
  Value- 8 - To me, this is worth a buy, or at least a rent. But I suggest to you that you at least 
 rent it and try it out. 
  
  Overall- 8.1 -
  Great, solid game.
  
  _Justin_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tehnubbin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  There are few games that have ever made me laugh, cry, swear in anger and fall in love all in one... as 
 a matter of fact, Amped 3 may be the only title I've owned to make me do all of these things at 
 once. (I thought it impossible too, but it's true, my friend.)
  
  Allow me to start out by saying that if you've played the first two games in the series, you are 
 in for a surprise. While the core gameplay is relatively the same, the story mode is jaw droppingly 
 different, to say the least. Essentially, this is were you will spend most of your time, thanks 
 to the untimely demise of the Xbox Live multiplayer feature. (We'll get to that later) . The story 
 mode in this game is presented in what has to be the most unique fashion I've seen in a game in 
 quite some time. There are parodies of Anime, foreign gameshows, referrences to a certain gaming 
 company that shall remain nameless, though to those who play through, they will recognize who it 
 is immediately, and there are some truly oddball segments that defy explanation. Sound enticing? 
 No? Well, it's really something that needs to be seen to be believed. 
  
  The story itself, is secondary to the presentation, but it at least makes a bit of sense, and doesn't 
 seem like they just tacked it on to fill the game out a bit. It starts with you creating your own 
 boarder and from there, we go to the slopes, where you and your friends are saving up to go on 
 a killer vacation up in Chile. All is well, until you're accused of stealing the money for the 
 trip... which is where the adventure begins. You mainly progress through the story mode by gaining 
 respect from your peers on the mountain and completing some challenges that open up more of the 
 story. All in all, it's a well put together mode and the progression through the story seems reasonably 
 simple at times, however, an unruly camera can take that simple task and make it almost impossible 
 to achieve... or at least impossible to have fun while attempting to achieving said objective.
 
  
  For example, one of your main objectives will be to follow a pro and out-trick them to get major 
 respect. Most of the time, this is a fairly simple task and does not require much effort. What's 
 most infuriating, especially for those out there who have breezed through these tasks, is that 
 there are times when you are required to hit specific "gates" that nearly 75% (ok I'm overestimating 
 a bit... sue me) , of the time are offscreen and you end up having to guess where the next one is, 
 thanks to a camera that is less than helpful during these crucial moments. And so this requires 
 trial and error of the worst kind. You have to memorize the courses as you go, or you'll never 
 get anywhere. What this means, is that unless you are a real pro at the game and have a general 
 idea of where the next gate is, you're going to be replaying the same task several times over... especially 
 near the end in one particularily frustrating part of the game. This part of the game isn't nearly 
 as difficult as it is tedious and that can sometimes make it worse than if it were a question of 
 it just being difficult. This means that some players may not be as inclined to finish the game, 
 being that the tasks get old quick, and having to redo them in a trial and error fashion can frustrate 
 even a pro. That's a shame, because the ending to this game is well worth the play-through...
 
  
  The gameplay itself is similar to that of previous entries in the series... not much has changed, 
 except that some of the gameplay features seem to have been dumbed down a bit. It's not something 
 you'd notice unless you were a fan of the first and second games, but it seems almost easier to 
 do certain things in the game. Controls are similar to that of the Tony Hawk series, with a few 
 tweaks, so those into the Hawk series will feel comfortable entering the world of snowboarding.
 
  
  The multiplayer has been removed this time, which seems like a step in the wrong direction, though 
 there is the Leaderboard and a couple of sledding challenges that are supported through Live. 
 
  
  The sound in the game is as good as that in previous games, with a lot of indie bands cranking 
 out some solid tunes, (depending on what you're into) . The voice-acting is very solid as well. 
 They had fun doing this game and you can tell that in the delivery of the lines, as well as the 
 presentation. 
  The graphics for the game are that of Xbox standards... meaning they are excellent, but for the 
 360, they can sometimes look a little... bland, and the collision detection is terrible, as you'll 
 often find yourself going through your fellow snowboarders, rather than knocking them down. However, 
 the framerate is solid and it's pleasant to look at on your way down the mountain. (Cut-scenes 
 are done with a variety of different styles and all hold true to the unique styles they are representing.)
 
  
  Overall, if you can get past the fact that the camera can sometimes be incredibly frustrating, 
 and the fact that there is no multiplayer, this is a title that should easily appease fans of the 
 first two games, and eases those who are new to the series into the game comfortably. Amped has 
 what it takes to be a great series, but there is work to be done. A few gameplay tweaks and some 
 major reworking of the in-game camera, and maybe the next game in the series could be what Amped 
 3 aspires to be: The best damned snowboard game on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncoguy07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Amped three's story is it's only game mode. This will probably begin to stand out after your done 
 beating it iin about two hours. But the story mode is enough to satisfy you. It has crazy cut scenes 
 and it will keep you waiting to see what happens next. But it is still way too short. After you beat 
 it though, the game is really boring unless you start it over again. There is no high score multi-player 
 or any type of multi-player except this lame co-op challenge. The graphics are pretty much what 
 they should be for a snowboarding game. Gameplay is really easy. Challenges should not be a problem 
 for anyone. If story mode is enough to keep you busy than Amped 3 is a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is super. The main story quest is alittle wierd and I stopped following it along after 
 playing for like 5 minutes. I just kept on pressing "A" as soon as a cut scene came on. The game 
 is fun, and it flows really smooth. Sometimes you get some buggy **** going on when you snowmobile, 
 or get caught in a crack. But nonetheless it is a really fun game. The controls are easy, the graphics 
 are tight, and the customization for your character is pretty good. It isn't exactly what I would 
 call GREAT! **** Just rent the game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is one title I just decided to rent because I thought it would be fun. It's just like the 
 past Amped games right? Don't think so. This game was absolutely un-fun and gets my vote as worst 
 360 game to date. I spent about 5 hours on the game before I couldn't push my self to play it any 
 further. The learning curve is simple and will take about 15 minutes to adjust. Overall this game 
 is just plain boring!
  
  Gameplay: Uninspiring, unfun, awful story. Doing tricks down a mountain and gaining points is a 
 tad fun.
  
  Graphics: Xbox graphics. Seriously, I usually am against people who say that kind of crap, but 
 this has port written all over it.... and it's NOT even a port at all!
  
  Sound: Awful, get your own music for this game.
  
  Value: It's a pass.. maybe if you see it 
 a shop one day for 20 bucks it may be worth it. Heck, even at the current 40 dollar value it still 
 wouldn't be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 is by far the best looking, best playing and funniest snowboarding ever made. i looks superb 
 in everyway, the close up deatil on the stiching of the characters clothes, the fact that the whole 
 mountain is visible from everywhere you stand. the background and light effects are incredabile 
 to look at when your flying down a rock ridden slope at over a 100mph. this sotry mode cutscenes 
 videos are halirous to watch. the different kinds of media they use to create the videos are ingenious. 
 the hands desgiused as russians were funny as hell. the action figures used as stop motion media 
 are also incredabily funny. even the menus are well animated and the colours are like stonned wizzard 
 of oz. The pallate of pink, green and white are cool as hell and work well with this game. anyways 
 on to the gameplay. this is buy far the easyest snowboarding game ive ever played. the controls 
 are so incerdabily simple and easy to get the hang of. allthough doing the special moves are a 
 bit tough. using the sleds to score crash into objects is a fun addon and even using the snowmoblie 
 is fun to do when you need to reach those hard to loactions. the snowboarder animation is incredabile 
 to look at and even easier to play. everything about this game screams orignaillity and concept.
 
  
  this game is lots of fun, lots of fun to play, its easy to complete and once agian fun to play 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtvance
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  I never played amped 1 or 2, but I got amped 3 through gamefly... and quickly bought it. Without 
 question this is one of the best, if not the best snowboarding games I have played in a LONG time. 
 What makes this game so great are the environments. They are simply MASSIVE. Jumps/Rails are pletiful 
 all over, and... what's that? Want to go across the mountain? Just jump on your snowmobile and away 
 you go. It's amazing. The story is really weird/enteraining, and the challenges are very plentiful, 
 the rewards you get from them are enough to keep you going back to finish the ones you forgot just 
 to get all the snowboards/customization options and trick/skill upgrades. Speaking of customization, 
 the custom character options are excellent as well.
  
  Once you get the controls down, the game is smooth as butter, and looks pretty damn good to. This 
 game is sort of a cross between a true snowboarding sim, and the over-the-top SSX style games. 
 Not quite out of hand, but still crazy. GREAT game, and I recommend you buy. It'll offer you at 
 least 20+ hours of solid gameplay just finishing all the challenges. 
  
  Thanks to this game I'm eagerly awaiting amped 4. This is one game that you honestly just have 
 to ignore the reviews on. Initially, it can be frustrating, but keep at it, as you unlock tricks 
 throughout the game it keeps adding fun stuff to what you can do, and you'll see how great this 
 game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 has all the of the characteristics of a Classic game. Its defiantly a good solid and down 
 right fun game but it does not deliver well !
  
  I understand this is a snowboard game, and not some Big RPG but the story was is vague and in the 
 end it felt very rushed . The Cut Scenes if anything probably one of the strongest reasons to play 
 this game.
  The amazing music is a savior. There is something for everyone in there. 
  
  Overall Amped 3 is a OK game with hours of game play, even after the short story is finished and 
 the final rushed levels have been played to boredom.
  This is a good indication of why "SSX" series still RULES !!!! 
  Please wait for It to come for 
 the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Yea it's not that bad ! the graphics arnt that bad too 
  but the gameplay has little disappoint me ! and the story is little to short !
  but in otherview 
 the game isnt so bad affterall becuse it has great futures like not just a single mountain and 
 it has kinda interesting funny story ! 
  But i mostly liked the customatision of your charachter ! body, cloths...!
  and offcures the game 
 has some pretty cool tricks well just that sxx on tour had better but anyway it's not that bad 
 game ! you shuld try it ! and even now the price droped down to 39.99$ so that it makes the game 
 more cool !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coffee5565
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Amped series. This game looks absolutely stunning. The levels are 
 beautiful, the tricks are a-plenty. You'll have fun going downhill and nailing alot of the jumps. 
 But what happened to the online multiplayer? It gets kind of boring doing all the challenges and 
 stuff. One of my most fondest memories of Amped on the original Xbox was after shredding, meeting 
 up with the other players at a certain spot on the level and talking trash. The sole fact that 
 the game doesnt have multiplayer left a sour taste in my mouth about the overall quality of the 
 game. I was angry that i spent $60 on this title. I see this title after awhile being one of the 
 "Gretest Hits" games or something. Wait until then to buy this game. Dont waste $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is definatly worth picking up off the rack. You will easily beat this game and get most 
 of the achievements without an effert at all. You will crack up at the stupid remarks and videos 
 of this game. They are so stupid THAT THEY WILL KILL YOU! I liked it but that does not say you 
 will. Go to blockbuster and rent this game. You like it then you buy it eight dollars off price. 
 You will definatly like this and at this price you will get it at a steal_bargain or what ever 
 you would say. LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is HUGE for a snowboarding game, i meen the mountain is like a full scale mountain. The 
 graphics are brillient and have no faults there, and also even though the stroy is wacky and adventurous, 
 it still makes me laugh. The gameplays good but not nearly as challengeing as amped 2. I dont think 
 id pay $50-$60 on this game, but its deffinatly worth a rent or a borrow of your friend. The value 
 of the game is excellent because the game just doesnt seem to want to end, it keeps going and going 
 so your really getting your moneys worth. Many people have said "I think this would be better suited 
 to a current-gen console" but im going to have to disagree, i think theres no better place for 
 it than on the xbox 360. I still think that there are improvements needed but still, put aside 
 that, this is a brillient game, i would reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psmashio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  This was really a great game to play. I was a little skeptical at first because i only liked Amped 
 2 so much (it was a little too slow paced for me) . But this new entry mimics the SSX series, rather 
 than its own previous entries.
  
  Which is a good thing! It basically takes the cool real resorts of the second (just the style of 
 them.. i beleive they are all new courses) , and takes out the really slow and antagonising control 
 system! Plus the whole game just seems to move about twice as fast.
  
  Now when I say it is more like SSX, I mean with the tricks... It still has the Amped 2 / Tony Hawk 
 series type of missions scattered across the map. Also the tricks don't quite to the rediculous 
 extent of SSX (i. e. taking your snowboard off and spinning it around your head mid-air) , the tricks 
 are actually for the most part really realistic, but the air that you can catch borders on the 
 unreal.
  
  I also love how once you hit a mountain, there are no load times (just when switching mountains 
 and going back to the main menu) . You are just there and you can travel to many points instantly 
 (by selecting the lift you desire from the map) , or slowly (by driving an always-selectable snow 
 mobile there) !
  
  The story is zany, with some pretty cool (if a little cheesy) movies in between. The story mode 
 is pretty easy, but it took quite a while to perfect the whole game.
  
  Great purchase, but not exactly an xbox showcase in the graphics area, also would have loved some 
 online multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9 These graphics are nice. The snow is detailed, everyone on the hill looks great.. and 
 all the terrain is cool. Now the reason I'm giving this a 9 instead of an 8 are the cutscenes! 
 This has got to be the craziest/zaniest thing I have ever seen. It really has to be seen to be 
 believed. There are hand  hand-drawn stuff.. even toys.. it is soo 
 crazy!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay-9 There are lots of missions and stuff to do. Its right in between a simulator and SSX 
 type game.. so its a nice change.
  
  Sound-9 Awesome.. there are like 300 tracks.. awesome.. and the sound fx are cool!
  
  Value-8 
 The missions have lots of vary.. so its good. BUT... there is no multiplayer! Well.. there is some 
 co-op, but wtf.. I can't believe there is no multiplayer!
  
  Tilt-9 Awesome overall game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  I've played all of the Amped's, they were ok, I really like Amped 1, 2 was alright, but 3 just 
 creept me out, to be honest, I just dident like this game, I couldent really play it for much longer 
 the 3 hours... Some of the videos in between stuff was pretty funny, but I think it's pretty bad 
 when you enjoy them more then the game itself... I mean, it was pretty cool riding a ski-doo & 
 stuff, but I just couldent get into this game, It wasent that bad, just what it's turning into 
 just isent my style... I'm going to cut it some slack because it's considered by some the best 
 snowboarding game, I just think it could of been alot better, I just think the series went downhill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sh1nka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  
  
  Amped 3 has all the of the correct ideas and characteristics of a Classic game. So why isnt it 
 then? I hear you cry from the back of the room. Its defiantly a good solid and down right fun 
 game but it does have a few flaws.
  
  Firstly the Story (Or should I say, lack of) . Now I understand this is just a snowboarding game, 
 not some massive RPG but the story was very vague and towards the end it felt very rushed out. 
 The Cut Scenes were a joy to watch and if anything probably one of the strongest reasons to play 
 this game through again.
  
  The Levels also towards the end of the game felt very rushed. With the last 3 or 4 levels only 
 having one very small area to board in. It would have been ok had they not set the tone with the 
 mammoth first 3 levels with multiple areas and routes. 
  
  The music was amazing. There is definitely something for everyone in there and I defy anyone to 
 tell me there isnt at least one song they like. 
  
  Overall Amped 3 is a good solid game with hours of enjoyment, even after the short story is finished 
 and the final rushed levels have been played to death. 
  
  This is a good indication of things to come for the 360 and I look forward to Amped 4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  pretty good i have to say. its kinda like ssx. they really took advantage of the memory capacity 
 of the 360, which i think is great. there are 8 mountins that are huge, and they offer endless 
 amounts of things to do in them. u can ride a snowmobile, sled, or even hanglide. i really like 
 the sense of humor in thsi game. its really funny and its very entertainging. the graphics arent 
 that good. they could pull these off on the xbox 1, or dare i say, the ps2! yah they are pretty 
 not next gen. but they have there moments. the controls are tight and they are just plain fun to 
 use. its a really good game, but id stick to PDZ or Full Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a super-realistic snowboarding same, well then, keep looking, because AMPED 
 3 is not it. What it is though, is a fun game with many different challenges. 
  
  The snowboarding isn't too difficult to get the hang of, so the learning curve isn't as steep as 
 other games, so you get to enjoy the game much quicker. The abilty to right sleds, snowmobiles, 
 lounge chairs, toilets, etc... down the slopes just adds to the experience and the story mode is 
 simple but effective. There is enough content in the game to keep you playing for a long time.
 
  
  Graphics aren't anything spectacular but overall well done as is the sound. If on any other system, 
 the graphics would be awesome, but on the 360 they aren't up to par with the likes of King Kong, 
 COD 2, PGR, etc...
  
  What really sets the game apart from others is it's tongue and cheek humor and all around goofiness 
 that will make you laugh while you are playing. Whether it's the funny dialogue, the awesome mini 
 movies, or j spectacular sled crashes that will have you and your friends rolling on the floor 
 laughing, you will have a smile on your face while playing. It's just fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is an amazing game, the graphics can be good at times and bad, the gameplay is just so 
 fun, much better missions and goals then the tony hawk games, the mountains are great, you can 
 have fun just boarding down a mountain, specialy once you get farther and unlock the really big 
 mountains. The soundtrack is pretty good, nothing jumps out at you, but nothing annoys you. The 
 goals get a little repetitive but there very fun so its all good, i say this game is great and 
 you should buy it! Its more fun then full auto and one of the best games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a sub-par game when its comes to gameplay and graphics, but when it comes to creativity 
 this game is at the top of the podium.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good: Has all the gameplay mechanics down, runs smoothly
  Bad: Lack of variety of modes, very 
 plain
  
  Graphics:
  Good: Awesome cutscenes
  Bad: Everything else is really bland
  
  Sound:
  Good: Good soundtrack and voice acting
  Bad: FX aren't the greatest in the world
 
  
  Value:
  Not much variety to the game modes bring this game down severly, you'll want to play the career 
 modes to see the whacky cutscenes, multiplayer isn't that fun.
  
  Overall
  Amped 3 is possibly the whackiest game i've ever played, and it's definatly the funniest. Those 
 who enjoy the snowboarding genre and want to get a laugh or two in a game this is your game. Otherwise 
 I say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krulluk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion the Amped franchise was one of the few out there that made you work (if only slightly) 
 for your scores. A corked 1080 melon is within reach but you need to find a big kicker and time 
 your jump and grab well to land cleanly ... sadly not any more. Amped 3 is a totally different 
 game to the previous 2 versions, with a far more arcade feel to it and crazy scores as per Tony 
 Hawk's (pic one) . 
  
  On the plus side the game is still fun and some of the new tricks are cool to pull off, and you 
 need to unlock them too which makes challenges worth finishing after the story mode is complete. 
 The endless feel to the levels with the inclusion of skidoos and sleds is a nice addition too.
 
  
  Sound is fantastic as always with the inclusion of 300+ tracks that you haven't heard of where 
 other producers choose 20 you have heard... this keeps the game fresh, although the media callouts 
 will bug you after a while (especially when you dont want to do them!!!! luckily you can turn them 
 off) 
  
  Graphics are well presented if you like funky imagery over realism. 
  
  I just wish they hadn't made this game so like TH on snow! Bring back the old style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  From its out-of-whack cutscenes that is very random, you'll know what to expect. Amped 3 is a good 
 that doesn't take itself seriously. Throughout the entire game, you'll see some cheap laugh there 
 or two. To me, the cutscenes are pretty bad, like I mentioned before, it's very random, but it's 
 not the kind of Family Guys type of randomness that makes you laugh, I just shrugged my shoulder 
 and skip it, but there will be some people who will like it.
  ok back to the game mechanics. Everything you want in a snowboarding game is there, although there's 
 no racing down the hill or anything, there's lots of challenges that includes: injuring yourself, 
 going thru loops, collect stuff, get points that'll eventually earn you money for some clothes 
 and respect to unlock areas or storyline.
  The graphics is good, but not the best. I guess it's do-able because it's really not that bad, 
 but sharper visual would enhance the game.
  The sound is basically the soundtrack, which is also well-done, with different types of genre.
 
  If you got nothing better to do, Amped 3 is a really good rental, but if you're a snowboarding 
 hardcore fan, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is, obviously, the third installment of the Amped snowboarding series. The last two games 
 have been known to be a tad boring, but now, the whole style and feel of the gameplay has changed. 
 Thanks to 2K Games, Amped 3 now gives us some hilarious, and really colorful visuals that will 
 keep you staring at the screen for hour after hour. 
  
  The gameplay in Amped 3 has made a pretty large change since previous games. It's no longer bland, 
 lackluster, or the least bit boring. There are tons of new tricks to use, some massive jumps and 
 moutains, and it's all just really fast paced. Some of the challenges are just extremely fast, 
 for example, there's a few where you have to jump from several different rails, passin through 
 gates, and the process repeats as it gets harder and a lot faster. These type of missions can be 
 really enjoyable. 
  
  One cool new feature Amped 3 has to offer is changing transportation types. Anytime you want in 
 the game, you can press start, and either choose to sled, or hop on your snowmobile and vroom off. 
 This can be very useful if you have to travel long distances to a mission. 
  
  Speaking if sledding, Amped 3 now offers 2 player co-op challenges, all involving sleds. You grab 
 a buddy, and you'll see your two character on 2 different sleds right beside each other. Most of 
 these co op missions are basically trying to see who can crash the hardest. You'll reace beside 
 each other, fling off the sleds at the same time, and see who can get the most points crashing 
 into boxes, tires, and even cliffs and rocks. These missions are really fun and hilarious. Adds 
 more options for gameplay missions. 
  
  The graphics in Amped 3 are actually pretty impressive. The draw distance in what stood out the 
 most though. You'll find yourself stopping on your board, just gazing at the views of the enormous 
 mountains topped with snow. These views are really beautful to look at, and not only that, but 
 even the close up visuals are pretty detailed as well. All the character's body models and clothing 
 look extraordinarily detailed, and the snow and trees do the same. Amped 3's technical graphics 
 are real amazing to look at.
  
  Amped 3 had some impressive technical visuals, but it also shows us some fantastic artistic visuals 
 as well. There's so many colorful and random things to look at, like when you land a massive combo, 
 you'll see many different color combinations surrounding your boarder as you're landing. Same thing 
 with the cutscenes. There's plenty of hilarious random things to look at that all poke fun at stuff 
 like, Anime, Vegetables, and even Amped 2. And the best part is, you don't have to miss out on 
 any of it. Even during loading screens, beause they're present there as well.
  
  The sound effects in Amped 3 are good. They're just good. Nothing extraordinary, but good. The 
 voice overs are pretty decent, and I guess the vehicle sounds sound great too, but you know. Nothing 
 to freak out about. Sound is sound. 
  
  Even without any online multiplayer in Amped 3, there's still plenty to play. Even after beating 
 the lengthly story mode, you got tons of challenges and cop op games to complete, medals to earn, 
 and plenty of people to "impress". In fact, impressing the bystanders is the main part of earning 
 achievements, so there's some decent gamerscore points in there for you too. 
  
  Overall, Amped 3 is a really great value, and not only that, but it's just simply a blast to play. 
 There's a great amount of things to do, and it's all so entertaining you won't put the game down 
 for weeks. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  As originally published on cgno. com...
  
  Many things become apparent when you first boot up Amped 3; one being that it has a truly unique 
 presentation to it. From the very first what the hell? moment of the opening cut scene, the game 
 takes off with a flood of varied, colorful, and downright weird imagerynot that its a bad thing. 
 Indeed, the interesting style of the game is one of the highlights of an otherwise solid but run-of-the-mill 
 snowboarding title.
  
  When youre first introduced to your character, you quickly notice that he has no name and is wearing 
 a giant pink bunny suit. Whether its his youthful mischievousness, eagerness to impress the women, 
 or a furry fetish poking its head out doesnt really matter. Its a bit of foreshadowing of the 
 gripping, twistedand some may arguejuvenile storyline to follow. The long and short of it involves 
 a small child, raised by evil arcade machines in the 1970s, who seeks to kidnap snowboarders from 
 around the world. Your snowboarding crew, desperately trying to get back their stolen vacation 
 money, accidentally gets mixed up in this evil plot and everything converges somewhere around the 
 time a sock puppet starts doling out your mission objectivesyou just cant make this stuff up. 
 Believe it or not, the story works. And despite your brains best efforts to label this as childish, 
 you will be forced to laugh every once and a while.
  
  With that said, the storyline is probably the most unique part of the game. But Amped 3 is still 
 a great game despite its lack of innovation. Take the tricks system, which revolves around stringing 
 together various flips, grabs, aerial moves, and rail-grinding to score points. All of these are 
 done by moving your left thumbstick in a particular direction and combining it different button 
 presses. Theres no intricate button-sequence system to doing the more impressive moves ala the 
 1080 series and rail grinding is as easy as pressing A. This lets you sit back and enjoy some of 
 the 360s eye candy instead of worrying about if youre going to face plant into the side of a 
 tree. Beginners will find the game welcoming and devoid of the difficulty that plagued the first 
 two Amped games.
  
  And thanks to the games open-ended gameplay, the world is your playground. Youll travel across 
 multiple mountains, with larger ones divided into different areas, and be able to explore every 
 boulder, igloo, and tree stump that graces its surface. Objectives dot the slopes and are easily 
 accessible via the trail map, which can highlight missions and teleport you to the nearest lift 
 for quick access. You can also switch to a sled or snowmobile at any given time. The different 
 physics of each vehicle guarantee that each interactive objectbe it rail, rock, or jumpwill have 
 a different result
  
  The varying mission types guarantee that even if you do get to the same area twice, youll have 
 a different experience. Take Trauma Challenge for example, which has you throw your body off a 
 sled to try to rack up the highest possible medical billwith bonus points for hitting boulders 
 and trees. Or Impress the Hottie, where you jump your snowmobile and try to score a certain amount 
 of points by doing air grabs. The most difficult of them all, Magic Circles, forces you to go through 
 an intricate path of circles while trying to achieve a large combo score. All of these missions 
 can be unlocked and activated on the mountains by riding to their general area and pressing X. 
 Others, like media callouts, automatically activate when you board by a certain jump or rail. Youll 
 then switch to a camera-like view and have to convince the photographer to use your photo by scoring 
 enough points at a specific trick.
  
  Any of these missions can seem difficult if you dont have the right ramps or rails nearby, and 
 thats where Amped 3s snow park construction really helps out. There are a lot of places that 
 seem, well, devoid of development. Sure that clean and untouched snow may look good for a nature 
 magazine, but this is dramatized extreme snowboarding; plain surfaces just wont do. You can plot 
 out where certain missions are and construct objects accordingly, or even just throw random things 
 on the ground if thats your thing. The game suggests the former, so its not exactly cheating. 
 Theres a ton of stuff to choose from including large and small jumps, different kinds of furniture 
 for grinding, and just about anything else that would be able to give you some air time. 
  
  Youll enjoy that time sailing through the wind as it gives you time to take a good look at 
 your surroundings. And while Amped 3 doesnt use the power of the 360 nearly enough, it still looks 
 gorgeous. Youll get clear views of the mountains and be able to make out trees, lodges and the 
 numerous skiers that share the slopes with you. The camera has a habit of turning at weird angles 
 on certain tricks, leading to a few restarts on the slalom races, but otherwise does a decent job. 
 Characters look fantastic feature a full line of customizing options such as bindings, boards, 
 shorts, hats, boots, etc
  
  The Amped series has a history of using underground and independent bands in their games and this 
 iteration of the series is no different. Theres something for everyone here including hip hop, 
 alternative rock, punk, and electronic. Use of the d-pad can quickly change the tune if you dont 
 like whats playing. The voice acting is bearable, and even though some characters seem like rip-offs 
 of more mainstream onesStrongbad anyone? they come across as unique. Sound effects are done well 
 and each gunshot and neck snap of a fall will pierce the quiet solitude of the slopes.
  
  For those of you keeping track of your gamer points youll be happy to know that Amped 3s are 
 easily earned. Just from completing the single-player youre likely to score at least 500 out of 
 a 1000. The rest can be a bit tricky, but for those of you looking to max out your gamer score 
 you wont find anything too challenging.
  
  Overall, Amped 3s story alone is enough to entertain. Add on to that with solid snowboarding gameplay 
 thats playable by veterans and beginners alike, and you have a great launch title for people who 
 are looking for an escape from the standard action shooters that have saturated the console market.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofaninja
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 was one of the release titles for the XBOX 360 and is of course the third in the Amped 
 series which started on the XBOX as a launch title. The developers Indie Built have gone all Tony 
 Hawk's in the lastest installment as there is now a story which to follow where you'll make friends 
 and enemies and basically see loads of crazy stuff. Not only that but the gameplay has changed 
 as well with new control system for the game.
  
  Now I myself am a snowboarder, no joke. I have played Amped 2 to death on th xbox pretty much because 
 it is a almost perfectly realistic game with no SSX style  
 tricks in it and its all 'stylish' per say. Now of course if i reviewed this game as a snowboarder 
 looking for realism that would be unfair to the vast majoriy of people who do not snowboard, so 
 for the most part i will be writing this review as a casual gamer and put in the snowboarding review 
 at the end.
  
  The gameplay has significantly changed from the previous installments. Like before the aim is still 
 to rack up points with tricks but now there are loads of other side quests, which though they are 
 optional, the sheer number of them means you'll be doing them quite often. These include getting 
 high scores and jumping / riding through circles to collecting Kitty 'Glitter'. Each challenge 
 has a threshold for Bronze, Silver and Gold medals which earn you all sorts of things such as new 
 clothes and boards and even hairstyles. You also gain Respect which opens up new areas and coin 
 wtih which you can buy new gear. The levels have also changed as they are considerably bigger and 
 also sectioned. This means there are different areas you can visit which join up such as back country 
 and freestyle areas. However this only applies to the first three of the seven levels which is 
 dissapointig as the the last four all very small. Aside from the extra side-quests the freestyling 
 has changed as well. Instead of being in full control of how you spin you now simply press in a 
 direction and the spin will happen. Some spins have also been moved to the Bumber buttom on the 
 controller which trigger when you press them with a direction. The grabs have also been relocated 
 by pressing button combos to trigger them. Rails have been set in a similar way by pressing buttom 
 combos when your grinding a rail. Aside from snowboarding players can now access snowmobiles and 
 sleds for more fun and diversity in the game play. There also the new build mode where players 
 can lay down objects such as rails and kickers (jumps) on the slope. This can be used to help players 
 if they can't do a challenge or reach an area. There is also no multiplayer or Online like in Amped 
 2. There is also the new feature of stoking people, its similar to Tony hawk's special bar. You 
 do enough tricks to fill the awsomeness bar and then when its full if you trick in front of people 
 well enough they get stoked. When you get everyone yoo own the mountain so to say. As you can tell 
 the game has changed alot.
  
  The graphics in the game have taken a change as well. The game has this new sort cut and stick 
 lay-out (not in the snowboarding) which is surrounded by vibrant colours everywhere and its really 
 cool. The in game graphics are really nothing to be amazed about but the characters look and the 
 draw distance is fairly impressive. There are also cut scenes in the game with socks and toy figures 
 and other crazy stuff and its really funny.
  The sounds are also really convincing. There the standard emo / electronic / hip-hop music mix 
 in the game but the voices are fine and the snowboard sound are realistically done.
  
  The lifespan. It really depends on how you play it. I played it to get every side challenge with 
 a Gold and do everything and it lasted 13 hours. However if you play to do just the story missions 
 and get no-upgrades which you won't need anyway and do just enough to move on to the next levelthen 
 i suspect that the game could be done in under 5 hours. The replay factor is pretty much non-existent 
 and you'll only come back for the the tricks not the annoyingly repititive missions.
  
  The problems... This could be long. The missions are really repetitive after the first 2 or 3 levels. 
 
  The 4 -7 levels are tiny in comparison to the first 3, maybe Indie built got bored half way through 
 making it.
  There is almost no way to bail (crash) apart from landing upside down.
  How ridiculously short it is and the random lack of a proper plot until the last 5 or so missions 
 of 40.
  How easy it is.
  Theres no Multiplayer or Online at all apart from leaderboards and you know how fun they are.
 
  Not being able to find enough people to stoke.
  
  It is a fun game but its let down by the short lifespan and repetitiveness of the gameplay.
  
 
  Snowboard Review
  In short its horrific as a realistic snowboard game. Theres no more control over the spins and 
 the grabs. Though some of the grabs look good you cant change between them quick enough. The rails 
 are terrible and there are no... i repeat no stylish slides at all. The manualling is also ridiculous 
 with some of the moves you can do being stupid. The ability to do some 2160 spins also removes 
 the realism.
  Its annoying to see the best realistic snowboard game turn into this mock of snowboarding almost. 
 Its a fun game but you'll get annoyed quickly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is one of the most wackiest games I have ever played. The storyline is out of this world 
 and it contains moments both hard and delightful. From riding broken tree's for a couple minutes 
 to chasing down a yeti monster, this game is full of fun. the player customization is good, but 
 some spots are too restricting. Controls flow smoothly and ae easy to learn. Riding other things 
 beside a board is fun, such as snowmobiles, sleds, and handgliders. The storyline cut scenes are 
 down right hilariously done. The end of the story does make somewhat of a disappointment. But the 
 musical finale makes up for that. This game is somewhat short and easy to beat, but there are many 
 challenges that remain to be beaten. From start to finish, this game is full of wacky and fun gameplay 
 that will leave you mostly satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This snowboarding game first off is totally deferent from the SSX series.. but not in a bad way. 
 The more "real" style of snowboarding is shown with very good results. The gameplay is solid combining 
 snowboarding with Amped's own style of quirckiness. You start out as a regular avergae snowboarder 
 with your friends trying to make it on your own. The way te story is shown through its own unique 
 cutscenes are hilariously funny and break up the action nicely to move along the story. 
  
  The graphics I have to say though don't feel next-gen enough for me and at times it feels like 
 Amped tries to hide this with those funny cutscenes. The sound I didn't much care for and actually 
 didn't notice any of the songs that were playing until the title showed up on the screen or because 
 I was to focused on the game. 
  
  Overall this game is good for anyone looking for a good snowboarding game and has lots of replay 
 value with the nice park editor that is included. I jsut wish that they would have done something 
 to I don't get me more involved with the story and not have it always be played out by a silly 
 movie almost everytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejuice707
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Post launch for the xbox 360 has to this point brought us 3 new games, none of which have drawn 
 my interest. So, I needed something to keep my game playing sanity until then. What did I do? Well 
 I went on over to my local GameStop and bought Amped 3 of course! What a good decision that was. 
 Ever since The Tony Hawk games starting going downhill, I had lost all faith in this kind of game. 
 There trick system is well made, as well as the actual downhill boarding action. The fact that 
 you can switch to snowboard or sled at any time really adds to the fun factor. Where Amped 3 really 
 shines though is the hilarious story mode. Never, except for Psychonauts have a played a game that 
 was actually comical. It has some nice twists and a fantastic ending. But digging deeper, the cutscenes 
 (which I am sure anybody reading this has heard about) are completely outrageous and rarely is 
 something this different seen in the lacking video games in this day in time! Something else that 
 I found very satisfying in this game was the fact that any challenge you complete, you are rewarded, 
 whether it be gear, bling, clothes, awesomeness, building structures, or whatever else the game 
 can possibly give to you. The Live leaderboards also help give reason to actually play. On a single 
 challenge I actually tied for second place in the whole world, and that to me is just plain cool 
 that when people are looking on the leaderboards that they will see my name! More people should 
 try this game. It will not easily dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Where is the multiplayer?!?! I know you can crash with a buddy but that's it! Why can't I hit the 
 slopes with my buddies? That is not cool 2K Sports! You made a wicked fun game that starts to get 
 boring the minute you end the story. I was laughing my head off at the videos and cut scenes as 
 were every other person that watched it but you can only do so much solo especially when there 
 is only a story. Why didn't they add rankings like the old ones? I came back to those games time 
 and time again just because I wanted to be #1. The snow and the moves are so tight in this game 
 but you get bored when you have nothing to strive for. So close to being the best snowboarding 
 game ever. Oh so close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  When the original XBox launched it was accomanied with a unimpressive snowboarding game called 
 Amped. Fast Foward five years and the XBox 360 launches with the much imporved Amped 3. Amped 3 
 is a fun and energetic snowboarding game. The game features several mountains which you can travel 
 to and from. Most of the mountains features several large areas where you can hit the slopes at 
 any number of drop off points. From there you can go play a challenge mission, story mission, or 
 just cruise around and do tricks to impress the locals.
  
  The story missions adance the games story. All but one mountain and one area on that mountain will 
 be locked out when you start the game. To unlock more areas and mountians you must complete story 
 missions and earn respect. The story missions are introduced by bizarre and often entertaining 
 cutscenes. These cutscenes vary from sock puppets to japanese Anime. The actual missions are usually 
 just variations on the standard challenge mission types with ties into the story. Most of the time 
 the story missions will have several parts to it.
  
  The game offers somewhere around 200 challenge missions ranging in difficulty. Most challenges 
 you can earn bronze, silver, or gold medals for. You also earn respect by completeing the challneges. 
 Usually to continue with the story or to unlock the next area you will need to earn so much respect 
 by completing challenges. The game has several challenge types that vary. Some challenges sees 
 you trying to navigate through gates in the the fastest types, others have you sledding downhill 
 and seeing how bad you can get injured, an other challenges sees you trying to rack up as many 
 trick points as possible. There are even some multiplayer challenger which pits you and a friend 
 against each other to see who can get injured the most.
  
  The amped franchise has greatly improved with each entry in the series and this is by far the best. 
 If you remotely like snowboarding games this is certainly worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchhpp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was extremely fun, cool, and unpredictable. The story mode kept me playing because I 
 didn't know what to expect next. The gameplay is great too. This is my top 3 of my 360 games (I 
 have 10) . I highly recommend you playing this game. It's probably better to just rent it, but trust 
 me, you will have fun playing this. I love this game, and the cutscenes are great, I laughed at 
 about every one of them. And there is alot of customization you can do with your character. The 
 only problem I didn't like about customizing my character was that I could select the hair color 
 and hats, but I could not change the color. Oh well, other than that little detail this game is 
 about perfect. Do yourself a favor and try this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmacfreeman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  To start off this reveiw, I just couldn't stand these weird cut scenes. Now I can see why they 
 thought this could have been a good idea, maybe to branch off from the previous ones, but i just 
 thought that it was too random. That was a big part of the game that I thought was negative. 
 
  
  The gameplay is very solid, but it got very repetitive very fast. I thought that the style aspect 
 was cool, but it felt like there was something missing. When there are other games out there like 
 SXX On Tour, I don' feel like there is reason to get this game. Now I know that this is for the 
 Xbox 360 and that SXX On Tour is for the other consoles, but I feel if you have a PSP, an Xbox, 
 or a PS2 that you should get that game instead of this. I thought that the graphics are very good, 
 and that the snow affect is very cool. I also thought that sledding and snowmobiling was very fun 
 to do, but again got very repetitive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commandofreak92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  From the moment Amped starts you will be laughing. It is that funny. This game controls great and 
 while the graphics may not be Gears of War they are still good. The draw distance is amazing and 
 the snow looks great. The soundtrack never feels out of place and I never get tired of hearing 
 my character scream as I throw him off a mountain. Mapping the tricks to the face buttons was a 
 great idea. The whole controller is now able to do tricks. The sledding mini game is also one of 
 the best mini games I have ever experienced. Even climbing on a snowmobile provides entertainment. 
 Amped 3 is great for people new to snowboarding but also to veterans. It is funny and is one of 
 the best of the launch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don't know where to start, because I haven't even completed the game yet. All I can say 
 though, is that Amped 3 is ALOT different from Amped or Amped 2. Some things are better, some things 
 are worse. Overall though, this game is worth buying if you snowboard in real life. They have made 
 it alot more realistic and I think gamers who don't snowboard will get bored quickly because they 
 can't relate as well.
  
  The gameplay, as I said before, is alot more realistic. Your character isn't getting insane amounts 
 of air and he isn't having extremely good balance on rails and such. If you snowboard in real life, 
 you will have more fun with this game because you can compare yourself easily to the character 
 in the game. On the other hand, if you are a gamer souly going for huge air and amazing tricks, 
 you will not have as much fun with this game (IMO) . But the game still has alot of cool tricks, 
 equipment, clothing, and also you can now customize your characters face which is a cool feature 
 I guess.
  
  The music is really good if you like rock/punk and that kind of music. I was really impressed with 
 the music and if you snowboard in real life, you probably will like it too.
  
  Amped 3, is really f*ckin trippy at times. Crazy f*cked up people come out of no where when you 
 receive a new challenge and it's just like "woa I don't know wtf". It makes it quite entertaining 
 though.
  
  Overall I personally think Amped 3 is a good game. It's realistic, lot's of tricks, you can drive 
 snow mobiles, ride sleds, tons of challenges. I decided to buy the game right away which I regret. 
 I should have rented it first and I recommend that you do the same. Rent it first and see if you 
 like it. But I still think it's a good game if you like snowboarding. 
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 combines a funny cartoon-like storyline with typical gameplay. The story begins with a 
 nobody looking for respect from the homies. With a whole lot to prove the game throws a handful 
 of multiple challenges along the way. Along for the ride joins a cast of characters ranging from 
 a Snowgod (somewhat like Napoleon Dynamite) to a Rapper to Weinerboy. The story provides you with 
 many cut scenes like Weinerboy's RPG and the "Mythology of Snowboarding." Amped 3's strong point 
 lies within its soundtrack, loaded with close to 200 different songs from upcoming artists. Overall 
 Amped 3 becomes very repetitive after about 2 hours into the game. O yeah, the Co-Op isn't very 
 good either. If you have played any of the Tony Hawk games you have seen this before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engvallido
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I got it by mail, unpack it, and thinks; Great, this looks cool. The front is really good looking 
 and makes you want to be a cool snowboarder.
  
  With the Xbox360 started and Amped 3 running for the first time it starts with a long intro video. 
 It was kind of confusing and i ask myself what i bought, but i didn't want that to stop me from 
 playing it.
  
  Arriving at the first mountain top a bit in wonder. I just follow the Story Challenge Stars, do 
 some cool tricks and complete the game too fast without really doing all the media callouts and 
 pick all gold medals.
  
  So, let's dig in the story. 
  It's really funny videos before and after the game-play. But while you are playing you just have 
 to be doing things for about 3 minutes then you are done with the quest. And if you don't make 
 it, you have to do it again and again until you do which can be quite annoying. 
  
  Some quests you do in this game is pretty boring to. Like the kitty clean up. You have to follow 
 a trail of pink and blue things and pick them up. Really boring.
  Others are more fun, like the lord of the boards. Beat the pro and his tricks and get more skill. 
 That's the kind of things we want!
  
  Now to the explanation of the score.
  
  Gameplay: 5
  As I said before, too much movies and not so much snowboarding in the quest.
  
 
  Graphics:8 
  Not so much to say here, it looks good.
  
  Sound: 9
  The sounds are great. And there's a lot of music and it's good too!
  
  Value: 6
  Buy it if 
 it's on sale.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I wish people would lay off this game. Its a great snowboard game with a few gimmicks that actually 
 WORK. This game could easily be written off as a stupid snowboard game with a childish set up. 
 Its not. Its a funny fun funky game 
  
  it renders LOADS of trees and other boarders. The only thing that tops that is kameo. however unlike 
 kameo all that rendering detracts from the graphics somewhat. Dont get me wrong this game looks 
 good just not as good as some other 360 games. 
  
  A severely underated game thats easily to pick up and play. If you wnt buy it at least rent it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeyhotel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I rented this game on the review here at gamespot. I really was not expecting much, but being a 
 huge fan of the ssx series i was anxious to try a different take on snowboarding games. This is 
 one of the most immersive snowboarding games ever. The story totally draws you in, within the fist 
 five minutes of playing I had a huge smile on my face. I mean anytime you can start off a game 
 in a bunny costume you know its good. the game only got better as i went through it. The challenges 
 are unique at every level and the story makes you really ride around to figure out the best way 
 to complete each stage. I love the UI in the game as well as all of the crazy graphics that follow 
 you thoughout the whole game. The characters are hilarious, I have never played a game that made 
 me laugh as much as this one. Compared to the other games out right now for the 360, this one might 
 be my favorite, a definite must play in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Snow... board... Snowboard! Amped 3 is a sports game that is all about snowboarding! No wait thats 
 wrong, actually Amped 3 focuses mainly on snowboarding but besides that you can drive a snowmobile, 
 and ride a sled; actually many different types of sleds; sleds that are not actual sleds, but if 
 they can slide down mountain covered in snow, then yes in this game they are considered sleds. 
 Amped 3 is very arcade-ish, its differs alot from its prequels, Amped 1&2 are more realistic, a 
 more serious approach to snowboarding, while Amped 3 is aimed more so at younger age groups (Teens) . 
 This game definitely isn't perfect, but its not bad either. In Amped 3, you can actually travel 
 pretty much anywhere you want on the mountain, in the previous Amped titles you could not, not 
 only that, there isn't just one mountain but many. Amped 3 has a very nice presentation, its very, 
 wacky, and humor implemented; meaning, yes you will get a few laughs playing this game.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  Amped 3 has almost everything going for it when it comes to snowboarding, I admit, 
 sometimes it can be a bit fustrating, but usually it flows nicely. Now where it doesn't flow so 
 nice, and is almost always fustrating; not to forget has almost nothing going for it... the snowmobiles, 
 blast them evil things, the only thing they are useful for it driving up the mountain, say if you 
 passed an activity on your snowboard by accident, and can't make it back up the mountain on your 
 board, then you would hop on the snowmobile back U-Turn (which can be fustrating as well) and back 
 up that mountain you go buddy. Other then the not so cool snowmobiles... activities can get quite 
 repetetive after awhile.
  
  Graphics - 6
  Seeing as this is a game on a next-gen console, I expect alot more from it graphic wise, the reason 
 I expect more from it, is because its a sports game, and gameplay in sports doesnt really have 
 a next-gen... it kind of staid at the same gen for awhile now. Something that is rather pretty 
 about Amped 3 is that the mountain fully rendered at once, and its pretty cool to look at, every 
 tree is rendered as well, sometimes it really feels like your on this massive mountain. But other 
 then that the graphics are pretty much like a regular xbox game but on all setting maxed.
  
  Sound - 9
  Why does sound get a nine? Because this game has a lot of friggen music thats 
 why! I mean it seriously takes awhile to get to the bottom of the list, and through playing this 
 game you unlock more and more. Big plus baby!
  
  Value - 8
  While Im dissappointed that there is no multiplayer in Amped 3, there is quite a bit of replay 
 value, for each activity there are leader boards, and gold medals. It makes you want to keep trying 
 and trying to beat other peoples highscore. Plus there are like a billion activities to do through 
 the course of the game, the only problem is there isnt much variety.
  
  Over all Amped 3 isn't a bad game by any means, if you like snowboarding definitely a buy, if your 
 not to big on snowboarding definitely a rental. There is a lot of fun to be had in Amped 3, so 
 get to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowboarder001
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Quite a disappoint! Nothing like Amped 1 or 2. Were the developers at Indie Built and publishers 
 at 2K Sports on hallucinogens? 
  
  I liked the Amped series because it was the most realistic of the snowboard games. Amped 3 has 
 now changed that. From the moment you fire up the game it's all eye-candy. The game is too easy. 
 It has a cheesy story line. Some of the challenges are down right stupid (Kitty Cleanup, Low-Rider, 
 Samurai Slalom, what the?) . Snowboarders and Skiers on the mountains are transparent. Terrible 
 acting cuts by the design team. Navigating through the menu and stats bugs out your eyes. No multiplayer. 
 I can go on and on. I dont have time.
  
  I thought the customization of the rider; hand gliding and snowmobiling were cool. Sled trauma 
 challenge was hilarious! Music was great.
  
  The game is more for 10 year olds. NOT for the hardcore snowboard crowd. 
  
  Give this title 
 back to the original developers (Microsoft) . Indie Built, you messed up!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I love the Amped series, I have played them to death on my original Xbox so when the 360 version 
 was launched I had to get it. On playing the game though, I was very disappointed that what should 
 have been the next step in the Amped series was more like a step backwards.
  
  One of the things that surprised me most of all was how confusing it all was right from the start. 
 I had a bit of trouble just working out what to do to get the game going. The menus were confusing 
 and nothing seemed to make much sense.
  
  Eventually, after much button pushing, I figured out what to do and started the game up. I was 
 shocked that it did not seem that much different from the last Xbox version I played. While it 
 looked nice, there was nothing spectacular going on and I found the controls hard and complicated.
 
  
  This game, for me anyway, has the feel of something thrown together at the last minute just so 
 that it was available for the launch of the 360. It could have been so much better had the developers 
 held it back a few months and worked on it a bit more.
  
  But it is not all bad, once you are in and have gotten used to how it plays then some of the courses 
 can be fun but it was not enough for me.
  
  Hopefully, it will get better in the next edition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpapaya007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 takes the amped series in a bizarre direction and for the better. This simulation snowboarding 
 game is one of the best iv laid hands on for quite some time. Amped 3 has a quirky storyline that 
 i didnt care too much for but takes odd cut scenes to make for some funny moments. I havent actually 
 laughed at a game for quite some time but this game has quite a few. Multiplayer crash mode i found 
 especially entertaining. The ingame play list was impressive and the LIVE rank on every indiviual 
 task was also pretty cool. This game was definitely underrated and without a doubt should be looked 
 into if your looking for something to hold you over during this dry spell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  There are many things really good about Amped 3. One of them being the outrageous humor in the 
 game. If you are lookin for a game with humor that is totally crazy funny, this game is for you. 
 Also the graphics may not be 110% next generation, but that really does not matter in this game. 
 The snow effects are still gorgeous and all the new features are amazing also. For example, being 
 able to sled any time you feel! Amped 3 is yet another solid title for the Xbox 360. With so many 
 things good in it, and few bad, you will find yourself laughing aloud all by yourself by the craziness 
 of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is good sober. If you like to smoke out, you must buy this game. If you have a xbox 360 
 and smoke out but dont have this game, buy it. This game plays out much like the earlier Tony Hawk 
 games. The controls are percise and accurate. Graphics and character generation are awesome. The 
 tatoos you can use to customize your character are insane. This game is superb on a 5.1 surround 
 sound system. I havent played this game too long yet, but I cant think of anything bad to say about 
 it other than if you take any sort of illegal halucinogen you should stay away from it. I would 
 recommend buying it for any xbox 360 owner, its a fun game for anyone until "the game were waiting 
 for comes out" (top spin 2, Oblivion, fight night 3, resident evil or halo 3) LOL later all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a highly original, and addictive snowboarding game for the Xbox 360. Its sence of wacky 
 humor, and Tony Hawk style gameplay mix toghether perfectly. The gameplay splits up story missions, 
 with series of fun and funny challenge missions. To furthur along the story you will need to gain 
 respect, and this is done by completing challenge missions. These missions range from basic beat 
 the high score, to pulling off sick rail moves, and even some more crazier ones like rideing down 
 a sled and crashing down as hard as you can to win. And if that sounds wacky to you just wait till 
 you see some of the more over the top strange missions that are in the game.
  
  The story missions themselves are filled with very fun and insane challenges. Here is where you 
 will see all the strange and unique cut scenes. The story itself is also quite intresting, and 
 this mixed with the wackyness of the gameplay and cutcenes makes for an extremly fun time.
  
  Overall this is a wonderfully stylized and addicting game, and wether your a fan of snowboarding 
 games or not, I think you will extremly enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chief_of_tribe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The original Amped title was one of my first two games for my original Xbox console. And I absolutely 
 loved it. Great times and many hours were spent playing this game with family. So when Amped 2 
 was announced, I was more than optimistic. To me, the game was a must buy. Although it must say 
 I was disappointed. It seemed that they had taken all the solid, subtle aspects of the game that 
 made it great, and either changed them, or removed them altogether. It hardly delt like an Amped 
 game to me. ( Although this may be because I was expecting another Amped. New comers to the Amped 
 series who first played Amped 2 rather than Amped 3 felt it was good. And it was, Amped 1 was simply 
 better.) So with the 360s release, and ads of Amped 3 emerged, i said, "O. k., let's try this again." 
 Great game I must say, but for some strange reason, I feel that the original Amped is a long-dead 
 spirit. It seems that the Amped titles following it's original take all the things that made the 
 original game great and try to exploit them, to be cool. I don't like this. It's fake. But I played 
 it, and it's good. Definitely a good choice for anyone who likes snowboarding game, and hasnt played 
 any of the other Amped games. But dfor me, the original is just a classic. Long Live Amped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Crusader
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally underrated, i first discovered this game when my brother being the weird kid 
 he is went to a video store and came back with a game that i though would be stupid amped 3 (i 
 though it was gona be dumb because he has a history of renting dumb games like voodoo Vince) . Not 
 being familiar with this series i saidman ur dumb u shoulda rented doa".
  
  Well to get to my point i though i would try it while he was out. To my surprise the graphics were 
 AWSOME, the music was aswome ( going down the hill hill with a bunny suit lisening to blinded by 
 the light.) The awsomenesses ( wich are cool animations that pop up under ur board as u ride) are 
 uber, ex. zen, team spirit, ninja etc. they make the game so trippy!!!
  
  The powder of snow, the tricks, the cool ring like thing with the magical floating dude, the weirdest 
 storyline ive ever seen ( but its soo original and awsome!) the air u get going off of crazy high 
 cliffs, this game is the best extreme sport game out. i highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is so ridculously funny on so many levels that you can't help but practically laugh you 
 (well ya) off the entire time. While their are a couple of hard to pass missions it's pretty easy 
 in short to just play through. The game does take a while to beat and if want all the achievments 
 including the one where you have to take gold in all 240!!! missions then get ready from some serious 
 time playing the game, I spent about 12 hours to get it so ya. I love snowboarding and the element 
 of comedy thrown in here just makes it even better to play. The soundtrack is great with over 300 
 songs, so basically your rocking out the entire time. I loved the game so I would say go rent before 
 you buy because some people may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a pretty good game, but the frustrating gameplay will keep you from enjoying it. The 
 creativity in the game is Amped 3's highest point. There were scenes from the Story Mode that made 
 me laugh, but at other parts of the story got pretty lame.
  
  The game's biggest weakness is the gameplay itself. I know, what's a sports game with shoddy gameplay? 
 The feel of controlling your rider is pretty smooth, but there is a lack of tricks to do compared 
 to Amped and Amped 2. Throughout the whole story mode, there were missions that made me want to 
 throw my controller to the ground. Hopefully the next Amped game will be different in the one player 
 mode.
  
  Graphically, Amped 3 is solid. The snow and textures of the mountain look nice, but the rocks throughout 
 the environment look like they were taken out of a Nintendo 64 game! Overall, the game is up to 
 the standard with the rest of the Xbox 360 launch games.
  
  The soundtrack that comes with the game is very diverse, spanning from crappy emo-rock to some 
 groovy ambient beats. Still, I give the developers props for getting a very wide variety of indie 
 music for the soundtrack.
  
  Amped 3 is definitely not worth it's $60 price tag. Unlike Amped 2, there is absolutely no multiplayer! 
 I was shocked to learn that you couldn't play against other people on Xbox Live in an Amped game! 
 The Story Mode is brutish and short, like the life of a peasant from the middle ages.
  
  If you are a snowboard fan, give this game a rent before you buy, because most likely you will 
 think this game is too silly at moments and doesn't cater to the fans of the Amped series. All 
 I can hope is the next Amped game will be taken more seriously than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rojo213
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game rocked. It's just a fact of life. Between this, Call of Duty 2, Perfect Dark Zero and 
 Dead or Alive 4 the 360 is really starting to show off what it means when it says that its going 
 to give Sony a fight for console dominance. Did I mention this games cutscenes? There hilarious 
 and awesome and vary depending on what there about. The games biggest let downs were the disappointingly 
 not very next-gen graphics (even on a nice HDTV) and the slightly repetitive gameplay. I still 
 (despite the weaknesses of the title) think any 360 owner with an HDTV should do themselves a favor 
 and pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  
  Amped 3
  
  Amped 3 is the new Xbox 360 snowboarding launch game brought to you by the same creators that made 
 the previous Amped snowboarding games. One of the first things you will notice is the comic book 
 style menu system, cut scenes and options and everything else. They just completely vary in style 
 or text, colour, pictures and sound its crazy and very eye caching and original. This helps to 
 give a crazy feel to the game and definitely helps it stand out from the other 360 launch games.
 
  
  The game feels like a Tony Hawk series game at first due to the sound track , the extreme sport 
 and also the character customization which is really cool although you cannot have that much control 
 over what your characters appearance is its still quite fun to mess about with to see what you 
 can come up with and you can also choose what type of voice that you want your character to have. 
 Like overconfident or low pitched and various other voices which you will hear through out the 
 story mode of the game in cut scenes and other parts. The cut scenes help add to the game and break 
 up the action a little. Its about a group of snowboarders who have a case of money which goes 
 missing and they think that it was you that stole it and leave you responsible to find it. Your 
 typical story you would expect from a game like this might I add.
  
  The game is brimming with personality and style which leave it hard to put down or stop playing 
 if only for a little while and its sound track is great also. This mainly features around rock 
 and soft rock genres. The worlds are seamless and you really feel like you can just about go anywhere 
 you want. All you need to do is hop on your snow mobile and then drive up to the top of a big hill 
 or mountain and then snowboard off of it and see what points you can get which is fun although 
 this can leave the game feeling slightly bland after long periods of time. When you get to the 
 top of mountains you can see a lot of the landscape which is really amazing looking the first few 
 times you do it and this adds to the feeling of freedom. And like most games even though things 
 may seem repetitive at times you will always be rewarded by you actions with gamer points! The 
 game also changes from being a Racing game like its preceders and goes for something completely 
 different with no opponents to race against. The seamless environments are the only thing that 
 truly stretches the 360 compatibilities but nothing spectacular is expected t launch so we can 
 let it off on some things.
  
  No Xbox LIVE though is a bit of a let down. It just features Scoreboards which can be quite fun 
 to compare your scores with other gamers around the world. The Multiplayer is a bit weak also. 
 During the courier mode it sometimes passes the opportunity by to allow two players to play instead 
 of one for short periods of time to do certain various challenges which can be quite fun, and its 
 nice to see this game use a new method of multiplayer brought into the courier mode.
  
  Amped 3 is a nice addition and viewed by many as what SSX used to be like. Its crazy and fun and 
 some kicks can be had out of playing it but with no Xbox Live its a small disappointment but if 
 you like extreme sports games this is definitely one to check out. But topped with a good sound 
 track and unique style and feeling of freedom this can be deserved to be called a great sports 
 game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  Sliding down a mountain on a sled and having no control, just attempting to balance myself. The 
 Idea is not to stay on the longest but to wreck the worst! 
  After snowboarding days unend, I find myself linking as many tricks together as possible. Simple, 
 yet extremly hard, Frusterating and Gratifying all at the same time. 
  This game is for Novices and Pro Players alike, as it is easy to get into the game and learn, but 
 has enough advanced tricks to keep you playing for a long time.
  I enjoyed playing this, even though the story was crazy. I could easily recommend this to anyone, 
 whether they are a skater, boarder, family member, or just a gamer. This is worth buying at any 
 rate. They could have done better with the graphics though, as well as made more then just the 
 first 3 mountains extremly large. Still on the highly recommended list though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun! I mean really, it is simply great fun. The story is so much better than 
 the previous games and it is crazy. Action figure theatre, hand puppets, anime, and the list goes 
 on. That's just the story in the cut scenes.
  
  The controls have been fixed so that it is simpler to do great tricks. The previous games did make 
 it a little difficult, but not this one. The tricks are crazy, yet most of them are just a step 
 beyond realistic. A little too high, a little to fast, that kind of thing. But so cool to watch.
 
  
  The locations are absolutely great. I really want to keep exploring them even after I have finished 
 all of the missions on that mountain and moved on. 
  
  The graphics are good, but not for a 360. They are still XBox graphics, but the rest of the game 
 makes up for it. 
  
  I can't say enough about this game. It is great fun for everyone, and I don't think it will offend 
 anyone. 
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  If you're heavy into the winter sports, Amped 3 is here to quench your thirst. Currently the only 
 'winter sports' game available on the 360, it's all you avid skiers and boarders have, so I guess 
 you'll have to live with it.
  
  You play the part of an unknown snowboarder, who roles with one of the oddest crews I've ever seen. 
 You and your buddies are trying earn up enough cash for a crazy vacation to Chile, only one problem... you 
 are apparently a thief. Your vacation funds are stolen, and who is to blame? You of course. You 
 will venture your way through the game completing challenges in order to try to earn your money 
 back, and hopefully redeem yourself.
  
  I like Free Roam
  
  The mountain is your playground, as a map screen allows you to pick wherever you would like to 
 go, whenever you would like to go there. If you feel like sticking to the story line, special indicators 
 on the map will let you know which lift to choose, and where to head once you hit the peak to get 
 your story on. If you feel like completely ignoring the story, go right ahead my young boarder 
 friend. Pick a lift, and just shred your way down the mountain doing insane tricks. Nobody is rushing 
 you here; take the game at your own pace. On top of the sometimes annoying storyline, feel free 
 to attempt a number of challengers you will see clearly marked on the mountain map. Slalom your 
 way through gates, impress crowds with big jumps... some challenges can definitely put your skills 
 to the test. Complete these for some pretty sweet rewards.
  
  Unlockables
  
  Competing specific challenges and progressing story wise will earn you lots of new toys to play 
 with. You can snag new boards, sleds, a ski mobile, trophies... There's an arsenal of unlockable 
 goodies in this one folks, and it makes you want to keep playing so you can catch em all... like 
 Pokemon... only less dumb.
  
  But wait a second? Did I say sleds? What the hell would I need a sled for in a snowboarding game? 
 To crash of course! Should you choose to pull out your trusty sled, you are in for a wild ride. 
 The object is basically to perform the most vicious wipe out you can think of (large jumps work 
 well for this) . Rack up points for nasty face plants and limb smashing landings, and try to beat 
 your personal best.
  
  If you happen to want to do a particular challenge, and you ski your dumb self right by it, no 
 problem, snag the snowmobile in your back pocket and zoom your way back up the mountain. No need 
 to board all the way to a lift, just hop on your Polaris looking thing and be on your merry way. 
 Don't forget to do some tricks on the way, as the snowmobile boasts an array of tricks much like 
 that snow-wrecking device attached to your feet.
  
  Completing story line challenges will lead to new sections of the mountain being unlocked. This 
 opens new trails, and allows you to hit the real peak, which is grayed out upon starting the 
 game.
  
  What the F ?
  
  Okay, if you have played the game, you know what's coming... if you haven't, listen up. What is 
 going on with the cut scenes? They have got this retro 70's, bad paper animation thing going on. 
 Bear in mind it's clear these cut scenes weren't intended to be serious. They are so stupid that 
 some are hilarious; you can't help but laugh, a nice touch to keep the game light hearted, and 
 entertaining at the same time. I still however think the developers are wack-jobs.
  
  On top of the crazy cut scenes, expect some serious bad voice acting in the rest of them. Granted 
 this is not Clear and Present Danger, so I will let the lack of seriousness slide here. The game 
 emits this Dude aura... that's the best I can describe it. Play the game; you will see what I 
 mean.
  
  
  
  Short and sweet, this is VERY MUCH an arcade style game. Don't expect serious realism here people. 
 2 minutes into the game I was doing double back flips with grabs, and not even coming close to 
 crashing. You can grind on trees, grinding poles, which would never exist in the real world, even 
 the ski lift cable. Props to whoever makes it all the way down the ski lift cable... I could not 
 seem to do it for the life of me. If you hit a tree, most of the time you will just bounce off; 
 good thing or I would have been squirrel food more than once.
  
  Pretty Snow
  
  Graphically the game is not that impressive. Boasting a very cartoon like atmosphere, it's tough 
 to get that real-life look we are all looking for in the graphics department. However, I will say 
 the snow looks and responds great. You can clearly see your character cutting edges into the snow, 
 which is especially cool in un-groomed regions of the mountain.
  
  Gnarly Dude
  
  Man the voices in this game can get REALLY annoying. There is only so much stoned surfer talk I 
 can take, I have limits people. Aside from this, the sounds are very arcade like, throwing in lots 
 of random goofy sounds just for the sake of having noise. You will hear dings and boops letting 
 you know you have hit another slalom gate, or done something mildly cool, but don't expect too 
 much realism here either. Does this help or hurt the game? Frankly, I'm not sure. If there is a 
 big enough fan-base for a realistic snowboarding game then I guess it's a kick in the face... but 
 is there?
  
  Moves are Confusing
  
  Let me start off by saying that I'm not the most knowledgeable in the snowboarding area, so I'm 
 not too in tune with what move is what. For instance, a particular challenge forced me to do a 
 Hamburger Roll off a jump... a WHAT? I am lucky I can remember how to do a 180, never mind some 
 kind beef accessory. The controller scheme options will let you know what the basic buttons do, 
 but the crazy combo tricks are just plain difficult. I wonder if somebody has put out a trick list 
 online somewhere, that would be damn useful.
  
  Where are my achievements
  
  If you stick to the story line only, then you can have the game beat in a matter of a long day. 
 However, if you like to go do your own thing and ignore the story line, don't expect many achievements. 
 There are 15 total achievements, most of which require you to stick true to the storyline. There 
 are a few easier ones like Travel 10 km on a snowmobile for 30 big points, but for the most part 
 you big ones are for completing the four acts of the game.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Want to go shred the mountain with your buddies on Xbox Live?! Too bad, not gonna happen, there's 
 no multi player. The closest you are coming to crashing sleds with a buddy is to check out their 
 score on the leader boards. Boooooo. The game would be infinitely more fun if I could run my girlfriend 
 into a tree in some split screen action; granted she would not fall, but it's the principle of 
 the thing.
  
  20 Minutes or Bust
  
  Amped is definitely a game best played in short bursts. Everyone raves about the Live Arcade games 
 because you are able to pick it up, play for 10-15 minutes, and put it down just as quick. Amped 
 is the same way, there is no hugely involved storyline you have to immerse yourself in to have 
 fun with the game. Load it up, take a few runs down the mountain, maybe crash a sled or two, and 
 be done with it. The game will get repetitive if played for too long in a single sitting, this 
 I promise you. If you adhere to a strict Amped diet, then you will see the replay value skyrocket. 
 If you gorge yourself, you're gonna kill the game.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  If you have not previously owned an Amped, then this one will definitely fly below your radar and 
 fade into nothingness. The game does not have a niche which can catapult it up to the status of 
 COD2 or Perfect Dark Zero. It's a decent game, and you will have some fun playing it. Is it worth 
 50-60 bucks? Eh, not really. A long-term rental from Gamefly or another site that lets you keep 
 is as long as you like is more than sufficient for this one. Play it, laugh at it, do a few tricks, 
 then send it back
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  If you're heavy into the winter sports, Amped 3 is here to quench your thirst. Currently the only 
 'winter sports' game available on the 360, it's all you avid skiers and boarders have, so I guess 
 you'll have to live with it.
  
  You play the part of an unknown snowboarder, who roles with one of the oddest crews I've ever seen. 
 You and your buddies are trying earn up enough cash for a crazy vacation to Chile, only one problem... you 
 are apparently a thief. Your vacation funds are stolen, and who is to blame? You of course. You 
 will venture your way through the game completing challenges in order to try to earn your money 
 back, and hopefully redeem yourself.
  
  I like Free Roam
  
  The mountain is your playground, as a map screen allows you to pick wherever you would like to 
 go, whenever you would like to go there. If you feel like sticking to the story line, special indicators 
 on the map will let you know which lift to choose, and where to head once you hit the peak to get 
 your story on. If you feel like completely ignoring the story, go right ahead my young boarder 
 friend. Pick a lift, and just shred your way down the mountain doing insane tricks. Nobody is rushing 
 you here; take the game at your own pace. On top of the sometimes annoying storyline, feel free 
 to attempt a number of challengers you will see clearly marked on the mountain map. Slalom your 
 way through gates, impress crowds with big jumps... some challenges can definitely put your skills 
 to the test. Complete these for some pretty sweet rewards.
  
  Unlockables
  
  Competing specific challenges and progressing story wise will earn you lots of new toys to play 
 with. You can snag new boards, sleds, a ski mobile, trophies... There's an arsenal of unlockable 
 goodies in this one folks, and it makes you want to keep playing so you can catch em all... like 
 Pokemon... only less dumb.
  
  But wait a second? Did I say sleds? What the hell would I need a sled for in a snowboarding game? 
 To crash of course! Should you choose to pull out your trusty sled, you are in for a wild ride. 
 The object is basically to perform the most vicious wipe out you can think of (large jumps work 
 well for this) . Rack up points for nasty face plants and limb smashing landings, and try to beat 
 your personal best.
  
  If you happen to want to do a particular challenge, and you ski your dumb self right by it, no 
 problem, snag the snowmobile in your back pocket and zoom your way back up the mountain. No need 
 to board all the way to a lift, just hop on your Polaris looking thing and be on your merry way. 
 Don't forget to do some tricks on the way, as the snowmobile boasts an array of tricks much like 
 that snow-wrecking device attached to your feet.
  
  Completing story line challenges will lead to new sections of the mountain being unlocked. This 
 opens new trails, and allows you to hit the real peak, which is grayed out upon starting 
 the game.
  
  What the F ?
  
  Okay, if you have played the game, you know what's coming... if you haven't, listen up. What is 
 going on with the cut scenes? They have got this retro 70's, bad paper animation thing going on. 
 Bear in mind it's clear these cut scenes weren't intended to be serious. They are so stupid that 
 some are hilarious; you can't help but laugh, a nice touch to keep the game light hearted, and 
 entertaining at the same time. I still however think the developers are wack-jobs.
  
  On top of the crazy cut scenes, expect some serious bad voice acting in the rest of them. Granted 
 this is not Clear and Present Danger, so I will let the lack of seriousness slide here. 
 The game emits this Dude aura... that's the best I can describe it. Play the game; you 
 will see what I mean.
  
  
  
  Short and sweet, this is VERY MUCH an arcade style game. Don't expect serious realism here people. 
 2 minutes into the game I was doing double back flips with grabs, and not even coming close to 
 crashing. You can grind on trees, grinding poles, which would never exist in the real world, even 
 the ski lift cable. Props to whoever makes it all the way down the ski lift cable... I could not 
 seem to do it for the life of me. If you hit a tree, most of the time you will just bounce off; 
 good thing or I would have been squirrel food more than once.
  
  Pretty Snow
  
  Graphically the game is not that impressive. Boasting a very cartoon like atmosphere, 
 it's tough to get that real-life look we are all looking for in the graphics department. However, 
 I will say the snow looks and responds great. You can clearly see your character cutting edges 
 into the snow, which is especially cool in un-groomed regions of the mountain.
  
  Gnarly Dude
  
  Man the voices in this game can get REALLY annoying. There is only 
 so much stoned surfer talk I can take, I have limits people. Aside from this, the sounds are very 
 arcade like, throwing in lots of random goofy sounds just for the sake of having noise. You will 
 hear dings and boops letting you know you have hit another slalom gate, or done something mildly 
 cool, but don't expect too much realism here either. Does this help or hurt the game? Frankly, 
 I'm not sure. If there is a big enough fan-base for a realistic snowboarding game then I guess 
 it's a kick in the face... but is there?
  
  Moves are Confusing
  
  Let me start off by saying that I'm not the most knowledgeable in the snowboarding area, so I'm 
 not too in tune with what move is what. For instance, a particular challenge forced me to do a 
 Hamburger Roll off a jump... a WHAT? I am lucky I can remember how to do a 180, never 
 mind some kind beef accessory. The controller scheme options will let you know what the basic buttons 
 do, but the crazy combo tricks are just plain difficult. I wonder if somebody has put out a trick 
 list online somewhere, that would be damn useful.
  
  Where are my achievements
  
  If you stick to the story line only, then you can have the game beat in a matter of a long day. 
 However, if you like to go do your own thing and ignore the story line, don't expect many achievements. 
 There are 15 total achievements, most of which require you to stick true to the storyline. There 
 are a few easier ones like Travel 10 km on a snowmobile for 30 big points, but for 
 the most part you big ones are for completing the four acts of the game.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Want to go shred the mountain with your buddies on Xbox Live?! Too bad, not gonna happen, there's 
 no multi player. The closest you are coming to crashing sleds with a buddy is to check out their 
 score on the leader boards. Boooooo. The game would be infinitely more fun if I could run my girlfriend 
 into a tree in some split screen action; granted she would not fall, but it's the principle of 
 the thing.
  
  20 Minutes or Bust
  
  Amped is definitely a game best played in short bursts. Everyone raves about the Live Arcade games 
 because you are able to pick it up, play for 10-15 minutes, and put it down just as quick. Amped 
 is the same way, there is no hugely involved storyline you have to immerse yourself in to have 
 fun with the game. Load it up, take a few runs down the mountain, maybe crash a sled or two, and 
 be done with it. The game will get repetitive if played for too long in a single sitting, this 
 I promise you. If you adhere to a strict Amped diet, then you will see the replay value skyrocket. 
 If you gorge yourself, you're gonna kill the game.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  If you have not previously owned an Amped, then this one will definitely fly below your radar and 
 fade into nothingness. The game does not have a niche which can catapult it up to the status of 
 COD2 or Perfect Dark Zero. It's a decent game, and you will have some fun playing it. Is it worth 
 50-60 bucks? Eh, not really. A long-term rental from Gamefly or another site that lets you keep 
 is as long as you like is more than sufficient for this one. Play it, laugh at it, do a few tricks, 
 then send it back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe84
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  You start out on North Star ski resort with your friends. But before you get the chance to go to 
 Chile your framed, so the guys went without you.
  The game has very special layout, where the colors are kind of hippie like. But its great thats 
 it not to life like. More 50% arcade and 50% simulator, sometimes developers make the games too 
 serious so you get fed up quite early. 
  The gameplay is good, but could have been done better, Your challenges throughout the game gets 
 to repetitive, where you mostly will just play the easies challenge s to get through the game. 
 And fulfill it afterwards. 
  The mountains are big so you get much much land to board on, but since the area is so big 2K should 
 have made this game a online game. Where you could ride with your friends, having tournaments, 
 a lodge to hang out at and just meet new people. Multiplayer.....? Its only possible to play with 
 a friend when you get to a co-op challenges, where the objective is to see which of you that gets 
 most injured. One good feature is the snow mobile, example; If you ride past the challenge you 
 have chosen you can get on the snowmobile and ride back up, instead of having to start all over 
 again.
  Also you get a bit nostalgic playing Amped 3. In the intermission you suddenly see 2K's own version 
 of Final Fantasy 7, Mega Mann or Mario, great fun and overall the intermissions are terrific, you 
 wont stop laughing.
  The sound in Amped 3 is just like your regular snowboard game sound, but overall good sound, nice 
 voice actors and good laid back music. 
  Graphics are really nice. From the sky to the ground there is nothing to complain with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Well its Amped 3, one of the Xbox 360 launch titles. How does it play and how does it compare especially 
 to alot of other extreme sport games.
  It offers quite a few different mountains for you to play in, which can be unlocked from progressing 
 through the story mode.
  
  A incredible crazy story makes a real fun, and addicting play through. The story is pretty simple 
 but extremely weird, its impossible to explain it in words. But you will definetly know what I 
 mean if you see some videos or actually play the game.
  
  The gameplay is easy and in some points too easy, but its still worth it. Im not a hardcore snowboarding 
 fan but the easy to pick up and play feel along with its great humor makes it worthwhile.
  
  The graphics arent actually that good, there just like a small upgrade from an average xbox 
 games, but some of the stuff does look wel detailed but not really that much. Its still definetly 
 easy to make out what is what, and some of the graphics in the cut scenes arent exactly like good 
 its just the variety of how there presented is what makes this enjoyable to look at.
  
  The sound is presented pretty well in almost all cases its good perfect, but some minor things 
 could have been updated. The soundtrack however is a mix and its pretty good. But since all Xbox 
 360 games now have custom soundtrack compatibilty at any time you can just press the guide button 
 and select your own songs. In fact most of the time while I was playing through this my friend 
 was playing a totally different game and we was having a "private chat". So overall the sound is 
 great and some crazy funny music for certain parts of the game makes it a good laugh and really 
 enjoyable.
  
  The story mode of the games doesnt last that long, its pretty good though. But if you want to do 
 everything else in the game theres other challenges that you will see on the mountains that arent 
 to do with the story but there great fun to do. But after a long time of doing these challenges 
 they can get pretty boring and repetetive. But the story mode is worth playing through alone.
 
  
  I really enjoyed this game and it was worth playing, too bad the co-op mode want took even further 
 as the only co-op this game has is a insane crash mode. Which is pretty much you and your friend 
 on sledges which are fastened together by like a big elastic band or something, the aim of this 
 is to hurt your self more than the other player, you gain points for hitting big things or just 
 hitting small things, but the bigger and harder you hit things it will slow you down more, so its 
 not always best to hit something that could put you to a stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTHoodlum423
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 ended up being way to easy. I beat the story mode within two days. I remember played Amped 
 2 for so long and there was still a couple of missions that I never was able to beat. Ive completed 
 the whole game and it just didnt live up to the hype. They dumbed it down way to much for people 
 who have never played the game before. You land almost every time no matter what how you land. 
 The challanges in the game are overly easy. There was maybe a hand full that I actually found to 
 be hard. Some of the animations in the storyline are funny but for the most part you have to be 
 five years old to be entertained. This game has gone way to Tony Hawk-ish. I recommend not wasting 
 60 bucks on this game if you are still thinking about buying it. If anything, rent it first to 
 see how you like it. Everyone else that has played this game that I know personaly has the same 
 feelings about it. Unfortunately I bought the game but I will be trading it in soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I wanna start by saying that this game was very fun to play and It had a very creative story line 
 that made me laugh and smile. The story was told by each character in their own way with a very 
 interesting style and artwork.
  
  2k games kept the Franchise alive with this fun and exiting sequel to the series. One thing I still 
 did not get that should have be a MUST on the 360 especially for a launch title, was NO ONLINE 
 MUTI-PLAYER! Where's it at? Hmm..... lets ponder for a sec....... ok, Play 360, Jump in, Play Together, 
 these are Microsoft Xbox 360 slogans. So where's the Online Multi-Player?
  
  Don't get me wrong here, a game with a great single player campaign is fine, like Condemned, but 
 Amped is a Competitive Sport and I wanna beat my friends down the slopes or in Time Attack or with 
 High Scores. Nope, not happening. Moving on.
  
  This is the part about the BUGGIEST GAME in my title of the review, I'll explain. 
  My Husband 
 and I both Played separate Profiles, Through my whole game I was nothing but the hair on My Head, 
 yup you read it right, Hair and nothing else through the entire game. Try skiing down the slopes 
 like that. My Husband had it worse, There are camera things in the game all over each mountain 
 and you earn respect points for doing certain tricks specified, but they didn't work for him through 
 the whole game so it was harder for him to complete the mountains because he had to get a lot of 
 Golds in the missions to get the respect points he needed. Also his pants were BUGGY, they looked 
 like the Liquid Terminator from T2, they reflected the environment around him, very cool to see 
 but very hard to play with.
  
  Other than a few problems with the game both My Husband and I enjoyed playing the game and thought 
 it delivered a good game experience. 
  
  You definitely need to rent this one if your not buying it, very fun and you will find yourself 
 kicking out tricks and venturing of the story mode in a good way.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, so Please check out my other game reviews.
  Love you all
  -Crim 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJAssassin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is a very fun snowboarding game. It is creative but very weird, so if you are a very serious 
 gamer, this may not be for you.. There is a lot of cool and nice looking gear to customize your 
 rider with. The costumes and pros are a nice addition. XBL is shortened to just rankings for highest 
 scores, on every goal! Some if the mountains are huge and look amazing. there are 7 in all. The 
 story is easy to beat and very wierd/funny. The ability to snowmobile is great and sledding is 
 very fun. The hanglider is innovative and you will never get tired of watching your rider fall 
 from the clouds or 10x above them... The game is easy to get used to but uses many different controls 
 for the harder tricks. After a while though, you will be doing huge combos like nothing. The impact 
 collision/physics are bad and there are a few annoying glitches and such wile playing. There are 
 a ton of goals to complete and 15 achievments to unlock. The media call outs can get very annoying..
 
  
  This is a fun game to play and get good at. It looks nice but not super awesome. I recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  At first, you may be very surprised by the style of the new Amped game, especially if you are used 
 to the original in the series. However, the game really grew on me, and if you are looking for 
 any extreme sports game such as this, I highly recommend it.
  
  Gameplay: 9. Great gameplay, however they could have allowed for more freedom when controlling 
 the aerials.
  
  Graphics: 10. 2k Sports did a great job making this game look spectacular on the 360.
  
  Sound: 
 9. The sound, although not a huge part of the game, is relatively good.
  
  Value: 8. For between $50-60 the game is expensive, however well worth it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 
 9. I highly recommend this game... If you are unsure, you may want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whalenapp81
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, that finally gets snowboarding physics and controls right, unlike its predecessors, 
 though some wil say that it takes away from the games realism, i think its a move in the right 
 direction, (aka ssx) the graphics are great, not pgr3 great, but great none the less, the music 
 is also a main highlight, u will never want to turn ur sound off, and now i get to the good stuff, 
 the cut scenes, ah yes!!!! these r the main attraction of the game, i have no idea the the f**** 
 they were smoking, but d**** i want some of that, the cut scenes r great, messedup, with references 
 from lots of different cultural things from the past 10 years or so, overall a great game, would 
 recommend for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 may technically be the sequel to the love-it-or-hate-it series started on the original 
 Xboxbut dont let yourself make assumptions about this one. Although its gameplay keeps quite 
 true to its predecessors, the mood around it couldnt be more different. Instead of a conservative 
 style that keeps the focus squarely on play, Amped 3 kicks things up with an outrageous, schizophrenic 
 art style that lends the whole game a surreal, crazy, and ultimately enjoyable vibe. At the same 
 time, though, the gameplay isnt always what it could be, and it can feel plain and frustrating 
 at times (the latter of which is especially true in the later half) . So while Amped 3 has its 
 problems and isnt for everyone, its short, manic story mode makes it perfect for a rental.
  
  You begin your sojourn through the story mode by building a rider, a process that will likely 
 be familiar to you if you fancy yourself a fan of extreme sports games. You choose from a variety 
 of different faces, hairstyles, clothes, boards, and so forth, and when you finish, youre ready 
 to roll. Amped 3 chronicles the misadventures of you and your amateur crew of snowboarders, who 
 are trying to save up some cash for a nice trip. Meanwhile, your best friend J-Dawg has dreams 
 of making it big with a sponsorship, and when the vacation money is mysteriously stolen and you 
 are blamed, well, needless to say you need to set the record straight and reassemble the crew that 
 has since split up.
  
  The story of Amped 3 is by far the craziest of any game released this year, and is arguably one 
 of the most manic productions in a videogame ever. The game makes use of a variety of art styles, 
 and by the time the game reaches its conclusion, youll have seen regular in-game cutscenes, stop-motion 
 animation, sock-puppets, clay-mation, full-motion video, homages to NES games, and more. This gives 
 the game a schizophrenic energy and fast pace, and youll truly enjoy each cinematic that comes 
 your way. Also of note: the games ending is hands-down the best of any game this year.
  
  Indeed, this games art style is unmatched  however, its gameplay will feel instantly familiar 
 to fans of the series. The dual stick principles of the first two games have been pushed aside 
 for a more streamlined (and arguably more favorable) system that is more akin to the Tony Hawk 
 series of skateboarding games. After hopping off of a jump, you use the left stick to control your 
 flip or spin, and you use a face button (or a combination thereof) to pull of grabs. On rails, 
 pushing a face button will switch your rider to a different style of grinding. You can also pull 
 of a tail butter, snowboardings answer to a manual, to link together combos.
  
  Youll find that this is all you really need to know to get started, and each facet of your riding 
 will be tested throughout the game via a small handful of different challenges. There are two different 
 types of checkpoint challenges: one variety has you running an air or rail line while demanding 
 you soar through all of the checkpoints in the right order, while the other simply challenges you 
 to get to the last checkpoint, while the ones in between give you extra time if you need it. Another 
 type of challenge has you following a trail of collectable what-nots to see if you can gather enough 
 to beat the challenge. Theres also the obligatory high score challenges in there, too. Trying 
 to wreck up your rider as much as possible to earn the biggest hospital bill you can and trying 
 to impress sponsors in the Sellout challenges are other distractions.
  
  Amped 3 then goes on to follow a fairly predictable pattern. In order to unlock the next part of 
 the story, which will get you closer to unlocking the next mountain, youll need respect points. 
 You earn respect by completing challenges. So, by using the trail map, you choose a challenge of 
 your choice, board over to it, and give it a whirl. Your performance on the challenge will earn 
 you either a bronze, silver, or gold medal, and each of these comes with a varying amount of respect 
 points. You get a fair amount of leeway in terms of what challenges are available for you to do 
 before you move on, though none of the different types of objectives are particularly unique or 
 inspired. It merely provides a solid breath of content that serves as more of the same for extreme 
 sports fans. No more, no less.
  
  But this approach works well for Amped 3, a game that should take you about five or six hours before 
 you reach the (unfathomably funny) ending. Of course, theres still objectives left to be completed, 
 and you can try to own the mountain by impressing other riders or try to get all gold medals 
 to unlock some achievements. But really, a rental period is all youll probably need to get all 
 of the mileage you want out of this one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  People say Amped 3 hasn't got a net gen spark there wrong! sure the graphics aren't as good as 
 PGR3 or Perfect dark zero what about gameplay, yeah bet you never thought of that, well frankly 
 its better!
  
  The graphics aren't the best on the 360 but do you play a game for the graphics? Anyway try jumping 
 off a ramp and seeing the beautiful snowy mountain littered horizon i guarantee you'll smile.
 
  
  Sound well i Don't really what to say about the sound but there is a good variety of music to choose 
 from.
  
  Value the strong point of amped. there is more things to do than i can be bothered to count! then 
 once you've done everything go back and do it for a gold medal. the character creation and customisation 
 is also amusing at times.
  
  The gameplay the buttons are the usual A is jump X is do a trick and you get the rest but somehow 
 you love it you'll be amazed it's so plain and old yet it feels crisp and fresh like the cold breeze 
 off the cold mountain your boarding on. Once you turn off the 360 you'll turn around and turn it 
 back on you won't quite know what your doing but it feels good.
  
  Overall there is unfullfilled potential that could of earned this game a 9+ score. But throughout 
 the gam even though it may feel like there is something missing you'll have hours on end of fun 
 watching hilarious cutscenes pulling off that absoulutley perfect combo which earns you hundreds 
 of thousands of points you'll realise this game has a next gen flame! which you can light time 
 and time again for endless hours of fun by yourself or with a friend!
  
  Thanks for reading
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 was a huge surprise, I've never played a snowboarding game before except SSX Tricky and 
 I didn't like it to much. But I was at Gamespot and I figured, ahhh what the heck. I sat down with 
 Amped 3 around 4:00 and played until 6:00 with no breaks I was hooked. I beat it in a couple of 
 days but I'm still trying to beat all of the challenges. Amped 3 has great graphics, characters 
 look good and snow has an insane amount of detail to it. What make it better is the fact that you 
 can see farther than ever, for example while going down a very steep, high hill I saw another snowboarder 
 jump on a rail start grinding do a flip and land it all from a very far distance. The games audio 
 is great with a broad selection of music with healthy variety. The voiceovers are decent but some 
 are a little annoying. The best part of the whole game is the cutscenes, ranging from stop motion 
 to fandango style puppets there's a lot to laugh about. The gameplay is simple, you jump with A, 
 use other buttons to do grabs, use the analog sticks for flips, and the triggers for more tricks. 
 The controls are easy to pick up but it may take you a while to become good with the combos. Amped 
 3 is awesome and has plenty of replay value and great moments you'll remember for a long time. 
 If there is anything to complain about it's the lack of online multiplayer, the Co-op is weak and 
 is pretty much just sledding. Amped 3 is awesome and definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verceties
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When I was at the store first purchasing this I wasnt to sure about what I was getting until after 
 my first couple of ours playing this game the game started to grow on me and now I play it all 
 the time, on xbox live, with my friends, with my girlfriend. this is one of the games out there 
 that actually deserves a review. I just hope all you gamers out there get a shot at this game. I 
 cant say that this game is a masterpiece like the halo series or like the doa series but I can 
 say that this game is worth spending your money to purchase. I hope I get to see some of you gamers 
 out there on xbox live cause live on this game is awesome, kudos to you all,
  Verceties
  
  THE END!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toppsseller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Amped 1 or 2, but I decided to try Amped 3 because I've always had a strange 
 affinity for snowboarding videogames. Amped is different from SSX in that you don't tend to race 
 very much. There is a story mode which provides some very funny cut scenes. Some might think they're 
 cheesy but if you take them at face value they can be a lot of fun. When not involved in the story 
 mode, you will spend most of your time trying to accomplish challenges. These range from stunts 
 (favoring a particular type of trick, to collecting objects, and boarding through rings. Winning 
 these challenges nets you prizes. The prizes can be money to buy new gear, new soundtracks, or 
 snowboards. In order to progress from mountain to mountain you must complete the story mode missions. 
 They are not that difficult. What I really liked about the game were the challenges. If you are 
 a completist type of game then you should love Amped 3. They challenges are vey easy to start and 
 if you fail you can restart immediately. I have lost many consecutive just working my way through 
 the challenges. The game sucks you by constantly giving you prizes. You will constantly want more. 
 
  Graphically this game impressed. You can get a nice view of the mountain and the falling snow really 
 gives a sense of being there. 
  The soundtrack is top notch with hundreds of songs. Most of the artists are Indie/Emo bands and 
 they really do have some great tunes. (Copeland, The Format, The Cartel, Waking Ashland.) This 
 game is worth checking out if you even like snowboarding a little bit. You can put it in, plug 
 your Ipod into the front of the the 360 and zone out.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayze78
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I have never really played many snowboarding games... there really isnt a lot out there. The only 
 SSX game I have played was the 3rd one, and I just couldnt get into it. Before that, I think I 
 played 1080 Snowboarding on the ol' N64, but I dont remember much about it.
  
  The thing that makes this game great is that the tricks are fairly easy to learn and pull off. 
 There isnt any tedious missions where you try to do some super combo trick and you have to keep 
 repeating the mission over and over again. You do learn some tricks, but it isnt hard. 
  
  As you progress through the game, you can unlock different mountains (Based on real ones) . On these 
 mountains, there are different events scattered around. You choose an event, and then you choose 
 which lift you want to be dropped off from. Shred your way to the event and compete! If you want, 
 you can even be dropped off at the top of the mountain and just freestyle your way down. The snow 
 and scenery are very crisp and clear.
  
  My favorite events are the ones where you fly down the hill in a sled, launch yourself off, and 
 try to hurt yourself as much as possible. Now THAT is fun. 
  
  Simply put, this game is fun. I dont even snowboard, yet I enjoy this game immensly. You customize 
 your own rider with different faces, clothes, boards, etc. There is a lot of punk/alternative music 
 that seems to mesh with this game very nicely. Above all, the game has a really off the wall, bizarre 
 storyline. Well, I guess the story itself isnt strange, but its the presentation of the story. 
 You will see what I mean. I think the game creators were on some good (or bad?) meds.
  
  **If you found this review helpful, please rate me with the thumbs up or thumbs down, I enjoy writing 
 game reviews, so this helps, thanks. ** 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayjack
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  The overall presentation of this game was just awesome . From the weird, wacky , and wonderful 
 videos, to the sheer trippy tasks and goals. I loved the newly included snowmobile for quick access 
 up and down the hill and the sleds were awesome (my favorite being the glider) . Now thats not to 
 say there are no faults. For instance boarders and skiers pop up out of nowhere and then magically 
 dissappearing again. Other small things like glitchs (which I have found atleast 4 or 5 of) and 
 the customization being fun though slim. Overall though , great fun game, werid, enjoyable for 
 fans of snowboarding and even for those who may not enjoy the genre.
  I give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilPigeon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First off........ I had no idea 2K games had such a fantastic sense of humor! "Me gusta!" My only 
 pet-peeve about it is the fact that it's too short. Well now that i think about it..... maybe it 
 wasn't too short it's just that it was so frickin' awesome and addictive that I played it constantly. 
 I didn't buy it at first because it's an Amped game and up until now, I despised them. It's easy 
 to get into and very easy in general. It's very easy to land tricks (which is nice) and the create-a-player 
 mode is pretty cool (even though the bodies look a tad deformed) with all the gear/costumes you 
 get later on. The graphics ,at least for the characters, could be better 'cause honestly, besides 
 the fantastic landscapes/scenery, it's not too much of a graphical leap from Amped 2. I don't mean 
 to say the snowboarding part is bad, even though the physics are sometimes hilarious, but I almost 
 have to say you need this game soley to have those movie parts. No lie, THE best movie parts I 
 have EVER seen! Well, that's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt1001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 is the first in the series for me and really a rather strange buy. Knowing nothing of the 
 prequals, i bought it thinking it was the most worthy sport's game for me to buy on my new Xbox 
 360 console. It exceeded those expectations in almost every way.
  
  If your new to the series, then you probably won't get the sense of humour straight away. It is 
 a snowboarding game but it uses retro elements in its storyline and likes to make fun of previous 
 games but with there own set of strange characters (Final Fantasy VII to name one) . The storyline 
 is also pretty messy and hard to realise at first, meaning you may have to look over the cutscenes 
 a couple of times to get it. Gamers will understand most of the in-jokes but casual players may 
 not get this games sense of humour. With this, the game is really seperated from the different 
 types of gamer.
  
  Scenery in this game, is hard to come by with any other snowboarding game. The visual effects put 
 into the snow, really stand out from any of the SSX games and even the facial animations have been 
 spent sometime on, showing the beauty, or rather uglyness, of the characters.
  
  The soundtrack you get in this game is hard to come by, with classic mix's of rock and roll or 
 pop music. Although soundtrack isnt as important since you can listen to your own songs, it can 
 really stand out for the non-live players. Voicework is unique in this game, and really useful to 
 the games unique sense of humour.
  
  Sounds and graphics are what this game does best and this sometimes sacrifices the gameplay which 
 is at times sloppy as is it is too easily pulled off. Grinds are pulled of easily yet can be a 
 mess and at times, cant be done even when you have done all the precautions. Another horrible thing 
 about the game is when the mountains trap you, leaving you to get trapped. Like a fool you cant 
 move out of there till you go back to the menu. Despite probelms, the sheer size and amount of 
 mountains isnt a sore sight and can provide entertainment when you have the money to fix up the 
 place with building points.
  
  To call Amped 3 a long game can be an overstatement as well as an understatement. Like most games, 
 Amped 3 ends quickly with its main story but has LOADS of sidequests to do which could take you 
 weeks to finish.
  
  Amped 3 is a game which depends on your taste. If you enjoy a rich storyline and can sacrafice 
 the slightly boring gameplay then you will get enough out of this game. Now that im done im gonna 
 curse the makers of this game for making fun of my favourite game ARGGGG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  At first, you may be very surprised by the style of the new Amped game, especially if you are used 
 to the original in the series. However, the game really grew on me, and if you are looking for 
 any extreme sports game such as this, I highly recommend it.
  
  Gameplay: 9. Great gameplay, however they could have allowed for more freedom when controlling 
 the aerials.
  
  Graphics: 10. 2k Sports did a great job making this game look spectacular on the 360.
  
  Sound: 
 9. The sound, although not a huge part of the game, is relatively good.
  
  Value: 8. For between $50-60 the game is expensive, however well worth it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 
 9. I highly recommend this game... If you are unsure, you may want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Great storyline. Never seen anything like it, dosent really make sense but who cares. Some 
 cutscenes will be stop motion like from an episode of Robot Chicken, Sock Puppets like an episode 
 of Sifl n Olly, and a bunch of other ranom things. but its great! The mountains you board on are 
 amazing looking and the snow looks real. You also have the choice to use a snowmobile and sled 
 anytime in the game.
  
  CONS: Gameplay is kinda like Amped 1 and 2 on Steriods and Crack. Same thing, Better Graphics. 
 Dont get me wrong, graphics are nice, but I expect better from this next gen title. While doing 
 big jumps you can still see some trees being loaded from the bottom. And there is nothing new with 
 gameplay, same ole amped. There are minigames you can do to progress the story, but at times can 
 get BLAND!
  
  RENT OR BUY: Rent fo sho! Story is fun... but I beat the game in a weekend. Like 6 to 8 hours of 
 story, then the game goes back to its predisessors. IF YOU ARE A HARDCORE SNOWBOARDER.... still 
 rent it, nothing more worth to do after the story is gone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lungz5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I had never played an Amped game before, but I was a fan of games like Tony Hawk and Jet Set Radio. 
 When THAW was released, it received terrible reviews and all of my friends bashed it as well, so 
 I decided to pass, but really wanted an alternative sports game. I started reading reviews for 
 Amped and saw that it had a humourous story line, cool animations and a control style similar to 
 classic TH. The cutscenese seemed reminisciant of JSRF, and I figured I'd pick this game up.
  
  I couldn't have made a better decision, with the exception of Quake 4, I found this game the 
 most fun on the XBox360 so far. The story mode IS short, but I think that was a good idea because 
 you don't have to invest tons of time if you just want to hear the story. The extras are huge though, 
 somewhere around 200 challenges to compete in, plus the fact that you have to play on a free roam 
 type of mode to impress bystanders and also to reach your challenges. The challenges vary as well 
 and become increasingly difficult, from the zany Magic Circles where you have to follow a path 
 along the course and score as many points as possible, to the difficult Kitty Cleanup where you 
 have to collect as many pieces of Kitty Glitter as possible in the time given, requires accuracy 
 and patience to complete.
  
  There is good variation in the types of challenges and the length of the game to complete, including 
 challenges is about right in the area of 15-20 hours to get 100% completion, the story mode alone 
 can be completed in less than 5 hours though.
  
  The game is great for a casual player only wanting to do story mode in their free time with a fun 
 alternative sports system, but is also fun for people who love playing hours racking up points 
 on games like Tony Hawk. The story mode and cutscenes alone almost make this game worth it.
  
  In short, if you are looking for a good alternative sports game, pick this up. If you are looking 
 for a fun storyline, pick this up. If you are looking for a game that is for both the average player 
 and the hardcore gamer, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regonis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I was never really into snowboarding games after ssx. I always lost at that game, i could never 
 get better, i mean i really stunk at it. But this game is way better in my opinion. It has great 
 graphics, and while its on the weird side, i think it just makes it funny. Snowboarding around 
 in a big fluffy bunny suit is more comical then gay. This was one of the better launch games. Although 
 it could have had more time on it, if it's the only snowboarding game then I think i'll be pleased. 
 The controls are 100% accurate, making smooth moves and really nice air. One of the best snowboarding 
 games.
  
  The sound is pretty reallistic, but the soundtrack , unfortunately, is a little to one side of 
 music. Punk Rock. That is a popular style of music right now, but I dont think that it's that popular 
 to be the only style of music, so that brings the games rating down just a bit. 
  
  And what is up with Quazzark god or whatever... it made me laugh the first couple times but it was 
 weird. Oh well, its still a great snowvboarding game and my favorite launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is NOT easy; I have to disagree with the Gamespot reviewer. I didn't play 
 Amped 1 or 2, and extreme sports are not my strongest genre when it comes to gaming, but once you 
 get past the beginning the game is definitely challenging, and I ended up having to retry things 
 repeatedly.
  
  The game's strongest point is the dizzying variety of gameplay. I'm amazed at all the different 
 things they came up with for you to do, and best of all, you can pick and choose, generally, what 
 you want to do and when. If the storyline frusterates you, you can take a break and do one of the 
 many other types of challenges. Few games have so many options, and of sports/extreme sports games 
 I've never seen so much variety and different stuff to do. It rocks!
  
  The cutscenes are very quirky. Some of them are downright hilarious, and others are just plain 
 weird, but either way they are interesting to watch. Some wild imaginations went into the making 
 of this game.
  
  The customization is fantastic. Most people will be able to create a snowboarder that looks exactly 
 or very close to the way they want. You can keep changing their outfits and gear too. Love it!
 
  
  The graphics are good and bad... Sometimes you'll look at the screen and the scenery is incredible. 
 Other times you'll notice glitches, like boarding onto a patch of concrete and seeing your calves 
 of your legs disappear under it. But the goodness far outweighs the bad, and the game's fun enough 
 that any glitch is no bother really.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone. I've never skiied or snowboarded, and can still say it's a lot 
 of fun. However, like I said, be prepared to repeat challenges and get frusterated unless you are 
 very skilled in the extreme sports genre. The good news is I have never been frusterated enough 
 to give up on it - so it really is a fun game.
  
  I can guarantee one thing you've never seen an extreme sports/sports title like this before. It's 
 definitely revolutionary and novel for its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GatorTheGeek
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, why you ask, because its has mega amounts of fun, good long wacky stor, y plenty 
 of side missions, not so deep but cool rider custimisation, the games strong point is the story 
 without hunter j-dawg sabastion and weiner boy the story just wouldnt be good. the game has realy 
 cool mountains to explore, and are pretty nice to look at. i would have to say my faviorite part 
 in the story was when the sock puppets are out and talking about the yeti, that was hilliarious, what 
 was realy funny was when you saw the sock puppets and they helmets that said swat, lol hilliarious. anyway 
 i loved this game and this should belong in everyones starting line up for xbox 360 games. 
  
  
  
  .p. s. the sound track rules too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunkeylover
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The game amped 3 is a brilliant game. Amped 3 is not just a snowboard racing game like SSX, it 
 is a fun crazy out of this world action packed snowboarding game, with over 200 music tracks playing, 
 you go around a massive snowboarding park, earning lots of points and money doing amazing tricks 
 sometimes you crash and break bones which you pay for with the money you earn. You dont just use 
 a snowboard though, you can use snowmobiles and all in all amped 3 is one of the best games out 
 on xbox 360 at this moment in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HookedOnFable
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in Amped 3 is near perfect. There are many tricks to pull and plenty of variety. With 
 20 seperate sleds and a snowmobile, theres plenty to do. The levels are gigantic and all relate 
 to their real-life counterparts. The graphics while not incredible, are very good. The story is 
 absolutely hsiterical. As soon as you're done playing, 5 minutes later you'll want to play again 
 to see the next cutscene. The music has over 200 tracks. Practically every genre is available and 
 more become available after specific challenges are beaten. The main downside is the multiplayer. 
 There really isn't any. The only thing available is a sledding challenge while entertaining, it 
 does get boring quickly. There is no Live multiplayer, in its place is a list of leaderboards for 
 each challenge. Overall Amped 3 is a great quick fix game if you're a fan of SSX or any other Alternative 
 Sports games, you should enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disconnecktie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I'll agree this is not as good as Amped 1 or 2. If you're used to them you'll play this and be 
 like "What the Heck." Honestly, just play it longer and get used to the new controls. You'll probably 
 end up liking it. Plus this story is so sweet. It's worth getting for just that. Anyone who wants 
 a sweet game, go for this one. Most likely you'll laugh your *** off from the insanely wacked out 
 story. It's pretty hilarious. Wiener Boy rules. The graphics aren't as good as you might expect 
 for next-gen. Even so, this was out pretty quick. The games will definately show their talent soon. 
 It's definately a large boost up from the current x-box. There are soo many songs its insane. Alot 
 of them you might not even heard of. If you don't like them just change them, or play songs you 
 ripped onto your hard drive. Or even play songs from your ipod or mp3 player. Don't settle for 
 a games music, make your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I LOVED AMPED 2, so I decided to get the sequel. IT WAS TOTALLY WORTH IT!
  This game is crazy, so much more to do than its older games. Like for instance, start a snowball 
 fight randomly or go sledding down the mountain in a sofa chair. This game rocks, and the story 
 is GREAT!
  
  Who knew you could get so into a snowboarding story? Great storyline, totally cool plot and setting. 
 The graphics arent totally next-gen (character model wise) , but I think it is like that on purpose. 
 However, the textures look wonderful.
  
  Bottom line- very fun game, addicting- perfect if you like the older ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  First off, there is no comparison between Amped 3 and SSX. However, I have to say that this is 
 the first time in the series that I have actually enjoyed Amped more than SSX. While this game 
 still has its flaws, overall it's an excellent game that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to any 
 snowboarding fan.
  
  Gameplay:
  For the most part, controls are tight and they work well; at least they got rid of the whole trick-stick 
 system. Anyway, my only complaint is you have to hit a button twice to pull of the trick. For example: 
 to perform a grab, you hit the A button to jump, then the B button twice for the trick. It takes 
 away from the game ever so slightly.
  
  Graphics:
  I would have to call the graphics good, but no XBox 360 good. Personally, I think they sit around 
 the XBox 1 and 1/2 level. The characters look nice, but the mountain could look so much better.
 
  
  Sound:
  This is a love it or leave it rating. I enjoy the soundtrack and felt the sounds of shredding down 
 the slope were really well done. Anyway, this one is really up to the person.
  
  Value:
  There is so much to do and unlock here. You will be busy for a long time.
  
  Tilt:
  Like 
 I said, I enjoyed this game. I really enjoyed it. Is it worth the $60? I don't know. I might wait 
 until the price drops a little. However, if you want a great game to just turn on, play for a bit, 
 and then turn off, this is it. The cutscenes are usually pretty funny and definitely worth getting 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  It is a snowboarding game and much more. The controls are pretty good. You can now execute ticks 
 by using the A, B, Yand, X buttons. You could never do that in the first two games. The riding goes 
 alot smoother that it used to. Before you would try to build momentum to go off a jump but by the 
 the time you went over to the jump the momentum was lost. Now that dosn't happen anymore. You can 
 at any time go on a snow mobile or a sled. There pretty fun to ride but not to many missions have 
 you go on one so you might not ride them that much. The story is just so funny and outrageous that 
 you will do every mission to see whats in the story. If you were able to get a 360 you should definitly 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_dracula
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  this is definitely worth a try if you've got a 360 - it grows on you pretty quickly and it's open-ended 
 HUGE levels give it lots of replay value. If you've got a 360 you should at least rent it.
  
  Good: Huge mountain levels, GTA-style open-ended game play, unique art style that actually 
 works pretty well, above-average graphics. decent sound track and song selection.
  
  Bad: Not quite as polished as SSX, not enough detail in the models (for a next-gen game)
  
 
  Ugly: Significant clipping problems - they don't get in the way of game play, but take away from 
 the realism. (other snowboarders will run right through you) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardonikkus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  Well when I started playing this one I was a bit unimpressed.
  But as the story went on it kind of captivates you.
  The whole scrap book theme is a very nice 
 touch.
  It has a really small learning curve due to the fact that you get a full tutorial.
  When I started to get good I enjoyed it alot and now I pretty much play it all the time.
  One 
 thing I hated was those Kitty Litter Goals they involve going around picking up little tokens with 
 a time limit and are quite frustrating!
  
  You get a real sense of accomplishment when you complete all 240 odd goals with golds.
  What's 
 even better is when you get no.1 XBL rank for those high score challenges (I have about 5 at this 
 stage but I only got the game 2 days ago.)
  
  The graphics are very good and solid and the gravy terrain snow is very nice.
  Customization 
 is a very nice feature of this with a good few hundred customization options from Sunglasses to 
 Snowboards (even the bindings.)
  
  Remember when you used to have to drudge back up the mountain to get to a big ramp or set of rails, 
 well with the snowmobile it pretty much eliminates all neccessity to do that! Miss a jump? hop 
 on the snowmobile and go back up the mountain.
  
  When you get down to it this is a very solid title, maybe not revolutionary but none the less I 
 was happy enough with my purchase.
  Hope to see your scores up near mine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  i first watched some previews of amped 3 looked like a laugh i went down to my local shop and bought 
 it started playing it i was bored stiff with it a few days later i was bored of playing some other 
 games so i decidetativeed to give amped 3 anotheer try before i sold it on ebay i finished the 
 story mode and i was astonished how i thought it was bad before its a bit reppetive but i justlove 
 going down the mountains its a tony hawkes style ssx 3 i simply love the 2 player mode as well.... buy 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYL3R_95
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the coolest snowboarding games since ssx tricky. its got it all, compelling story. 
 funny cut scenes, great graphics, and of course insane snowboarding. there are only a few problems 
 in this game that can be simpily ignored. this is deffenetly a great game to show what the new 
 x-box 360 is all about and where games are headed.
  
  in this game you play as yourself, who must save his friends, and shut down an evil nemisis trying 
 to brain wash the world and make the "perfect" video game. the story is funny and the missions 
 are intense.
  
  through the great story mode you unlock different locations and cloths. you aslo gain a new skill 
 called "awesomeness" which lets you impress people. to get awesomeness you must gain enough points 
 to fill up your awesomeness metter. you get to ride sleds, hang gluiders, snow mobiles, and of 
 course snowboards.
  
  you ride with your four friends, Jdawg, hunter, sebastian, and weiner boy. and also get your friends 
 out of trouble. you also meet scrap booker, Dandilion. who helps tell the story.
  
  you also can do tons of side tasks such as magic circles, samurai slalom, snow quest, sellout challenge, 
 kitty cleanup, and lords of the board just to name a few, which makes the replay value very high.
 
  
  in the end amped 3 is a great snowboarding game and if you are a fan of snowboarding, surfing, 
 and skateboarding game or just looking for a great time your should deffenetly check this game 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 was kind of rocky until the very end. But it got finished. And it's great. The funniest 
 alt-sports games ever.
  
  The gameplay is good, but repetitive. The snowmobile and sled break things up and this one's more 
 about the story. This is on the box (regarding the story)  you 
 ate a gas station burrito". It's good stuff. Then there's Weiner Boy, and action figure, sock puppet 
 cut scenes. Nothing I can say can prepare you for this. The cut & paste look on menus and such 
 is great.
  
  Graphics aren't totally next-gen, but not bad. Most of the textures are very sharp (in HD) but 
 the environments are bland. 
  
  Sound is good too. The sound track is varied and excellent. Then there's normal snowboard sounds.
 
  
  If you're looking for an alternative sports game, Amped 3 is for you. I reccomend it over Tony 
 Hawk. Maybe rent both. I dunno. But Amped 3 is an experience that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  I got the chance to play this game yesterday, and I was not impressed. Having owned Amped 1 and 
 Amped 2, I thought the Amped series was decent series, and Amped 3 was near the top of my 'to buy' 
 list for XBOX360 games. But I was wrong, I am not a fan of the new control system, or the quirky 
 menu system or cut scenes. And what is with the control system.. It does not feel as solid as the 
 Amped 2 control system which the developers made a decent job of. Some aspects of Amped 3 however, 
 are ok, The graphics are very nice and create the feel of being out on the slopes quite well, and 
 the fact that Amped 3 has a storyline is pretty neat to. Overall this game Is pretty average, maybe 
 the developers should have stuck more to the Amped 2 formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty great and has much to unlock the "co-op" is pretty cool witht the sleds and 
 all. The unlockables go anywhere from some crazy gear to hangliders. The stroy mode is fun but 
 the story itself is horrible. The gameplay itself works really well with big air and doing slow 
 flips. The tricks are also pretty various as well and all very fun to do. The graphics are very 
 good like the models, boards look great good clothing customiziation is cool and the effects like 
 the snow getting incaved after the big landing off big air jumps. overall i really enjoyed this 
 game and if you like alternative-sports games you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suyomizzle_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Now I am sure all of you, by now, know how insane of a game Amped 3 is, but it needs to be stressed. 
 It's the strong point of the game. The story is easily, the best part of the entire game. I've 
 never laughed harder, ever. The verity in the humor, and the well-done cut scenes just make the 
 game amazing. You're certain to love at least one character in this game, as they're all charming 
 and fairly well developed.
  
  The graphics are good, nothing less than you'd expect from launch 360 title. But what really wows 
 me are the cut scenes. They're all just amazingly well done, and there are a lot of them. 
  
  The game play is... less amazing. It gets the job done, and it can be tons of fun, but it's 
 a little bit simplistic, and might come off as a little shallow if you've played lots of SSX or 
 something. 
  
  The difficulty is another minor complaint... the game goes from pathetically easy to punishingly 
 hard, although there's nothing really impossible in this game. Even with the harder challenges, 
 if you just don't give up you'll get the hang of it. 
  
  A final complaint is... the game is a little on the short side. I beat the main story in about 
 six and a half hours, although there is tons more to do even after you've beaten the game.
  
  The soundtrack is impressive, featuring a good verity of just about every type of music, so 
 you may not even want to substitute your own soundtrack in. 
  
  This game is a must-buy for those who own a 360, even if you've played the other Amped games, this 
 sequel improves on them in every way. Even the loading screens will provide sidesplitting laughs.
 
  
  There's just not an excuse for not owning this game, I think it has something for just about everyone.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  A mix between monty python, napoleon dynamite and a snowboarding game...... it's AMPED 3!!!! Once 
 upon a time I was playing some Xbox360 when an evil hooded guy grabbed my contoller and through 
 me to the ground. He then read me poetry and fed me large donuts made of cheese. Whoa! I just came 
 up with that story right here right now and It could have been in this game. Fluffy bunnies and 
 the guy from yellow submarine rule the story in this game. The snowboarding in this game is the 
 best of the amped series so far and the graphics are quite amazing. The fact of the matter is the 
 story in amped 3 is the funniest story I have ever played!! It's crazy characters and wacky presentation 
 that reminded me of Napoleon's Liger drawings!!!! The story is hilarious, the presintation is insane 
 and the gameplay is top notch!!! The best gameplay mode is definately the fracture challenge where 
 you're whole objective is to cause as much damage to yourself by flinging yourself down the mountain. 
 It's stuff like this that just makes it so much fun! If you like snowboarding or even if you don't 
 check it out for the hilarious comedy story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game is really good. I don't know why people don't like it. Sure, it can get repetitive at 
 time, but it is just great fun. The cut-scenes are just so funny, especially in the ninja part, 
 and it is way above the ordinary. But this game isnt only about snow boarding. It has sleding, 
 snow mobiling (I think thts how it's spelled) and a whole bunch of other things. If you are looking 
 for a really great and fun game, amped is for you. Also... amped isn't just for people who like 
 snowboarding. I don't like snowboarding, and I loved this game. So if you want something goood, 
 go buy amped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  This is my first foray into the amped series, and I wasn't as impressed as I could have been. As 
 long time Tony Hawk fan and someone who enjoys snowboarding I figured it was going to be a hit.
 
  Presentationwise it's great. Good graphics, interesting cutscenes, odd story (of course, it's 
 a 'extreme' game, I wouldn't expect a straightforeward story) , all of those are a big plus.
  The soundtrack is good, lots of options and the voice acting is funny. I can see some of the voice 
 actors in my mind and they fit the characters well.
  The gameplay/challenge is where my issue is. The basic controls are fine, but if you want to do 
 anything to score points, you need 15 fingers :) It could be just me, but if I can't enjoy a game, 
 I get frustrated. And the challenges in each zone vary so much, it's hit or miss on any given skill 
 level. Most games the beginner area has beginner type tricks and moves up. There are some tasks 
 in the first mountain that I swear are impossible!
  Anyhow, a decent game, could have been good but the controls need some work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat_pigl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! So much better than all the other Amped games, the graphics are nice, the 
 music is great, the story is lovable, the gameplay is wacky, jeez this sounds like a perfect game, 
 huh?
  
  You create a character (the game has great customization, anywhere from being a yetti to being 
 a girl with a fat bootie) and start your story, on this story you'll encounter many different tasks, 
 range-ing from trick type objectives and lots of other crazy stuff like, cruising around on a snow-mobile, 
 hang-gliding into rocks, sledding, and yet of course, snowboarding.
  When you are sledding and hang-gliding, you are tying to crash and see how big of a hospital bill 
 you can rack up. This is very fun to do on the games very gigantic Mountains.
  
  The game has a GTA go anywhere type of feeling just because the Mountains are so BIG! Also added 
 to the game is a park editor type thing where if you're having trouble getting the highscore, just 
 add a rail or a halfpipe into the mountain to help rank up your score.
  
  Like I said this game is very, very wacky, there are so many types of Animation, like Anime and 
 even Sock Puppets. This makes you feel like you just can't wait for the next cut-scene of the game! 
 The story is very intriguing and will last you a while. 
  
  All in all this is a great game, I highly recommend it, it beats the HECK out of the SSX games. 
 Was snowboarding really meant for racing? Go give this one a try!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kharvey12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The funnest game I have ever played. And I dont care if funnest isnt a word. Its that fun. The 
 story line is a little strange. With snowmobiles and hangliders there is a ton of things you can 
 do. Plus Rag-Doll physics on fun sleds. This game will entertain you for hours. With all of the 
 sleds you can mess around with snowmobiles and hangliders this game is hands down worth the 60 
 dollars. Plus tons of great music to listen to as you play this game for hours. The graphics are 
 amazing compared to either of the Amped games. Tons of bump mapping in the snow and in the boarders. 
 You have tons of clothes and gear to personilize your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toddmarley
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game was a freaking joke, the gameplay is choppy, the controls are far from easy and the game 
 is corny. If you are thinking of getting this game just go buy the first two Amped game, they are 
 far better then this. don't get me wrong the 360 provides with a great HD picture and the game 
 has a good soundtrack, but i don't play games for the soundtrack, it lacks in the department that 
 really matters. it is missing good gameplay, if you have ever played the first two Amped then you 
 will want to rent this first because is i completely different 2K sports killed an xbox classic, 
 and as a snowboarder I am a little sad about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that I haven't played a snowboarding game since SSX Tricky came out. 
 Nothing has really interested me in the genre, but that all changed once I caught a glimpse of 
 Amped 3. Amped 3 is a hard game to describe beyond saying that it's a snowboarding game. The story 
 is kinda like a Robot Chicken episode, only with the 'insane' dial cranked to 11. You can tell 
 where the teams inspiration came from in most of the scenes/characters, but it's still a blast 
 to watch the cut-scenes. Besides making little to no sense at times, the story mode is disappointingly 
 short. There are only a handful of story missions spread out on the 6 mountains (you get the 7th 
 for beating the game) . The plus to having a shortish story, is that there are 1400+ other missions 
 to do. These missions net you gear, music, tricks, etc. etc. This is the only thing that saves 
 the replay value however.
  
  I won't spoil any of the story (hell, I don't even know if I could summarize the story) but the 
 influences range from Napoleon Dynamite, old arcade games, Robot Chicken, anime, scrapbooks, game 
 shows and South Park. Nothing fits together, but it all works wonderfully.
  
  The games missions range from exciting to boring to eyeball-poppingly maddening. Some missions 
 you can do in one try, others you have to play over and over and over and over and over... and you 
 get my drift. There is way too much trial and error and a lot of times you have to be the EXACT 
 line to hit all the checkpoints or you fail. Difficult challanges are one thing, but trial and 
 error on when to time jumps and exactly how far to turn just end up sucking the fun right out of 
 the game. Maybe that's why the cutscenes are so damn entertaining...
  
  The soundtrack is pure gold. Not only is it the biggest soundtrack in a game that I think I've 
 ever seen, the variety of artists is daunting. I never once heard the same song twice in my 9+ 
 hours of playing. That is impressive. Aside from the awsome soundtack, you'll get tired of every 
 other sound in the game. The egg breaking sound you make when you fall gets really old really damn 
 quick. The other riders have limited sayings, and the voice acting is so-so. The only gripe about 
 the soundtrack is that there was no way to preview the songs from the 'My Bling' menu.
  
  Speaking of 'My Bling' I should talk about rider customization. It's pretty basic stuff; you start 
 off with a pretty good selection of clothes and boards and stuff and you get more to buy as you 
 complete certain missions. Nothing really special aside from some of the outfits you can win. While 
 it doesn't break new ground in any way at all, there are tons of choices on what your guy (or gal) 
 will wear including licensed products. Also in the 'My Bling' section you can find out what prizes 
 you won from sponsers, which is really nothing more than advertising... but at least it's subtle.
 
  
  Even though the story mode is short, the replay value is huge. Even though the missions can be 
 ridiculously hard, the cutscenes are worth the frusteration. Even though I'm giving the game an 
 8.0 there are times that should have scored higher and times it should have scored lower. Take 
 that all for what you will, but if you're a fan of snowboarding games this should definitely grab 
 your attention for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  If i just bought games based on ratings i would never have picked up this game. 
  
  OK if you dont like snowboarding then fair play dont buy it , but the amount of Unlocks and Upgrades 
 available constantly available to you is amazing.
  
  I have been playing it loads for a few days now and have only just un-locked a second Mountain. 
 You dont have to think a great deal so it is 100% fun,
  
  Only small nag is the Super Cheesy comments during cut scenes. If your aged between 6 - 16 then 
 they are probably great but for me i take full advantage of the Skip Intro option.
  
  Apart from that top game and great to play between FPS's to calm down or late at night when your 
 worried Quake might give you nightmares, hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  the first thing i noticed about this game was it's horrible frame rates and it's sluggish feel. 
 what were these people thinking when they released this game. i'm not one to bash anything but, 
 this game is so horrible i felt someone needed to. i rented this game from www. gamerang. com just 
 to check it out. it came in the mail about 30 mins ago. within 5 minutes i was playing it and after 
 about 10 mins of realizing what a disgusting game this was and how horrible the navagation was 
 i stuffed it back in the envelope it came in and it's already in the mailbox waiting to be picked 
 up. 
  
  i highly do not recommend this game to anyone, even to snowboard enthusiasts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I usually dont make reviews but this really makes me angry.
  Do this companies really thing we all lost our minds or that we are stupid zombies?
  
  Why 
 would anyone make another game like this but worse? 
  Oh i know, could it be cos old xbox games just dont work on 360?
  
  Well i wish that game 
 industry stop wasting their time on making copies and actually make something new and original. 
 
  
  This is at least to say pathetic and for sure not a best commercial for xbox.
  
  This game is best described as "Been there, done that!"
  
  Im sorry if i offended anyone but 
 i had urge to say my opinion...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MobySSX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is more or less a snowboarding game mixed with an episode of Robot Chicken with a hint 
 of Saturday Night Live
  
  It has tons of comedic influences (i. e. sled, hang glider) , and the insane outgoing bursts of story 
 mode. You'll be looking foreward to any cutscenes you get, and what's better is that once you see 
 them they are saved to your hard drive so you can watch anytime and show your friends. This is 
 maybe my favorite Launch Title, not because I am a snowboarding fan, but because the graphics are 
 awesome, the framerate is fluent, and It's what no person expected from a Snowboarding Game this 
 day and age. Amped wins the day, of snowboarding. One thing about this game that makes me laugh 
 is the physics engine. More than once will you find yourself hovering a bit too high off the ground 
 or making an impossible leap onto a perpendicular rail.
  
  It's not necessarily an easy game (not as easy as SSX that is) but it's possible, unlike Amped 
 2.   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  Here is a game I bought because when I first bought a PS2 I bought SSX which was a total game experience 
 for me. While this game is a little fun, the insane and not too fun story mode is a turn off for 
 me.
  
  The story is the whole game... which would be great if it were an RPG, but its a snowboarding game. 
 I felt that the amount of tricks available are too limited and not visually stunning at all. I 
 never did a single trick that make me say "ooooh". On the other hand, riding on a sled or a snowmobile 
 and seeing how much damage you can do to yourself is fun... but only for a little while.
  
  I bought this game expecting one thing and finding another. This was another big dissapointment 
 for me. Along with the story mode, graphically the game didn't deliver anything I hadn't seen on 
 a Xbox or PS2 before. Like alternative sporting games? Try it, but I say rent it first. Another 
 one bites the dust... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluetybo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:07 am PT
Review:  This game is tight, at first I thought it was kinda bunk but soon as ya know what your doing its 
 all good. Only downfall is the story cuts a little short but its funny as hell. Very smooth gameplay, 
 probably snowboarding's best game. I still think in a year or so the games will be twice as good 
 they just gotta figure out how to use all that power. This game does not fall into the normal xbox 
 class, All 360 baby. :) All and all lots-o-fun.
  
  Oh yeah almost forgot, you'll love the costumes you can unlock - very funny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Koala
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Amped 3 may technically be the sequel to the love-it-or-hate-it series started on the original 
 Xboxbut dont let yourself make assumptions about this one. Although its gameplay keeps quite 
 true to its predecessors, the mood around it couldnt be more different. Instead of a conservative 
 style that keeps the focus squarely on play, Amped 3 kicks things up with an outrageous, schizophrenic 
 art style that lends the whole game a surreal, crazy, and ultimately enjoyable vibe. At the same 
 time, though, the gameplay isnt always what it could be, and it can feel plain and frustrating 
 at times (the latter of which is especially true in the later half) . So while Amped 3 has its 
 problems and isnt for everyone, its short, manic story mode makes it perfect for a rental.
  
  You begin your sojourn through the story mode by building a rider, a process that will likely 
 be familiar to you if you fancy yourself a fan of extreme sports games. You choose from a variety 
 of different faces, hairstyles, clothes, boards, and so forth, and when you finish, youre ready 
 to roll. Amped 3 chronicles the misadventures of you and your amateur crew of snowboarders, who 
 are trying to save up some cash for a nice trip. Meanwhile, your best friend J-Dawg has dreams 
 of making it big with a sponsorship, and when the vacation money is mysteriously stolen and you 
 are blamed, well, needless to say you need to set the record straight and reassemble the crew that 
 has since split up.
  
  The story of Amped 3 is by far the craziest of any game released this year, and is arguably one 
 of the most manic productions in a videogame ever. The game makes use of a variety of art styles, 
 and by the time the game reaches its conclusion, youll have seen regular in-game cutscenes, stop-motion 
 animation, sock-puppets, clay-mation, full-motion video, homages to NES games, and more. This gives 
 the game a schizophrenic energy and fast pace, and youll truly enjoy each cinematic that comes 
 your way. Also of note: the games ending is hands-down the best of any game this year.
  
  Indeed, this games art style is unmatched  however, its gameplay will feel instantly familiar 
 to fans of the series. The dual stick principles of the first two games have been pushed aside 
 for a more streamlined (and arguably more favorable) system that is more akin to the Tony Hawk 
 series of skateboarding games. After hopping off of a jump, you use the left stick to control your 
 flip or spin, and you use a face button (or a combination thereof) to pull of grabs. On rails, 
 pushing a face button will switch your rider to a different style of grinding. You can also pull 
 of a tail butter, snowboardings answer to a manual, to link together combos.
  
  Youll find that this is all you really need to know to get started, and each facet of your riding 
 will be tested throughout the game via a small handful of different challenges. There are two different 
 types of checkpoint challenges: one variety has you running an air or rail line while demanding 
 you soar through all of the checkpoints in the right order, while the other simply challenges you 
 to get to the last checkpoint, while the ones in between give you extra time if you need it. Another 
 type of challenge has you following a trail of collectable what-nots to see if you can gather enough 
 to beat the challenge. Theres also the obligatory high score challenges in there, too. Trying 
 to wreck up your rider as much as possible to earn the biggest hospital bill you can and trying 
 to impress sponsors in the Sellout challenges are other distractions.
  
  Amped 3 then goes on to follow a fairly predictable pattern. In order to unlock the next part of 
 the story, which will get you closer to unlocking the next mountain, youll need respect points. 
 You earn respect by completing challenges. So, by using the trail map, you choose a challenge of 
 your choice, board over to it, and give it a whirl. Your performance on the challenge will earn 
 you either a bronze, silver, or gold medal, and each of these comes with a varying amount of respect 
 points. You get a fair amount of leeway in terms of what challenges are available for you to do 
 before you move on, though none of the different types of objectives are particularly unique or 
 inspired. It merely provides a solid breath of content that serves as more of the same for extreme 
 sports fans. No more, no less.
  
  But this approach works well for Amped 3, a game that should take you about five or six hours before 
 you reach the (unfathomably funny) ending. Of course, theres still objectives left to be completed, 
 and you can try to own the mountain by impressing other riders or try to get all gold medals 
 to unlock some achievements. But really, a rental period is all youll probably need to get all 
 of the mileage you want out of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redxwarriorxxx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  The short and sweet of it is that the game is not stunning to the eyes but it slaps you around 
 with all of its outrageous cut scenes. Reminds me of the movies Ski Patrol but with snowboarding 
 and costumes. Not to be confused with SSX which is more of a racer, Amped 3 is a tricked out trick 
 game that with all its short comings you have to give it so props. Like a fat chick with a great 
 personality you know the one. You were young and curious so you hung out but then your friends 
 caught you with her and you tried explaining to them but they did not get it... ahh memories. Anyway 
 you and your crew are saving for a trip to Chili when someone steals the money and they blame you. 
 So they go you stay and now must defend your honor by catching up to them and setting the record 
 straight. Controls for the game are so-and-so but other than that you can link a bunch of move 
 for a ridiculous score or fling yourself off a cliff for the biggest medical bill. Good rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDecn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  Amped 3 is an amazing game, pure and simple. From the moment you boot it up it has you in its grip 
 with a crazy, whacked out story that you couldn't possibly have expected. You're plopped right 
 into the action after a short cut-scene that introduces each of the game's characters, and you 
 have the pleasure of learning the controls while careening down the mountain in a bunny suit.
 
  
  That's right, I said bunny suit! This game has more style and substance than any "extreme sports" 
 game you've played, guaranteed. I wouldn't have expected this at all in an Amped title! But I couldn't 
 put it down as soon as I started playing. It keeps things fresh by presenting challenge after challenge, 
 and the most bizarre and artistically wonderful art and story and cutscenes you will ever witness. 
 I marvelled at every moment, wondering who these great developers were who obviously put their 
 heart and sole into the title without fear of alienating the mainstream. There are plenty of people 
 out there who would be immediately turned off by the whacked out style, but if you have any interest 
 in seeing original and innovative content, Amped 3 is a shining example right now.
  
  As the GameSpot review stated, gameplay itself isn't so innovative. But who cares? It's plenty 
 challenging without being frustrating, and it's fun! That's what matters most. If you've played 
 any of the Tony Hawk, SSX, or Amped games, the controls will be instantly familiar. And actually, 
 I found this game amazing technically as well. The map screen is actually the whole mountain in 
 real-time! You can zoom in and out anywhere in full detail, pull back to see the entire thing, 
 then zoom back in. It's incredible! There are no load times when travelling back and forth on the 
 mountain via the map.
  
  Bottom line, you are guranteed to have a smile plastered across your face as soon as you start 
 playing this game. And it will not go away until the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Many GameSpot editors try to make out Amped 3 as if it were some strange sideshow or something. 
 I'll admit, the cut-scenes can be pretty unpredictable, but at it's core, Amped 3 is a solid snowboarding 
 title that is a great choice for your first XBOX 360 game.
  The story in Amped 3 follows your custom boarder and his friends through a fun-but-not-very-compelling 
 story. Your group's money is somehow lost, and something happens.. and.. well, the story is kind 
 of hard to follow. The cut-scenes sure are funny, though!
  The graphics, although not the best out of the launch lineup, are still way above the current-gen 
 console's. (Or should I say past-gen...?) The art style in Amped 3 is of a cut and paste-variety. 
 It really gives the game some character. Although, it seems a trend is emerging within the extreme-sports 
 genre... this game, in addition to SSX: On Tour and Tony Hawk's American Wasteland, like to use 
 crazy art styles on their menus. Hmmm....
  Gameplay is great. That's the best way to say it. The control is 100% tighter than that of SSX: 
 On Tour (in case you were wondering which to get) , and it's tricks are a lot better and easier 
 to pull off too. Partly because Amped 3 is a trick-based game, and SSX: On Tour is a racing game. 
 You can jump right into this game, and be pretty good for the most part, but it takes a good amount 
 of time to master the controls. One of the nice touches is the fact that if you hold the left analog 
 stick halfway in between neutral and the edges of the analog stick, you'll score extra points. 
 This is called a "style trick".
  Overall, if you're even remotely interested in snowboarding games, GET AMPED 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger_01
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Holy mother of all that is good, this game is sweet. Out of the 2 games I am getting at first, 
 this is definately one of them, amped 1 kind of sucked b/c it was SO boring and you knew what was 
 happening, this game kicks "butt" if only it was only $50. So, guys, before you get pgr (which 
 is good) , or NBA Live (not good) , or NBA 2K6 (OK) 
  
  This is just me, i'm getting Perfect Dark Zero, and Amped 3, baby!, oh, and by the way, if somebody 
 would give me a way to get my 360 b4 my birthday, which is November 27, (5 days) , i will be 17, 
 and i cannot wait, even though i have to buy all of this myself, b/c my parents think it is influencing 
 my grades, which are okay, and yes, i know i'm rambling, just because when you write long reviews, 
 you look cool....
  
  Not cool.....
  darkrye (gamertag) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happypcguy101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Gamplay:
  This game frickin rocks, like I mean it's amped 3 man. It's way better than all the other snowboarding 
 games. It's also just a good game in general. From what I've seen it looks like it plays very very 
 well. I'm denfinitly going out to buy this game in 9 days.
  
  Graphics:
  The snow effects are frekin good; in amped 2 you dont even have those pimpin graphics. In Amped 
 3 you can crash all those boards and they fall like they would in real life. Overall it has frekin 
 good graphics.
  
  Sound:
  The game sounds just excellent. The soundtrack makes the game sound crazy. The sound of throwing 
 a snowball and smoking someone in the face is realistic. The snow makes this sharp whoosh which 
 really ads to the game.
  
  Value:
  I think its worth buying it for 69.99 (remembering I'm in Canada) . There is tubing, sleding, snowboarding, 
 and snowmobiling. All this and the mulitplayer should keep this game in some of the best for the 
 xbox 360 for a very long time.
  
  Overall:
  Overall the game has great Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, & it will last a long time . So play it by 
 yourself or with your girlfriend, it doesn't matter how you play it just play it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
