-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Armored Core: For Answer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/armoredcoreforanswer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Taking on an arms fort is awesome and exhilarating.
 Heightened speed and destructible environments make for thrilling battles.
 Improved interface makes customization easier.
 Online co-op play for the first time in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's functionally the same as previous games in the series.
 Environments are bland and unappealing.
 Practically no one plays online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 262 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: From Software
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest Armored Core makes up for the series' lack of progress by simply being fun to play.

  Big, hulking robots. Towering, defensive behemoths ready to blow those same robots to smithereens. 
 These are the key players in developer From Software's latest entry in the Armored Core series, 
 the confusingly subtitled For Answer. They're also the main draw for longtime fans who have been 
 tweaking mechs and taking them into battle since 1997. While this entry may not be the deepest 
 or most involving game in the series, an increased sense of speed, highly destructible environments, 
 and intense battles against gargantuan arms forts make this a game that should please both stalwart 
 enthusiasts and newcomers alike. Not that this is a leap forward for the franchise -- For Answer's 
 environmental visuals are still extremely bland, and the gameplay, while tweaked, is much the same 
 as it's been for years. But if you like to blow stuff up with giant metal automatons, this is your 
 game.  

           Arms fort battles are an intense addition.      

  But first, let's talk about the arms forts. These rolling instruments of destruction are new to 
 the series and easily the biggest draw in For Answer. Doing battle with them is intense and satisfying, 
 particularly in the more challenging encounters, such as that with the Spirit of Motherwill. In 
 this battle, you and your mech take down a series of cannons while avoiding the wrath of missiles 
 and other bots, and generally wreak havoc. It's rough, mind you: Depending on the arsenal you equip 
 your bot with, you could find yourself out of ammo if you don't conserve properly, and dodging 
 the constant barrage of cannon fire isn't easy. But destroying the fort is immensely rewarding, 
 and while not all of these battles are as exciting as this one, they're all fun and (usually) challenging 
 without being cheap. Even better, you can ramp up the thrills by adding a buddy to the mix. That 
 assumes, of course, that you can find an interested participant among the tiny population of online 
 players. A few weeks after release, fewer than a dozen individuals are playing via Xbox Live, and 
 we found only a single opponent while testing the PlayStation 3 version. This could have been mitigated 
 by offline co-op, but alas, the game doesn't feature such an option.  

  Standard missions play out with considerably less excitement, though they're amusing enough on 
 their own terms. Unfortunately, most are still relatively short, some of them clocking in at under 
 a minute if you're particularly agile with a controller. They may involve taking down a series 
 of mechs, escorting a train from one side of a map to the other, or destroying a couple of generators 
 and then escaping from the facility before it explodes. These missions are fine, but most are pretty 
 easy and end just as they're getting interesting. It makes the single-player campaign feel fragmented, 
 and it's hard to feel involved with a scenario when it's over in two minutes. However, the bite-size 
 chunks make this a game you can turn to for a quick, steel-infused rush -- a rush further enhanced 
 by terrifically destructible environments. Cover opportunities in abandoned cities and among crumbling 
 overpasses turn into explosions of smoke and particles, and the ensuing visual chaos adds a nice 
 sense of urgency to battles. The quick, arcade feel of the action is augmented by your bolstered 
 boosters, and the quick enemy mechs that whip about with alarming velocity.  

  This age-old franchise comes with age-old frustrations, though -- ones that fans have learned to 
 live with but newcomers will struggle with. The autotargeting is still occasionally touchy, and 
 the camera never seems to be able to catch up when things are moving quickly, so expect to fumble 
 a bit when you lose your lock-on or deal with camera lag during freefalls and other speedy moments. 
 The controls are relatively up to the task, however. The default scheme is easy to get used to, 
 though connoisseurs will be happy to know that a few other control schemes are available, and you 
 can customize it to your liking. This is just as well, since there are a lot of control issues 
 for newcomers to drink in, from purging and switching weapons to assault armor and thrusting.  
 

  As with previous games, how you outfit your mech before these battles means either sure victory 
 or crushing defeat, depending on your own play style and the strengths and weaknesses of your AI 
 opponents. This is where mech customization comes in, and it's as involving as fans would expect 
 without being so dense as to alienate newcomers. As always, you can switch out everything from 
 weaponry to thrusters to heads, which in turn lets you tailor your mech to be a bazooka-laden tank, 
 a nimble sniping machine, or a melee-focused berserker. As you complete single-player missions 
 and take part in arena battles against other bots, you unlock new parts you can purchase and then 
 slap on. The retooled interface makes it easier to buy and equip parts, so while the menus may 
 take some getting used to, they're easy to navigate, considering the great number of possibilities 
 at your disposal. The customization possibilities aren't as deep as some previous Armored Core 
 games (you don't need to worry about cooling, for example) , but there's still a lot of room to 
 tweak. And if you're really a mech-head, you can mess with balancing, fire control system parts, 
 and plenty more.  

  If you're looking for a visual tour de force, For Answer won't give you one. Environments are bland, 
 with very little to look at. Cluttered environments wouldn't make a lot of sense in missions and 
 mech-vs.-mech arenas, but in too many cases, there is an awful lot of sand and perhaps a scattering 
 of poorly textured gray buildings -- and absolutely nothing else but you, your opponent, and blocky, 
 canned explosion effects. On the other hand, arms forts are nicely detailed, and the destructible 
 pieces and constant barrage of missiles produce vibrant displays of light and color. Additionally, 
 while there aren't a lot of them, the in-game cutscenes look excellent. The Xbox 360 seems a little 
 more capable of rendering the game; while frame rate hitches were relatively uncommon on that platform, 
 the PlayStation 3 version seemed more prone to slowdown, though this problem wasn't blatant enough 
 to interfere with the gameplay.  

           Standard missions are good -- but extremely short.      

  Sound effects are terrific 
 across the board -- familiar, certainly, but there's a lot of mechanized noise, all the time, and 
 the effects are always appropriately bombastic without being overwhelming. On top of it all, the 
 voice acting is quite good, and the music, like its predecessor's, is easy on the ears. Not that 
 there is much context for the visuals and sound; the story plays out mostly in mission briefings, 
 which is usual for the series, but misses an opportunity to flesh out its characters and theme. 
 Multiple play-throughs uncover some of the story's mysteries, but the neat concept -- humanity has 
 fled to airborne habitats to escape oppressive pollution -- could have benefitted from some cinematic 
 flair.  

  On top of missions, you can work your way through a series of bots in the arena, though it would 
 have been nice to have more maps to choose from. You can also take the fight online, and while 
 there are more maps to play on in a multiplayer environment, there are very few people to compete 
 with. Regardless, Armored Core: For Answer is a worthwhile addition to the series, and while the 
 franchise could certainly use a face-lift, this strip-mall makeover covers up the main blemishes. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: omishboy4831
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core is a series that with each new release makes a great improvement over the last one. 
 Where armored core last raven made the game much smoother, and armored core 4 made the game faster 
 and accessible, armored core for answer made the game more epic, expansive, and exciting. Armored 
 core for answer increases the amount of customization with more parts in general to outfit your 
 core.
  
  This time around the storyline is much more epic than in previous installments. With three endings 
 and two difficulty modes this game will keep you interested for a long time.
  
  The only problem with this game is the lack of parts in the beginning (though this is better than 
 previous games in the series because you are given a decent machine) after a little while you are 
 given the parts to customize your core any way you wish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  I have played Armored Core since PS1 and i always liked.
  Its not different on For Answers. Its a great game with beautiful visuals, the control is much 
 better the previews ones. The story is not that big deal but make the work done. The big deal in 
 this new armored core is the customization of your AC , there are a lot of things to customize 
 and hardly you will see one equal of yours on Live , and its not only about the appeal of your 
 AC but also the performance. 
  But still i think the game lack in some aspects.
  First there is some major bug's along the missions. a
  Second the soundtrack... yeah it sucks.
 
  Third ( this one can be fixed ) its about the live.
  They should put more parts, decals, paintings, etc on live to make the game even more playable, this 
 would make the game last longer.
  But still is a great game but as i always say
  (not always) , Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  I see what you're saying about blase landscapes but it's supposed to be a wasteland. Shanghai is 
 rich with the ocean graphics and the buildings are in just the right places to keep it fun just 
 like the PS-Armoured Core: city.
  The controls are a hundredfold better than AC4 and that in itself gives it a huge leg over it's 
 predecessor.
  The story is not a Tom Clancy novel but then again we don't play AC for the immersive story. It 
 could have more of a news front instead of just some FMV's. Low-res movies you could access that 
 can give you background from the missions like your e-mail back when it was the ravens nest.
  
  The Bad
  Have to play all the missions through story mode to get all the parts. I liked the 
 old setup of finish the game and we let you access all the missions.
  Not enough players online. I fail to see however how you're going to have a deduction on the quality 
 of the game for that.
  Unnecessary parts. While the stabilizers are cool LOOKING they are a waste of parts sifting. In 
 the same complaint I would like to see more leg variants and maybe they can have some secondary 
 boost functionality.
  I think the primal armour attack is a little ridiculous.
  
  Note in my bad that everything there is things that would make the game even better. I am nit-picking. 
 It's not like Halo 3 which is same s*** new story.
  This game is truly the next level of gaming with full 3D movement a ton of weapons and variations 
 galore.
  
  I am online as rethis. On tuesdays bring the pain!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtosatti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Truly is the best in series. It is very similar to AC4, but this new one has more fun. The images 
 and sound is good. But the controls I thought that is very hard to maneuver and really hard to 
 dominate your mech. In my opinion, broken as before. This game has a lot of Japanese stile type 
 on it, like swords as weapon, and the jets works a lot as a jet-foward-walk function. I wonder 
 if A. C. series was created to Japanese people. Its is not the old Mechwarriors stile, or xbox 
 Mechassault. In fact I was looking for this type of game, thats why I rated 7.5. I liked, a lot, 
 the great capability of mechs personalisation. But if you are a fan of this series, its certain 
 the best! But dond expect it to be much different from previous AC4, or a revolutionary mechs 
 game. It is more like an "expansion pack" from AC4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJFreeze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Throughout the years there has been a lot of games that came up with a ground breaking formula 
 and continuously worked on it to smooth out those rough edges and bring not just an experience, 
 but a new world to life and Armored Core For Answers is no exception.
  
  The structure of the game has never changed, you are a Gun for hire that can pilot a giant robot 
 and once again your skills are needed in this world struggling with war and strife. At the very 
 beginning of the game you are thrown into the fray, choising a Company to team up with in the effort 
 to gain better equipment and money to make yourself the meanest Mech Pilot ever to walk this war 
 torn world. The company you chose doesn't have that much of an influence in terms of gameplay but 
 certain parts are easier to come across depending on which one you have chosen. 
  
  As far as the gameplay is concerned, it is very much up to the player to decide how he wants to 
 go about accomplishing the mission objectives based on the parts he/she choses to equip, but the 
 fundamental aspect is still and has always been about speed. The action is very fast and engaging, 
 forcing you to always be on your toes and aware of everything around you. As much as this is great 
 and brings a very intense experience it is like a double edge blade, fast and intense gun battles 
 means fast and intense AI and AI is unforgiving. With some missions being a cake walk and others 
 forcing you to start over for the 20th time. The brutality of the AI really shines out when you 
 are against another kind of Armored Core ( Mech, Giant Robot) , but this problem can be fixed with 
 equipping the right parts to counter the enemy's combat strategy given that you experiment enough 
 to find the right set up. But even with that said, you'll still have a tough time.
  
  The Graphics are nicely done and the environments are bigger compared to AC4 adding gigantic bosses 
 known as Arms Forts into the mix giving you a greater sense of size to the world around you and 
 the Armored Core you are piloting. The FPS for the 360 version runs smoothly and consistent compared 
 to the PS3s slow downs. There are some instances where the Graphics seem a little bland, but given 
 the speed of the action you wont have time to eye ball the scenery.
  
  The sounds in the game are spot on, never sounding out of place or poor in quality and the music 
 is a welcome surprise considering it has never been a strong point in the history of the franchise.
 
  
  Despite it all, the game still has a few downsides. The difficulty is grueling and can leave you 
 frustrated enough to never look back but with a little determination and creativity you'll be wondering 
 what the fuss was about and there are couple of glitches, but in my 40 hours of playing it I have 
 yet to find them. 
  
  If you are a fan of the series then this is a good purchase due to the added content and upgrades 
 made to the gameplay and for those new to game will find it a refreshing title with plenty to offer 
 in terms of enjoyment, fast paced action and re-playablility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XY195
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  It is a great expansion for AC4 but the assembling/shopping part of the game has become more of 
 a nuisance. Don't get me wrong I love to tune my NEXT. But you have to buy things before you can 
 see them in your assemble. So in order to compare different weapons you have to buy them then equip 
 them and go back to the shopping to make sure you got the one you really wanted. But then again 
 after about the second variation you get just about all the parts so it's not so difficult any 
 more. The overall game play has improved I think. I love the fact that blades now have a real lock 
 on. I use blades more than rifles now. Battling NEXTS has become a little more difficult. While 
 they seem to be weaker, they are now a lot faster and harder to get that shot that you need so 
 bad. Over all this game is excellent, I just wish they would have changed to assemble portion of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core For Answer is an amazing improvement to the other Armored Core games. 
  THE PROS- (Multiplayer) It features multiplayer like AC4 but now the maps aren't all oil paintings. 
 The maps are 100x better, but there aren't many additions mainly remakes of the older ones. The 
 game features 2 player coop for about 80% of the 40-something levels. The multiplayer menus are 
 better and allow for better control of rooms. Unfortunately when you want to change your AC the 
 loading screen is terrible and never gets faster. The Multiplayer also features a few new gameplay 
 variations infinite ammo, respawns, and a leader game variant to name a few. Other than those the 
 multiplayer is about the same as armored core 4.
  
  (Single Player) The single player has much more depth than the last armored core game, unfortunately 
 that isn't saying too much. It features coop, multiple endings, and more parts. The coop mode adds 
 TONS of extra fun to the game and can add hours of enjoyment. The different endings isn't new to 
 the armored core series, but is a nice addition to the game. Many of the parts from Armored Core 
 4 were brought back in flying colors. New parts were added, but many have been used in AC games 
 in the past. That being said the game does offer a variety of different combinations to satisfy 
 nearly every mecha fan. The menus for the singleplayer have also been changed and offer a more 
 convenient flow, some would disagree but many seem to like it. The game also has better maps and 
 levels than any other AC game with destructable environments and much better detail all around. 
 The maps still could be classified as bland, but most people don't buy this game for sight seeing. 
 The achievements are geared for fans better in this game providing about a 50/50 online/offline 
 list.
  THE CONS-The game does improve many things from the last AC game, but not enough. Many would feel 
 that this is more of an expansion pack than a full game. The lack of an autosave feature grows 
 very obnoxious with the volatile xbox 360. The levels are longer in this game, but still not long 
 enough. With the way the achievements are set up you will probably be playing some of the same 
 missions 3-4 times not counting the times you may fail them. Their are "new" parts but many aren't 
 new to the franchise this adds to the "expansion pack feel". When naming ACs or your pilot name 
 you can only use numbers and standard letters THATS IT no spaces no symbols nothing beyond those 
 two things. The multiplayer is very fast paced and sometimes can be too fast paced and can easily 
 have everyone using the same weapons and same mech types.
  
  CONCLUSION-This game has about everything great from the old ac games and has tuned them for more 
 enjoyment. The game however should have been done a little bit better and the little details are 
 missing. The game is very fun if you are into the series or a fan of the genre, but could easily 
 be hated by people not used to the series. This makes it hard for the game to get popular (multiplayer 
 is somewhat low on combatants) . The game is a must have for fans of Mecha, Armored Core, or fast 
 paced action. If this isn't you I would suggest renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somebadguy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Alright mech heads, it's time for the next round of giant robot fights. Armored Core: For Answers 
 is finally loose and ready to go. If you've played any of the first games, then you have a good 
 idea of whats ahead of you. Most of the formula of the old days hasn't changed much, but better 
 graphics and some great improvements make this a great time to either jump back into the series 
 or into it for the first time.
  
  Like many in the series before it, For Answers places you in control of a giant mech. You are then 
 thrown into about 50 missions, and 30 arena fights. Along the way you will be able to upgrade and 
 change your mech piece by piece as you progress through the game. You can also head online with 
 your mech and tell the world who's boss. You can do one-on-one, two vs two, 2 teams of four, or 
 go for the grand daddy of them all and go into an eight man free for all.
  
  Where For Answers differes is its newer features. For Answers adds a new type of weapons ammuntion 
 that will now damage your oppenent's Primal Armor, which acts as the shield for your mech. This 
 new ammo eats at Primal Armor faster than regular ammo, and helps leave them open to other types 
 of pain. The second addition is Assualt Armor. With the correct parts you can call out a 360 degree 
 explosion to blast nearby enemies, but at the same time will leave you completely without any Primal 
 Armor and wide open to any attack. The much asked for, online co-op jumps in on the latest intalment. 
 Now if you are stuck on a mission or just want to waste everything that moves with a buddy, just 
 drop her/him a message and shot till your spend. And its final and biggest feature is the Giant 
 Arms Forts. Taking a page from its cousin Chromhounds, For Answers will have your little mech face 
 off against huge and towering monsters. Each Arms Fort has its own weakness and method to bring 
 it down. And each fort is bigger and badder than the rest. 
  
  For Answers brings alot of new ideas to the series, but all and all it is the same concept of you 
 and your mech agianst everything. Not that is a bad thing, it's just that is what most people will 
 say and not like about it. Another regretable moment in the golden box is that each mission is 
 extremely short. On average most missions and arena fights only last about 3 to 5 minutes. Not 
 really a problem for most players seeing as you will be on the edge of your seat the entire time. 
 For Answers is a crazy good fun for the mech head in us all. Its depth and customization give players 
 countless options to tune and tweak their mech to their playing style. Enemies will get smarter 
 and tough as you go through and battles will get better and better. And even after you beat it 
 the first time, you will unlock hard mode, where you can truly put your skills to the test. Aside 
 from the short mission life, Armored Core: For Answers is the best mech game out on the shelves 
 right now. Besides, chicks dig giant robots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrleanKnight
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good - This game has some of the best Online Mecha experiences I've played in a long time, 
 far superior to AC4 with better maps and tons of new, and more powerful toys such as the Gatling 
 Guns and the Assault Armor explosion. Speed is insane, large amounts of FRS make ACs even more 
 personal and unique than ever before, and the story is far deeper and more complex than the previous 
 title. You'll have to play through it multiple times to catch on to everything. 
  
  The Bad - Can't transfer Data from AC4. Mega Bosses are nothing new, far more challanging large 
 bosses were in Amored Core 3 for PS2. Unlocking everything for multiplayer use can be a very difficult 
 undertaking. Many XBOX Live Achievements are impossible to Achieve. 
  
  The Review 
  
  Amatures to the Armored Core realm will instantly rant on two things about this game, the Control 
 and the Short Lived and vague story. This has been a common misconception since the very first 
 Armored Core game for the PS1 - and with now thirteen solid titles under the belt - it's clear 
 to say Armored Core has something going for it. 
  
  New comers to the series will find a game that is difficult to sink your teeth into. Armored Core 
 has never been a game that does will to attract a new audience - and doesn't make an effort to 
 try either. The game is difficult, but though it may appear hard to a new comer a first - the joke 
 is that the your first run through is always the easiest. 
  
  The difficulty increases or decreases depending on how you approach the game, and when trying to 
 achieve what all Armored Core players simply -have- to do in order to complete their stock of parts 
 and tuning options is to fully conquer the game. That means doing everything, beating every mission, 
 finding every story arch, unlocking every ending, and getting hired by the hard to appease secret 
 organizations. 
  
  But what is all of this anyway? Armored Core has always been a fast-paced Mech combat game purely 
 built around the ability to gathers mech parts, then put them together in any fashion you like, 
 adjust them to make them unique, and face off against other nimble players in versus or online 
 to show the world who is really the boss. 
  
  Story has always taken a back seat to the pure competetive nature of the game, but that doesn't 
 mean a story in non-existant. On the contrary, each game is actually very rich with story - but 
 it's never an obvious one. There are no heroes here, just corperations waring for power and the 
 fait of the human race - and in the middle of it all you really just don't care at all. 
  
  The world could end and all humanity die, as an Armored Core pilot this shouldn't phase you one 
 bit. The human element of the game has always been removed, and with each title this has been the 
 goal. Even in earlier versions of the game you were rewarded with becoming more and more the cold, 
 killing machine. The colder you were, the better you were rewarded. In short, no one is ever a 
 good guy in this universe. 
  
  Vets of the game will find this same-old-same-old, but thankfully AC4: For Answer is more of a 
 through back to the original AC for the PS1 where you can get different endings and appease different 
 major elements of power through the missions you complete. It's the most linear-non-linear game 
 story you can find. In fact, you will have to play through it, and are expected to play through 
 the game multiple times in order to really get a feel for what is going on. That's not a flaw, 
 it's a purposeful game mechanic. 
  
  But how does this game relate to Armored Core 4? Aside from the seeing a lot of parts and familiar 
 battlegrounds, nothing much. In fact, the game doesn't even allow you to continue your data for 
 AC4 which is a complete shock. Most AC games allow you to carry over data and continue, but this 
 game seems hellbent on starting the series off on a new foot with becoming Armored Core 4 version 
 2 instead of an expansion pack to the original. 
  
  So you can ultimately not play AC4, as it now doesn't have much point. Everything in AC: FA is 
 are superior, even the controls are easier to work with thanks to the new inclusions of the "Simple" 
 scheme. Though slightly flawed at first, the Simple controls will automatically boosts your AC 
 in whatever direction you press the joystick. The only issue is that the Strafe doesn't work right 
 off, a Defualt feature called Auto-Assit Aiming prevents this. All you have to do is turn off the 
 Auto-Assit Aiming and you can strafe-boost left and right freely. 
  
  A vast new selection of parts and weapons make the game fresh and new, bringing in sleeker and 
 sexier mech parts that can make for some serious speed and flight. This game is far faster than 
 the original AC4, and is tuned properly all you'll be seeing is constant motion blurr without even 
 using Over-Boost. Armor mounted laser swords have also been tweaked, increasing their accuracy, 
 and also FRS Memory; the points in which you use to turn your AC - have been increased to nearly 
 450 possible points to collect and distribute. 
  
  The greatest feature of the game, and the ultimate end-game and the very reason why you conquer 
 the Single Player in the first place is Multiplayer. The improvements for Multiplayer in AC: For 
 Answer are huge over that of AC4. Naturally, Battle Royal and 4v4 matches make a return to the 
 fold, bringing in all the old maps from AC4 and thensome. But there are new additions to the system, 
 such as the option to toggle Respawning and even Unlimited Ammo can seriously open up more options 
 for the Online Realm. 
  
  Co-Op too appears, but is dissapointing limited. You can host a Co-Op mission from Single Player 
 story mode, but there is no lobby in Story Mode to join others. You are simply left to wait for 
 someone to join. This is because your partner in Co-Op mode can only play with you through their 
 Multiplayer-Free-Play-Mode. Which means, they need to have already completed the mission in order 
 to help you or play with you. 
  
  This is to say that Co-Op is not for Story Progression really, it's more of a tool to help each 
 other attain S-Rank far more easily to help poeople get into the Multiplayer realm as faster as 
 possible. A few other dissapointing elements of the game resides within the XBox Live Achievements. 
 These are laughable and utterly impossible to achieve in the short term. All achievements in the 
 previous game could be handled offline, and were challanging enough. But more than half of the 
 points are now Online Achievements for this title. 
  
  These are not simple aither, one of them is that you have to becoem a Ranker - which is attaining 
 one of the top 30 positions in the world. Others are attain 10,000 kills online, which is far easier 
 than the attain 10,000 online victories. Pure insanity. This goes to show that Armored Core is 
 a long term investment, and needs to be looked upon as such. This is not a game you pick up and 
 drop in a week, but devote months if not years of time developing the perfect machines and facing 
 them off online. 
  
  So Armored Core is really all about the building and the Multiplayer fighting. Single-player is 
 a difficult after-through toward that goal, but at least that do a great job keeping you occupied 
 with Single-Player this round. There are flaws of course, such as Overly Aggressive AI that doesn't 
 think very well in tight spaces, and also the Large huge "Mega Bosses" are giant sitting ducks 
 you blow away in seconds. They are just pretty to look at, but never a threat to a souless AC pilot 
 (or Lynx as the game calls them) like yourself. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
