-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Armored Core 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/armoredcore4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Heavier emphasis on fast-paced mech combat.
 Streamlined assembly interface makes game far more approachable.
 Great voice acting and soundtrack.
 Robots + Explosions = Win.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are too short.
 Some environments are pretty bland.
 Lackluster online multiplayer.
 Series vets may be disappointed by reduced complexity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 6.6, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,297 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: From Software
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It looks nicer, it plays faster, and with its lower barrier to entry, Armored Core 4 should appeal 
 to more than just the series' faithful gearheads. 

  Mech games come in two varieties. You've got the West's MechWarrior tradition, characterized by 
 hulking, barbaric monstrosities, and the East's Gundam or Macross tradition, characterized by lithe 
 and agile bots. With the release of Chromehounds last year, From Software seems to want to corner 
 the mech market, offering the best of the East and the West. And with Chromehounds accommodating 
 the grognard sect, it seems only natural that Armored Core's already booster-engine-friendly action 
 would transition out of that market in favor of the fast-paced arcade-style experience. In many 
 ways, Armored Core 4 trims the fat from the series, removing or toning down some of the interesting 
 but not particularly well-executed aspects of the game. But to compensate, the developers layered 
 on a heaping helping of butter by ramping up the intensity and action, as well as simplifying the 
 mech-building process. However you cook it, Armored Core 4 offers a delightfully unhealthy amount 
 of mech-busting fun.  

          The combat is fast and the explosions are impressive.     

  For six-and-a-half years 
 and seven games, the Armored Core faithful have been pining for a graphical update. That update 
 has now arrived. From an artistic standpoint, AC4 looks as you'd expect from a world exposed to 
 one ecologically obliterating war after another. The whole game has an overexposed, grainy aesthetic 
 that really immerses you in the foul state the world has deteriorated into. Depth of field is heavily 
 relied upon to blur out distant objects, which further adds a hazy and surreal quality to the game's 
 appearance. AC4 also shines from a technical standpoint. Lighting, in particular, is phenomenally 
 well done, from the way your boosters illuminate your mech in the night to the way billowing clouds 
 of dark, oily smoke blot out the sun and darken the environment. Particle effects look really good, 
 and in a first for the series, the game's environments are fairly destructible, as buildings will 
 partially collapse under heavy fire and certain environments break apart. Further, the frame rate 
 is for the most part rock steady, but it does drop to a crawl if you're given a rocket-barrage 
 sandwich. And this will occasionally happen, as there's definitely a lot more ordnance flying every 
 which way than before.  

  Armored Core 4's graphics do have a few notable faults, however. Namely, though collision detection 
 is spot-on when it comes to enemies, your mech's lower extremities and weapons will occasionally 
 clip through particularly hilly areas of the environments. Also, destroyed mechs and other debris 
 pretty much disappear as soon as they're destroyed, which means you can't take pride in your wake 
 of carnage after the fact. Lastly, this game is meant to be played in high definition, as it's 
 here that the lighting and detail on the mechs really pop. In standard def, the graphics are still 
 decent, but their impact is greatly diminished. The Xbox 360 version and PS3 version are functionally 
 the same in nearly every respect, but you will find that, surprisingly, the Xbox 360 version will 
 look a tad better, particularly in atmospheric particle effects. Otherwise, the only real difference 
 between the two is the 360's achievement points.  

  Overall, AC4 is a much faster, more visceral experience than previous games in the series. The 
 foremost reason behind this is the completely redesigned boost mechanic. In the past, you were 
 given a fairly limited amount of energy that quickly drained every time you engaged your boost, 
 and if you weren't careful, it would bottom out and you'd be left to plod along as you waited for 
 it to recharge. In AC4, that design has pretty much been tossed out the window, because now if 
 you aren't boosting, you're either dead or soon will be. Your energy now drops only when you go 
 vertical or when you activate the game's new boost option, the quick boost. Quick boost eats up 
 a chunk of energy in exchange for a burst of speed in whichever direction you indicate, and it 
 acts as an evasive maneuver or as a way to cover a lot of ground quickly. Even better, you no longer 
 need to worry about overheating or bottoming out your energy meter, as the coolant mechanic has 
 been removed.  

  With those shiny new boosters, you're going to want space to really cut loose, and Armored Core 
 4 accommodates. In the past, you were limited by a fairly rigid boundary limit, where you could 
 go only so high or so far before warning lights flashed and you were charged with dereliction. 
 While those limits still exist, they're not anywhere near as confining as they were. So you can 
 now fly to the top of towering structures and rain death down below, engage in prolonged aerial 
 combat with helicopters or other zippy mechs, or speed through a sprawling city, pausing only to 
 bust up a cadre of simpletons who have a mind to bring you down -- as if.  

  The logical progression of 'roiding up the graphics and opening up the environments to accommodate 
 for the faster and more furious gameplay is to design missions that speak directly to these assets. 
 The storyline plays out over the course of 37 missions, and these are kept fresh and varied by 
 giving you objectives other than just kill-'em-all, though you'll occasionally do that, too. Whether 
 it's blasting out of the sky waves and waves of self-guided missiles, working your way through 
 pitch-black night to destroy an experimental weapon, or just going one-on-one with a highly skilled 
 enemy merc, the action is intense and satisfying. Strategy is more heavily emphasized, as well, 
 and if you fail on your first attempt, you'll typically have a good idea on which weapons loadout 
 to try on your next attempt. And really, it's often just as fun to fail as it is to succeed. This 
 is because From Software has done a significantly better job of reducing the frustration level 
 of many missions by making failures feel less arbitrary. There's always a sense that when you fail, 
 it is your fault, not that of the game being cheap.  

          Prolonged airborne excursions are just one of the new ways to explode enemy robots.    

  An unfortunate holdover from previous AC games is that missions are still entirely too short, lasting 
 no longer than five minutes and occasionally less than 60 seconds. It can be absurdly unsatisfying 
 to find that you've accomplished your mission just as the action was heating up. What's worse is 
 that you're often still in quite a precarious situation when many missions end, so it seems as 
 though a good many of them could have been quite naturally extended by requiring you to escape 
 after you've infiltrated. As it is, they end with an abrupt invulnerability and an accompanying 
 "Please return to base" message once you complete your objective.  

  Aside from revamping the boost mechanic and opening up the environments, the other significant 
 alteration to the Armored Core formula is primal armor. Cores now come equipped with PA, which 
 is a force field of sorts and is fueled by that which fuels many an ardent Metal Gear Solid devotee, 
 Kojima. In AC4, Kojima is a recently developed technology that acts essentially like nuclear radiation, 
 as it decimates the environment and kills anyone not insulated from it. But, it is highly effective 
 as a military instrument, so in true-to-life fashion, it's been implemented on a wide scale. The 
 primal armor system works quite well, and it adds an interesting dynamic, especially to fights 
 against enemy Nexts, which are the advanced mech suits that you and the other skilled mercenaries 
 pilot. Weapons now have a PA piercing and PA reduction stat, and these significantly play into 
 your loadout choices when you square off against one of your fellow mechanized killers.     
 

   

  If one thing can be said about the AC series, it's that From Software has no qualms with tweaking 
 the assembly interface. Throwing together a mech and seeing how it runs has traditionally been 
 the meat of the Armored Core experience, and to the potential dismay of series vets and the unbridled 
 glee of everyone else, this aspect of the game has been slightly deemphasized. To begin with, you're 
 no longer given a stock mech and a fistful of cash and then left to your own devices. Schematics 
 are the name of the game this time around, and they're essentially prebuilt mechs that have their 
 attack, mobility, defense, and armor points rating numerically represented. This means you can 
 jump right into a fully functional mech that is already well on its way to matching your play style. 
 The tweaking process has subsequently been streamlined by combining the shopping and assembly interfaces. 
 Initially, this can be quite confusing because you don't automatically equip an item once you buy 
 it, and items that you sell aren't automatically unequipped. So if you leave the garage with an 
 item you no longer own equipped, you'll be prompted to purchase that item (or items) without being 
 told what it is, exactly, you're about to buy. This can be especially frustrating if you don't 
 have enough cash for the purchase, because you then have to go back through each item to see what 
 it is you forgot to equip. You quickly learn to keep better track of what you're doing, but initially 
 it can cause a serious headache.  

          Armored Core 4 doesn't skimp on the massive explosions.     

  But on the whole, customization 
 has been made more transparent to newcomers. Unlike the baffling 20-odd helmets and 50 or more 
 weapons that were immediately thrown at you in the last installment of this series, equipment is 
 now slowly unlocked as you progress through the game's chapters. Your choices, then, are fairly 
 limited in the beginning, which makes it significantly easier to compute how the various parts 
 fit together. It is a bit of a drag, though, that while there is a good number of new types of 
 weapons that eventually become available, what are unlocked are mostly just upgraded versions of 
 what you already have. Also, AC4 still relies too heavily on ambiguous abbreviations for certain 
 stats. Between your EN, KP, PA, FCS, and FRS, it can get pretty confusing. A lot of the finer tuning 
 can now be done automatically, which also helps. For instance, instead of being awarded points 
 to individually tune parts, you are now allocated fractional regulation system (FRS) points by 
 completing the game's chapters, as well as completing the game's data packs. Giving the CPU control 
 here won't be as efficient as fine-tuning everything yourself, but it certainly simplifies the 
 process and makes the whole system more approachable.  

  To make mech assembly even more transparent to newcomers, a lot of the finer tuning can now be 
 done automatically. For instance, instead of being awarded points to individually tune parts, you 
 are now allocated fractional regulation system (FRS) points by completing the game's chapters, 
 as well as completing a data pack (discussed below) . These points can be either manually or automatically 
 distributed to various specialty areas, such as attack or boost. Likewise, stabilizers, which are 
 also new to the series and affect your mech's balance, can be manually or automatically tweaked. 
 Letting the CPU handle these aspects won't be as efficient as fine-tuning them yourself, but it 
 certainly simplifies the process and makes the whole system more approachable.  

  A coherent storyline has never factored into the Armored Core equation, and such is also the case 
 in AC4. The world is once again under the totalitarian control of a group of superpower companies, 
 and humanity is subjugated to the group's will. Some folks aren't keen on this type of existence, 
 so you're hired by a small colony and allied with an antiquated company to essentially wage guerrilla 
 warfare on the major companies and take them out. It's pretty much a mess, but whatever -- you're 
 a mercenary. It's your job to shut your mouth, do what you're told, and get paid if you survive. 
 As it pertains to the game, the story justifies your globetrotting because events transpire on 
 a global level and your missions aren't limited to a specific region. In fact, you'll regularly 
 bounce from America's verdant fields to Antarctica's frigid ice caps to the sea-swallowed former 
 Shanghai. The story is told with the same aloof and chilling tone that characterizes the series, 
 where neutralizing equates to slaughtering and casualties are rated on an acceptable versus unacceptable 
 scale. The actors voicing the story do a uniformly excellent job, with an erudite-sounding narrator 
 between chapter cutscenes and an emotive mission debriefer whose tone gradually shifts from professional 
 to emotionally invested.  

  The soundtrack has also gotten some much-needed attention this time around, as it sloughs off the 
 techno-heavy beats of many of the prior games and replaces them with some really standout tunes, 
 including a truly epic chanting-chorus ensemble with a wailing guitar and heavy drum beats. It's 
 also nice that it accompanies rather than trumps the action, and plays at a subdued din as the 
 sound effects from the environment and your weapons scream to the forefront. Given how well the 
 soundtrack is integrated into the game, and because it just rocks, it's a shame there isn't much 
 variety to it, as there only seem to be four or five different tracks.  

          Explosions? Here, have another.     

  Aside from the storyline, you've got data packs 
 and online multiplayer to flesh out the experience. Data packs are unlocked over the course of 
 the game, and they essentially replace the arena from past games. They pit you against top-ranked 
 Nexts, and when you defeat these pilots, you're rewarded with their schematic, emblem, and FRS, 
 as well as achievement points in the Xbox 360 version. These fights can be extremely challenging, 
 and you'll probably need to do extensive customization to hold your ground against these opponents. 
 Online battling has been a much-anticipated feature for longtime AC followers. After all, what's 
 the point of spending hours upon hours devising color schemes and weapon loadouts for your mech 
 if you can't blow the mind of some easily impressionable youth in Xenia, Ohio? Unfortunately, online 
 play doesn't offer much to get excited about. There are only a few different maps, and the ones 
 available are tantamount to open, featureless fields. Your gameplay options are also severely limited, 
 as you'll have access to only the bare-bones one-on-one to four-on-four matches, as well as a four- 
 or eight-player battle royal. The action itself holds up quite nicely, however, and it can be a 
 lot of fun to humiliate your friends by reducing their pride and joy to a flaming heap of scrap. 
 You're also able to trade schematics online, but there doesn't seem to be away to check out other 
 people's schematics without freeing up your FRS to accommodate the other person's settings, which 
 is a massive hassle. All in all, the online functionality is a fairly lackluster effort, but at 
 least it lays the groundwork for future installments.  

  Between the streamlined assembly process, the retooled control scheme, and the junking of the cooling 
 system and other mechanics that slowed down the action, Armored Core 4 is far more approachable 
 game than previous installments in the series. Its heavier emphasis on arcade-style mech-on-mech 
 action also means that its enhanced fast-paced action will appeal to a more mainstream audience. 
 And even though it isn't as complex as it once was, there's still plenty to obsess over for the 
 hardcore lot. Suffice it to say, yes, really, this is a very good mech combat game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  It is my opinion that any mech fan will really love Armored Core 4.
  
  The missions rarely go longer than 3 minutes, which means they are short and intense. In order 
 to beat the game (without beating all the side missions) I completed just over 60 missions. 
  
  Any of my friends can tell you how I would geek out about the customization. I'm not just talking 
 about all the different types of weapons (plasma, laser, ammo, energy sword/melee, rockets, guided 
 missiles, bazooka, etc) . I'm talking about everything from body parts (legs, arms, head, etc) to 
 generators for energy, to boosters (back, front, main, over, side, etc) , and different CPU boards 
 to coordinate movement and targeting! It's crazy, and I'm geeking out about it now. Somebody stop 
 me.
  
  The game can be difficult, and customizing for missions is especially important in the early game. 
 Later on, after you have established yourself and have spent some hard-earned cash on big guns, 
 it becomes less of a necessity for all the missions. Fitting my mech for a mission never became 
 tiresome. The difficulty was never unfair, it was just right.
  
  There are missions to tackle, that move the story or augment it in some way with side missions. 
 There are also simulations where you battle one other mech for practice. You are awarded money 
 for winning, and the defeated mech's schematics so you could build it yourself (assuming you have 
 the scratch) . Very satisfying.
  
  If you want a multiplayer mech game, stray from this title. Unless you enjoy deathmatch, there 
 isn't much here for you to enjoy.
  
  The achievements work very well within the game, and I felt appropriately rewarded throughout.
 
  
  Bottom line: Mech fans beware, buying this game means giving up your weekend.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunkace
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  ok this game just isn't worth the money. the missions on this are extrimaly hard! ok so at the 
 start the is options on having auto targeting and stuff like that. but even if you have the auto 
 targeting off it still auto tagets!
  
  right the grapics arn't pritty and costamizing your robot may sound good but you cant till you 
 get lots of point what u have to do mission. but the missions are to dam hard to get them.
  
  plus you have limited ammo and more bad guys than the provided ammo! plus the auto locking is 
 so bad you cant hit enthing in less its a meter away from you! and to make matters wores your enemys 
 have unlimited ammo so they can shoot run and piss you off while you hit the bottons on your controller 
 trying to switch weapons. 
  
  theres another thing that pops up. your robot has 4 weapons. 2 rocket weapons and 2 other special 
 weapons. before each mission you can put other weapons on for e. g a robot hand gun!!! they make 
 a game with robots and fancy rockets and they come up with giving you hand guns as your alternitive!
 
  
  so my message is DONT BUY THIS GAME!!!!
  and i mean DONT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAceOfSkulls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok to begin out with, this was a hard game to review. Not just because its been a LONG time since 
 I've played it (good memory helps me) but because giant mech games are so hard to review. They 
 are normally just action games with slower movements and quicker action. Until you get flying in 
 these games or you wear some stupid wheels instead of legs. However dont think i hate these games. 
 I'm just saying if you take away the graphics it is a different game experience. But this game 
 didn't take away those graphics.
  Anyways the game delievers a powerful experience that you will find hard to forget. the graphics 
 are amazing and the mechs you meet and make will blow you away. You can customize the colors, parts, 
 performance, weapons, and emblems of your mechs. You need to do so to survive this game, no matter 
 how you want to play. That's right, this game doesn't care that you want to use a certain type 
 of weapon, you need to learn to adapt. the game gives you the option to play any mission from previous 
 chapters to gain extra cash for the customizations. Plus you can sell back any part you no longer 
 need for the SAME price as you bought it for, allowing you to buy even more. Also, you are given 
 the option of taking down a certain mech from a menu to earn parts and $$$. You will eventually 
 learn how to make an anti-mech weapon and a tank-like mech to take regular enemies bullets and 
 then crush them (seriously, I was able to take down the #1 mech in the single player mode with 
 almost no damage but was killed in almost 15 seconds by some regular enemies, more on that later) .
 
  The difficulty varies between just --right -- and --OH MY @#%%^&*$#%@$ !$%@^ THAT WAS SO ^&**$%^&*@ 
 CHEAP!!!!! -- (you will learn cusswords that don't exist yet not that they will be censored) . Yes, 
 even expert players will feel like they won by the skin of their teeth on some missions. Others 
 will know they got by luck alone. All you can do is try to customize to be the best you can be. 
 If there was a better system for wading through endless grunts (with surprisingly good weapons 
 that can rip you apart) this would have earned a better score from me. Still one thing that won 
 me over was the fast paced combat and the booster system that gets you from point A to 5 miles 
 away point B in 3 seconds.
  Overall a fun game with a fairly good story of war in the future. A great gift idea for anyone 
 who wants a game where they can take control giant walking death machine we all now and love as 
 a mech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyFRAGGER5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is a great game. If you have played the armored core series before, then you will 
 definitely like this game; but even if you haven't, there is a good chance that this installment 
 will get you interested into the series. So I'm going to rate it based on 5 thing that I think 
 are the most imported when deciding how good a game is, and those are Looks/Graphics, Gameplay, 
 Controls, Replay Value, and Difficulty... and maybe the Story line too. (I know, that's six.) I 
 will rate all of these things on a scale of 1 to 10 (10 is best) .
  
  So first we have Graphics. This game looks great. One of the first games on the 360 that I think 
 really use the power of the system. What good is a next generation system if all of its games look 
 the same as the pong my grandpa played. Anyway, the lighting effects, explosions, and just everthing 
 is looking top notch in this game. So I'll be giving it a 9, (hey, nobody's perfect.)
  
  Second is the Gameplay. What good is the most beautiful game in the world if it's not any fun to 
 play. If I wanted a movie I would have bought one. With that said, this game is pretty fun. The 
 missions are varied, but they are have one common theme: you get to blow stuff up with missiles 
 and other cool guns. Plus, you get to customize your mech with all sorts of different parts, weapons, 
 colors, and emblems. While this may sound like a lot of customization, it pales in comparison with 
 the earlier Armored Core games. A. C. buffs will probably be dissapointed with the number of parts, 
 but it will make building a mech much easier for the newbies. The one final bonus is the online 
 play. Now you can go online with your friends and see who is the master of the mechs. Sounds cool 
 right? Well... yeah, yeah it is. There aren't any "butts" here. Its just plain fun and there is 
 some serious competition. Overall, gameplay gets an 8. 
  
  Next up is the Conrol Scheme/Camera. Now most people might overlook this rating category, but believe 
 me, it can make or break a game. And for Armored Core 4, its kind of a double edged sword. There 
 are a few different default button configurations, but they all have one thing in common: you will 
 have to press a lot of different buttons fairly quickly and without taking your fingures off of 
 any of them. You might not think it, but it actually takes a little while to get used to having 
 a finger constantly on each of the four trigger buttons; and because this game is very fast paced, 
 you will need to be able to make any and every movement or shot with out having to switch around 
 your fingers. Now here is the thing, the button configurations are completely customizable. So, 
 technically if you are having trouble with your configuration, its your own fault for not finding 
 a better one. But, lets face it, its the company's job to find the best configurations, not ours. 
 In AC4, I would give the controls a 7, not because the configuration is bad, but because it is 
 just hard to control all of the different things that you will have to do (we only have 10 fingers... for 
 now)
  
  Replay value I will cover pretty quick, because it basically just depends on gameplay, which I 
 already covered. The online play and the customization really help this game out, because there 
 really aren't any sort of plot variations. There is one linear stroy, and thats it. So I'm going 
 to give this one an 8.5. However, if you don't have internet access, maybe a 7.5.
  
  As for the story line of this game, it isn't bad... but it isn't great either. Its pretty forgettable 
 actually. But then agian, who ever said that you need to remember the story any longer than it 
 takes to beat the game. As long as it compells you to go on another mission to see what happens 
 next, then it has done its job. In some cases it only needs to give a vague idea of why you are 
 doing what you're doing in the game. The story here gets a 7.5.
  
  And finally, the difficulty. Its not really too bad. It isn't to hard, but its not something you 
 could do with your eyes closed. Plus, you can go back through on a harder setting and try to get 
 all "S" ratings, which is always fun... and hard. So this game recieves a 9 here, because there 
 is a difficulty for everyone. (A low score would mean a game is either way too hard or way too 
 easy.)
  
  So, overall, we come to an average of about 8.1something. So we are gonna round to 8.5. This is 
 a great game, that some people absolutely must have, some would like, and some should just rent 
 (for a long time) , but at least everyone should experience this game at least once.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Back in the high of PS and PS2s glory there were the Armored Core games of old. Remember those? 
 400 parts or more, heat balancing, target reticles, and boosters that only worked for a few seconds.... 
 those were the days.
  
  In some way I miss them. I'm one of those people who spent 90% of his time on an Armored Core game 
 BUILDING and armored core, mixing and matching parts, and adjusting to capture the exact kind of 
 usage I was looking for. I would build a light and fast AC for arena battles, a medium AC for the 
 indoor missions, and a hulking tank AC for the one on one long and harsh battles. Oh man.... all 
 those parts.
  
  Thank God for the graphics update, btw.
  
  Well, it seems that noobs can't handle the endless hours of tweaking these days, so SOFTWARE made 
 things simple but cutting down parts with small variations and various looks to maybe a dozen parts 
 per selection. Energy efficient parts, energy resistant parts, defensive parts, fast parts, slow 
 and heavy parts... mixing an matching is a possibility, but if you want to optimize for one role, 
 say a heavy tank type, your AC is gonna look the same as all other tank-type ACs. Kinda sad.
  
  I can live though. The constant boosting and quick boosts make vast improvements for the game 
 and the idea of tuning and stabilizers makes up for the lack of hundred of parts. Unlike the old 
 days, there is no heat to balance and energy can be more easily obtained in abundance with the 
 right balance of parts. I went far beyond my typical three AC types because of this and made, so 
 far, 5, the newest of which can basically fly indefinitely with more than 40k AP and two grenade 
 launchers on its shoulders. I decaled the hell out of it, another feature i enjoy, and named it 
 HYDRA. It's fun to play. I still have my fast AC which is amazing at evading and whittling down 
 enemies, my medium true to form is still around, and I even kept my tank. Right now I'm trying 
 to balance out an energy weapon only AC, but it's difficult to run energy weapons while flying, 
 so there's more work to do.
  
  Another new feature I enjoy is the PA, or Primal Armor, which I didn't understand at all when I 
 first started playing the game. PA is a sort of shield that your AC is in that reduces incoming 
 damage. At first I didn't notice how useful this was to have until the EGO BOOST mission where 
 you can't have your PA active and I watched in horror as my AP dwindled down rapidly. Needless 
 to say, I pay close attention to PA now. 
  
  A good variety of weaponry is still there from rifles, machines guns, snipers, bazookas, to blades, 
 energy weapons, and missiles. It's satisfying enough. You still need to know how to balance weight 
 with energy, though the interface is kinda dumbed down and easier to follow for noobs to the game. 
 That's fine, I guess, but still part of me craves the old complicated balance of the old days. 
 You can select with the Y button to see some more detail, but it's really not necessary.
  
  They got rid of the AC rating system, thank god. I remember in Armored Core Nexus I made a light 
 AC which went flawless in the arena challenges and it was only rated at a B. Lame.
  
  The hard difficulty level is extremely frustrating at times. If you don't start out right, you're 
 screwed. Some missions where you might have fought one enemy NEXT turning to a 4 on 1 fight on 
 the hard mode. If you're not booting in the air and dodging within half a second, they basically 
 pelt you to death. Otherwise, the missions have no substance. There's never a need to escape and 
 you can ignore almost every enemy in the level to find your targets. If you take your time on missions 
 your rank goes down and even though you've slaughtered everything on the map you're left with a 
 hefty bill because of all the ammo and damage you used up and you make no money at all. It's best 
 to just smash your way through without regard to the secondary enemies. All your primary targets 
 are marked on your map in red so it's no mystery to there they are. I wished the missions were 
 longer. 
  
  The story is as cryptic and unfulfillable as ever, with these brief voice over cut scenes about 
 some crap that doesn't make any sense. The operator that guides you through missions is as detached 
 and mysterious as ever as well. Maybe one day they'll poor some plot into these games.
  
  This was really great overall, and I'll be spending plenty of time playing the game in the build 
 portion to make better and better ACs. I've unlocked all the parts, so all that is left is to achieve 
 an SS rank. This is my first owned XBOX360 game before I buy GTA 4 which is amazing from the hours 
 or two I played. But anyway, I recommend Armored Core 4 for die hard fans and noobs alike. I'll 
 see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I really loved the older Armored Core games and always looked forward to bigger mechs, more equipment, 
 more weapons, more customization, and more strategy. However, they really made this one arcade 
 and I felt like popping quarters into my xbox! That said, I am really disappointed that they decided 
 to "dumb it up" a bit for the masses.
  
  Hopefully, the next armored core will go back to it's roots. I love going on missions, making money, 
 and upgrading my mech. In fact, they should have an Armored Core 5, that takes the best of Army 
 of 2, and then combine the genres into a Merc Mech type of game!
  
  Anyhow, I still like Armored Core, but will not play Armored Core 5 if it ends up being just like 
 4. I'm a bit too old for flash and bash fun, and want something that takes a bit more thinking 
 and building your mech.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: millwrought
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  NOTE! THE FOLLOWING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS, SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO NOT BE SPOILED, READ CAREFULY 
 AND SLOWLY! GOT IT? GOOD! LETS GO!
  
  Opening Statement:
  
  The Armored Core series and I have a love-hate relationship (Just like my real life relationships) , 
 I love blowing s**t up with giant armored robot suits, and I love customizing my mech with tons 
 of weapons and giving it my own custom paint job so it feels like mine. Not unlike that same feeling 
 some people have with cars.
  
  But then this beauty of mine rears its ugly head, usually ugly graphic-wise, horrible soundtrack 
 and voice acting, and a poor story (Which I value a lot in games now-a-days.) .
  
  So I kind of gave up on the Armored Core series, but recently I have been thirsting for a mech 
 game, and I could not find Chromehounds anywhere. So instead I, almost fearfully, picked up Armored 
 Core 4 for the Xbox 360. 'Maybe this game will be different,' I said to myself, 'maybe this will 
 be a great game!'
  
  So what is my final opinion on the game? Well, see for yourself.
  
  Game Play:
  
  In my research there are two completely differently genres of Mech Combat 
 Simulator games; WMCSG (Western Mech Combat Simulator Game) and JMCSG (Japanese Mech Combat Simulator 
 Game) , which is a lot like the RPG genre right now (NOTE: This is just something I dub them, that 
 is not the official title of the sub-genres.) .
  
  WMCSG's play more like the Mechwarrior series, or Chromehounds. Usually slow moving battle robots, 
 which the battles are usually more tactical based. While JMCSG's are more about fast-paced, frantic 
 battles, much like watching the Gundam series (Mostly Gundam Wing) .
  
  For awhile now the Armored Core series has been in the gray area between these two genres I created. 
 It tries to be fast, but fails, so the result of its gray spot; a 'try and fails' situation.
  
  But it seems like the series has grown out of teenager indecision to become an adult, and finally 
 picks a side. It chooses to fully embrace the JMCSG genre, allowing you to fly around at a common 
 500 KPH, with loads of enemies and lasers flying both ways. And believe me; the result of its soul 
 searching has made this a very good MCSG.
  
  This is probably the most approachable Armored Core game of the lot, most of the garage options 
 have been toned down. Less parts, simpler options, so newcomers to the game will not feel too overwhelmed, 
 and the game does a good job of slowly introducing game elements.
  
  One of the drawback's is that this game series garage feature worked much like building, upgrading, 
 and tuning your own car so you fully made it your own. But now the customization is much more streamlined 
 so you can only make so many different combinations, which sort of takes part of the fun out of 
 the game my making your own unbeatable warmachine.
  
  The controls in this game have also been highly improved, making much simpler to switch weapons 
 on the fly, changing directions in mid-air, and to shooting your weapons. The controls may be awkward 
 to get use too if you haven't ever played a MCSG before, but it has a most helpful tutorial which 
 will make everything much easier.
  
  Overall many improvements have been made to the games game play, improved controls and a simpler 
 customization option will make the game easier for newcomers, though may disappoint veterans of 
 the series. The rush of the fast paced combat can be compared to that too many popular FPS's on 
 the market now-a-days, and are a pure joy to play.
  
  Art:
  
  Graphically this game got the overhaul it desperately needed. The ruined cities, flooded capitals, 
 giant buildings, and fearsome robots all have a surreal feel to them, almost as if what you are 
 all seeing is a dream, but it is a damn pretty dream at that.
  
  All of the explosions are properly explode-y; all of the particle effects are gorgeous, and the 
 lighting when you for example fly in a night mission, or shoot a barrage of machine gun fire is 
 some of the best lighting effects I have seen in a long time.
  
  Down side, some of the textures are ugly close up, there is some tearing (Tearing is where objects 
 collide, but instead of bumping off, go through each other.) especially with large mechs, and there 
 can be frame rate drops when the large amounts of lead, plasma, and missiles start flying around.
 
  
  Overall this game does a lot of things right with the art, but some things keep it from truly being 
 a art masterpiece.
  
  Audio:
  
  Japanese games have a long tradition of sucky voice acting; but fortunately the English voice work 
 is extraordinary. Some of my favorite VO (Voice Over) actors are in this game, and instead of the 
 empty emotion, and too much emotion that go in most Japanese titles, you will find none of that 
 here. Replacing it is high-quality voice acting.
  
  All of the weapons sound great; missiles have the nice 'VROOM!' when they are flying through mid-air, 
 plasma, pulse, and laser weapons all sound great as well with their air-ripping like quality to 
 them. And machine guns sound nice and shooty.
  
  The mechs all have that oily squeak, and roar of thrusters and engines like what you would imagine 
 mechs of their size, and equipment, to sound like.
  
  One thing that I found disappointing audio-wise was that the game is usually either WAY too quiet, 
 or WAY to loud, so you might have a hard time adjusting your speaker system and volume level to 
 that just right level.
  
  Content:
  
  This, unfortunately, is where Armored Core takes a sky dive of failure.
  
  You have about a 
 total of 35 missions, which is actually quite a lot, and they all offer different and interesting 
 challenges so it never feels old. But Armored Core 4 steals two horrible trait from its older brothers. 
 First, the missions are WAY too short, so while you get many of them, the most you will get out 
 of longest one is about 2-5 minutes, and the average mission lasts about 1-2 minutes. Second, the 
 missions can be ungodly hard even on normal. Sometimes you'll need to completely retune your mech 
 for that mission, and that mission alone.
  
  Story-wise the game is sort of a mess. It usually expects you to know stuff in advance, or expects 
 you to understand the most obscure parts of dialogue that refers to important events they never 
 go into. You play as a mute uber-powerful mech pilot known as a Raven (You get to name your own 
 character.) , while you work as a merchanary who fights for the highest bidder, which are mostly 
 one of the big corporations that have over-thrown the nations of today to rule the ruined world 
 of the future.
  
  The game offers a fun offline spilt screen option, and an online eight player multiplayer, but 
 there is not that many different levels and they are usually boring, and very few game type options. 
 While it is great to have 8 other mechs flying in the same space as you, you will quickly find 
 it boring with its limited choices and move back to the single player. Other bad thing about the 
 multiplayer is that most fun of the weapons in the game are completely useless online, which takes 
 the enjoyment of it a bit.
  
  So what is back for you after you beat the single player the first time? Well, you can replay all 
 of the missions on the inhumanly difficult Hard Mode, and get all of the achievements and fiddle 
 with your mech and different designs.
  
  There is also a fun battle arena mode where you can fight AI driven powerful mechs which can make 
 a good challenge, but doesn't last very long either. So overall this game will not stay in your 
 disc tray for weeks to come.
  
  Closing Statement:
  
  Overall this new Armored Core game does a lot of things differently, and does them very well. But 
 some things many turn off more experienced players, like lack of parts, and the simple garage mode. 
 But this game does try to reach out to gamers new to the series by being more user friendly.
  
  With strong game play, art work, and audio work behind it, Armored Core 4 is probably the best 
 mech game on the market. But the short campaign and limited replay ability may disappoint. Of course 
 this game is only 30 USD new, so it is well worth the price.
  
  In a way this game is a dirty tease. Hinting at all of the wonders and great new possibilities 
 that lay within it's fast passed action, great control scheme, and wonderful game play. But before 
 you can really start to dig into this great meal, the plate and food is taken away from you just 
 as quickly as it is put in front of you.
  
  If you are someone who loves anime series like Gundam, or a fan or MCSG's, or are interested in 
 getting into this genre, you owe it to yourself to pick this game up. You won't be disappointed 
 in this best installment of the Armored Core series yet, and here's to hoping for a sequel that 
 will take all the promises the game made, and does it the justice it deserves.
  
  Game Play: 9 out of 10
  Art: 8.75 out of 10
  Audio: 9.5 out of 10
  Content: 6.5 out of 10
 
  Technology: 8.5 out of 10
  FINAL SCORE: 8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munnybag5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  At first AC4 may seem a bit complicated and confusing to first time players, such as myself, but 
 after getting used to the slightly awkward controls, and strange customization options, AC4 really 
 is a very good game. Battles are fun due to high speed and massive explosions and it is fun to 
 destroy buildings. I could spend hours just customizing my mech, because there are many weapons 
 and armors to choose from. It is a difficult game (some missions frustratingly so) but all the 
 same, after you start playing, its hard to stop. My only real complaint with this game is that 
 the story was nearly impossible to understand. In fact, i still have no idea what's going on in 
 the campaign! The graphics are certainly not the best ive seen, but they hold their own. Overall, 
 AC4 is worth playing, if only for the sheer number of explosions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlarn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite Mecha Game but it is definitely not for everyone.
  
  Pros: Fast paced, great customizability, gets hard on the hard mode, great controls
  
  Cons: 
 Very steep learning curve, foggy storyline
  
  What can I say versus Chromehounds Armored Core 4 is in my opinion better because it is faster 
 and it feels like you are actually getting a lot farther when you move. The game is about three 
 times longer than Chromehounds. Whereas Chromehounds is more strategic and more squad based than 
 Armored Core 4.
  
  This game gets harder as you go which is great for those that like challenges. You can customize 
 almost everything on your mech except size. The controls have a nice feel to them except the mechs 
 seem to like to ready their shoulder weapons when you lock on to an enemy.
  
  If you are new to mecha games or even the Armored Core series then you will have to pass a series 
 of hurdles just to get used to the customizability and the controls of the game. The story doesn't 
 give you any real clues as to what is going on all that I can figure is that it is a few years 
 after what happened in the older Armored Cores. Because they talk about the Ravens which are the 
 pilots from the previous Armored Core games and events that passed in earlier games of this series.
 
  
  I give this game 9/10 because it is just fun. But you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Armored core 4 is the best robot game I have played 
  
  Armored core 4 is a very good game 
  
  The game play is very good and the missions are excellent 
 in some areas, some of them can be done within minutes and some take longer because there is more 
 to destroy.
  
  Some of the missions are really short but they are filled with enemies that you have to destroy. 
 
  
  The graphics are very good and they are really realistic, when you are damaged you can see all 
 of the electrical currents on your robots body indicating that you are damaged. 
  
  The sound quality is very good when you are walking you can hear the foot steps that you are making 
 it is the sound of metal against metal, when you fire your guns they sound the same as the real 
 guns, 
  
  This game is worth the money if you really love to play these sorts of games and I say that it 
 is a very good game and you should buy this game because it is excellent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanjohnlesnau
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  What happens when a bunch of huge robots with giant guns attached to them come together? The answer 
 many would hope for is a massive fight, with huge explosions, kind of time the transformers, minus 
 the transforming. However, players will instead get Armored Core 4, another addition to the series 
 that will probably only appeal to the hardcore fans of the series.
  
  With thirty-seven missions to complete in story-mode, players will have to destroy all enemies, 
 destroy secret weapons, destroy final bosses and basically destroy everything on screen. This would 
 be all great and fun, 
  except for the fact that there really isn't any meat to the game, most of the missions can be completed 
 under five minutes meaning that if a player were to take five minutes for each mission, they could 
 beat the whole game in about three hours of game play.
  
  Again players are able to customize their robot to their heart's desire, but this time players 
 will start off with a schematic of one of the robots, to make this task a little easier.
  
  Overall the game actually has amazing graphics that players may just want to sit and stare at for 
 a while, but when it comes to actual game play, hardcore fans of the game are going to continue 
 loving this game, while players new to the game may want to upgrade to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeShadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Armor core 4 is a great game for the mutiplayer and building ur mech. The solo player was alright 
 but has no story at all why can't they try something like mech Assult or Mech Warrior which have 
 deep and rich stories. this is agreat game if u love verusing ur friend or anybody in that fact. 
 but if u want a deep story for the campain u should just rent then and the graphics are next-gen 
 look but the real story is it just dosen't work to do some slow and lot of reading mission lobby 
 before each mission. but in all it was a good game too make a mech and show it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I've never been an Armored Core fan. Heck, I hadn't heard of the series until Armored Core 4 came 
 out. So when I finally broke down and bought a 360, this was the next game I got after Halo 3. 
 I'm glad I did.
  
  Armored Core 4 features an insane amount of customization options for your robot. You can build 
 anything from a slow, heavy armored tank with a million missiles to a speedy, agile mech with a 
 couple laser blades. You can customize color, accessories, weapons, boosters, and performance around 
 a base mech that you also customized (including the head, legs, arms, and chest) and really create 
 almost anything you want.
  
  Of course, each bit of customization you do will have an effect on the overall performance of your 
 mech. So you could give it the best armor and plating, but your mech would most likely be somewhat 
 slower than a high energy based mech. Weapons and accessories will also affect the balance of your 
 mech, so if you have a giant bazooka on one side, and only a laser blade on the other, you might 
 want to put some stabilizers on a certain area of your mech to balance it.
  
  Unlocking all the parts and such requires that you play through the story mode of the game, which 
 really isn't that impressive and doesn't last long. There are some missions which last all of 30 
 seconds, others that will take 10-15 tries to beat. Each mission is set up so that perhaps one 
 mech might do better than another, but no mission is impossible with any single mech.
  
  Voice acting and sound are all great throughout the game, for how little there is. You'll hear 
 your operator give you a quick briefing before a mission, and generally give you a bit of pep talk 
 or further orders during the mission, but that's about it. The occasional line from an enemy Next, 
 the more powerful enemy robots, pops up as well.
  
  The game looks fantastic, boasting incredible weapons effects and terrain detail. Shooting lasers 
 and volleys of missiles at enemies never looked this good. Explosions from said missiles and lasers 
 also look fantastic.
  
  There's also multiplayer in the game, allowing you to take your creations online and fight others. 
 For the most part, it's a pretty decent experience, but it's no revolutionary multiplayer by any 
 means.
  
  All in all, a great game. Suffers somewhat from a lackluster story mode, but all the customizing 
 and battling more than make up for it. If you like robots and explosions, you'll probably enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautifull in many point!
  
  The gameplay is like the others Armored Core, but some new thing but not extraordinnary. You have 
 many kind of Robot ,Those are heavy and endure high ammount of dammage, other are small, quick but 
 very easy to destroy and they have those average and classic robot than I always love^^You have 
 a huge arsenal equipement,2 gun in each hand,2 souhdelrs missile trower (sometime is a special 
 laser or super radar) ,2 rescue weapon if you need ammo like hangun or laser sword and 1 back weapon 
 (very many thing  backgrounds is very good, destructible and very 
 usefull for tuff mission or for protect you. The story isn't important, Usually nobody take care 
 of it. You have many mission to do, Main mission are those mission to pass to the next chapiter and 
 you have sub-Mission for win more part for youre robot or for have more money.
  
  Good Sci-Fiction game and Action game at all, but a quite hard :/.....
  So if you loved the other 
 Armored Core buy it, you won't be dissapoint and if this game is new for you rent it before, little 
 advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diobility
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I found the game disappointing, because it had more potential to be better from what the system 
 had to offer.
  
  The game play was good, I thought. The way they changed some control functions around made it a 
 little confusing to the veteran AC player (like myself) , but if youve played this series of games, 
 it is easy to get use to the controls. They even have a tutorial in the beginning to show you all 
 your functions. Its nice for those who would be new to the game, but I can see the less patient 
 people to easily discard the game after some frustrations of getting through missions with these 
 controls.
  
  Creating an AC can be very confusing. A lot of good detail and this time you can actually adjust 
 certain functions of the parts you purchase or find throughout your progression; almost similar 
 to tuning a car in Gran Turismo and other racing games... But honestly, besides the traditional 
 weight, mobility, power and defense, do we really need to adjust anything past that? It just seemed 
 like an unnecessary feature to put. Also, there werent many equipment pieces to choose from. You 
 can get more as you progress through the game, but even if you beat the story mode (which I did) , 
 you still end up with a limited collection of equipment. Youd have to keep going with the remaining 
 missions you missed and all the missions on hard mode, to get more parts, but the motivation to 
 do this is gone by then. Unless youre planning to play online, there is no reason to continue.
 
  
  The dialog coming from your mission representative was little more personal, so that was good. 
 It makes you feel like the person was actually watching out for you. The storyline was somewhat 
 confusing and it didnt seem to make any impact on the missions you were doing, but at least there 
 was some more storytelling, unlike the previous AC games.
  
  The mission objectives werent designed too well. From the descriptions you would think they would 
 be just right, but some were both really easy and short, or extremely hard and feels like it never 
 ends. Also, the fact that there were no selectable Arena battles during to take a break from doing 
 missions was disappointing. Usually, I would do Arena battles to get some money and new equipment 
 to see if I could use them for more difficult missions... But I guess SOFTWARE felt that doing 
 side battles to gain weapons would have made things too easy; which would reveal how short the 
 story mode really is.
  
  Graphically, it is amazing. The mechs look very clean and sleek. The mission environments were 
 well done. Ice areas, deserts, night battles, blizzards, forests, cities and jungles, it was visually 
 outstanding.
  
  Bottom line, it looks like they spent so much time making the details of creating and piloting 
 an AC, and making the environments look amazing, but they didnt put enough effort into actual 
 content and game play. It is too short to be worth a full $59.95, and continuing passed the story 
 mode is unnecessary, unless you were going into online game play... and who knows if there is enough 
 player base to make the content worth getting into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game looked like a lot of fun to me, but when I started playing it I decided I didn't like 
 it. The basics of the game is you start with a prebuilt mech and then work to buy new parts to 
 customize it and make it stronger. They way you make money is by completing the missions. Its seems 
 all pretty basic, but the game manages to organize it in a way that is totally annoying. For example 
 if you put on more pieces then you can afford in the store, then you have to go back and remove 
 all of the before being allowed to leave.
  
  The graphics on this game are not exceptional by any means. I also found the views to be annoying 
 with your mech often times getting in the way of what you wanted to see. Some of the stages just 
 appear blurry. I'm not sure if this was intentional or not.
  
  The controls I felt were also bad. You can customize the button layout, but I just couldn't figure 
 out a layout that felt natural to me. Eventually I got used to them, but it took a little while. 
 It might just come down to preference.
  
  This game was mildly fun, but I'm glad I only rented it. I did try online, but to play online you 
 probably will have to complete the whole game. My suggestion is to just avoid this game. It isn't 
 enough fun to justify even a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICollegeStudent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is good though doesnt live up to the other Armored Cores although From Software still 
 manages to deliver the game we know and love. The graphics are good next-gen and couldn't look 
 better, the particle effects are great and so is the environment, also the customization is awsome 
 with all the veriety of parts to build on your Next. The only bad thing is that the parts are too 
 expensive and some missions are a bit bit boring over all this is a great game a reconmendation 
 to all Mechfans its a must have game. Go and destroy some mechs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Mech action with decent graphics and potentially complex system for upgrading/changing AC.
  
  environments feel gritty and realistic. AC effects are nothing sort of superb.
  Can be as 
 complex as you like.
  
  Look out for the simulation experience. thats probably the best part of the game, campaign missions 
 are pretty lame after a while.
  
  i managed to get it for &pound;30 and still felt a little dissapointed with what i got for the 
 money as the online isnt much to shout about. but if you can get if for &pound;20 then its well 
 worth a look.
  
  essentially a pretty fun game with top of the line graphics and good customising system. of its 
 type, probably the best. its a pretty long and immersive experience but if you havent played it 
 before you could lose out on the overall experience. campaign feels disjointed at times though 
 and nothing is explained about it. well worth a look at, for the right price.
  
  Campaign 7/10
  Graphics/Sound 8.5/10
  Multiplayer 6/10
  Scematics system - 7/10
  
  overall 
 - 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Prince
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 (AC4) is the newest game from a long running series of mech simulations games. Anyone 
 who has played the AC series may be a bit biased toward this one bases on what they have seen in 
 the other ones. This one is completely NEW. AC4 changes the entire series in so many ways, it changes 
 the combat and the speed at witch the person can fight. The online combat is amazing and it can 
 change the way you will fight completely. The pace of the game has increased incredibly, veterans 
 of the old game will remember the boost you can get at intervals, while u wait for you meter to 
 recharge or the very powerful overboost for those quick moves from one place to another, its gone. 
 The new system allows for fast paced combat because you can boost horizontally forever, its hard 
 to run out of energy for you boosters. The weapons have also changed. You can now put a primary 
 weapon on both arms, with no restrictions toward either arm, as well as the heavy back parts for 
 those guys that just refuse to die. The online combat is AMAZING. I have fought in battles with 
 players who were so good, were able to finish a eight player match in about 90 seconds, it was 
 a free-for-all. The single player campaign is also fun and challenging, almost impossible when 
 you play it at hard difficulty. It isn't the longest single player ever, still took me about three 
 days to beat the single player and unlock the parts that I needed to be good at online combat. 
 Fans of mechassualt and mechwarrior, GET AC4, and see how much better it is then these other titles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtimekiller7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  its a very good game, if u like making ur playing from little 2 big!! this is ur game + i think 
 that the game can use a little more power!! if you no wot im talking about coz when ur in a fight 
 with like 100 nexts its like playing with ur m8 theres no feeling 2 it will maybe soom but you 
 start to this like the fighting and all you care about it kill people and getting money to fix 
 up ur mic-. but none the less i liked the game some times i had to stop myself from playing it coz 
 i new if played it like i play all my games the game would have been over in 30 hours lol so i 
 was like play a little now then stop play now stop, but the stroy line is a little bit like haveing 
 gum you like the start but then you think ok i dont like it any more in to the bin it goes they 
 should have but some thing like at the end you become a man or you were a man but people massed 
 you up you no something along that line. but the game did not let me down i was very happy to play 
 the game it was alot of fun all in all but is like i said they need to fix some things up just! 
 little things but i feel like i need to by the next one if it comes out but i think it will maybe 
 up to 7 as long as they keep on comeing people will keep on bying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraiden
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be pretty brief. Why? Well, when it comes to Armored Core, there's two types of 
 people. Those who love it, and those who don't get it. I happen to love it, and if you fall in 
 this group, AC4 is fast, challenging, and a fantastic mix of balancing frame building and mission 
 gameplay. Sure, it's not perfect, but with its fantastic visuals, sound, and depth, if you're a 
 die-hard AC fan, you'll love it - and for that same reason, it's going to alienate the typical 
 Madden, Halo, *insert game here* casual gamer. Basically, if you fall into this group, this game 
 isn't for you, and I've read a few of the exceedingly negative reviews, and it's clear that it's 
 the same reason this game is catching flak from some reviewers.
  
  Anyway, before you consider buying this game, here's a tip to play it safe: if you don't know what 
 you're getting into (as with pretty much any mech combat game except MechAssault, to a degree) , 
 don't do it. Simple, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1004209
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4, the 12th installment of the Armored Core series. Although the series doesn't fuse 
 together into one large story, they seperate, which is not too great. The story mode is quite short, 
 and a tad bit too easy on normal mode. The game is really fun though, and the men and women that 
 worked on this game definetely refined the gameplay and the way you played the game. It has gotten 
 so fast, that the game is going a lot of frames per second. It has some intense fights, that for 
 some reason never slows down for frame rate, which is amazing. Armored Core's missions are quite 
 short too, each one about 1-5 minutes. But the mission can handle some crazy fights too. This is 
 the first game where they added an online play, which is not too great, but very fun. One thing 
 that some people are very angry about, is that if you want to change your mech, you have to exit 
 xbox live, go into the menu screen, load up your saved data, go into the garage, load up that mech, 
 change it, exit out, save, exit, and go into xbox live... again. So you can see why people get quite 
 angry at it, but it's still fun, it's still a great game. And if you were an Armored Core fan, 
 or a person who loves mech games, I would definetely recommend you buying, or at least renting 
 the game to see if you love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I played this game like 50 times and this game just got worser and worser This game sucks soo much 
 I almose kiled my self. When I got this game It was preaty cool but longer I had it worser it got 
 the worser it got. The second think this you know the triler those the game look like this copy 
 ha noo. I have to say this game its not complitly bad but you know there are good points in the 
 game like there is alot of wepons to put it on youre mek and the animation is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlckJck
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  So this game looked radical. The graphics looked tight, the gameplay looked fun and I was pumped... 
 until i learned the stages are about 5 seconds long. Just like its predecessors, its a classic 
 Armored Core game. But it lacks many things. Some of which are...
  
  Pro's:
  -Excellent gameplay
  -Excellent graphics
  -Excellent multiplayer
  -Definatley worth renting
 
  
  Con's:
  -Lacks solid story line
  -Not worth buying
  -Needs improvement on campaign length (or game length in general)
  
  So all in all its a decent 
 game worth renting. It has fun multiplayer and fun to play for a day or two, but as stated... needs 
 a lot more work. So pick it up and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider6k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game was then new graphics ,acually especially the new graphics because 
 in the old ones you couldnt look for distance and see the other raven .I also like this game alot 
 because you have a new variety of weapons like the big laser and the new gernade cannons for those 
 annoying ground forces that never leave you alone when your trying to fight the bosses ,like on 
 the level where the thic city is being attacked and all these big missiles are being shot at you 
 and taking alot of damage. What i didnt like is how you had to pay for all the damage you acuiqured 
 during the mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianlegion3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Armored Core 4, the 12th installment of the Armored Core series. Although the series doesn't fuse 
 together into one large story, they seperate, which is not too great. The story mode is quite short, 
 and a tad bit too easy on normal mode. The game is really fun though, and the men and women that 
 worked on this game definetely refined the gameplay and the way you played the game. It has gotten 
 so fast, that the game is going a lot of frames per second. It has some intense fights, that for 
 some reason never slows down for frame rate, which is amazing. Armored Core's missions are quite 
 short too, each one about 1-5 minutes. But the mission can handle some crazy fights too. This is 
 the first game where they added an online play, which is not too great, but very fun. One thing 
 that some people are very angry about, is that if you want to change your mech, you have to exit 
 xbox live, go into the menu screen, load up your saved data, go into the garage, load up that mech, 
 change it, exit out, save, exit, and go into xbox live... again. So you can see why people get quite 
 angry at it, but it's still fun, it's still a great game. And if you were an Armored Core fan, 
 or a person who loves mech games, I would definetely recommend you buying, or at least renting 
 the game to see if you love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Enjoyable gameplay; nicely detailed Nexts
  
  The Bad: Missions are too short; building personal Nexts is fairly useless in the single player 
 campaign; control can be erratic
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  Growing up in the 80's with the likes of Transformers, Go-bots, Voltron, and MASK, I've been a 
 big fan of big robots and mechs for a while. In the 90's my interest in the genre was revitalized 
 when I played MechWarrior II for the first time (and later enjoyed Neon Genesis [Shin Seki] Evangelion, 
 and Gundam Wing) . Pretty much, if it has big robots with even bigger guns I'm gonna be attracted 
 to it and probably naturally like it to a degree.
  
  Armored Core 4 is my first experience with the series so obviously I'm jumping on board pretty 
 late here. But with Chromehounds leaving me wanting I was anxious to try out the Gundam route. 
 After-all, it was the fast and agile Japanese types that I grew up with. And with it being several 
 years since I had played the glorious dream that is MechWarrior I couldn't wait to hop inside another 
 Exo-skeleton and blow sh*t up.
  
  I wasn't all gun-ho however. I'd read the reviews. And I knew that the same company that was responsible 
 for the uninspired story and gameplay of Chromehounds, was also behind AC4. Most unfortunately, 
 my reservations were not unfounded. Anyone in a similar position as myself should not expect anything 
 like MechWarrior - on any level.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Without question, AC4 take a little getting used to to control with any proficiency. And while 
 the two pre-set configurations aren't all bad, it doesn't help that the developers made the preferred 
 set-up the non-default one. I imagine they did this only because to use the second set-up effectively, 
 you have to hold the controller a bit unorthodox; index fingers on the bumpers, middle fingers 
 on the triggers. Once you get the right control set-up for yourself, controlling gets substantially 
 better.
  
  The Nexts (mechas) themselves handle well enough. They can be a bit erratic at times and they certainly 
 require a soft touch to pilot well. A tad frustrating is that your Next will respond differently 
 depending on the soft touch - all of it undocumented. i. e. it's possible to do quick, 90 degree 
 turns or transitioning between gliding across the ground and taking off to full flight.
  
  The biggest gameplay issue has got to be the short missions. Honestly though, the length of them 
 really didn't bother me much. It's nice to play a game for a change where you can sit down for 
 20 minutes and play through a few missions rather than get half-way through one. My gripe has more 
 to do with your expected behavior and how missions are scored. AC4 is all about efficiency. Complete 
 the objective as quickly as possible with as little ammo and taking as little damage. Which sounds 
 right. That's how wars are fought. War is costly. But blowing stuff up is so much more fun. So 
 instead of being rewarded for destroying everything the enemy throws at you, you'll be penalized 
 for taking too long and using up your resources. It's this mindset that makes the game ridiculously 
 short. And yes, just about every mission will be completed in a couple minutes.
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; PERFORMACE
  Visually, AC4 is nothing to write home about. The Nexts themselves 
 are superbly detailed but you never really get to see them unless you view them in your hanger 
 - in which they look badass. Why couldn't the whole game look like that? Environments are sparse 
 but acceptable. Personally I think they're better than those in Chromehounds but barely. But there's 
 not much detail done in models or textures.
  
  The framerate clips along pretty smoothly as well. When there's a lot going on it might stumble 
 a little but it's not really noticeable. Where performance suffers is load times and the number 
 of times things have to load. Jumping between screens or even pictures of Nexts will cause ridiculous 
 load times. Starting missions are the worst and replaying a mission if you fail makes you start 
 from the mission briefing so you get to enjoy all the loading again.
  
  VALUE
  AC4 is oozing with potential, it's heartbreaking that FROM didn't capitalize on it. Games these 
 days suffer so much from repetitive play and while you're pretty much doing the same thing from 
 mission to mission, there's good variety in how those missions are carried out so you won't ever 
 feel like your replaying the last mission you just did. Most missions offer a unique challenge 
 as well which only adds to the enjoyment of playing through each one.
  
  In terms of difficulty, AC4 is a roller-coaster ride. I myself started out beating the missions 
 fairly well but would get pwned on 1-on-1 matches against the CPU. Then I unlocked the uber-weapons. 
 From there on out the game is ridiculously easy. For the A rating at least. Trying to complete 
 both difficultly levels for high marks is unforgiving. You'll cruise through the game on normal 
 - even with S grades. But go to Hard and forget about it.
  
  Also, because each mission is centered around one objective with no regard for enemy defenses, 
 each mission will play out the same and will be fairly predictable the second time around.
  
  Mech customization is a mixed bag. For the campaign you only need 2 or 3 variants of the same 
 design. For player-vs.-player matches you'll get a chance to play around a bit more and develop 
 a mech that suits your style. While there are lots of options in terms of weapon choices and body 
 parts (not to mention combinations of such) you won't be creating any wildly experimental types 
 and the customization process in terms of what you can actually build is fairly limited.
  
  IN THE ENDAC4 could be so great. The story is a bit loose and not nearly as engaging as say, MechWarrior 
 II, but it's there and it works a lot better than Chromehounds. The missions may be short but they're 
 fun and with good variety. But ultimately, they prove to be too focused on the end-game, penalizing 
 players for having fun. Complete the game for the parts, then build your dream mech and try to 
 find a nice person on LIVE to play against to extend the value of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This is an action packed fast shooting, blasting, sword killing, rocket shooting mech game which 
 isnt all that bad but there are some things that you just want more of.
  
  This game has many great explosions and some decent missions but overrall many of them are short 
 and won't take you more then atleast 10 minutes, the game really picks up speed when your engaged 
 in these 1 on 1 boss battles which are great.... but there are too few of them which kinda makes 
 you think you have such great fast action packed 1 on 1's why coulden't you just put a skirmish 
 mode in or a type of mode like in a Gundam series game where you would have some AI allies and 
 some AI opponets where you can just duke it out on a fixed battle feild instead of going online 
 for people who dont have the xbox live.
  
  The missions are well set and the voice acting is great with many diffrent skits and even the sound 
 track sounds good in the heat of a battle but the missions are short and after your done the game 
 youll proboaly be playing through those 1 on 1 matches again because you just want to slash a guy 
 up or shoot rockets at him through a building have a sword battle with just swords and jet packing 
 towards him like crazy.
  
  Also i wish there could have been some better sword animation where you just dont lunge at him 
 and slash once it kinda give yourself open even though it is a powerful attack once you hit him 
 and he dosent blow up you should be able to exacute a combo and like stab him through the cock 
 pit which makes some game for Gundam look like their better with the combos that you can do and 
 special attacks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The single player will keep you busy most of the time. Trying to complete all the missions 
 and then all of em on hard. There are no achievements for online play for those people who strive 
 for those. If you are a mech junky like me you will sit there for hours trying to perfect your 
 mech till the last digit of its stats. The difficulty is kinda Random (?) I say that because some 
 missions on Normal are ridiculously hard until after you beat the game and have access to many 
 more weapons. Now this game is fast and furious unlike its older brother chrome hounds. Online 
 is kinda ridiculous no one plays ranked match (for the fact there are no achievements) and that 
 people arm them selves with weapons that do ridiculous amounts of damage but hey the game is still 
 fun. A 9 for Gameplay
  
  Graphics- Are nice except for the fact the environment seems bland. Other than the Mechs and Primal 
 Armor (protective shield that stops you from taking damage for awhile) , and Explosions are Nice. 
 An 8 for Graphics
  
  Sound- Is well done with every weapon sound and every explosion and with insane amounts of enemies 
 on screen it dosent stop. Soundtrack-cool techno tunes but sadly there is only like 8 but still 
 really good. A 9 for sound
  
  Value- Gold for great (A 9)
  
  Tilt- A 6 because this game will eventually get old. Although there is multiplayer if feels like 
 its just.... there.
  
  Overall- 8.0 Solid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devin05
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  When I first purchased this game, I was quite disappointed. Years ago I played the first Armored 
 Core on PS and loved it. Then I stopped playing the franchise. When I first heard it was coming 
 to next-gen consoles, I was a bit excited. Playing through it the first time was kind of a bust. 
 The storyline was dull, and I didn't understand it anyway. I had no idea what to do with my AC. 
 Not all parts were unlocked so I was limited to a few AC. Campaigns were short and dull. After 
 I beat the normal missions, I put the game down and let it collect dust. After a few months, I 
 picked it back up and started customizing, what AC4 is all about. I started reading more into what 
 every part is, testing it, tweaking it, anything that involved customization. Soon, I realized 
 that this game is really fun. Customization is hands down enjoyable. After I got a good sense of 
 customization, I went back through the missions, normal and hard, trying to get an S rank. It's 
 a good challenge, but can get tedious as there is a weird formula for calculating S work, leaving 
 me confused why I could not obtain S ranking. After beating most missions, I was left to customization, 
 which can only be fun for a good while. Customizing is fun, but what's good about customizing if 
 you can't take it for a ride? I felt that the game limited you. There wasn't any other game modes 
 other than one on one fights or missions. I never did play online, and maybe thats what I'm missing, 
 but not everybody wants to play deathmatch all the time. I feel that the game needed to be expanded. 
 I also felt that the game wasn't balanced all that well, it's hard to find a good balance between 
 hulking tanks and small, blade carrying AC's.
  
  Gameplay: Bigger maps, and longer, more in-depth missions. Have the storyline in-depth and easier 
 to follow. I didn't care what the story was and skipped most of it. I put 4 or more hours for the 
 learning curve, because it took me a long while to understand what everything was in the game from 
 parts to weapons. Controls, though, are fairly simple, but differ with every AC, thus also involving 
 knowing how to customize.
  
  Graphics: The game looks wonderful, AC's come in all shapes and sizes and evironments look realistic.
 
  
  Sound: A bit lacking in this department. No a whole lot of good music and SFX. But, nonetheless, 
 not horribly annoying.
  
  Overall: A solid game, customization is great, just lacking a bit in gameplay.
  
  Buy/Rent: 
 Both. Rent to see if it's up your alley, buy to see if you want to keep playing through customization 
 and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  For years now, Armored Core has been the perfect hallmark for mech customization games. With its 
 complexity of customization and the ability to make possibly any type of mech you want, it proved 
 to be a very unique game. However, as the years went by, the same problems were repeated over and 
 over again. At first, they were forgivable, but as the years went on, those same problems continued 
 to hammer the game. The game became more complex, pushing new players away, and leaving little 
 to satisfy veterans of the series. With nearly no hope in sight, I started to lose hope in the 
 series. That is, until Armored Core 4 came out. Not only does AC4 fix all of those problems that 
 the series contained, it offers a whole new opportunity for new players to experience the world 
 of Armored core. The storyline in Armored Core has always been paper-thin and poorly constructed. 
 While AC4 improves greatly upon it, the storyline is still very lacking. The world is once again 
 under the control of a group of merciless superpower corporations due to a huge war, and humanity 
 is at the mercy of the group's will. Many people dont prefer this type of living, so you, a mercenary, 
 are hired by a small colony and allied with a 3rd party company to wage warfare on the major companies 
 and collapse them.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  For the past seven games, the Armored Core series has longed for a graphical upgrade and AC4 finally 
 brings it in. From Software has done a great job at beefing everything up. To start off, the lighting 
 is excellent and makes the environments look superb. The reflections are excellent and the lighting 
 makes the environments look so much greater. The special effects, gunshots, and explosions also 
 look a whole lot better than before, and the Armored Cores themselves (Now called Nexts) have 
 a much greater amount of detail done to them. There are a few minor flaws however. While most of 
 the environments look superb, a few of the levels look extremely bland, offering the same bland 
 textures over and over again. There are some collision detection problems, such as the missiles 
 going through the tops of the hills, although the detection is spot-on when it comes to enemies. 
 Also, whenever an enemy is destroyed, it disappears, which robs the player of looking down at his 
 own pile of metal carnage after destroying an army of tanks, mechs, etc. Overall however, the graphics 
 are great and are a far cry from the previous installments in the series. Sound- 7/10
  The sound has also gotten much needed attention as well. The soundtrack has been improved mostly, 
 as the music now accompanies the action, more than stands out above it. The voice acting is also 
 great, with a narrator between chapters, and a mission briefer whos personally constantly shifts 
 from a professional tech support, to emotionally involved. However, the soundtrack could have really 
 used some more tracks, as there are no more than five songs altogether. Overall though, the sound 
 is much improved over the previous installments. Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay is AC4 is more balanced and welcoming to new players, but may disappoint veterans 
 of the series. To start off, the customization is far more simplistic than the previous installments. 
 Players start the game with one of three pre-built mechs to select from. After that, players complete 
 missions and earn money to buy different parts for their mech. The good thing about customization 
 this time is that other parts are unlocked gradually as players progress through the game, rather 
 than throwing 50 parts of each kind their way all at once. This helps new players decide more easily 
 in which part they want. Even better is the fact that fine-tuning certain parts can now be done 
 automatically. Instead of points be given to tune the parts, players now have the option to distribute 
 them all evenly to each part. However, the confusing abbreviations are still there. These include 
 EN, PA, FRS and the like, which can make the game confusing. Still, the customization has been 
 improved by a great amount. Customization isnt the only thing that was improved. The action has 
 gotten much needed attention. In the previous installments, players were given a limited amount 
 of energy that would drain quickly as soon as the boosters were activated. If they werent careful, 
 the energy would hit rock bottom and players would be stuck while they waited for the energy to 
 recharge. In AC4, that option is now non-existent. The boosters now have unlimited energy, except 
 when boosting upward or using the quick boost option. Thankfully, the energy recharges much quicker. 
 This is a good thing, because if you arent boosting, youre either dead, or will die soon. As 
 for the action itself, AC4 is more visceral and satisfying that the previous installments. In nearly 
 every mission, theres practically and army of tanks, helicopters, and lesser mechs just waiting 
 to take you on. With the help of infinite boost, players are now free to speed through a city, 
 fly to the top of structures and rain death upon your enemies. Either that, or speed through the 
 streets and fire a million missiles at the next poor, unfortunate tank battalion to look at you 
 the wrong way. You can also now engage in pro-longed aerial combat which is also a fun option for 
 players who love flying. In addition to that, all ACs now come equipped with something called 
 primal armor (PA) which is a force field of some sort that reduces damage by a great margin and 
 protects ACs from environmental hazards. Overall, the combat in AC4 is light years ahead of any 
 of the previous installments. There are a few minor problems however. For starters, the missions 
 are very short. Sometimes, they last less than 60 seconds. Very few last more than 5 minutes. Its 
 very unsatisfying to hear the Please return to base message just as the action was getting good. 
 The online multiplayer is also very lacking as the population is scarce.
  
  Overall, AC4 will appeal to most people who have never played an Armored Core game before. It may 
 disappoint series veterans but will attract many newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has its fun moments, but it's overall aggravating. The game teaches you how to pilot 
 your vehicle and that's about it. It doesn't tell you anything about building them or modifying 
 them and leaves you to play around and figure that out somehow. The game play can be fun put most 
 missions are only a few seconds long and you're done.
  
  Some missions are impossibly difficult, where in one you must shoot down all these self destruct 
 devices coming towards a submarine base. There are an insanely high amount of them and you're more 
 than likely going to run out of ammo and have to just watch many pass right by. The targeting system 
 is also bad. You cannot tell it what to target, it just picks something and you shoot at it. This 
 can be annoying when you're trying to blow up an objective and shoot the wrong thing.
  
  The missions aren't particularly exciting though, with only a few that are actually challenging 
 and fun. Graphics were about average, but it all seemed to have a graininess. One of the most irritating 
 things is that when you try to equip parts, it doesn't tell you how much they cost. You just equip 
 them and hope you have enough money to buy the parts you put on, elsewise you'll be taking random 
 things off to see if it lowers the cost. Also, unbought parts show as Data Only, which is misleading 
 because it may make you think you haven't unlocked it, but that means you haven't bought it.
  
  Many missions are just irritating, and the end mission summaries give you bonuses depending 
 on how much damage you took, ammo you used, and the time you did it. The time completed in is very 
 confusing, as sometimes even though the mission has a time bonus and you finish it in 55 seconds 
 and the predicted was 160, you get no bonus. Other times, it may say it has no time bonus and you 
 will get a huge bonus for time. It's all very confusing and not explained.
  
  This game has a very Anime-mech feel to it, whereas some other mech games have a more straightfoward 
 mechanical/futuristic feel. This game may be great for people who've played them in the past. For 
 someone looking for a fun game to just pick up and play, you'd be better to look at Chromehounds 
 or if you want to get a bit older, MechAssault 2 which is still a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minirob
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  It has been said in many other reviews that the missions are to easy and short, that the scenery 
 is empty and drab. This is true to some degree, but there are many upsides to it. When playing 
 through the missions there will be the occasional one or two that you will need to edit your Next 
 so that you can complete it with a bit more ease, where as some missions can be completed in under 
 ten seconds. Most missions dont actually last longer than around 2  3 minutes, but in those 2 
  3 minutes you will be having some of the most fun, action packed experiences you will have on 
 your Xbox 360 or PS3. And there is nothing more pleasing than when you complete a mission that 
 you found really tough and you get an S Rank.
  
  The graphics on some levels do seem like the producers have just had a cup of tea and a biscuit 
 instead of paying attention to what they are doing, but this lonely seems to be apparent on such 
 missions like when you have to destroy a base in the middle of a sandstorm, this gives you very 
 little visuals and gets you rather frustrated because you can hardly see. However when you are 
 doing missions which include annihilating a anti-satellite cannon (which after you bombard it, 
 makes a nice explosion of kojima particles) . The highlight of the visuals has to be the actual 
 mechs, which this time, look astounding more than ever. Especially astounding are the boosters 
 which more a very nice glow highlighting the look of your Next, especially in the dark missions.
 
  
  Unfortunately this game is rather short and could be improved in many ways. And hopefully the nice 
 people at FromSoftware will release some extra content.
  
  Altogether a very good game, if a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWolswor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is the newest installment of the armored Core series and is the first of its series 
 to have an online feature. The graphics are visually pleasing, not the best mind you but not the 
 worst either, and the framrate doesn't seem to have too many problems (when 100s of missles fly 
 across screen it might slow down a tad) . The gameplay of armored Core 4 has you choose a mech, 
 go out on missions, buy new parts and then do more missions. This might seem like a boring endless 
 cycle but you take your mechs online so the mechs with the best parts usually have an advantage 
 over players bringing standard mechs into online games. There are also other modes of customization 
 featuring the ability to paint individual pieces of your mech and the weapons. Armored Core 4 also 
 features a kind of photoshop-esque eblem making where you pick from already chosen images (around 
 50 or so) and you can layer them and change there colors around a bit to make an emblem that other 
 players will envy. Armored Core 4 also has a trade feature so if your friend has a cool mech that 
 you want he can trade you the plans so you can build it as well. The missions give you rankings 
 on a scale of E-S, S being the highest rank you can achieve but wasting little ammo and taking 
 little to no damage and completing the mission in a fast time. The game has two dificulty settings, 
 normal and hard. All in all if you love the series you'll definatley love Armored Core 4 and want 
 to add it to your collection, but if you're unsure you should probably rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the fourth generation of Armored Core. 
  Armored Core 4, not actually the fourth, but more like the 12th installment in the Armored Core 
 series by From Software. (Misleading indeed. Nevertheless, I suppose you could call it a 4th Generation 
 of Armored Core.)
  
  ANYWAYS, ON WITH THE SHOW! (everything is on a 10 point scale, 10 being the best, and 1 being the 
 worst.)
  
  Controls: 8
  Alright... for those of you who have played Armored Core since the dawn of time (AC1) , you'll notice, 
 the controls are very different. Now I've heard that the control schemes were actually introduced 
 sometime around AC: Last Raven, but I missed a few games between AC3 and this one, so I'm not familiar 
 with them. For those of you who are new to the AC series the controls aren't terribly difficult 
 to pick up, however, thanks to some pressure sensitive booster triggers, they're a bit tough to 
 master. (not everyone plays games with nerves and trigger fingers of steel.) For some older veterans 
 of the series, you either like the controls or you don't. This game loses some points for controls 
 because while type A and B and customizable configurations are allowed, From decided to exclude 
 use of setting the gamepad buttons for use in control schemes... which some older players will 
 prefer for movement. I think the control pad could've been used for FCS targeting selection and 
 other hotkeys for things... so it's a shame to see the gamepad's potential not being used. On a 
 side note... I do love the new quick boost because it opens up so many possibilities in combat... 
 but it does need some getting used to the fact that Heavy mechs are rather nimble now...
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  From and Sega wanted to revitalize the series? How so? Make it faster. Did they 
 get the job done? Heck yea. This game in comparison to previous releases is MUCH FASTER. There's 
 a lot of emphasis on speed and quick gameplay. As previously mentioned, the new Quick Boost has 
 been added, allowing a mech to quickly boost in a direction to dodge enemy fire or position one 
 self in an enemy's blind spot. As well, changes to the energy system allow for infinite regular 
 boosting over surfaces, probably so those water skimming levels could be made possible (they are 
 quite fun indeed...) . Overall I would say gameplay from previous AC installments has improved, 
 and the mech piloting doesn't feel so clumsy and cumbersome. As with previous installments, you 
 are capable of fully customizing your mech with the weapons payload of your dreams, so long as 
 you stay within the limits. By far, this has been Armored Core's most redeeming quality, and it 
 never ceases to amaze me what From decides to invent next. The possibilities are incredible.
  
  Story: 7
  As with all previous Armored Core games, you play as a Raven. A mercenary Core 
 pilot for hire, taking on all the dangerous missions and doing all the dirty work of the various 
 corporations who are at each other's throats. There's a bit more background to this story as you 
 play as the mercenary of a colony know as Anatolia, where a large majority of the futuristic technology 
 you blow stuff up with was developed. The colony has long since fallen from glory and you've basically 
 been hired to carry out the colonists' revenge upon its enemies. As well this time around, they 
 also included a bit of story where companies have overthrown the government and rule the world 
 by some crazy economic principles... but I'll let you, the gamers figure all that out.
  
  Characters: 5
  ... well... There are a few key characters in the story, primarily yourself, the 
 mercenary, your operator, that Emil guy who gives you orders... sorta... and a few others, however, 
 everyone's fairly cookie cutter simple. Your character doesn't have a voice, so he/she never says 
 anything, and those who do speak in the dialog are rather monotone. Essentially... this game is 
 all about the mechs, so don't expect any great sort of character development or story development.
 
  
  Graphics: 8
  Impressive, but it could've been better. Environments are rendered nicely, and draw rates of terrain 
 are well done. However, the terrain itself is very bland and simplistic, and most level layouts 
 are very simple. Makes me wish that this game was PS3 exclusive, so that From and Sega could've 
 spent some time putting that cell processor and all the video processing equipment in the PS3 to 
 it's full use to make truly spectacular playing fields. Mech detailing on the other hand is very 
 nicely done, as you can nearly see every little nook and cranny on your mech in game. :D Sadly... 
 there are some parts/walls which your mech sorta clips a bit into... not a lot, and not always 
 noticeable, but it'll have to do. Otherwise the graphics are fairly well done.
  
  Sound: 5
  Explosions? Check.
  
  BGM? Err... I think there's like 6 different tracks in total... 
 not really sure... &gt;_&gt;
  
  They could've used a bit more music. The theme in the opening credits is nice, as are some of the 
 mission BGMs, but nothing that stands out particularly as appropriate for the situation or really 
 great to listen to while blowing the crap out of my opponent. . Then again, I hope you didn't buy 
 this game so you could stand around in a mission to listen to the tunes.
  
  Replayablity: 9.5
  ... ONLINE AT VERY LONG LAST! The way Armored Core should be. :D
  
  This 
 feature would be one of the PRIME reasons I bought it. Online versus. You can play 1 on 1 matches, 
 2 on 2 matches, 4 on 4 matches, 4 and 8 way free for alls, ranked and not ranked. This is a definite 
 plus. You could spend hours and hours and hours on end just building new mechs to cater to your 
 play style, then take em up online to face the world to see who's the best. Or maybe you want to 
 just go head to head against some friends. Well at least now you don't need to be in the same room 
 anymore, and no split screen just to play against them! This game has a lot of replayability, thanks 
 to FRS tuning points, the mech customizations, and online play. Definite win here.
  
  Downsides... would be the split screen mode. I don't expect many people to actually play using 
 split screen anymore, however, the programmers felt that they should preserve the approximate 640x480 
 type resolution, so the split screen mode has a lot of black space... and ultra tiny screens for 
 gameplay... making it difficult to see much of anything, including your own Core.
  
  Difficulty: Variable
  The missions are fairly simple, and don't take long to beat. Once you clear 
 the game for the first time, you can open up hard mode, and aim for S-ranking missions, which can 
 be a bit of a challenge. Ultimately, the greatest challenge comes from going head to head against 
 other human players online. However you choose to play the game pretty much determines how hard 
 the game is for you.
  
  Overall: I give this game a 8.5 out of 10. It's extremely fun, and I'm a huge mech fan. The gameplay 
 has been refined so to attract a larger crowd, and I think From and Sega did the job. Personally, 
 I've always enjoyed the mech customizing and battling against friends, so this game gets my approval, 
 most definitely.
  
  The reasons why this game doesn't get a perfect score in my eyes:
  
  1. Control schemes. Not using the gamepad deters some veterans of the series, and doesn't use 
 the full potential the controller provides for in game combat. The gamepad shouldn't be required 
 to move the mech, and the ability to set gamepad buttons as shortcuts to certain Core functions 
 would have been nice.
  
  2. Very cookie cutter story. All AC games are like this. It was good back in the first game. Nowadays... 
 it'd be nice to spice it up a bit more.
  
  3. Online lag = doom. You can't damage squat.
  
  4. Regulation versions. From and Sega are lagging behind a bit in updating the American server 
 side to catch up to the Japanese servers... so some balancing issues have yet to be resolved. Fortunately, 
 they can actually BE RESOLVED. :D
  
  5. The music could be more... varied. Not a huge deal.
  
  Buy or Rent: Buy. This game is way 
 too long and in-depth to fully enjoy for just a weekend rental. However, if you're just trying 
 the game out, renting is a good idea as the game doesn't cater to every gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game was then new graphics ,acually especially the new graphics because 
 in the old ones you couldnt look for distance and see the other raven .I also like this game alot 
 because you have a new variety of weapons like the big laser and the new gernade cannons for those 
 annoying ground forces that never leave you alone when your trying to fight the bosses ,like on 
 the level where the thic city is being attacked and all these big missiles are being shot at you 
 and taking alot of damage. What i didnt like is how you had to pay for all the damage you acuiqured 
 during the mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AUTOgod
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  okay, going to be short and sweet about this, so here is a basic list of good, and bad points:
 
  
  The good:
  fantastic graphics
  excellent controls (didn't think so at first, but got used to them, and they are excellent on type 
 b)
  excellent gameplay
  MASSIVE GUNS!
  EXPLOSIONS! action
  excellent gameplay
  MASSIVE GUNS!
  ROBOTS!
  style
  great constructiohn system
  well planned missions
  great 
 levels
  EXPLOSIONS! The bad:
  what seems like a non existent story
  TOO SHORT! TOO EASY!
  occasional, and i do mean occasional (very little) drops in frame rate 
 (when attacked by over 50+ missiles)
  i did some of the arena battles in 7 seconds!
  
  overall, this is the best so far, except for its gameplay time, which is short at best. on the 
 good side gameplay is excelent.
  
  so, if this helps you, then all very good, if not, oh well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I thought some of the armored core games were really bad, but this time they actually released 
 a relatively decent game. This really suprised me because I wasn't going to get this game at all, 
 but in the end I wanted to rent it first and it ended up good. I didn't play it for so long because 
 I get awfully bored if I play games like this for to long, but I gotta say it didn't make me bored 
 as quick as a lot of other mech games out there and I wont be naming them either. The mech types 
 are simple to use if you use them over and over again otherwise you wont have a clue what weapon 
 your using at all. Sometimes you die for really stupid reason like a missle comes out of no where 
 and your in a quite safe place and it kills you instantly even if you got lots of health left. 
 You can't get your health back at all. The shields don't defend you for very long either. I thought 
 this game would be a lot worst than it is now, but today it gets a better grade then the other 
 games they had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPMoney418
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't as good as the previous Armored Cores. The story was also badly done. The missions were 
 like 20 secs long if you're good. 1 min even if you just started playing. The PA system was nice 
 but since it was connected to the overboost the overboost was useless except for online. They should 
 have also left the exceed orbit function in for some variety. It seems that you keep most of your 
 parts from the beginning of the game to the end which made it boring for me. Although the FRS was 
 a nice new touch, you spent more time with the FRS memory then customizing the actual parts of 
 the AC. The only thing that really kept me playing this game was the online. It was good, but I 
 had a bad experience with people using the parry blade more often than not. Most of the time the 
 battles were decided with how effective PA shielding you had instead of how good you were. I liked 
 the unlimited dash boost function and the quick boost which added a new battle aspect to the game. 
 You really didn't have to worry about running out of energy from just boosting. Taking out the 
 overheat thing was different but it seemed to me like they took away a lot of nice parts of the 
 game to put but in one new thing. And that thing with the higher ceiling isn't true because I remember 
 in the previous Armored Core that you could fly much higher before hitting the boundary as long 
 as you had the energy. The only thing that really kept me playing this game was the online. It 
 was good, but I had a bad experience with people usnig the parry blade and tank legs more often 
 than not. Most of the time the battles were decided with how effective PA shielding you had instead 
 of how good you were. The problem with the online was that when it came to building ACs it came 
 down to the same parts that were the best. I was an Armored Core fan up until this. Overall it 
 was a horrible game that I think messed up a good series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurderB
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, AC4 is the worst game ever!.... I am going to list the Good and the Bad about this game.
  
  The Good: Very good graphics, fun flying around in a Gundam-Type robotic machine, and TUNS 
 things to customize your AC with.
  
  The Bad #1: Everything Else! First of all, when you start to do missions everyone shoots soo many 
 things at you it's disgusting... and they expect you to block or dodge it. Then, while there shooting 
 things at you you think your dodging it..... well your not..... In this game, when you dodge things 
 SOMEHOW it still hits you. You'll notice your getting hit because your health bar will FLY down 
 and you'll be dead within a few seconds. Don't get me wrond, when you first play this game it will 
 be fun. But when you get to chapters 4-6....... they get hard. Bad #2: Oh yea and another thing, 
 what's up with everything being in hard mode? What I mean is to get all the Good stuff you have 
 to play the game in hard mode and TRUST ME...... it's  I remember 
 I was doing this one mission where you had to fight 4 AC's by yourself. Keep in mind the 4 AC's 
 are the hardest ppl in the game. That's right, you have to fight the 4 hardest people in the game 
 by yourself. When I was doing it, I was yelling sooo loud because one of the 4 people has a missile 
 redirect. What that means is when you shoot thousands of missiles at him only 1 or 2 will hit. 
 Also, when you try to shoot missiles at the 3 other people he tries to save them and uses the missile 
 redirect again. So none of your missiles hit anyone, and missiles are about the best thing you 
 can use. Now I wouldn't be talking about this 1 mission without a reason. To get this certain piece 
 of armor that goes on your back and looks like Wings, you have to beat this mission. And those 
 wings do ALOT of damage when you get them.. But anyway, thats just 1 of the weird/hardest missions 
 you have to do. Another one is a mission called Up In Flames in hard mode and I don't even like 
 to talk about that 1... &gt;.&gt;
  
  Bad #3: Has anyone else noticed that barley anyone plays online? I keep clicking quick game which 
 searches for any game thats currently up and it keeps saying none found. I do find some games eventually, 
 but when I join a battle royal or anything that requires 4 or more people no one joins. It's always 
 me and some other guy waiting for people to join but never do. Also, online isn't even fun. People 
 kill you sooo fast it's disgusting, it's not even fun. And sense I can't join and 4 or more games 
 i'm always doing 1 on 1's, it's soo boreing.
  
  Overall, this game sucks. Don't end up like me and buy it because the cover looked good. Don't 
 even rent this game, you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmcheang
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I find the game very exciting if you can feel it of course. I can't really understand the briefing 
 because it is all in Japanese. I also don't understand what is FRS. I tried to get Noblesse Oblige 
 but it said something about the FRS. I bought several schematics and when I tried to get Noblesse 
 Oblige, it said something else that I can't understand. It didn't seem to relate about the FRS. 
 I hope there is someone who can help me with this. Anyways, the game is awesome. It is a big sucess 
 for From Software. I kind of like liked the game, even the graphics, sound effects and cool music. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdVader
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are just plain amazing, combined with edge of your seat gameplay, this game rocks. 
 The flying side of Armored Core was never really focused on, but in this game they added new boosts 
 to propel you forward, side to side, and just made your energy bar flow down a lot slower, adding 
 the immersive side to the game of being able to fly when you want to and have all the thrills while 
 your at it. Your AC is your AC, when you customize it, you don't make just one, you can make several 
 and make it yours. Make a heavily defended one, make an AC for quick flying and evasive actions 
 with tons of energy, or make an AC to cover all of those features all around. I mean... Yeah, a 
 little on the short side... but the Xbox Live play totally offsets its campaign flaw. The multiplayer 
 is amazing, becuase if you rate this game just off the experience in campaign, you will leave out 
 a chunk of the game's amazing features. It may be hard to get at first, but once your used to the 
 AC feel, you'll never put the controller down, its that good. Armored Core has done it again with 
 Armored Core 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remf18
Rating: 4
Date: May 19, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Years of Armored Core games, and once more, fans are left with a sequel inferior to the original. 
 I'm not sure what's so difficult about making a good sequel to a great game, but the AC franchise 
 hasn't been able to make a single sequel to match or exceed the original.
  
  The newest edition is quite frustrating to long time fans. All of the most solid features of the 
 series have been abandoned and dumbed down for newbies, yet this new interface isn't highly accessible 
 either, which makes the change very very baffling. Buying and selling parts has become a chore, 
 as has equipping thanks to schematics. Now, you must first clone a schematic to customize. Then, 
 you can equip any part that's for sale, but if you don't own the part, obviously you can't use 
 it until you do buy it. So when you equip, you must then buy, or risk forgetting about it. If you 
 don't have the cash, you must hunt down whatever you previously had equipped, and sell it. It's 
 a fairly tricky annoyance to explain, and there is no getting use to it. It is inferior to having 
 a garage and a store though, and that's the bottom line.
  
  Missions of the AC series have long been clones, knock offs, and rehashes of the first game's missions, 
 which it had a lot of, along with lots of variety. If you played AC1, you've played all sequels. 
 Missions are way too short most of the time, and the objectives are pretty meh . But things are 
 nothing new in the AC universe.
  
  Let's skip all the dozens of minor issues of this game and get to the meat: This game controls 
 like ass. AC has always had unconventional controls, but they worked very well for the initial 
 games, and it didn't much change over time (yet newbies and FPS fans would always gripe about them) . 
 So, we got new FPS style controls, and now everyone can see why FPS controls weren't integrated 
 sooner. They are useless in a game requiring the use of so many buttons simultaneously. It was 
 tricky getting use to the usual strafe, look, dash, fire 2 simultaneous weapons, using evasive 
 maneuvers, and managing energy in past games (when the dual weapons were added) , but with the 360 
 control and AC4 schemes, it is impossible thanks to the right stick being a necessity. Using the 
 right stick means abandoning the 4 face buttons, and using those buttons means abandoning the ability 
 to use the stick, which by default means no looking left and right while running and gunning. Controls 
 can be customized, but it is never satisfactory, especially thanks to the zoom/lock-on and manual 
 aim features jammed into the same stick as key movement. Push the button once and lock on to whatever 
 target the damn system wants to grab at the moment. Hold the button, and lose all lock on abilities. 
 Simple enough, but when standing still can get you killed in a matter of seconds, it is an issue. 
 You must stay moving, boost because walking has always been useless in this series, fire weapons, 
 and try futilely to target the one target you actually want to kill, and not distractions. In the 
 heat of intense combat, no joy compares to the lock out sight going out while trying to dodge, 
 fire, conserve ammo, and kill a very powerful enemy. Needless to say, you lose a ton of life having 
 to revert to auto lock and find a target. It's a nightmare of a control scheme that had nice features 
 implemented poorly. No energy wasted boosting on ground is nice, if not baffling. But boosting 
 has become more or less useless compared to the dash boost. It's similar to the ability to walk 
 in games where you spend the entire game running. Walking without boost might as well be scrapped 
 for permanent boost , and the dash boost should replace the actual boost (at least, that's how 
 it would need to work for this game's play speed) . Other nice features like manual aim, were long 
 wanted (like when you want to kill door locks and conserve ammo, but enemies on the other side 
 of the door keep steering your lock elsewhere.) This game ironically has no use for manual and 
 manual was crammed on in the worst place. The only plus of the game is the weapon/part balance, 
 which is much better and the look of the ACs. They've never looked so good or painted up so pretty. 
 Sadly, games looking good does not make them good. Speaking of looking good, the graphics are a 
 love/hate affair. Yes, it al looks decent, but everything is dull and grainy, and the distances 
 between enemies and you is usually so large, you might as well be fighting dots. You really don't 
 see much of enemy ACs you fight, likewise, with enemies you must kill from afar, all you see are 
 target locks, unless you zoom, which detracts from play greatly when your trying to do so much.
 
  
  The game is just too much bad to catch all the details. To sum it up, go find a used copy of AC1 
 and a PS1, and enjoy that. There hasn't been an AC game yet that compares. Other AC games have 
 brought nice new toys and features here and there, yet none of the experiences has matched the 
 interface, story delivery, mission variety, challenge, balance, and fun of the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 4, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I had such anticipation for this game for so long. I loved chromehounds and I thought well this 
 will be a step above it..... WRONG. This game is so boring right from the start. And when the old 
 guy starts to speak in the cinematics none of it makes sense. Its like they tried to add a story, 
 have an old man talking so it sounded like it was great.... well the Whataburger commercial voice 
 doesent work here. The controls are blah, the graphics are really really underwhelming. Dont get 
 me wrong the mech models look nice but that is where it ends. I did not even bother to start a 
 multiplayer game because the single player actually made me wonder what was happening on my local 
 news channel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supervixengirl
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 2, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Armored Core returns with its 12th installemnt in the series as Sega &amp; SOFTWARE release Armored 
 Core 4 . Armored Core 4 gives us a refreshing glimpse into gaming for the next generation consoles.
 
  
  For those who have not been introduced to any previous games, then it is better late than never. 
 In Armored Core 4 we are dropped into an enviroment in a future universe in which a great battle 
 has erupted &amp; corporations battle for control of the world. You can join on of the six corporations, 
 which specialize in different aspects of the realm of battle.
  
  There has been a deeper emphasis put upon the mech battles, alowing for faster paced combat . Armored 
 Core 4 features a system for the customization of ones mech, to set up such aspects as the weaponry, 
 color, schematics &amp; emblem ; which allows for the player to give their mech a touch of their 
 own personalization.
  
  There are 30 different missions that are served up, however keeping with the usual these missions 
 are short, which is a slight downfall in the game, longer missions would give this game a better 
 score from me.
  
  Armored Core 4 offers up crisper graphics than core games before, giving such sleek enviroments 
 for memorable battles.
  
  An online mode is offered for players who want to test theier mech schematics &amp; skills against 
 other core fans as they battle it out in up to 8 player battle modes.
  
  With the new look, better graphics, great soundtrack &amp; voicing, as well as the customizable 
 control setup, this is possible the best armored core game to be released in the series. If you 
 are looking for a game filled with mech action, missiles &amp; tons of fighting then I highly reccomend 
 Armored Core 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCOOTERDUDE
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I think that from what I have seen, this game is a good addition in the whole line of armored core 
 games. It is ultra fun and it is not that difficult to play. I think that some of the missions 
 are easy while other are not. They seem to be either really easy or pretty hard. But, the harder 
 are more fun. The graphics are really good. I think that the have been improved since AC 3. I think 
 that there are a lot of really cool parts that you can buy. But, if you are new to the game or 
 series you may get lost trying to figure out how to buy and put parts on and if you cannot afford 
 the parts. Online play I think is pretty fun. It is fun playing with other people of course. Trading, 
 battling. It is so great. Also, if you are new, you might want to explore the game so you can find 
 the save button. If not, you will be hurting. The storyline is a little confusing to me but hey, 
 what do I know anyway. Beside those certain things, Armored Core 4 is a really sweet game that 
 I think everyone would love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Ive always been interested in mech-combat games but for some reason noone ever seems to get it 
 right. Mechassault for the Xbox1 was the last time i really enjoyed a mech-combat game, and that 
 was a whiiiiile back. The Armored Core series started out as an above-average mech game, giving 
 you intense combat and the ability to dress your mech up to your specifications (almost like the 
 Gran Turismo of Mech games) . Trudging your customized monster in to combat and blowing through 
 enemies was fun if not a little basic in its execution (it was a ps1 game after all) . As the series 
 went on it did almost nothing to re-invent the franchise, no major changes have been made to make 
 the game any more pleasing to look at or fun to play. Well now we are at 4, which means nothing 
 new to the series at all. Graphically it looks okay , the mechs themselves look good enough sporting 
 a decent amount of detail and they move smoothly enough (for a large lumbering chunk of metal) . 
 Where the graphics really show its stinky fumes are the backgrounds and enemies. The levels are 
 very small and confined leaving you not much room to really run around and explore giving the game 
 a WAY too straightforward gameplay experience. The levels are very dull to look at as well, very 
 drab and boring. Buildings and structures look like crap making me think this was a Dreamcast game 
 that got lost for years. Sound-wise.... well there isnt much in that department either that will 
 raise your interest. Music is dull and does nothing to influence the gameplay experience and that 
 girls voice that is constantly ringing in your ears helping you gets VERY annoying after a handful 
 of levels. Good Gameplay is there in small doses. Your mech controls well enough in some areas, 
 as in its easy to get around but when it comes to combat it becomes a little annoying. Left stick 
 moves you forward-back, side to side while right controls your look, BUT you fire with the face 
 buttons X and A, this agrivates me because you have to take your thumb off the right stick to attack 
 which kills your looking and shooting ability, not many games do this and with good reason. Overall, 
 i cant really recommend this game as a buy but definately a rental. Its fun to mess around with 
 cusomizing your mech but its clunky combat controls, dull graphics, and less than cool sound just 
 adds up to a crappy game in a series that needs ALOT of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  When Chromehounds came out, we were dissapointed by sluggish gameplay, and the overall fall of 
 the only mech game on the 360. This game, however, twists this idea greatly. The fast paced combat, 
 with furious mechs blasting across deserts, cities, and in the underground, is a really cool idea, 
 and it's baffling how noone has jumped on the mech game bandwagon. It's just too bad how incredibly 
 short this game is; the load screens are longer than the missions... no joke. In a matter of seconds, 
 you will finish the mission in a ridiculously short time. The simulations, which allow you to pit 
 your mech in a one-on-one battle against another mech, last around thirty seconds, and the longest 
 I have had was about one minute and thirty seconds. The good thing is, there are limitless combinations 
 to your mech. you can make snipers, bladers, gunners, or just extremely fast gunners. Combat is 
 sloppy as well, targeting is incredibly hard, because there is no way to control the reticule, 
 so the best you can hope for is to let slip the dogs of war and pull the trigger like holy hell. 
 Voice acting is nice, but the music is incredibly repetitive, and will get on your nerves.
  
  The graphics are nice, but the special effects are really just lame. People explode... PEOPLE. 
 the explosions just seem lazy, and there aren't even physics applied. The difficulty will bounce 
 from easy to impossibly hard from mission to mission. The A. I. is monumentally stupid, other mechs 
 will run into walls, and sometimes they seem to be too smart to beat. they will zip in and out 
 of your screen, and it becomes impossible to aim at them.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  It's an okay game, but this will last you only about two days. If you want to kill some time, run 
 down to BlockBusters and rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skin_ticket666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  I have one word for this game... AMAZING. i bought this game the day it came out and it hasnt left 
 my xbox yet. the graphics are phenominal and the gameplay is fast. although it is a bit easier 
 than the third one, it is still definitely a challenge once you are past chapters one and two. 
 if you arent a fan of the series, i would suggest renting this game first because it definitely 
 isnt for everyone. armored core 4 or any of the others in the series are nothing like the other 
 mech games such as chromehounds. its extremely fast and pretty much every part is customizable.
 
  
  for the people who have never played an armored core game before, this one would probably be a 
 good one to start with. the first few missions are easy and the beginning has a detailed tutorial 
 to help you through the controls before you get into the real action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well for the good: Lots of explosions to keep you entertained. SO MANY WEAPONS AND PARTS ITS NOT 
 EVEN FUNNY. customize anyway you like. Great graphics. Good sound. Fun online play. Now for the 
 bad: Missions are way too short. ranging from 1min to like 5 minutes. Game is meant for high def. 
 they lowered the complexity from the past games. Ive read some of the reviews before buying this 
 game and it really dissapointed me on how it was rated. But i bought it anyway and i like this 
 game alot. The missions for the most part suck though but if you get addicted to the game it wont 
 matter because you will want to try out your newley customized Mech. The games story is basically 
 you playing a mission and customizing your mech to help you beat the mission which causes alot 
 of changing and retrying. you have your cool mechs to customize parts, weapons, colors, symbols, 
 and more but you only have short little missions to try them out on. The missions are not easy 
 either and are rather difficult if you dont have the right weapons and settings for your mech. 
 The music fits really well with the action and the graphics are stunning. This game deserves more 
 then what it gets online on other websites and is underappreciated. Isuggest renting be4 buying 
 unless you like explosions... everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  As an Armored Core fan since the first PS1 version, I think this is a great addition in the series. 
 The gameplay is fast paced and refreshing. The graphics are very nice, although it can seem like 
 they were slacking while making the environmental mapping from time to time. The sound is good 
 and crisp with great explosive sounds, and the music fits the environment well. This is one of 
 those games that's hard to learn and hard to master. Especially if you're a newcomer to the series. 
 But, once you start getting somewhere in single player, things start to come easy. After beating 
 the game on normal, this game gives a reason to beat the game on hard to earn more FRS memory and 
 parts. I think it's safe to say that hard mode can be very frustrating, so tread softly.
  
  The multiplayer is very fun, even though there isn't very many modes. If you're a fan of the series, 
 the multiplayer modes will probably be much more appealing to you, as well as newcomers if they 
 give it a chance. This game has regulations that are changed as time goes by to balance the gameplay 
 in multiplayer, which is a great feature to keep this games multiplayer going. I found that having 
 more then one AC in multiplayer really helps to keep your interest. This game is very experimental 
 in the terms of your AC, which makes wining feel more rewarding. Just give the multiplayer a chance 
 and I'm sure you'll find it to be quite addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmast885
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  So... I've stated playing Armored Core 4 recently, and I have to say, it's one of the best mech 
 games I've played. However, that's not saying much when compared to all the wonderful Gundam games. 
 I have to say that I love using the boost almost constantly which gives the game a great feel The 
 only problem is that the levels are so confining, not to mention way to short. Once you actually 
 get into action and you're kicking ass, you finish the mission. Then you're like, Well... I won... 
 wish I could've kicked more ass... but I did beat it... Something else to mention is that the game 
 isn't all that difficult. My favorite strategy is to over boost right into their faces and use 
 an energy sword... repeatedly... in the face... Anyways, my violent tendencies aside, I do overall 
 enjoy the game and you can make it harder by doing the hard difficulty which at times seems like 
 too much of a jump. If you want a mech game that's Japanese-esc in it's speed and style, this is... 
 well... pretty much your only choice, but it's definitely worth trying for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Selfdestruct9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Playing Armored Core 4 for me, was really a heart ache. Being a big fan of the series my self i 
 though I'd be in for some mecha destruction with a good and easy interference and menus , and finally 
 get to make my own great kick ass robot. What i got was a clunky menu system that was though up 
 last minute, missions that were quite dull with most of them only lasting less than 3 minutes and 
 my favorite feature, the ability to buy your machines parts easily and a menu that is pretty easy 
 to get yet building your robot is pretty complex, was totally changed for some crappy menu that 
 is so damn horrible it just makes me want to curse, just do your self a feature and pick up Armored 
 Core 3 and think of how 4 should be more like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 36O
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The Armored Core series has been drifting downhill lately. Products like Last Raven and such have 
 been more like expansion packs then full-fledged games. And truly, I as a huge fan, and im sure 
 many others have been waiting for Armored Core to be reborn and finally it seems like the guys 
 down at FROMSOFTWARE have finally hit that mark. To start, the gameplay is fast-paced and full 
 of action and the customization is as good as ever. This is really my favorite as finally I feel 
 like I really am in control of my mech as the controls are top-notch as well. The sound isn't just 
 some sets of techno-beats and such, FROM truly gave a good wack at the music and its still goin 
 strong with me 2 weeks after playing. The sounds and weapons are very authentic aswell. The graphic 
 engine, although no Gears of war, is still very pleasing and contains several awesome effects. 
 The design itself is much-improved and has a dark sense which really sets the tone. The difficulty 
 is a litttle easy, as are the achievements but luckily there is a hard mode that satisfies it more 
 then enough. The online is the best part, you can fight against anyone and everyone with any mech. 
 The weapons and you see and the chaos amidst the battles really is a fantastic feat and like no 
 other game.
  
  If you are a fan of mech games, then you should already be out the door buying this game. And even 
 if your not, I already got 2 of my friends hooked to this game so please give it a try and I bet 
 you will be thanking me later. Armored Core 4 truly delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gene14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets start with the Gameplay:
  
  In the origional games of the series, moving, turning and aiming was a hassle!!! Now, they changed 
 the controls into a first person shooter style scheme. Unfortunatelly, a lot of their formulas 
 collide with each other on the controller, so it doesn't play like a shooter. Sega and Software 
 also removed some of the extreme managment or Radiators and energy management. The removed the 
 radiators all together and added Stability and Tuning upgrades. Making the mech is also easier, 
 the specs of parts are cut down a lot of specifics so you just have to look quickley when making 
 a decision. The amount of parts of course, do not dissapoint. Now lemme hold your hand in making 
 the AC: First you pick the base, which is the head, core, arms, legs, FCS (Fire control system, 
 this helps you aim) , and the generator. Next are the booster, side boosters, back boosters, overboost 
 and main boosters (They added something called Quick Boost, this really increases the already fast 
 gameplay of the game) . Next are the weapons, Left and right arm and back weapons, shoulder weapons 
 and hanger weapons (which are backups) . Next are stability, this simply changes how your mech responds 
 to controls, how they turn, how they boost and how they move. You can do this manually or let the 
 computer do it itself. Next comes tunning, this uses Chips called FRS memory, this is sort of an 
 RPG type thing that increases specific partws of your mechs performances. They also changed the 
 forumal of boosting from previous Armored Cores. Now, if you don't stop boosting, you WILL die. 
 On that note, they removed the hassle of worrying about energy... for the most part. When boosting 
 horizontally, or on the ground, you do not lose energy. You only lose enery when flying vertically, 
 using energy weapons of use overboost. As well your energy never bottoms out, so you don't wait 
 like a sitting duck. They also added a shield, a very neat addition to the game. The shield is 
 made of a new technology, Kojima technology. It uses Kojima Particles to greatly hinder the attack 
 power of weapons, it also adds cool effects around your AC when recharging or getting shot. It's 
 a form of radiation, so in some missions you won't be able to use your Primal Armor (that is what 
 the shield is called) so that you don't causde massive radiation poisoning to the people. Now then, 
 we reviewed building mechs and new features and the removal of olde features. Now onto the most 
 important part ONLINE MULTIPLAYER! First off, the maps are just fine, I don't know why people complain. 
 It's lag free and practically flawless, very simple gametypes though, nothing special... Deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch. I only have one problem, it is that multiplayer is like playing rock, paper, 
 sissors. You have to pray the next person (s) you verse are weak to your weapons, have low AP, low 
 PA, crappy weapons, or anything like that. You basically have to get lucky whith the people you 
 play, because the weapons are NOT BALANCED WELL, you hafta be lucky, as I've said before. That's 
 all for gameplay I suppose... Oh, wait, the story... It's ok, you could follow it better than any 
 other Armored Core game. But some missions are ridiculously easy but some... are ridiculously hard. 
 Now graphics. They are also extremely improved... VERY much improved. Of course, it's not Gears 
 of War, but not bad... Some textures are silly and some views or landscapes are just bland. But 
 they are certainly not bad... (The explosions are SWEET)
  
  The sound, it isn't special, but it isn't bad. It lets you hear what you need from where, especially 
 when you're getting screwed up!
  
  Final Word:
  
  If you're gonna get a game that goes 700+ Kilometers per hour, this should be it. This game is 
 well polished and really will take you in, it will easily take up hours of gameplay just finding 
 the perfect AC. Trading online is also fun. Gameplay is solid, it looks good and always brings 
 you into the game no matter what you're doing. I advise you to pick this game up... AT LEAST rent 
 it for a week or two. (AT LEAST) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IonManV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  I love mech games. This one is no exception. the movement is really fluid compared to the earlier 
 instalments. ( unfortunately this is only realy apparent after customising the controls to your 
 liking. the default set up left me wanting a set of monkey paws so i could have 2 more hands. It 
 took some trail and error.) There are some targeting issues in that you cant select a target and 
 stay focused on it. This, thanks to your new found maneuverability, however is not that big of 
 a deal. Building your AC, is where this game gets watered down. There are far less numbers to worry 
 about. I miss it, but its not really a bad thing. the addition af being able to tune tour AC, with 
 an experience like system is a nice touch.
  its nice to have a grey area around things like weight limits. I dis agree with some of the other 
 reviewer on the game length. after you complete the campaign. you can select the missions on the 
 hard setting. This changes the levels more then most other games. the maps are the same but the 
 opponents are in greater numbers and or of different types and armaments. I had a blast playing 
 on hard mode. also, like the old games, there's 40 Nexts (mechs like youself) you can fight individually 
 to unlock parts The Online Battles are enjoyable, but lack any real depth. They are missing the 
 re-play ability that Chromehounds had. I was really hopeing that From Software would have throne 
 in something similar. All in all.... I've had more fun playing AC4 then any of its older incarnations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is is a pretty fun game, but it still has a lot of problems. On the good side your 
 mech is totally custimizible, if you want legs that move with the grace of a retarted lizard, go 
 ahead! Long have armored core fans yearned for online destruction, well now you virtually slice 
 in half a nine year old kid from New Jersey. There's a variety of areas that you fight in, in campaign 
 mode and along with that there's is some of the best voice acting I've ever heard. But nothing 
 is perfec including this game so now i'll tell you some of it's big faults. Some of the levels 
 are a little hard but most will take you about 3-5 minutes. There can be some frame rate issues, 
 and the enviornments you fight in look like a 2 year olds coloring book, there just plain boring. 
 But warts and all the voice acting, mech custimization, good AI, great mech graphics, and online 
 play this game is pretty darn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippyboy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  AC 4 is an acceptible next - gen sequal to AC, although to be honest its not as good as some of 
 its predecessors, for armored core fans like me you will be dissapointed intially by the lack of 
 varitty in parts and the removal of a lot we were used to ( ie radiators, overheating, EO cores, 
 inside parts, and extensions, although the last two were kind of merged into the sholder part) 
 the missions are little bland, and sometimes starilingly easy, although the game can get addicting 
 for hardcore players ho want every last part and strive for SS completion ranking the hard mode 
 is one of the better feture to the game although the enemies dont get harder the situations do 
 (more enemies, less help, new objectives) this also adds replay value the mutliplayer is fun but 
 gets old quickly because it lacks variety you either play deathmatch or team deathmatch with varing 
 numbers of players ( 2-8 or 2-4 per team) overall i recamend this to people who enjoy fast paced 
 combat and mech titles for those who enjoyed the prior games its a deffinate must have, if you 
 dont fit into either of thes groups you should rent it to see what is about or for a quick 750 
 acheivment points on xbox 360 ( it only took me about a day to get that) if thats what yoour after. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  You might not like but you might like. Its all your choice on the type of games you played if you 
 chromeshounds you like this game. The game good point is the upgrading of your mech. If you dont 
 upgrade it keep it stock you wont be able to complete missions becasue you need a better mech to 
 beat the missons. Basically this game will be either you like it or you hate it plain and simple. 
 That is why I give this game a 7.3 becasue i think it a ok game in some parts and a sucky game 
 in others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  I love mech-combat. I've always been a fan since playing the Battletech table-top game in the early 
 1990's. But the last few mech games on the 360 have left a bad taste in my mouth. Chromehounds 
 had a great idea with an online persistent war, but lacked the fun quality for me. It just felt 
 like I was piloting a beat-up Pinto, and not a high-tech war machine.
  
  Now Armored Core 4 has been released on the 360, and I was hoping it would bring new love to one 
 of my favorite genres. Unfortunately, it falls flat, and to be honest, I'd rather play Chromehounds.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Where to start? The good part is that the mechs in AC4 are much faster, and more responsive than 
 in Chromehounds. But that's about it. Targeting is a huge pain in the ass. It's very difficult, 
 if not impossible to target specific enemies within a group. Therefore, if you want to take out 
 a mech that's surrounded by tanks or helicopters, you need to take most of the weaker enemies out 
 before you can target the real threat.
  
  Although you can customize your mechs, I highly recommend against it because the GUI is so bad. 
 You often times can't tell what type of weapon you're assigning, and weather or not it will be 
 useful in the current mission. Then once you're in the game it's difficult to tell what weapon 
 you're using without firing it, as there's no GUI to say what weapon it is other than the ammo 
 count for it.
  
  The story is barely coherent. Maybe you need to have played the earlier AC games, but if you're 
 new to the series, don't expect to understand anything about the story. It's presented in such 
 abstract cut-scenes that you often have no idea if the narrator is talking about the game, or what 
 he had for lunch. This leads to unclear mission objectives, and frequent replaying of missions 
 that were failed due to having no idea what's going on.
  
  On top of all this, the mission levels are tiny, and over quickly. One mission early in the game 
 had me fly down a sewer type tunnel, and blow up 2 mechs at the other end. That's it! 10 seconds 
 and the mission was over before I knew it. It took longer to load the mission and listen to the 
 objectives than it did to finish it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The videos on the web looked halfway decent, and that's what probably made me try out AC4. But 
 in practice, the visuals are sub-par for 360 standards. Again, on the positive side it's fast-paced, 
 and has nice blur effects. But the textures are terrible. Mechs lack any kind of detail, or markings. 
 Good thing you aren't fighting along side teammates, because all the mechs are grey and feature-less. 
 It's nearly impossible to tell mechs from the surrounding buildings except for the red targeting 
 diamond.
  
  Environments are also bland, and uninteresting. You'll frequently be playing in the same cities 
 and battlefields over and over again. Just fighting different enemies. As mentioned above, the 
 GUI is also terrible. It's difficult to tell what options are available, and further removes the 
 player from the game.
  
  SOUND
  Again, not up to 360 standards. Many of the weapons sound the same, and forgettable. Music is like-wise 
 bland, and forgettable when you do notice it. The voice-overs aren't' bad, but the dialogue is 
 so abstract that it's difficult to tell what's happening, or what needs to be done. Add to this 
 the fact that your mission operator, for lack of a better term, will frequently relay non-essential, 
 or trivial information to you during a mission. I can't tell you how many times I heard her say, 
 you're leaving the mission area! 
  
  VALUE
  I know there's a good game somewhere underneath all the problems with AC4, but I can't seem to 
 find it. This game needs a lot of help, and feels terribly rushed. The achievements are heavily 
 one-sided to the single player game, and most involve something called data packs. I have no idea 
 what this is, and didn't care to find out. There's also a multiplayer mode via Xbox Live. I wasn't 
 impressed with the single player game, so I had no desire to even bother with multiplayer.
  
  I'm sure fans of the series are going to like this game, but if you're not already familiar 
 with the franchise you'll want to make a pass on this game. The Gamespot review said the game was 
 made more accessible to new players, but I found the game to be boring and a chore to play. There 
 aren't many mech games on the 360, but the ones that are available way out class Armored Core 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharris01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I have played every AC game starting with AC2 and have really enjoyed them. I was hoping that with 
 From's entry into the next-gen platform they would fix some problems and really step it up.
  
  Well... they did and they didn't.
  
  Graphics have received a big jump in AC4, but I feel 
 they could've been better. From's Chromehounds had great visuals and AC4 has borrowed heavily from 
 that game (especially in the explosions field) . The main thing that gets me is the lack of high-level 
 anti-aliasing. Jagged edges can be seen all over.
  
  Another big up for this new AC is - finally - online play. Take your best AC into a lobby on Live 
 and wait for the carnage. Surprisingly enough, your best AC is also everyone else's - most people 
 use the same design (more on this later) . Hopefully things will be evened out in an upcoming Regulations 
 release.
  
  This game is very, very short - I mean 4 hours in normal difficulty short. It's a shame since they 
 could've made the single-player so much better. Story play in AC games has never been great, but 
 this is really a let down. The average mission time the game gives you is around 3-4 minutes. The 
 actual time it will take anyone who can somewhat pilot is around 30 seconds to 1.5 minutes.
  
  The biggest complain I have - a severe lack of parts. Because they (From) want to appeal to 
 newer players, they have removed most parts and given a generic flow to building. Not too much 
 fun for any veteran of the games. I mentioned everyone using the same setup in online and this 
 is why. There are 2-3 setups that are just way overpowered, and everyone knows it.
  
  Overall - rent it if you've played the others. Play through it in one night, then play online. 
 You'll probably agree that it's not really worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drewology101
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Well short and sweet cool graphics.. But the weapons you have are great looking and look powerful 
 but there are not .. another game were your weapons shoot B. B.'s and the bad guys are shooting small 
 booms of dead.. lol they out run you out shoot you in every way. The concept is solid and I love 
 mech warrior that is a great game but this just gets you mad.. And the lock on in your robot is 
 a nightmare.. it locks on what it wants and you have no say so.. I even seen my robot switching 
 weapons on its  
 So if you like the armor core fan then you may like it but if you didn't like the other one say 
 away because it is more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixSS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  As a few others have mentioned, Armored Core 4 is a love it or hate it relationship. But that's 
 the way it is with any mech series period. I began my jaunt into mech games beginning with the 
 MechWarrior series for PC. Later, I grew interest in Armored Core with Armored Core 2 for the PS2. 
 It was the first in the series that actually drew me in and had me really wanting to maximize my 
 firepower and to really get good at the game. AC4 unfortunately falls a little short from those 
 in the past for the veteran such as me, but it's still a decent blast'em up. As for a first timer, 
 this would be a great step into the series. AC4 is very pretty. The graphics are an immense improvement. 
 The mechs look fantastic and the explosions, lighting, and other details are well done. Environments 
 are bland but theyve always been this way and most of the time you wont be looking at them. Your 
 focus is directly on your mech and your enemy 99% of the time. For me, this is the type of game 
 where you're in that position on a Sunday afternoon where you want to blow something up, but you 
 don't want to spend all day at it. (Im quite the pyro. Not the burn houses down type of pyro, 
 but the I worship fireworks type of pyro) , so this game satisfies my thirst for destruction.
 
  
  I would say the one downside to AC4 is the missions are indeed short and are sometimes rather frustrating. 
 All in all however, I think thats part of the challenge so its nothing to rip on the game over. 
 Controls definitely take some getting used to. Targeting and switching between weapons has a fairly 
 steep learning curve and in the heat of the battle, you may find yourself confused and frustrated 
 while trying to figure out whether you want to active a shoulder-mounted weapon or the gun in your 
 hand. Thinking quickly and on your feet is what this game is about so it does take practice. I 
 believe the review Gamespot's Tom Margino wrote is more positive than most, but he covers most 
 of the pros and cons pretty well. If you read what They Say you will notice that what one reviewer 
 hates, the next reviewer loves. This goes to prove that this game is strictly an acquired taste. 
 If you absolutely hate mech games, please don't play this and for god's sake do not go out and 
 buy it then write a hateful review.
  
  For series fans, you may be slightly disappointed when compared to previous AC series, but I recommend 
 adding it to your collection. Overall youll be happy with the purchase. For a new comer, I may 
 suggest renting first for a few days to be sure.
  
  PhoenixSS out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platow2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Last Time I played Armored Core was the 2nd game for the PS2. Well a lot has changed since then 
 as the series is looking better and faster then before.
  
  GAMEPLAY- After getting used to the controls after 30 min of playing i found my self mastering 
 my mech making it a effecient killing machine. The action is really fast paced tons of enemies 
 and stuff going on. Missions are pretty simple either protect escort or destroy a target. I found 
 the difficulty very easy at first but once you reach chapter 3 its a whole new ball game. After 
 beating each chapter you unlock more and more parts and mechs. Im 2/3 of the way through chapter 
 3 and enjoying the singleplayer so far.
  
  GRAPHICS- AC4 has pretty good graphics where it counts. I still thought the destruction could of 
 been done better. But the enviroments and mechs look amazing very life like. Explosions look fantastic 
 especially when you unlock the more powerful wide blast raduis weapons. But when fighting in city 
 areas with large buildings I thought the buildings would atleast crumble or explode but nothing 
 but craters and bullet holes can be made whcih I thought was subpar.
  
  SOUND- It has its ups and down but the main sound effects (shooting flying explosions) are all 
 done well. But other things including voice acting and music are just terrible music is slow elevator 
 music which is pretty lame for a high fast paced action game like this Im glad my custom soundtrack 
 is hella bettter then the games music.
  
  OVERALL- Anyone looking for a great action paced game witha decent storyline and length and fun 
 multiplayer AC4 is for you. Though the split screen is really small I found it to still be fun. 
 A good rental and must buy for any mech fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuman231
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is similar to its predecessors. It has the same customability as the first which 
 is my favorite aspect. There is also still a simulator mode which is the same as the arena in the 
 rpevious games. There are also missions which can range from short and easy, to long and hard (teehee) . 
 The multiplayer is very fun, wether its just split screen, system link, or online play. If u werea 
 fan of the original games, you mill definently like this one.
  
  The game has tricky controls, but once u get used to them, they no longer bother you. The are nice, 
 although not exactly next-gen. This game is definently worth its $60 price tag, especially if ur 
 a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixknight08
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, what makes this game so great is the customization. You get to make your own emblem, 
 paint your mech, and have different body parts with weapons.
  
  What is also good is the multiplayer. It's very fast paced and it is very addictive. Even if you 
 lose every match, you won't care because it's just fun blowing each other up. Also, it's not a 
 very easy game and not too hard as well so you'll have fun with this for a while.
  
  The only bad sides I found was the fact that the game was a little too short and the missions were 
 short and didn't have a lot of space. Either way, if you like any kind of shooter, then pick this 
 one up now. This is the best in the series, even though it's the first one I have played, but still. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_of_Contee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core is one of the best Mech serieses on the market and AC4 is no exception. The game starts 
 off a little bit on the wrong foot with the new control scheme for the 360 but once you get used 
 to that you'll be ripping through your opponents. I have yet to sample much of the online play 
 but from what i've experienced be ready to be sent crying to your mother with scrapes on your knees 
 (or in this case on your mech's knees and your thumbs) . The single player is where it's at as it 
 has been with all of the other million entries into this series. This game is most rewarding after 
 you get through the initial learning curve, which afterwards you'll find yourself craving it and 
 (in my case) coming down AC Fever. The real bottom line of this game is that it's not for the weak 
 minded, thumbed, or hearted. This game should only be played by series fanboys (or girls) or people 
 who want to spend a butt load of hours customizing tweaking and blowing up their mech. I'd say 
 give it a week of rental and you'll be hooked.
  
  The final not is that if first you don't succeed, don't get frustrated, just drop the controller, 
 eat something, then come back to recalibrate your mech and go at it again. (wow that was longer 
 than i thought) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damage21x
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I've heard of the seires but never actually played the other games. Being a long time MechWarrior 
 fan, MechAssualt fan, and Anime fan. This game is a huge breather from GEARS. Let me start off, 
 if you do not have patience to learn then this game is not for you. The control shceme is a leaning 
 curve in itself. The triggers are your boost. Left for long boost and right for quick boost. For 
 those used to first person shooters, this will be awkward. The bumpers are for changing weapons 
 from hand to back, left and right. The face buttons are for firing and over boost. The controller 
 config can be changed. Unfortunantly you can't map any of the buttons to the useless directional 
 pad which would have been nice to those die hard Robotech: Battlecry vets out there. Moving on, 
 when you've finally chosen your AC (Armored Core) you'll be able to navigate through your various 
 game menus. Some are repetative but I guess are neceassary. The most confusing menu would have 
 to be the ACSIS Menu. This is where you buy, sell and change parts. And it only gets confusing 
 when buying and selling parts. When you equip a part, you haven't purchased it yet. You have to 
 press the X to bring up the purchase dialouge box to either sell or buy your item. If you only 
 equip parts, upon leaving the ACSIS menu you'll be prompted to purchase all the parts you've equiped 
 and it dosen't show you what your purchasing. This can get a lil frustrating specially for newcomers 
 with lil or no funds. You can't exit the ACSIS menu until the AC is equiped with valid parts.
 
  
  Gameplay - Fast. And I Mean Fast. Guessing why the boost features are allocated to the triggers. 
 FIrst set of missions are quick and painless but as you progress in the game missions become difficult 
 by cutting manuverability to small spaces and adding more ememies. Graphics - Yes, I'll have to 
 say it too, the enviroments look a lil bland. So. The action is so fast that you hardly even notice. 
 All you really see is your AC, your target, and the explosion after you've eliminated it. And that 
 is what it is all about.
  
  Sound - The FX part is a 10, the music on the other hand shouldn't really matter considering you 
 can have your own custom soundtrack playing.
  
  Online Muliplayer is great but needs some tuning. Considering how you've built your mech it can 
 be fun or frustrate you.
  
  All in all this game is a great edition to your 360 collection. I assure you have no game that 
 comes close to this, at least as far as mech sims go.
  Try it, like it. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deatonis
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, Incomplete, Underappreciated. 
  
  Sums it up for this game. Its amazing and the action they instilled in this title is a drastic 
 change to their other titles and a good one. The story is good but only true ac veterans will understand 
 it. Personally people just dont grasp this game enough to properly get it, its alot deeper then 
 the action or the top soil story. The missions ranged and mostly it depended on your play style 
 and mech type, some were very short though some long, and some seemingly unbeatible. You truely 
 have to be an ac vet to unleash the hidden potential in this game. But other then that its perfect 
 it can be used by first timers and has that glorious mech feel to it. But.. i also feel they stepped 
 back slightly. The indepth customization with the parts is still mostly there and you can customize 
 from parts, but theres a huge lack of parts in this game, but in its place a new tuning and stabilizer 
 scheme which is by far the most underused part of the game but its amazing the depth it adds. Something 
 else that bothers me is the online. Something that they did right in chrome hounds was have squad 
 voice and squads. In Ac? No squads and a universal chat. Its impossible to plan a strategy. However 
 this game was made more for action, but i would of enjoyed seem the two pieced together. The story 
 is alittle short but thats because they have a hard more, i believe they could of pieced it all 
 together alittle better though, but i loved it. The sniper weapons are not sniper like at all and 
 the heavy mechs dont act like heavy mechs and the blades get abit wierd. : ( I really wish they 
 would add it in ranked that after a certian amount of matches you get parts and set ranked up with 
 an arena option like in the old acs, and maybe a flamethrower part. ftw. As well as more maps, 
 etc.
  Other then those few things theres not much wrong with this game and its getting underrated reviews. 
 I hope they fix those things in the next installment of ac, every one email sega. :P
  
  ::Btw spoiler so people understand the story.::
  
  You're the original raven who was sent to 
 mars from earth (ps-ps2) , then the technology soars on mars in what seems a revolution, however 
 corporations join up and start looking more to old mars tech and tech that leads up to what will 
 be the kojima tech in ac4. Then they begin imposing maritial law abusing their technology, first 
 by acs and weapons. Then a machine that was made to control society, nexus. Then there was some 
 minor outbreaks of fighting and after 9 breaker was created, which was to be a weapon of war and 
 a means to control society. The mech at the end of ac4 is the mech that helps you kill 9 breaker 
 and repairs its self using parts from that machine after he's left by the corp you work for, for 
 dead. The woman who gives you missions is the same one that has been doing so thats why it seems 
 there is a connection, because their is. The narrator is the leader of corp you work for. Thats 
 the story outline in a nutshell.
  
  Conclusion::
  Overall i hope they use what they did as a stepping stone and make a good game even better and 
 since theres marketplace they actively can. I just wish theyd do more with what they have and people 
 would see the potential in this game. Otherwise its amazing and i hope they keep it up. Thanks 
 for reading this extra long review. And enjoy an awesome game.
  Ps: I take challenges (GT: Deatonis) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroncali
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. It is Much more pick-upable (is that even a term?) than Chromehounds and 
 the fast paced combat can get your heart pumping.
  
  Only thing lacking is the multi player function that Chromehounds had.
  Fixed the only thing 
 I thought was wrong with Chromehounds and that is the slow combat. Graphics are amazing and the 
 sound adds much to the experience.
  
  Boosting and flying around are way fun and the copious amounts of explosives is defiantly a welcome 
 feature.
  
  Defiantly not for everybody so rent it first.
  
  But if you want fast paced mech combat this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wellfedmonkey
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I know its probably stupid to compare the 2 titles but since its from the same developers I fail 
 to see where AC4 is anything next gen. Its the same AC with an awesome framerate, HD graphics and 
 great sound. I loved Chromehounds and still play it quite a bit with my squad. The customization 
 of your Hounds is a mech lovers dream. Most people who get past the first couple of hours with 
 it get hooked!
  
  AC4 on the other hand boasts the exact same gameplay of its predesessors which I feel is very dated. 
 Lets start with missions. OMG!!! There horrible in the since of it literally takes you 30sec. - 
 1min. to beat them. Ok so there are a couple missions that last longer than a minute and go for 
 3 min. WOW! Some are VERY simple fly around everything and kill a certain enemy. Others are trial 
 and error. Some are timed based in you have to kill a ceratin amount of enimes before time expires. 
 WOW! Wash and repeat. Most times the mission briefing is longer than the mission.
  
  *spoiler example*
  Last level of chapter 2 they have this cinematic of a AC unit thats under 
 controll of some guy who has psychic powers and who can manipulate his AC unit better than most. 
 Blah blah blah hes a hero of the land. This goes on for about 2 minutes. Then it tells you to stop 
 a convoy coming your way and to watch out for him. You get all fired up with that pre boss battle 
 excitement and launch into the level only to have it end in 30sec. Yup thats right 30 sec. if that 
 long. I jumped out destroyed the convoy which was a small jeep and the level was over. They got 
 me all excited for some crazy AC unit with psychic powers and it never showed up. The presenation 
 is awesome and unlocking mechs is about the only reward thats seems more satisfying than actually 
 playing the game. Multiplayer was to laggy and was about as fast as single player unless you run 
 and hide somewhere. I found it to be a little fast and sparatic for miy tastes. I like to plan 
 my stradegy not just smash buttons because of easy lock ons. I know Im gonna get bashed on this 
 review by the fans cause they love to come in to these reviews and put down anybody who doesnt 
 like the games they do so Ill just end it like this...............
  
  AC4 is a very forgettable game. A rental at best more or less cause the achievements are easy to 
 get. This game will be cheap in a few months cause word is spreading very fast on how crappy it 
 is. I think GS gave a gratious score not to let fans down to much but Im not gonna lie. Its not 
 worth $60. After its initial opening cinematic, the game falls right on its face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3DN1N3
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Like the title says it's a pretty dissapointing game to play. I got this thing on day 1 believing 
 I had in my hands a game that would surpass ChromeHounds in gameplay and multiplayer in everyway.... well.... that 
 wasn't partially true. It's single player mode is fairly interesting when compared to ChromeHounds 
 but still didn't capture my attention. I figured it would get better with the Multiplayer but that's 
 where it goes downhill fast. The garage system is piss poor. Not only can't u build a much from 
 the ground up but u can't even view the damn thing most of the time. They come in already pre-built 
 only letting u change it's weapons and paint job... whoop de doo... Anyways, multiplayer is bad, 
 it's only 4 vs 4 and the fights are too fast. All your basically doing is strafing like crazy and 
 holding down the fire button because it Auto Targets . Once you start getting into the game your 
 mech will run out of energy much like the mechs in LOST Planet and once it goes to Zero it's game 
 over for u. Sorry no respawning here, u just gotta watch the rest of the players fight...... unless 
 your a fan of Armored Core or just want something fast without having to think about what to put 
 together then I would recommend you NOT get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinnenicus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  I've played and loved Armored Core since the demo release I got in a PlayStation magazine of the 
 very first Armored Core. I've played and owned utterly beaten every game in the series (released 
 to America) that has come out to date. So yeah, I knew what to expect from this game, a not-so-good 
 storyline, bad voice acting, but some cool custom mechs. This game proved to be a little more than 
 what I expected it to be, and did not leave me disappointed in most areas.
  
  Gameplay 7.6
  - Storyline 6.5 - The storyline in comparison to the other games definitely took 
 a step up. The voice acting of the narrator in the between chapter cut-scenes and of the character 
 who assigns you your missions was actually very good. That alone seemed to give Armored Core 4 
 far more depth than any of the previous games in the series. The voice acting from some of the 
 enemy ACs/NEXTs however, were still pretty cheesy. The actual plotline of the game still seemed 
 full of holes. Many unanswered questions, very simple; youre a mercenary hired by the mysterious 
 narrator who then passes orders to your female commander (note that there is a slight hint off 
 affection in her for you) , who then issues those orders to you. You go out and crush key enemy 
 forces and facilities.
  
  - Missions 7.5 - Like anyone else will tell you, the missions are very short, and are either very 
 easy or very hard. There aren't really any missions with medium difficulty, and most are easy.
 
  
  - Customization 9.5 Awesome. I'm not really too sure what GameSpot was talking about with the reduced 
 complexity. There are three major things that make the customization in AC 4 stand out from the 
 other AC games.
  
  --1. Tuning - Instead of using Optional Parts you have FRS Memory points which you use to make 
 small but noteworthy adjustments to your AC. A great change, I think. You can adjust your AC and 
 give it a small boost in something it may lack. Want to equip a cool gun but it makes you just 
 a few points too heavy? Do you not lock on fast enough? Need more energy output? Things like these 
 and many other various problems/complications can be tuned out or toned down so they don't affect 
 you as much.
  
  --2. Stabilizers - A somewhat realistic addition to the Armored Core series. Ever see an AC with 
 humanoid biped legs is armed with weaponry on its back so huge it looks like it should fall over? 
 Well now AC's are penalized for doing things like that. And you have to equip stabilizers to counter 
 the weight imbalances. However using stabilizers have penalties of their own, just not as great 
 as being off balance. I have yet to test my theory to see if you can use stabilizers to reduce 
 recoil from firing.
  
  --3. Heavily Armed Lightweight ACs - Something that was harder to do in the older games is easier 
 in AC4. I have constructed 3 mechs so far that are very heavily armed but are still in the light-medium 
 weight range. I have yet to find a need or use for heavy weight, heavily armed, damage tanking 
 ACs.
  
  Something that is still the same is that the fast aerial combat types that can still pack a punch 
 almost always win against heavier ACs, especially now in AC4. It's easier to dodge attacks, and 
 it's also now also easier to pack that punch.
  
  - Item Selection 8.0 - Very simple, and one of the things that disappointed me. There does seem 
 to be as many AC parts and weapons to choose from in this game compared to the older games. But 
 for you non-vets out there, the item selection is still a broad one. - Computer A. I. 6.5 - Well, 
 enemy AC's don't get stuck, I did trick one into wasting all it's ammo on a wall, however. That 
 made him a very easy kill. Not much to say about it, expect that it's pretty basic. If it sees 
 you, it shoots you. You don't have to worry about it having any tricks up its' sleeve, there are 
 none. Just remember that they sometimes hit harder than they look. Enemy ACs/NEXTs however will 
 hunt you to the ends of the earth, or in this game's terms, the edge of the combat zone. - Multiplayer 
 7.5 - Pretty basic but still fun. 1v1, 2v2, 4v4, 4&amp;8 player Battle Royal
  
  Graphics 7.6
  - Armored Cores/NEXTs 8.5- All the models look very nice.
  - Normals &amp; MTs 
 4.0 - Better than the last games but still pretty poor.
  - Water, Smoke, &amp; Explosions 8.5 - Three things that awe most people in a videogame, and they 
 all look nice here. Water splashing could be improved though. especially when it's your AC hitting 
 it.
  - Collision Detection 8.0 - Like GameSpot says, it's good but with typical screw-ups (Feet clip 
 into hills, guns through walls, etc.)
  - Levels (Single &amp; Multiplayer) 6.5 - The great outdoors looks nice, trees and buildings could 
 use some work though. All but one of the indoor levels seem very plain (the tunnel level where 
 you have move fast or get run over looked good) .
  - Visual Effects 10.0 - The heat blur on desert levels is beautiful.
  
  Sound - 7.3
  - Music 
 8.0 - The soundtrack is very good, but the selection must be small because I hear the same songs 
 a lot. - Sound Effects 7.0 - Good, but nothing to be excited about.
  - Voices 7.0 - Excellent. As I stated earlier, the voice acting in comparison to the old games 
 has greatly improved. On an all-in-all basis I would say that it is some of the better voice acting 
 I've heard in games.
  
  Value - 8.1
  - Worth Buying? 8.5 - Vets, you know the answer to this question. Newcomers, if you like mech games, 
 fast-paced action shooters, big explosions, and extensive customizations. Yes, buy it. If you're 
 not sure, rent it. This game either sticks or it doesn't, simple as that.
  
  Replay Value 7.7- Big killer for the old games because for most it's hard to find people to try 
 out you mech against. If you don't have Xboxlive and no local friends who also play the game, its 
 replay value will die as soon as you've gotten all the parts and beaten every mission on hard mode. 
 But for those of us with Xboxlive, testing out the mech you just built or the sheer fun in dominating 
 the arena in your AC goes a long way. A very long way.
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  My overall experience with the game is excellent despite its lack in few areas. I had fun beating 
 the game, and will continue to enjoy it in both singleplayer and multiplayer for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sameiamcramram
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Deep gameplay, uninspired missions. all the fun is packed in to getting the unique achievements 
 defeating data packs and multiplayer. Super deep combat system that will always be fresh and fun 
 as well as a very deep custamizeable system.
  
  
  My controls
  
  MOVE
  move forward = Left stick up
  move backward = left stick down
  sidestep right = left stick 
 right
  sidestep = left stick left
  
  SIGHT
  look up = right stick up
  look down = right stick down
  reset view = x
  turn right = right stick right
  turn left = 
 right stick left
  
  BOOST
  boost = LT
  over boost = y
  quick boost = push down on left stick
  
  WEAPON 1
  use right weapon = RT
  use left weapon 
 = push down right stick
  use shoulder weapon = b
  switch right weapon = RB
  switch left weapon = LB
  
  LOCK
  lock on target = a
  switch target mode = hold a
  
 
  dont tell the ps3 kids : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripfire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  So as we have all seen, the big time game sites have been giving this one pretty low scores. Don't 
 let them fool you, this game is packing more heat than observed.
  
  Armored Core has been around for a long time, and it survives for a reason. It's not as popular 
 in the states as it is over seas. I would say traditionally Americanized mech games differ from 
 their over seas counterparts.
  
  AC4 has a great anime style to it, it's extremely fast paced reflex action, and the customization 
 options are among the best.
  
  The graphics are great in my opinion, again in terms of style the cores look slick, and the filters 
 they use in a lot of the levels give it a nice gritty feel. Some of the maps are indeed plain, 
 and lack some detail, but overall your usually paying more attention to the action to notice. Speaking 
 of the action, if your a fan of Macross or other anime mecha then this is your game, the fire fights 
 are very enjoyable. Dodging multiple incoming missiles and gun fire at high speeds, it's a lot 
 like playing After Burner but being allowed to move around a lot more.
  
  You can re play a lot of the action over and over, and you even have a instant action mode were 
 you can fight against some of the enemies you fought in the single player, so the game has a a 
 lot of options if you want a quick fire fight.
  
  Sound effects are average, nothing major, but they get the job done. The music works well, the 
 main theme song is amazing.
  
  My complaints would be that the mission style story progression is kind of weak, but does offer 
 for great replay value. The multi player map selection is really non existant, same goes for game 
 play modes. I'm kind of surprised that From Software who made Chrome Hounds which had great multi 
 player, lacked on the multi in this one. On the flip side multi player combat is pretty intense, 
 the sheer speed of the game makes it a great challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machiko_Mech
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The Armored Core series has always maintained a level ofimpenetrability, making it fairly inaccessible 
 to new players. While Armored Core 4 takes a few steps in the right direction as far as letting 
 in newcomers, it ultimately falls short in that regard. Though its flaws dont cripple the game, 
 they definitely serve in killing off a good deal more fun than you could otherwise be having.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, its received a major overhaul from previous installments, as is befitting 
 a next-gen title. While they are next-gen in quality, they do seem to err on the lower end of the 
 visual quality spectrum. The draw distance is decent, and the poly count on the mechs themselves 
 makes them look fairly impressive. While the backgrounds cant be spoken of so highly, they arent 
 terrible.
  
  The controls are tight, and very comfortable. Theyre also easy to get used to, making them ideal 
 to getting into what the franchise has to offer. On occasion however, it seems like you just cant 
 play well enough, regardless of how well a handle you have on the controls, or how good an understanding 
 you have of what action is taking place around you. The aberrant an unpredictable difficulty can 
 sometimes act as something of a deterrent as far as continuing play is concerned.
  
  The story isvague. A solid-enough premise (which can only be properly gleaned through wikipedia 
 rather than through playing the game) is poorly put forth along with loosely described story happenings 
 from chapter to chapter. Youre almost better off not paying attention at all.
  
  Though when put together, all the elements dont make a great game, they do manage to scrape together 
 a title that can offer up a decent number of really fun moments. Hopefully future titles can expand 
 upon a game that has offered up a decidedly more solid base than its predecessors have really 
 been able to put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core, from developer From Software, started out as a cool new series where it was giant 
 robots killing each other much along the lines of those of Gundam and such (minus the crappy anime) 
 but quickly grew stale after awhile each entrance failed to bring something new in. Does AC4 bring 
 in and rejuvenate this old series? Always known for being complex with abbreviations that no one 
 really knew what they stood for, AC4 is aimed at making it less complex and more user friendly, 
 appealing to the masses rather then the fanbase it has built up and kept over the years. I myself 
 has been an on and off fan of the series. Always known for the cool intros, AC4 delivers in that 
 part with awesome graphics and sound. How do the in-game graphics fare? A much needed makeover 
 is greatly appreciated here. Particle and NEXT (the mechs in this game) models look great, and 
 so does the water. Environments (mainly the buildings) are pretty plain, but no complaint especially 
 when you're fighting in the futuristic desert plain of White Africa with the wind blowing in your 
 face and the dust kicking up. Gameplay takes awhile to get used to. In the beginning it might feel 
 a bit clunky and convoluted (the tutorial tries to be helpful but in the end keeps a lot of things 
 to itself) but after a few experiments you'll get used to it and find what weapon combos work best 
 for you. Another core element of the series is the customizing options and AC4 delivers. Hundreds 
 of parts and weapons to choose from to make your ultimate dream machine of death and destruction, 
 not to mention tons of emblems and color sets and patterns to coat your NEXT in (much like From 
 Software's Chromehounds) . Missions are short, sometimes fun sometimes boring as hell. But everytime 
 you get the rush of fighting another NEXT, it feels so satisfying when you finally defeat your 
 foe. However, NEXT fights are usually towards the end of each chapter, and most missions will require 
 you to kill some stuff boring like... helicopters. Yeah that's right helicopters. Why the hell 
 would I waste my time with some standard helicopter that I destroy in 1 hit when I could be exchanging 
 plasma blasts with an enemy LINX? Sound, music is barely noticible, but if you listen it's pretty 
 nice, usually dramatic orchestra music or some decent J-Rock/Pop (dunno whatever its called) . Game 
 does have multiplayer, but I haven't got to that. Look forward to that section sometime later. 
 All in all, definite fun and big improvement (finally) look foward to what From Software does with 
 the next entry in this series, hopefully it looks like this series is finally going to leave it's 
 mark on the gaming world for not being a mech-version of the stale dynasty warriors. MULTIPLAYER 
 REVIEWED: Multiplayer... standard match types and fairly medium sized arenas to duke it out in. 
 Some problems here, mainly that simple things such as NOT BEING ABLE TO SEE WHO'S BEING THE JACKASS 
 IN THE LOBBY. Anyways... its basic multiplayer... fun for a lil and adds a little more play time 
 value but I doubt you'll be spending your time too much in this area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rfry08
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is the one of the must own games for the 360 so far, the gameplay and graphics are top 
 notch (graphics for 360 version better that ps3) , the controls of this complex war machine is easy 
 to handle and intuitive, the online portion shines with its infinite customization. its all about 
 making an AC and going at it with other ppl.... best mech combat game to date.!! this game is well 
 worth the wait... the 360 version is better than the ps3 in terms of graphics and the fact that 
 the 360 verion supports voice chat unlike the ps3 counterpart. just do your self a favor and go 
 out and pick up this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXMoNkEy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Now, theres a problem right there. When i start on a few levels, either the sky was too bright, 
 or the ground was to dark (water) . They gave the game a great look, but i dont like it. The gameplay 
 is what excites me, and its the only thing that gives the great a score of 8.6 from me.
  
  The Pros: Great gameplay, the games gameplay is extremely fun when you can see your opponant clearly.
 
  
  The Cons: To dark, to light, can't really adjest that. I've failed a few missions, and the game 
 has a few glitches.
  
  Overrall, the game is fun, its just not enjoyable when you can't see your opponants. The multiplayer 
 is extremely fun to, fighting teams of 4v4 with experianced players is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cccarrer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  When you open the box prepare to love or hate this title. Awesome, but not for everyone.
  
  There are a few things that need to be discussed when looking at AC4. Seeing how it is now the 
 11th game in the Armored Core series, and the first on the 360, fairness needs to be considered. 
 Judging from both AC game and general gaming standpoints this review tries to balance the good 
 and the bad with what you'll face in AC4.
  
  Today's standardsfor great games: Graphics, Gameplay, Sound, Story.
  
  Graphics:
  On a platform 
 that delivered Gears of War and GRAW, Armored Core may look a little dated. That is, before you 
 realize the SCALE of things. Many reviews cry out about the bland look to the environments, what 
 isn't being taken into account is the reality of the scope of the game. Granted you are not going 
 to see the faces of infantrymen or the blades of grass from the seat of your 65 foot tall mech. 
 Too many have been spoiled by foliage and up-close details of recent games. Ooh, look I can see 
 the guy's sweat. From sixty feet up, the guy looks like an ant. All the VFX are done well, with 
 the exception of some of the clip distances. Maps like Arial Interdiction need to be rethought 
 or scrapped from the game. When visibility is low, having mission goals beyond the clip plane makes 
 no sense. Searching frantically for an obscured target in an enemy filled sky is a matter of trial 
 and error.
  
  Gameplay:
  The original Control scheme is clumsy and awkward. Wait! Look! It is fully customizable! On the 
 same scale of the previous games (Nexus and Last Raven) the controls can be fined tuned for however 
 you wish to play. I must say that the responsiveness in the controls has gone way up since Last 
 Raven, as now you can keep enemy lock. The controls are perfect for the overall game simply due 
 to the incredibly short mission length. With timeouts after 200 seconds on most maps it seems that 
 getting things done correctly and quickly is the overall goal. Accuracy is paramount as is decisiveness. 
 If you have ever picked up an AC game before this will feel familiar. New changes keep things fresh, 
 the junking of the Coolant system, so enjoy boosting all over the place.
  
  Sound:
  Perfect. Everything sounds big as it should. Each weapon type has it's own distinct sound and each 
 weapon is so detailed that you can differentiate each model. Music was cleaned up for this title, 
 ditching the techno Ace of Bass simplistic tracks for a more orchestral / choral sound. This makes 
 matches dramatic, some score even make you want to stop the game and just listen. Story:
  An Armored Core game. It needs very little to justify the use of giant robots. If you really think 
 about the benefits of using a Core in combat you'll see that a 65 foot tall sniper or scout makes 
 no sense whatsoever. So, resource battles, giant bugs, whatever you get to blow things up in a 
 stylized fashion that puts slow grinding mech games to shame. You'll see that this game follows 
 the same conventions as other AC titles as well as any MECH series. If stories had to be realistic 
 and accurate we would miss out on all the fun of imagining the large robot. Example: Mech ping 
 pong isn't rational but it is cool. (No Pingpong in AC, but in Full Metal Panic you can see what 
 I mean) If you can't follow the story, don't worry... the best part is what you do with the game, 
 blow things up, fly around and feel nearly invulnerable. Tilt:
  I'll admit, I'm a fan of the AC series, but I'm also looking at this game in comparison as to what 
 the 360 has to offer now. This is a lone wolf game in that you don't depend on braindead AI to 
 help you through the levels, you don't worry about physics because Giant Robots aren't the fastest 
 thing on the planet and you may nitpick about the missions arcade length duration all you want 
 but the addictive episodic nature will make you want to go one level further. As an AC game: Outstanding. 
 As a Third person shooter, adventure, simulation, sandbox game: what the hall are you thinking? 
 This game is not for everyone, but if you want to be the best pilot and operate lightning fast 
 multiweapon platforms that may never exist, this is right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcwise
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely a great looking game, and while the graphics definitely look next gen some of 
 the other features haven't been advanced at all and some have actually suffered. The multiplayer 
 is alright, but just throwing mechs at each other gets repetitive after a while... something the 
 makers of Chrome Hounds are have a lead in. The storyline is still the same old Armored Core, meaning 
 that there's a big world out there, but you only get snippets of it during mission briefings and 
 it makes the story completely superfluous. The mechs look awesome and a high speed one with good 
 maneuverability feels almost like a living thing. For some reason I also haven't figured out yet, 
 sometimes in the middle of a fight my targeting assist comes undone and I have to try and hit another 
 high level mech that's darting around at 200 mph. Another downside is that the mechs are also hard 
 to tune largely due to the bad garage, many parts are initially unavailable and there isn't a good 
 way to know what parts you actually have without going into the little buy/sell pane. Build a mech 
 is completely unintuitive, it's like they shut their testers up in a room for 2 months and didn't 
 listen to their first two weeks griping about this. Maybe Microsoft will take the good points from 
 Armored Core 4 and Chrome Hounds and create a beautiful bastard MechWarrior 87 or whatever number 
 they're on now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surdanis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment in the Armored Core series seems to hit it just about spot on, if not a 
 little off to the left. You star as yet another lonely mercenary in the backdrop of the usual corporate 
 warfare, though this time around the context is the aftermath of a massive war that destroyed nation 
 states throughout the world, leaving six mega-corporations in charge. As always, you don't get 
 to see what your pilot looks like -- or anyone else, for that matter, keeping the focus on the mech 
 or Armored Core itself. As a Next pilot, you control the latest generation of AC's equipped with 
 a direct neural interface, allowing for unprecedented control of your mech.
  
  And it shows: LIke never before, the pace of the game is fast and furious, with enough hairy, kinetic 
 combat to keep you on your toes for hours on end. This sequel introduces a new innovation -- the 
 Quick Boost or QB -- which allows for a short burst of speed to dodge incoming attacks in any of 
 the four cardinal directions on the horizontal plane. Unfortunately, the designers failed to increase 
 the turning speed of the mechs, which any die-hard AC fan knows is a general pain in the backside 
 when strafing and firing. But for now, the QB. along with the extension of booster flight duration 
 by a factor of ten, and the removal of energy loss when firing energy weapons, more then makes 
 up for this!
  
  The missions are pretty basic and static; absent are random mission generation and full-on good 
 story, as is the standard in the series. Divided into chapters with cutscenes in between narrated 
 by a Picard wannbe, the majority of the missions task you with destroying various targets, and 
 a handful have you defend targets. Targets include various low-end mechs, such as MT's (Muscle 
 Tracers, the simplest of mechs -- though they are not mentioned by name) and Normals, which happen 
 to AC's of the previous generation (apparently without QB installed, making them easier to hit) . 
 The mission against Nexts are always fun, as they come with more flavor since the enemy taunts 
 you and always has something to say when his AC goes silent. 
  
  Mission difficulty has a wide range, though it generally gets very hard very quickly. However, 
 your mech design has a direct impact on how well you do in a mission, so you may have to experiment 
 with various AC's before you get the right one that does the trick. To add to the mix, you are 
 without a waypoint for your objectives, and so you must rely on a smattering of information in 
 the briefing or the typical enemy in sight cue from your female mission observer, who is hardly 
 specific. That omission from previous games, coupled with the lack of any accessible map, may ramp 
 up frustrations. Missions that have been completed may also be replayed in Hard Mode for extra 
 cash, playability, and more. Besides missions, you can also participate in mock arena battles against 
 one AC in a virtual reality simulator. The AC's are packaged in data sets. Completion of these 
 data sets leads to various rewards. Both missions and simulator matches may award you with parts 
 and more.
  
  AC design integrates the assembly and purchasing modes of prior versions into one system, which 
 is convenient, if not a bit confusing for the less intuitive gamer. One review I read stated that 
 you had no idea how much your new mech design would cost until you had finished building it, and 
 that you would more often than not be stuck with no idea what part had to be purchased if you didn't 
 have enough funds! Rest assured, however, that this is not the case, and you need simply press 
 the right key to purchase the part and equip it. Each page in the game has its own key guide to 
 keep you informed of what you can do there. A finished AC is saved as a schematic, of which you 
 can store many.
  
  Gone are the optional parts of the previous versions, though AC 4 keeps part tuning, which, as 
 the game progresses gets more desirable. This is because the ability to tune parts is linked with 
 the availability of points that are awarded for completing certain chapters or data sets. There 
 are some 300 points that you can use to upgrade anything form turning speed to firing precision.
 
  
  And then wehave the aspect of multiplayer gameplay: There is regular split-screen and LAN gaming 
 or you can duke it out online. While AC fans have been clamoring for this feature, I feel that 
 this is perhaps the biggest disappointment. After playing Chromehounds, I was left with a great 
 anticipation of similar online play in which you could participate in a global conflict. But alas, 
 we are left with the minimal of arena games. Instead of merely one-on-one matches, you can, however, 
 face multiple opponents, which is a plus. Options include team-based play and the free for all 
 action of the Battle Royal. Up to 8 players can participate in any match, and there are even mandatory 
 ranked matches complete with a leader board. The big plus here is the ability to trade schematics 
 online with other players -- if they're willing to give up their trade secrets, that is.
  
  The graphics heightened greatly in this one, too, taking advantage of the newest console's computing 
 power. While not quite as super-detailed as Armored Core's sister game, Chromehounds, it has its 
 own darker look and feel to it. And a few missions are even night missions, but unlike Chromehounds, 
 you are left without a suitable night vision or flare system, forcing you to rely on your own targeting 
 system. Overall, the game looks fantastic, with many new fantastic AC parts to choose from for 
 the perfect look you desire. However, the catalogue of parts isn't as long as Armored Core 2 or 
 3.
  
  The soundtrack is epic, being reminiscent of Carl Orff's Carmina Burana. It comes complete with 
 ethereal choir vocals. One gripe, however, is the repetitive nature of the soundtrack. It seems 
 like every time I fight a Next, I hear that same Orffesque song, which is ok. But if they even 
 bothered to make each Next with its own special voice-over, surely, they could have composed a 
 theme song for each one!
  
  At least on the Xbox 360, the controls aren't as quirky as the PS2's versions of the game. I could 
 go on and on about how QB is just awesome, but the way the developers integrated it into the contorl 
 system is just mind-boggling. This is because the default button for QB is the right trigger, where 
 the primary weapons would normally be; on the Xbox 360 controller, weapons fire is controlled by 
 the X, A, and B buttons. The QB dodge should have been accessible through a double tap on the left 
 thumb stick, freeing up the right trigger. Consider the implications of this fact when you try 
 to speed boost (controlled by the left trigger) , quick boost, and fire all the same time: So that's 
 two index fingers on the triggers, two thumbs on the thumb sticks, and... my tongue on the A button?
 
  
  All in all, Armored Core 4 has a great deal of potential, and I wait with bated breath for the 
 improvements to come in the next one. The developers could have made some beneficial tweaks here 
 (the soundtrack) and there (the controls) , but the design is eminently streamlined and easily accessible 
 to the initiate player. While the learning curve does steepen beyond the first few missions, enough 
 time and practice can make even the greenest of pilots into a decent one. Just remember that your 
 play style and AC may not always match the mission at hand. Each AC is a work of art, and piloting 
 one is like driving a Ferrari with guns -- lots of guns. I've got my keys. Where's yours? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berto628
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Allow me to preface this review by saying that I began playing Armored Core when it was in its 
 first iteration on the PSOne, and continued to play it up until Armored Core 3 on the PS2. Fans 
 of the series know that AC3 was not actually the third game... it's more like the fifth or sixth. 
 AC4 is the first AC game that I have played since AC3. All of the AC games follow basically the 
 same premise: Tie a loose story around complex, simulation style mech combat with an emphasis on 
 the creative customization of visually impressive 20 story tall mechanized death machines. Fundamentally, 
 AC4 stays true to its Armored Core roots. You embark on relatively short missions that, for what 
 they are worth, are very action packed. You certainly won't be wandering around looking for things 
 to shoot... since your AC is dropped from a drop ship, you tend to land right in the middle of the 
 action. The gameplay in between sorties consists of a layered menu system, with your available 
 missions displayed right up front for easy access. The other parts of the menu system are:
  
  System: Save/Load/Config
  
  ACSIS: Assembly and Weapons setup, Color scheme, Emblems and 
 Decals, Simulations (unlockable mech battles) , and Test.
  
  Schematics: Allows you to quick-switch between your various AC Configs, and keeps track of any 
 unlocked enemy schematics.
  
  Much to my delight, the Shop menu has been melded with the Assembly menu. This means that you won't 
 be backing out of one menu to go to the other constantly. There is also another interesting feature 
 as a result of this combination: You do not have to purchase a part to test it! Finally, the days 
 of buying and selling items while reconfiguring my mech are over! Of course, in order to use the 
 parts in the field, you need to buy them, but trying out part combinations pre-mission or -purchase 
 is as easy as pie. Customization is the primary component of the Armored Core games, and although 
 it takes a moment to get used to the new buying/selling/equipping system, its streamlining makes 
 for an AC creation process that goes much more smoothly than in previous games. A new addition 
 to AC customization is FRS, which is a point system that you can use to modify the parts that you 
 have on your current schematic. For example, you can add points your leg parts, increasing their 
 stability or load capacity. Each major part of the AC has attributes that can be increased, further 
 allowing each player to truly tailor a mech to their own play style.
  
  Overall, the ACs look gorgeous. Each part is intricately designed with moving parts and crisp animations. 
 They can all be meticulously colored manually or via one of many preset color schemes. The player 
 can also save their own color schemes for use later as well. Various patterns, such as a variety 
 of camouflage are also available. On the other hand, the environments are relatively bland. While 
 the game boasts some amazing visuals in the way of lighting and distance effects, the environments 
 themselves are fairly featureless. Of course, the ground does look pretty featureless when you're 
 300 feet in the air, and by keeping the visual noise in the environments to a minimum, From Software 
 has made it that much easier for players to focus on the second most important thing in an Armored 
 Core game: the combat.
  
  Combat is much faster paced than in the previous titles. Several movement and combat features have 
 been removed. For example, it no longer costs energy to dash around using your boosters; energy 
 is only drained when the player overboosts, uses energy weapons, or attempts to ascend. Also, the 
 dreaded water death has been stricken from gameplay. Now, players simply hover over water, making 
 for some visually cool water battles. There is also the addition of the Quick Boost system, which 
 is a system that allows the player to fire off directional blast from their various booster sets 
 to redirect their movement path, making high-speed dodging a reality. The heat system is also gone, 
 so all of you players who capitalized on overheating your opponent are out of luck... you'll have 
 to find another way to take them out.
  
  Another major change is the functionality of the FCS. Instead of getting your enemies in a box 
 on your HUD, your FCS simply autotargets enemies on the screen. Clicking the left analog stick 
 locks you to a target, which is useful for 1-on-1 battles.
  
  A big addition to the series is Primal Armor. Essentially, it's a radiation field that is used 
 to soften the impact of weapons against your armor. Every Core part (head, arms, legs, etc) has 
 a base PA value, which can change depending on which generator you are using. On top of its function, 
 it makes for a pretty neat visual effect.
  
  The Assembly menu has been streamlined to make it easier on new players. There is now a progress 
 bar of sorts, showing where the player is when they are putting their AC together. Energy and Weight 
 limit are displayed numerically and on meters, with the warning zone clearly highlighted. The most 
 important stats are also shown visually as well as textually, so less experienced players can more 
 easily gauge the overall changes they are making to their AC.
  
  Overall, Armored Core 4 is an excellent evolution of the series. Sacrifices have been made, but 
 most of them were extraneous additions that took away from the core gameplay established in the 
 earlier games. The streamlined menu system, fast paced combat, and extensive customization available 
 to an individual player set this game on the same tier of complexity as Cromehounds, sans the plodding, 
 deliberate pace of this developer's previous title. If you want complex, lightning fast mech action, 
 get it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  this is nice and good game of xbox360 and ps3 giraphics is good receantly i have 1 news from gamespot 
 i m sorry gamespot i will not again do this please sorry this is nice and good game of xbox360 
 and ps3 giraphics is good receantly i have 1 news from gamespot i m sorry gamespot i will not again 
 do this please sorry this is nice and good game of xbox360 and ps3 giraphics is good receantly 
 i have 1 news from gamespot i m sorry gamespot i will not again do this please sorry this is nice 
 and good game of xbox360 and ps3 giraphics is good receantly i have 1 news from gamespot i m sorry 
 gamespot i will not again do this please sorry this is nice and good game of xbox360 and ps3 giraphics 
 is good receantly i have 1 news from gamespot i m sorry gamespot i will not again do this please 
 sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  Ok, the first thirty minutes of this game was so easy I was wondering if there would be any challenge. 
 Then all of a sudden the missions got so incredibly hard I wanted to slit my wrists. That is very 
 aggravating. I don't know if I like this game. I know I don't love it. It's ok I guess. But it's 
 freakin crazy. I've never seen a game where when there's this battle going on it's practically 
 impossible to stay alive. I don't understand the fun in a game they make so hard. The instructions 
 don't explain anything about building new Armored Core Mechs. I did have some fun with this. I'm 
 on almost the end of the second act. If I were you I would rent this or borrow someone's before 
 buying to know what you're getting into. I think I have learned in the past few years that I am 
 just not a big fan of mech games. The action here is MUCH faster than Chromehounds. The mechs are 
 also much faster. But faster doesn't neccesarily mean better. I didn't really care for Chromehounds. 
 I'm going to try and finish this game. All I can say is...... know what this is before you get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowedkiller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why GameSpot gave this game a 7.7 its awesome! Its a huge improvement from the other 
 Armored Cores and I was no fan of the old ones but this game changes my whole perspective on Mech 
 games. Its a game you'll enjoy you have to get it! There are some flaws such as short missions 
 but there are obviously long ones as wells. The graphics are awesome and something i'm sure you'll 
 enjoy watching when blwoing up your enemys as for the online which i have yet to play i've heard 
 its not what people hoped for.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I think the game should be rated higher. Still, I think gamespot didn't much pay attention to the 
 graphics and details especially the AC's!.
  
  Good (For me) :
  1) Good graphics and details
  2) Larger mission area's
  3) Intelligent AI
  4) New Weapons and 
 Parts
  5) Multiplayer is best
  6) Very Good AC designs
  
  Bad (For me)
  1) Some missions are realy short
  2) Explosions not look good
  
  Well, thats all. I enjoy pretty 
 much the game and I haven't even finish it yet. Still, AC 4 Rocks especially on the Xbox 360 since 
 I manage to see those atmospheric particles and it seems to run a smoother frame rate on the Xbox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakdad
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  so i ran to wal-mart im thick fog to get this at 12:01 last night expecting sum supper game like 
 a hyped up chromehounds!! (great game) and was impressed by the fast action but horrified by the 
 online features ... i expected maybe a familliar comunity based online world maybe sega missed 
 sumtin......... chromehounds is great because of the online play..... but lacked in actual game 
 stoy and guts....... where armored core is just the story and gameplay with an ok barley acceptable 
 online set up...... i think we need the best of both worlds maybe a chrome-core or amored-hounds...... 
 lol Common sega put it together....... give us the super game every 1 wants..... ok back to my corner 
 spell chek on this forum is a pain sorry...... updated!!&gt; &gt; after more play (mid chap-3) 
 im finding it nicely challenging... ( protecting the sub is a pain) ... lol lost 2 times now! time 
 to tweek my mech i think... lol ...... and am further impressed by the gameplay this game is addicting!!! 
 even though im feeling lonley without friends 2 play with -- more people need to buy this!!! now 
 now now dispite its neglect on online features ( this game rocks) first 2 chapters are way 2 easy 
 tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Armored Core has been to a select few, one of the greatest Mech games to come on a console. Armored 
 Core 4 I have been waiting for with great anticipation. I cracked open my new copy and threw it 
 in.
  
  I was immediately immersed in the graphics. What an update! Finally this AC's look like huge stacks 
 of metal. The fluidness of the controls and on screen graphics, the customization all wonderful. 
 Is it hard you ask? Well have you played any other Armored Core games? Were they hard? Amored Core 
 is either very easy or Very Hard depending on your ability to piece toghether a lethal Mech. I 
 have yet to go online, and will probably finsih the Single player campiagn first, but when that 
 it done, I will sure blast away at what we fans have always wanted, Online Multiplayer. Now I can 
 finally go toe to toe with some of the world most unkown AC pilots like myself!
  
  Overall:
  Graphics - Beautiful
  Gameplay - wonderous
  Music - fits
  
  This game is truly 
 a must have for those that play Mech games, not as clunky as Chromehounds or MEchwarrior, which 
 are both Excellent Mech games, it almost has the notch of Zone of the Enders 2 the Second Runner, 
 however the missions are only so long where as the missions in ZOE:2 are huge.
  
  But you cant configure your AC like you can in Armored Core.
  Sorry for the comparison but ZOE:2 
 was Superb.
  At Any Rate Go Pick this up, if you have a brain and like to use it, if you are easily brain farted, 
 go buy Kirby or TMNT stay away from grown folks games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaganshiDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet, since I'd like to get back to playing. Given this series' 
 notorious legacy of being unfriendly to newcomers, its understandable to see all of these poor 
 reviews for this newest entry. This game focuses mainly on expanding on what was already done (which 
 most people didn't like) and adding a few things that fans have been asking for. If you are an 
 AC fan like me, however, there's a LOT to be had here with the new parts, subtle changes and, above 
 all, online multiplayer- (now we can finally talk to other actual fans) . The updated graphics and 
 tweaked combat should be noted as well.
  
  If you were expecting a new experience that would draw you into the world of Armored Core, be prepared 
 for a game that is unforgiving as the rest. With a lot to figure out with customization. You will 
 feel both gratified and accomplished once you figure it out and are able to show off your brainchild.
 
  
  Fans- what we've come to expect- though in my opinion this is a better update than former games 
 in the series have been (Ninebreaker) . This game cannot be missed if you like Armored Core. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
