-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army of Two
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/armyoftwo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The cooperative mechanics work well.
 The online versus play is fast-paced and fun.
 The graphics are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Provides a dumb take on a real issue.
 The campaign isn't very long.
 On your own, you're weak.
 AI is occasionally as dumb as the plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 5,994 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Montreal
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Mar 6, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This better than average shooter is fun to play with a friend, but it's best not to think about 
 the subject matter. 

  Army of Two is a decent third-person shooter that unfortunately sticks its boot in its mouth. It 
 does so by belittling volunteer armed services and selling a power-but-no-responsibility mercenary 
 fantasy, part of which takes place in the modern-day Iraq war. It mostly plays fine. The Aggro 
 system works well (whereby your partner can hold your enemies' attention while you flank) , and 
 the online multiplayer is hectic fun. But the way it broaches and then mishandles such a controversial 
 modern day issue is far from army strong.  

  The story follows Salem and Rios, two mercenaries who fight terror for big bucks with big guns. 
 As they battle through ambush after ambush, it begins to dawn on them that someone within their 
 own organization is selling them out and setting them up. That's right, one bad apple is screwing 
 up the privatized military business for the rest of the upstanding mercenaries. Neither Rios nor 
 Salem engages in any dishonorable behavior, aside from making fun of the Army for being so slow 
 and ill-equipped. That would be fine if the Army they were making fun of were the Venusian Army. 
 Or conversely, if Blackwater mercenaries in the real world hadn't been asked to leave Iraq for 
 flipping out and massacring its civilians. But in Army of Two, there's no such thing as a civilian. 
 If they aren't good guys, they're terrorists.  

           Sometimes it's easier to grab enemies than shoot them.      

  The game itself is a 
 lightly tactical third-person shooter in which you take on terrorists from Somalia to Miami by 
 shooting them with guns, punching out their lights, and hitting them with car doors -- all while 
 wearing a scary-looking goalie mask. As you thwart terror and complete missions, you earn cash 
 that can be spent on awesome guns. From there, you can spend even more money pimping out stocks, 
 adding grenade launcher attachments and even gold plating.  

  But with all this, you'll have a hell of a time hitting anything. Sure, you can stop, aim, and 
 quickly kill a stationary target with a headshot. But if you're trying to run and shoot, you won't 
 do nearly as much damage with that pimped-out AUG as you'd like. This was probably done to force 
 you to rely on your teammate, but it seems like an unnecessary handicap all the same. Even worse, 
 enemies have incongruous visible life bars, and some of them can take more bullets than a terminator. 
 To top it all off, they have superior aim and can hit you just as easily from 50 feet as they can 
 from five. Talk about asymmetrical warfare.  

  To keep yourself and your partner alive, you have to take advantage of the Aggro system. Borrowed 
 from online role-playing games, Aggro is an artificial intelligence system that makes enemies focus 
 on whoever is doing the most damage and ignore the person doing the least. The basic idea is to 
 have one guy draw all the enemy fire while the other one sneaks around back and shoots everybody 
 dead. It isn't rocket science, but coordinating attacks with a friend or with the CPU is still 
 rewarding. Sometimes, one plus one equals fun.  

  At other times, it can be a little confusing. In the single-player campaign, you either control 
 Salem or Rios; you can't switch between the two. If you're mortally wounded, your CPU partner can 
 drag you to safety and heal you. Sometimes, however, he'll ignore all the obviously safe places 
 and drag you through the entire level (assuming you both survive) before patching you up.  

  The campaign isn't that long, but to the game's credit, it is fun to play through cooperatively. 
 You can set up public co-op campaigns that just anyone can join, or private ones for just you and 
 a friend. Once you finish, you can go online to challenge other two-man squads in versus mode. 
 The point of any match is to make more money than your opponents, which is earned by making kills 
 and completing objectives. Some modes have you flying around, racing to kill enemy non-player characters, 
 while others have you rescuing hostages or planting bombs. The best of these throws a mix of objectives 
 at you, so there's a great deal of diversity within a single match. Then again, the fact that you 
 can't hit targets without stopping and aiming is especially apparent online. Instead, you're better 
 off running up and smacking people, then shooting them when they're down. This is entertaining 
 for a few hours, but it gets old pretty fast.  

           That's what he gets for trying to shoot two guns at once.      

  The PlayStation 3 
 and Xbox 360 versions of Army of Two are almost indistinguishable from one another, though the 
 former incorporates some minor motion controls. Both versions look and sound good. But with numerous 
 loads and small environments, they should. And even though the graphics are impressively realistic; 
 the silly hit point bars attached to your enemies break the spell a little. The silly suicide bombers 
 who run at you screaming like something out of Serious Sam don't help either. The gun sounds are 
 mostly fine, and the voice acting is OK, except that any time there's an enemy who has to be killed 
 from behind (once every 10 minutes) , your partner will repeatedly say something along the lines 
 of "He looks tough, better take him from behind!" If there's one thing that can be said for private 
 military, it's the lack of a don't-ask-don't-tell policy.  

  Army of Two is a better than average shooter that roughly treads on a political landmine when it 
 should have stormed some future battlefield. It features cool co-op mechanics and is fun to play 
 online, with or against friends. But even its title mocks the Army, literally one-upping its slogan 
 while glamorizing a sector that, if anything, deserves scrutiny -- not macho fantasy. If you're the 
 type of person who would rather shoot first and ask questions never, by all means, pick up Army 
 of Two. But if you like to think -- and the fact that you're reading this review suggests that you 
 do -- be warned: Army of Two is less than the sum of its parts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (494 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is an awesome game but only if you're going to play with a friend on co op. The game 
 play is great and they have a pretty decent cover system. Everything you do in the game should 
 be stratigetic because it's all about working as a team. In single player the AI is dumb and mostly 
 makes you do all the work and you always have to heal him because he just stands out in the open 
 and lets everyone kill him. The storyline is ok but you should use the DLC to get the alternate 
 ending. The weapons to me are the best part of the game because you can upgrade and customize them. 
 The graphics are cool, and the characters are different because Rios can take more damage than 
 Salem, and Salem can move faster than Rios. Overall the game is great and will keep you occupied 
 for a good time because there are ssc challenges to do after you beat the story and you can go 
 in versus mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R8OO
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  GameSpot's reviewer was taking the game's background too seriously. He mocked the game's so-called 
 "political" issue eight times in his review. It's just a game, dude, relax. Nowadays, more and 
 more "tactical" games are based heavily on the PMC (Private Military Company) subject, such as 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 and Tom Clancy's HAWX. If you were the reviewer of these games, will you bash 
 them badly as well since they are also "treading on a political landmine"?
  
  Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum 
 Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word 
 Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count 
 Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation Minimum Word Count Limitation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor1981
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is my favorite game to date. I spread myself across the full spectrum of gaming, from 
 RTS games like Tiberium Wars to FPS like Halo and then there's COD4 and Ao2 my favorite. I have 
 to say that I originally only rented from gamefly, because I didn't think it was going to be that 
 good, but it is awesome. I love always having a teammate, be it AI or real life, it just adds a 
 new aspect to the game, being able to tell him to lay down cover fire while you run up and smash 
 his head down through his ass, absolutely beautiful. The amount of guns available was VAST, but 
 I would have loved to see more upgrades available, and for some guns that didn't even have some 
 upgrades, like the MP7 and upgraded barrel and magazine would've been nice, also the Light .50 
 a bigger mag would've been real cool, like 12 or 15, its a bit more ammo, but worth it. The gameplay 
 was intense, I spent about 30 hrs playing through it the first time around and loved every minute 
 of it, I loved earning money to buy new guns or upgrade ones you already have.
  Now with all my love for the this game, I cant really say something bad, but IMO there was a big 
 flaw, NOT ENOUGH MISSIONS! The game ended a lot shorter than I wished it had. There could've been 
 2 or 3 more missions, at least that would've allowed me to enjoy it longer. Another thing, the 
 online play was absolutely awful. For me it was especially bad, due to my internet being a bit 
 slow, but yuo have to play with the standard startup weapons, it was the most retarded thing I 
 have ever seen. If you beat the single player game and won money to get better weapons, then you 
 should be able to use those in the online games, that would've made it 10 times more enjoyable. 
 I know you're probaly thinking if we allowed that from the begining then people would just get 
 to the point where they can afford the M134 and then you have 30 a-holes on the field with the 
 damn gun ruining the gameplay. I can guarantee that that wouldn't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbman83
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game so that me and my 11 y/o brother in law would have a game we could play together 
 (and that he didn't already own) . We really got into the co-op mode quick. We even spent roughly 
 3 hours playing it on split screen the first night! One thing that excited me, when I got home, 
 was the realization that your weapon and weapon upgrade purchases are saved to your profile, not 
 just that XBOX. In addition, we were able to continue right where we left off, over live. All with 
 his saved game data. 
  
  I was ALL ready to rate this game a 9.0. It has excellent graphics, fun weapons, weapon upgrades 
 (including "pimped" for each weapon) , and some really fun game play! THEN, I tried to play multi-player. 
 First, you can expect to spend upwards to 20 minutes, waiting for other players. The only option 
 is to play 2 against 2. You CAN pause during multi-player, guess what this does for everyone else? 
 Brings up a screen, "waiting for other players." If that wasn't frustrating enough, wait until 
 someone exits the game early! You will be notified and sent back to the main menu. If you DO manage 
 to successfully play multiplayer, it will not be the head to head action that you may have hoped 
 for. Instead, it's a series of objectives that each team has to compete. The team that completes 
 the most, wins! YAY... Oh I'm sorry, I meant GAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralSev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  The innovative co-op third person shooter is finally here. Army of Two revolves around two highly 
 trained Mercenaries working for a PMC known as SSC (Security and Strategy Corporation) . You're 
 given an option to play as Tyson Rios or Elliot Salem, then before you and Salem became Mercenaries 
 you were still in the Army. You start off training, when your training is done, you end up in Somalia 
 where you are to meet up with the psychotic Phillip Clyde, he'll inform you of the whereabouts 
 of Mo'Alim. After killing Mo'Alim you now become Mercenaries. You're given bonus options that will 
 give extra cash while attempting to complete the mission. There are some unique features in Army 
 Of Two available, mid-mission shopping, co-op parachuting, co-op sniping, co-op riot shield, swaping 
 weapons to each other, healing while your injured partner still shoots, and my personal favorite 
 Back to Back. Mid-Mission shopping is awesome, it lets you purchase weapons, mask, and modify your 
 armor, when you purchase a weapon, you upgrade the weapon in terms of anything, barrel for more 
 damage, stock for more accuracy, capacity for more rounds of magazine, suppressors for stealth 
 (even though most mission aren't about stealth) , shield for protection and aggro, frontmount (grip, 
 shotgun, and grenade launcher) for gaining advantage over the enemy and appeareance for aggro. 
 Aggro is the new feature in Army Of Two, when you glow red, you're showing your aggresion, and 
 it catches your enemies attention, your partner can sneak around and attack the enemy from behind. 
 Kudos is another feature, (personally funny to me) in Army Of Two, when positive you show appreciation 
 and goof around, when negative you get aggressive and hit each other. Graphics and Gameplay in 
 Army of Two are solid and worth the money too! Army Of Two is innovative, solid, immature in terms 
 of Kudos, and really fun! For a Two Man Army fighting in the Warzone and collecting your fat paycheck, 
 Army Of Two definitely the one game waiting for you to play with!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey_man_20
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:45 am PT
Review:  the game is better in single player becaus u can tell the other person wat to do and they do it 
 straight away unlike in multiplayer how they can choose not to help you wen u need help. In multiplayer 
 u have more chance of finishing a level because u have an actual person playing other then the 
 computer. overall the game is pretty good it is a good game for wen it was made and who it was 
 made by if i could fix it i would make it so u can pik up the enemys gun and it makes it so u own 
 that gun aswell. also it is a fun game if u like gears of war and maybe even first person shooters 
 i would recomend it for all gun gamers also it should have more guns becaus there arnt all the 
 guns in there like a spas 12 and more so that is wat i think of this game. so yer i hope u liked 
 my review on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  
  The Good:
  
  Certain enemies require special tactics to kill (one player distract, and the other come from behind 
 and hit weak spot)
  
  The weapon system is fairly deep and allows you to have any of the guns your way
  
  It has 
 an achievement named "Arnold Braunschweiger" (from the Schwarzenegger movie "Last Action Hero") 
 - Nice throwback
  
  The Bad:
  
  AI is poor most of the time, my brother and I played on contractor difficulty (middle difficulty 
 if you've already unlocked the hard difficulty (which requires a play through) ) and the enemies 
 would still make odd moves.
  
  While I like how the down but not out system works in this, I think it would've been nice if I 
 could have crawled to safety at least (something like gears 2 (which I kinda wish you could fire 
 off some defensive rounds in that while you're "down but not out")
  
  This game is lacking a true cover system (all you can do is hit the (Y) button and you'll slide 
 and it'll make you crouch if your behind cover. It would have been a great benefit to this game 
 if it had a more developed cover system like GRAW or Gears of War.
  
  The game is rather short (only six missions) (not that valid because pretty much everyone's going 
 to want more game)
  
  Also, to change weapons, you have to hold the bumper (can't remember which one, the other one is 
 for partner stuff) and then hit the D-pad to change to a different weapon. It would have been easier 
 if they just had the D-pad as weapons, then hold the one bumper for partner commands.
  
  The GPS system, a guide showing objectives and paths should have been an overlay (much like perfect 
 dark zero) instead of switching views to a blue that you cant tell enemies in.
  
  
  Summary:
  
  The actual review mentioned about playing with a friend rather than a computer 
 made it more enjoyable not having to deal with another AI, which I can see, and as of yet I haven't 
 played with the computer controlled partner.
  
  All in all it really isn't that bad and if you get it used (around $15) it's a pretty good value, 
 if you have a friend to play with at least.
  
  Chances are we'll probably make another pass on the hard difficulty just to mess around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I was always curious about this game when hearing about it. but when I played it, I was very disappointed. 
 the graphics were quite descent. I hadn't noticed any glitches in the game at all. and the cut 
 scenes were looked very realistic in my opinion. now with the game play. the best thing, for me, 
 was that there was always crosshairs no matter what, so you can always see what you're shooting. 
 the weapon customization was pretty interesting. there were tons of barrels, handles, and magazines 
 to choose from. and the really great idea was the Aggro system. and the back to back sequences 
 were very exhilarating. the major flaw was that the story line was way too short. me and my friends 
 beat it in about 8 or 9 hours. and I didn't care for the look pf the game all that much. it wasn't 
 very well put together, no thought out. this was a game with great ideas during the brainstorming 
 process, but overall it came out a sloppy mess. I really didn't care for the game much at all. 
 but I'll leave the judging up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anderious528
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  EA's Army Of Two was an amazing modern-day third person shooter game with a great storyline, amazing 
 co op, impressive graphics, and an outstanding gameplay. This game was an intense game but, it 
 has a few faults and downsides and ull gonna learn them all right here.
  Where to start, how about the storyline. The story in this game was interesting. You and ur partner/AI 
 are 2 x-soldiers who became mercinaries for the SSC, until they is betrayed by company and fourced 
 to whipe them out. 
  The co op in this game was AMAZING and twice as good as playing the normal solo gameplay. Alos, 
 i enjoyed how you could walk in and out of the co op mode with another person. This co op system 
 was unique, you and your partner actually had to work together unlike in other games where your 
 partner is just their and you dont really need them. Some things you can do in co op mode is step 
 jumps, back to back, co op snipe, trade weapons, drive hovecarts, drag your partner to safrwy then 
 heal them when their hurt, and you can do a co op shield move (which isnt really that useful) . 
 Also you can give your teammate "props" when they do something right, or you can hit them when 
 they do something wronge. 
  AGRO. The agro system in this game was more than great. Well first of all, "agro" is a feature 
 in this game that focuses the enemyis fire on you or partner. The agro works like this, say u and 
 ur partner are both shooting at an enemy from different sides of the battle field, if you were 
 useing like an ak-47 and ur partner was uweing an ak-47 witha suppressor the enemy will only focus 
 on the guy with the ak-47. Or, if u r trying 2 sneak around an enemy 2 flank him, ur partner would 
 shoot him (attracting the agro) and u would sneak around almost like a ghost. 
  Army Of Two's gameplay was great. the aspect of being able 2 slide into cover and blind fire at 
 your enemies was great. One bad feature was that most of the bosses were repetitive. All you really 
 needed 2 do was have ur partner gain the agro while you sneak around an dhoot him in the back (which 
 was the only way 2 kill them) . 
  The gun system in this game had 2 be one of its best features. To stsrt off their was a large varity 
 of guns anywhere from HK 36s, to shotguns, to deasert eagles, to semi auto sniper rifels. And the 
 best part about this is you can custimise all of your gun, you can upgrade your barrel to increase 
 dammage, add suppressors to decrease agro, buy larger cartrages to hold more amo, or just pimp 
 out gun and have the best looking gun on the battlefield. 
  A few bad things : ( about this game is that has a short gameplay, only about 9-10 hours and not 
 the best AI. Over all this is one of the best games ive ever played and i give it a "9 out of 10" 
 and recomend it to everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan6433
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a co-op shooter that takes pretty liberally from Gears of War. That being said, 
 it completely misses the mark that GoW had squarely hit. 
  
  Army of Two is a mindless run and gun actioner that can provide fun for you and a buddy for a few 
 hours if you've got nothing else to do. The co-op controls, like helping each other open doors, 
 boosting your buddy up to the second level of a bombed out house, and dragging your wounded buddy 
 to safety while he lays down cover fire, are all very original and innovative ideas that enhance 
 the co-op gameplay to a certain level above other games. Also, levels on gun boats and hover crafts 
 offer much needed respite from the duck-and-cover techniques you need to use while on foot.
  
  But a horribly contrived story, boss battles that you didn't even know were boss battles until 
 they're over, a very short campaign mode, and an awfully anticlimactic ending that crushes your 
 hopes of exchanging a few hundred rounds with the main bad guy in a helicopter (you blow him up 
 with a rocket launcher in a terribly animated cut scene) make this game pretty disappointing, especially 
 if you were going into Army of Two expecting something a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BushmanSteve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  I did enjoy playing this game and it is one of those games that will stay on my shelf and be taken 
 off for the occassional session, but I was expecting a little more oomf from it. 
  The game play is great, you can customize you weapons and blow things up but too be honest after 
 a while you get a bit bored of it and start playing something else. I mean you come back to it 
 eventually, but it's not one of those games that keep you interested all the way through.
  
  The online gaming is great, round of a aplause for that, maybe even and award.
  
  The one 
 thing that was such a let down for me was the Armour and face customization, It would have made 
 my day if you could fully customize your armour, ie shoulders, chest, legs, boots, something that 
 defines you from the other gamers, something that makes the game charecter unique to you.
  
  I expect they will di ti next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKriegerx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all, Army of T. W. O. is a great game. It's about two veterans of war who are working 
 together for a secret union. One of them, Tyson Rios, is the older one of the two. I would geuss 
 he is about 45 year old. The other partner, Elliot Salem, is the younger one of the two. He's around 
 25. I really enjoyed playing this game. There's 3 difficulties = Recuit (easy) , Contractor (medium) , 
 and Professional (hard) . The singleplayer mode is pretty good, but your partner is an AI Partner. 
 So sometimes he walks into walls and gets stuck there. So then you have restart from your last 
 saved checkpoint, which is very frustrating. The best way to play is either Co-op Campaign with 
 an actual person with a brain, or Mulitplayer online which is fun too. The story line of this game 
 is great. Although I wouldn't recommend this game for anyone under 18, for they don't go more than 
 2 minutes without cursing really badly. About 90% of there vocabulary if F bombs and much much 
 more. Other than that, the graphics are great, the gameplay is great, the story line is great, 
 mainly everything is enjoyable. So if you're over eighteen and you want a shooter that curses every 
 minute, than I would recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The life of a mercenary is not for the weak hearted, getting blood splattered all over yourself, 
 meeting new people and killing them on the spot, and earning thousands of dollars by the hour is 
 all part of the job description. Army of Two revolves around two mercenaries named Rios and Salem, 
 and they soon discover that someone within their organization is leaking out private information 
 about other mercenaries. It is up to them to find out who it is, and put a stop to their devious 
 schemes. Army of Two's plot is about as boring as it gets-forgettable characters, cheesy one liners, 
 this game has it all. It does a great job incorporating real life situations into the game, but 
 overall the presentation of its story is terrible.
  
  Army of Two is a third person shooter, and it is best played with another player. The objective 
 of the game is simple: shoot your enemies, complete your objective, collect your payment, upgrade 
 your weapons, and repeat all over again. Army of Two separates itself from other shooters mainly 
 because the gameplay revolves around co-op mechanics. You and a partner can combine forces to use 
 a riot shield, help each other get onto higher ledges, and co-op snipe. The game also utilizes 
 something called the Aggro system. The player that shoots the most, or is considered the biggest 
 threat will have all the enemies shooting at him or her and will glow red. The other player on 
 the other hand will be practically invisible and will be able to outflank the enemies. The Aggro 
 system isn't as cool as it appears to be. I actually found that Aggro was a ridiculous addition 
 to the gameplay as I got further within the game. Many of the enemies can be easily killed just 
 by going up to them and doing a melee attack. Believe it or not, it is actually easier to kill 
 the enemies by knocking them out instead of shooting them. The gunplay within the game is weak. 
 Shooting enemies is incredibly difficult, and it is just a hassle. The enemy A. I. is about as bright 
 as rock. Whenever you approach them all they do is run away and before you know it you're trying 
 to chase them all over the map like an old Tom and Jerry cartoon. The in-game camera likes to jump 
 from place to place, which doesn't make the game any easier. 
  
  Army of Two looks great from its character design to the weapons you hold in your hands. The level 
 design on the other hand feels tacked on, and dull. All the levels felt the same, there just wasn't 
 any variety. There were also instances where the lighting effects suddenly jumped from pitch dark 
 to incredibly bright; it was very strange and disturbing. 
  
  The voice acting in the game was nicely done, but I can't say the same thing for the dialogue itself. 
 Rios and Salem say some of the strangest things ever heard in gaming, they try to be funny but 
 end up falling flat on their butt. The in-game music was barely noticeable, and the sound effects 
 overall were average. 
  
  Overall: Army of Two has the potential to be a great game, but there are so many bugs, and problems 
 that prevent it from being anything less then mediocre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarman151
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I just got home from gamestop and was ready for my friend to come over and we could play rainbow 
 six vegas that I had bought that night. Sadly, it was too scratched and we were stuck with Army 
 of Two. This game was not very good and made me wish I had read the review before buying it. Although 
 it features two player coop, online and off, it did not impress me. The only cool thing was pimping 
 out my gun. There was barely a story and at most times you listened it was hard to follow. Mainly 
 your going to want to just skip all cutscenes even though pretty and go shoot people. During gameplay 
 you cannot enjoy graphics because you are being shot from everywhere. It would have been nice to 
 receive a little support. Even though your weapons are cool your soon find yourself switching between 
 one another because you barely have any ammo. overall I give this game a 6.5-10. I totally agree 
 with gamespot's score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  i c other people writing how army of two has bad aiming and poor AI. well that's a bunch of bull 
 crap because army of two is awesome. i have been playing it extensively, and i have no problem 
 just killing the terrorists, (which is awesome btw) , the problem might be that they just suck. 
 anyone think of that? and the poor AI i wouldn't know, because i always play with a friend, but 
 people shouldn't play alone, it was meant to be enjoyed with a friend, so get some friends loners! 
 and you can customize your gun, guy, equipment, and that's a great feature, even pimp out you gun 
 with some gold plating. the story is strong, just like the 2 main characters, u just get paid to 
 do various things against the terrorists, and u r both retired, so it is still you job basically. 
 the major fictional parts i am talking about are back to back mode and overkill and aggro. i love 
 all of these features because i don't care if it is really fake or if it is real, because video 
 game playing is a time where you can forget about the real stuff. so in back to back and aggro, 
 the enemies move much more slower than you and everything is slow-mo. which is really cool, u get 
 to see them die really slow and that warms my heart because they are terrorist bass turds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggirl8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game whereas the title says, you have a partner with you throughout the whole 
 game, which is pretty obvious by the title.
  
  Graphics-Army of Two's graphics could be better. The graphics are Wii type graphics (not really) . 
 I think they could have put some more effort into the graphics of the game, the game was great 
 but not the graphics.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is very good, it did not deserve a 6.5, throughout the game you go to different 
 places like Iran, China, etc. And have to defeat soldiers, and hunt a certain guy down. You are 
 only in the United States at the end really, you are in Miami, that is all I am getting into, don't 
 want to ruin the game's ending for you! :) .
  
  Overall Rating-I give this game about an 8.5, the gameplay was good but kinda short. I usually 
 don't bash a game over graphics but they could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zachary-Goh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  The game has its ups and downs but as I play on the game gets abit repetitive as it is a good game 
 because the Controling of the ai you can give ur computer partner will help in the battles and 
 the game looks almost real but if i havent gave you a picture of this you can just think of Gears 
 of war but you can upgrade ur weapons and command your partner.
  
  The Bad
  
  The game has a few dumb parts when your partner tries to revive you he might pull you into the 
 most retarded spot ever sometimes even near the enemy , also ur partner will run away when he gets 
 shot too much without reviving you leaving you to die and when you fight the heavy armour he will 
 always say I think you should go and sneak behind and take him out which is kinda stuipid sometimes 
 when you get there and you are in stealth the heavy armour will look directly at you.
  
  The gaming experience is a wonderful experience as well after the game you will think it is good 
 bye the way the gears motto also goes in this game TAKE COVER OR DIE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I love a good third person shooter, especially one that I can play with a partner and this game 
 was good enough to supply that need. I played the single player campaign and quickly learned it 
 would be a better game with a partner. The AI isnt all that great and even if you give direction, 
 its not always followed. This usually leads to you or your partner getting killed.
  
  The story is simple enough as you are hired military working jobs to earn cash in order to upgrade 
 your weapons and armor. As for the weapons, you can select the weapons you like at the start or 
 each mission when promted to do so. This way you can select certain guns for each mission. As far 
 as the upgrades go, there is not much you can really do except increase the magazine capacity and 
 you cant even do that on every weapon. I would have liked to see better upgrades or more weapons 
 selection. The good thing is that you can carry 3 guns and grenades so you always have options. 
 Problem is that ammo is in short supply on certain levels so try not to miss.
  
  The gameplay is a typical TPS and you work with your partner in order to complete missions and 
 destroy the enemy. You can direct Salam to attack, wait, stay with you or even pull off a douple 
 sniper shot. These options, if used correctly will ensure success. I usually sent Salam ahead of 
 me to see where the enemy was and use him as a decoy. This worked most of the time because while 
 they shot at him I was able to pick them off. The unique thing about this game was the Aggro effect. 
 This means that if you or Salam started shooting a lot the enemy would be attracted to that person 
 and you would glow red. While the enemy was occupied with the red player, the other player would 
 be invisible and can sneak around the enemy. If you use this effectively you can complete each 
 level with ease. 
  
  The levels are vast and take you all over the world, from jungles to aircraft carriers. The graphics 
 are amazing and smooth and the camera never gets in the way. This is a good game to play with other 
 players and is a nice pick-up for anyone who enjoys a TPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Essentially this game is co-operative based, if you don't play this through cooperatively the game 
 feels fairly weak. On that note, let's begin this review.
  
  Army Of Two is about two soldiers (basically) who are dropped into a war within the military forces. 
 'So just one of those war games again' you may be thinking. I found that this game brings a refreshing 
 mixture of different game play styles and enforces how important the aspect of cooperative play 
 is in completely the task at hand. 
  
  It feels like a hybrid between the classic Gears Of War and the Call Of Duty series. Army Of Two 
 has a similar button layout to that of Gears Of War and yet the game play it self plays out similar 
 to Call Of Duty. This hybrid of games has resulted in an interesting, cooperative gaming experience.
 
  
  Army Of Two unfortunately has a substantially short campaign mode although this doesn't mean that 
 it isn't enjoyable, in fact, i found it quite the opposite. I felt that the campaign length was 
 sufficient enough to fully sustain the complex storyline and hence resulted in beating the game 
 over and over again that much more enjoyable. 
  
  Storyline-wise I would like to refer to a forum post on Army Of Two as it summarises what i would 
 ramble on about for 600 words: 
  
  http://au. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/armyoftwo/show_msgs. html? pid=932860&topic_id=m-1-46868037
 
  
  Furthermore, the attitude of the game is pretty bad-ass, as there is constant swearing, substantial 
 rough game play cinematics and insanely gorey graphics. This is what I loved most about Army Of 
 Two, You feel like the characters you play as, whether it be Rios or Salem. Army Of Two drops you 
 in the shoes of these two military soldiers and shoots you through mission after mission endlessly 
 testing your ability to cooperate with either your buddy or a AI controller buddy. 
  
  In conclusion, Army Of Two is an excellent cooperative gaming experience which most hardcore fans 
 will enjoy. Ignore GS's rating of 6.5, buy and play this game immediately. It will blow your mind. 
 Quite literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblowe2345
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  The trailers look lovely, the cut scenes look lovely and the idea of playing a game geared towards 
 co-op play with a mate sounds lovely, but when you are in there gaming you soon discover a very 
 different reality!
  
  The co-op side to the game is at best no better than if you were playing Rainbow 6 or Gears of 
 War with a mate. No puzzles need solving, no duel effort to gain a goal needs to happen, its just 
 you and a mate shooting at baddies.... and in this game that gets very dull.
  
  Every level adopts the same principle of dropping a load of baddies behind some blocks and you 
 have to make your way through them. It is the same no matter what environment. We got slightly 
 excited when we were placed on an aircraft carrier... same linear experience though of baddies 
 behind blocks and making your way to the other side.
  
  It is on play. com now for 15, this was the reason we finally gave it a go. At that price I suppose 
 it could be worth it to bump your gamer score up but no much else!! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_blogger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The game was the coolest modern war game of March, 2008. The co-op was very realistic. You go in 
 all the different war zones in 2008. Like Irac ,Afghanistan, and more. I love how in one player 
 you get a screen with your friend in there. I almost forgot about the weapons dealer. When you 
 get enough money you pimp out guns and special weapons. I loved the game in general. I like it 
 when you go back to back and kill everyone. That is awsome, and you go into over kill. I don't 
 know what that is but you turn red and it is sweet. I think you pretty mutch go psyco and kill 
 everybody exsept your teammate. Thats cool. You get alot of weapons in the game. like The AK-47, 
 The M16, and The shotgun. The creators at EA did a great job with the game and everything else. 
 The voices the grapics were just great. I loved the game. So if you have a 360 or a ps3 go buy 
 this modern shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is one of those games that I purchased just because I wanted a nice Co-Op game to play 
 with my Friend. I will say, that I really enjoyed this game a lot.
  
  This game really delivers in the Co-Op mode with the two heroes depending on each other to complete 
 all missions. You have to help each other over walls, shield your friends from Enemy fire, save 
 their lives when they are down, and attract attention so your partner can sneak by for the kill.
 
  
  The Graphics on this game is quite good. Nothing we haven't seen from Gears of War or similar titles, 
 but still pretty solid. 
  
  There are an array of guns for you to purchase with your mission winnings, and a few customizations 
 to add to that as well keeping the weapons fresh on every upgrade. You also have the option to 
 purchase new masks for your heroes. They don't do anything special, but they make you character 
 look pretty.
  
  The Story line is better than some movies I've seen, but still a little predictable. But who cares? 
 You get to blow things up. The Campaign is a little on the short side and will probably keep a 
 serious gamer busy for about 6 - 8 hours at most. Replay value isn't all that fantastic either. 
 You don't get a choice as to where the story leads, so the next time you play will probably be 
 only when you want to finish it on a higher level, or to get the Achievements.
  
  A solid game, with a different Co-Op style. Totally worth the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about Army of Two is that you can tackle every mission with a friend online to mow 
 down hundreds of bad guys. This game looks great, sounds decent, and plays great as long as you're 
 playing with a friend. The story itself is pretty boring on the other hand and very choppy. After 
 a while, I even stopped paying attention to the actual story and focused on communicating with 
 my friend to flank and annihilate the baddies. There is some variety to missions including parachuting 
 segments, novel use of co-op cover mechanics, and fixed gun emplacements. This is one game that 
 seems to have been exclusively designed to play with a friend. That is all the more evident if 
 you attempt to play the game by your lonesome self. When playing solo, your AI controlled partner 
 follows only the very basic commands and has no concept of flanking the enemy. The game itself 
 puts you in some very interesting locales and the levels themselves are fairly lengthy. However, 
 since you end up doing pretty much the same thing in every encounter (lay down suppressive fire 
 and wait for your friend to move forward and do the same for you until eventually one of you ends 
 up getting close enough to move around and flank the enemy to put them all away) , it does get old 
 before the credits roll. Army of Two is a straight forward 3rd person shooter that serves as a 
 nice diversion when you have an itch to kill some bad guys with a friend, but lacks any sort of 
 depth to it's story or innovation outside of it's solid co-operative focus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  pros: pretty good graphics, intensely awsome cooperative, awsome cover mechanic, blind fires very 
 helpful
  cons: very very very easy, terrible plot complete with dumb dialogue
  
  okay lets start out with the worst thing about the game the dialogue and story so its all about 
 the danger of privat contractors and its a way to explain you going all over the place anyway the 
 dialogue i think actually tries to be profane in one of the levels there actually said fu**-o he 
 he this is me and my friends new word but enough with the bad lets talk about the good for cover 
 you dont legitametley cover like in r6vegas or gears of war you just kind of sit there and you 
 can blind fire and such from that position the graphics i think deserve a 8/10 and the co-op is 
 awsome the levels are specificly designed with cooperative play in mind it has a aggro system in 
 wich you can distract the enemy while your partner flanks and for a small fee of aggro you can 
 pimp the weapons you bought out in gold anyway at the end of the day if you have a friend to play 
 with this is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is easily one of the biggest letdown's in my gaming life and once again showcases how 
 bad a game can be when EA's name is found on the case. I normally only write reviews for a game 
 that I have completed or played through the majority of, but this game is not worth playing past 
 the first 2 levels.
  
  Graphically the game is solid but nothing to really shout about though the cutscenes are top class 
 and are the strongest point of this game, which shows just how poor the rest is.
  
  The Sound is fine for the most part though nothing really stands out since its all pretty much 
 generic but I would say the voice acting is pretty strong from all characters.
  
  Gameplay is broken big-time due to a weak aiming system, lack of effort going into the cover mode 
 and big time bugs. Using objects like car doors for cover and upgrading guns are smart ideas but 
 thats about it for good gameplay. 3rd person is flawed due to no shoulder switch like in GRAW so 
 you have to expose your body to get off shots at times. The parachute segments are one of the worst 
 ideas in history and the teamwork features like back to back feel forced and useless. One of the 
 biggest bugs in the game is that the the action sometimes start before a cutscene is finished so 
 you have taken damage before you even have control of your character.
  
  The AI makes the game difficult but not in a way a game should due to virtually perfect aiming 
 especially behind cover and the suicide bombers feel like something a 12 year old would stick in.
 
  
  Overall Army of Two is like most EA games and suffers from half thought out gameplay ideas, bugs, 
 balancing issues and a total lack of direction in terms of what the developers wanted the game 
 to actually be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest, there are few things in videogames more fun than a good co-op campaign. Army of 
 Two is completely built from the ground to provide a great co-op experience. Does itdeliver? Well.... I 
 had really high expectaions for this. And while it's not awful or anything, I can't help but feel 
 it should and could've been much, much better. What you're left with is a very standard action 
 game. There's absolutely nothing special here, if you're playing it by yourself that is. The AI, 
 on both sides, is fairly dumb most of the time, but they're great in numbers so there is some challenge 
 to be found here. 
  
  The Aggro system is interesting, but it's nothing special really, aiming is also a bit too slow 
 for my taste. The story is pretty bad. And it ends really anti-climactic. It could've used more 
 Philip Clyde, he's awesome and my favorite character in the entire game. There are only, get this, 
 6 missions in the entire game. Holy smokes, but they are fairly long, some are maybe too long. 
 Still, it is a pretty short game. I also wish there were more vehicles in the game, all you get 
 to drive is a Hovercraft.
  
  The co-op is what this game is all about. And it makes an average game play... better. You can play 
 either online or with split-screen. It's definitely better to have a human partner control one 
 character rather than the AI. The competitive multiplayer is also... you guessed it, nothing special. The 
 game can be finished in 1-2 days, it's also not that great. If you play it by yourself, it's okay, 
 if you play it co-op with a friend it's kinda fun. I mean, it's not impossible to squeeze some 
 entertainment out of this. Maybe I am a bit harsh here, maybe I don't know what I'm talking about. 
 Or maybe this game should've been much, much better. Give it a rental first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexidor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The first game i got for my Xbox 360, and the Game showed me that the xbox was a good choice.
 
  
  The game started out good, not too impressive, but it kept me occupied and gave me some laughs.
 
  The AI wasn't bad at all, and the difficulty was "just right".
  The game went kinda downhill as the story went by, but was still above average.
  With 2 controllers 
 the game became even more enjoyable.
  and as a Bonus, the DLC gives you more for your money, for free :D
  The achievements (for those 
 who enjoys having a large Gamerscore) aren't that hard to get either, and the task are both fun, 
 and original IMO
  
  but in my opinion the the online part is somehow a letdown, and EA even separated the EU and US 
 versions, so finding multiplayer games is a pain, but when it works out, its worth the wait.
  
  worth playing at least once. 
  Having a couple of playmates gives the game the extra boost 
 to last longer than your average game, and gives you a reason to complete the game more than once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgeorjose
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  army of 2 is a pretty fun game to play if u play it with someone who u know would like it to. i 
 dont know why people complain about this game the story is good it is just short. i enjoyed playing 
 this game especially with my bro. we had a blast covering each other and beating down on AI as 
 if they were rag dolls. cant wait to see how the movie is hopefully its as funny as the game. so 
 for those of u who have a friend to play with this is a good game to have. u could spend hours 
 just hitting ur friend. its highly addictive. i cant say the same thing about its online play it 
 was really confusing but oh well. hopefully there is a second part to this game. where we go find 
 bin laden or something and just shoot his frieds up. or make the campaign more than two players 
 that would have made it more fun. so dont believe those bad reviews those people are just loners 
 with no friends to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a good third-person shooter but it lacks in mission variety and excitement. Most 
 of the time it just feels too "played out," if you understand my meaning. The missions are lacking 
 in variety, your partner's AI is stupid, and the gameplay can sometimes be very frustrating. Army 
 of Two serves as a perfect example of a missed opportunity that could've been great.
  The main story is about Salem and Rios, two mercenaries fighting terrorists in settings such as 
 Afghanistan and Iraq to name a couple. As they continue to battle wave after wave of the terrorists, 
 they realize that someone in their own organization is setting them up. The plot is boring and 
 uninspired and won't you keep interested for long. It becomes fairly obvious that in Army of Two, 
 if they aren't with you they're terrorists. The game doesn't start out strong at all. You go through 
 a banal training routine before going into actual gunfights.
  The gameplay itself plays like that of a a third person-shooter's. You'll be running around with 
 your partner shooting terrorists, punching their lights out and then hitting them with your gun. 
 As for a cover system, there isn't one. It basically uses the duck and cover system from the Call 
 of Duty series, which is fine except a cover system similar to Gears of War would've helped in 
 at least several different battles. Ammo quickly becomes an issue due to the game's awkward aiming. 
 There aren't any scopes on most of your guns (save for the snipers) and it can be very chaotic 
 and you'll probably end up getting downed. Each time you get downed, you'll just sit on the ground, 
 ready to take anyone out while your partner drags you to safety and heals you, which could take 
 up to several seconds. The game lacks in the checkpoint system, which doesn't help the sometimes 
 frustrating gameplay. You'll be able to customize your guns from their firepower, magazine size, 
 what suppressor to put on, and even a shield. The game offers a neat online mode as well. You can 
 join public campaign matches or compete in 2-on-2 team deathmatches or team objective. The multiplayer 
 options do add some more playing time to the game, but the game's awkward aiming and cover system 
 mechanics are still there. The campaign is quite short (only around 6 or so hours) and the online 
 soon becomes a bore. There are some great things about the game. It's incredibly good looking and 
 does a fine job in the audio department. Overall, Army of Two is worth playing if you can overlook 
 its gameplay flaws, but ultimately ends up in the "DECENT" section. You can probably get this game 
 at around $30 if you want to shoot first and think second.
  
  Score - 6.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maidendude71
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  An overrated and disapponting game which leaves you feeling depressed that you spent so much money 
 on it (24.99 pre-owned) and a bit bored. Most of the main bosses you finally kill them (after a 
 while) but only in cutscenes. Good for weapons and back-to-back can be a laugh. Story mode only 
 good if you are playing with a mate. I'm not particuarly good at shooting/platform games but it 
 only took me 2 days to complete. Not very good online as you can only do co-op story. Graphics 
 are overall preety good although some major glitches. Not a particualy good story and they could 
 of made it so much more of it. Seven out of Ten at a push. If you like Mercenaries 2, Frontlines, 
 Battlefield etc.... (which you probably do) then their may be a slight chance you'll enjoy it. Its 
 a love hate game. I don't recomend you buy it as it is bad for the money and if you are good at 
 shooting games then you'll complete this in a matter of seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Terror
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Even before I played the game I thought their review seemed overly harsh. They gave it a 6.5, but 
 they seemed to enjoy it and the biggest gripe was the subject matter (which seems odd where they 
 praise games for like Fable 2 for having the option of killing children) , but I guess the pay Americans 
 to kill terrorists theme is a little un-PC but regardless of your political views, this is an awesome 
 game! 
  The gameplay uses a cover system that I found quite similar to Gears of War (such as back against 
 cover, sliding to it, and blind firing) which I enjoyed a lot. In addition to cover the Army of 
 Two incorporates an Aggro-meter. If you are firing you gain aggro and the bigger the gun, the quicker 
 you gain aggro. This means that 1 player can draw the fire and the other person can sneak around 
 for a better shot or melee. Lastly, Ao2 allows you to enter 'overkill' mode, in which time slows 
 and you either become faster or more powerful (at the cost of being forced to stand, which can 
 be a difficulty at some points) depending on your aggro (if you had been at no aggro or max aggro 
 respectively) . These may sound like you become a super-soldier, and in some respects you are, but 
 if you aren't careful you can easily get cut off from your partner or flanked and killed.
  The story is an important feature for me in games and although it isn't particularly deep, it's 
 better than I expected. I don't want to spoil it for any potential players, but it is more than 
 a "you go kill these people and I'll give you money" and involves a decent plot twist and betrayal. 
 There also isn't really any character development, but you learn to love the characters and through 
 their playful banter and physical abuse (at any time you can go up to your partner and give him 
 a high five... or head but him) .
  Replayability is what separates a rent from a buy and I think this is very replayable. With a lot 
 of guns to choose from and upgrade you won't be able to max out everything on your first run through 
 (even though you unlock weapons after beating the game on different difficulties) , which gives 
 you a chance to play the game a different way (such as playing through with a shotgun as your primary 
 weapon instead of a machine gun or a small machine gun instead of a pistol) . Though this won't 
 keep you coming back many times. But for this there's co-op! So you and a friend can blast baddies 
 together for hours of enjoyment. And with the whole game taking like 6-8 hours, it isn't that much 
 of a time investment. Oh and you still get money from your co-op adventures even if you beat the 
 level already.
  All in all, this is a very enjoyable game and I highly recommend it. With a short story it could 
 be that cover based shooter you can play for the last week before Gears of War 2 comes out or you 
 could just give it a try (plenty of cheap copies on Amazon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victor_182
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun to play and if your friends have it you should too! The multiplayer in 
 this game is just a major blast, and the weapon buying system makes you want to play it even more. 
 The multiplayer is a lot of fun can be frustrating but it is crazy. The online has a lot of fun 
 modes, only problem is it sometimes takes a while to find a match. The Games play is good online, 
 it's not choppy, it blends well, and the mayhem, it a lot of fun. So if you haven't had a chance 
 to play this game it is worth it. This game is a lot of fun to play with your friends. That is 
 what this game was made for and it does a good job at it. So my overall experience has been good. 
 It does use a lot from Gear of War but with these types of games you have to follow the best, in 
 some ways anyway. So get it and game on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  this game has good graphics and sound but the gameplay gets annoying as you go on.
  if you play multiplayer or online it can be fun but when you play single player your AI partner 
 acts like he has down syndrome, he will drag you out into the open when you are injured and he 
 dies an awful lot.
  when you get weapons they usually dont have much ammo, therefore there is no point of a sniper 
 rifle or RPG
  pimping your gun is just dumb. The game itself is very repetitive. Buying new armor isnt very deep, 
 there are 3 types, light heavy medium. then there is the mask upgrades which only change the paint 
 job, not the full design, sometime enemies overwhelm you and like i said earlier, if your playing 
 single player..... good luck. the storyline itself is kind of cool. the gameplayis great and innovative 
 as you can used the aggrometer to draw attention to one player so the other can flank the enemy.
 
  the armored enemies are just plain hard, you cant blow him up with an RPG but you can sneak up 
 behind him with an average pistol and put him down. now that just dont make no sense
  
  if you can get it cheap go for it, i paid 60 and was dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  army two is simple co-op shooter that gets fun as the story progresses. army of two's co-op tactics 
 are what make it enjoyable to play with a friend but annoying with an a. i partner. the a. i partner 
 is as dumb as a lamb when it comes to reviving you. the game offers different coop manuevers that 
 you can perform, like step jumping, back to back, or just activating doors or my favorite kicking 
 them down. the campaign is not that long, its about 6 missions and can be beaten in 4 to 6 hrs 
 depending on the difficulty, if playing with a buddy it can be a lot shorter. what i also like 
 about the game is the weapon customization feature which lets customize almost every weapon in 
 the game to make them more powerful and accurate, also you can choose different masks to fit your 
 personality. the multiplayer is pretty fun if your playing with decent people. the game has its 
 own sense of humor that some or most people will find funny, overall army of two is great shooter 
 to play cooperatively with a buddy but decent with an a. i partner
  
  The Good: awsome graphics, fun co-op play, interesting weapon customizations fun multiplayer, there 
 some humor
  
  The Bad: to short, a. i is sometimes very stupid, salem and rios are always complaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is one of the many games coming out that is about mercenaries who seem to have the 
 ability to act as a platoon of 30 marines. In addition they added the every famous  
 to the mix. They kicked it up a knotch and involved several countries to hate on.
  
  Army of Two does the job of entertaining us 3rd person, co-op shooters. However it does leave you 
 in a mess sometimes when your AI is dragging you through a field of bullets, healing you next to 
 a yellow suited goon, or just refuses to follow your orders.
  
  Visuals: 8.5
  Sound: 7.0
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Replay: 6.0
  
  Now you take charge of one of two characters. 
 A butch guy who is made of medal and has a strange thing of bringing in morals when they annoy 
 the crap out of most players. The other guy is a dark haired Brad Pitt wannabe. He is often a nancy 
 and get's picked on by the big guy. Either way, they play the same.
  
  Now let me scrub from the record real quick. I played Mercenaries recently, meaning, my first time 
 playing it was two months or so ago. Before this I thought Army of Two was stupid in so many ways, 
 namely because you PIMP YOUR WEAPONS.
  
  You know what though, once you play the game and begin using the arsenal given to you, the pimping 
 of weapons is actually pretty cool and something to laugh about while playing with your buddy.
 
  
  You get to choose your path of what weapons you wish to use, purchase, and upgrade. The upgrades 
 make HUGE DIFFERENCES in the game, however did anyone else notice that the fully upgraded AK-47 
 is the cheapest gun to fully upgrade in ratio to it's power?
  
  I will tell you right now, the balancing of weapons is pointless as any smart man will use only 
 basic assault rifles until they can fully upgrade the PKM (which is hands down the best rifle for 
 power, accuracy, and payload) .
  
  The game is pretty decent in all aspects. The game has levels you will want to play over and over 
 and the game is for the most part pretty easy. I beat it on all levels and on the hardest level 
 it was just the right amount of challenging. Beatable, but made you use patience over metal.
  
  Your partner if you fail to have friends, will be controlled by simple D-Pad: Advance, Hold, 
 Regroup. And between subtle and hostile. It works pretty well, but you will realize that advance 
 only means, advance a few feet. While at other times they will advance the entire scale of the 
 level. The AI is built pretty well for what I expected, but you will wonder if your partner is 
 Helen Keller. Aside from that you can do the gears of war thing and heal each other, but with a 
 catch. The bonus is you can drag your player around and your player can shoot if you're down. Both 
 can shoot a while moving (ed) . This makes for some cool Lt Dan scenes. However, if you're down, 
 you had better hope you died in a neat tidey spot, because if not, your AI partner will go in the 
 most strange places to heal you and probably just get your killed. Playing with a partner though, 
 makes this game a full point higher!
  
  The best thing about this game is the introduction to Aggro. At the top of your screen is an Aggro 
 meter that shows who is getting the attention. It literally makes you invisible, allowing you to 
 move across the map wiping out baddies.
  
  Ontop of this creation is Overkill which makes one player deal x2 damage and the other one INVISIBLE 
 for a handful of seconds. You can basically wipe out entire squads as even if you melee down opponents 
 in a group, none will notice if your partner is in overkill.
  
  The game lacks in length, overall level design and AI completion. However the game makes up for 
 it's mistakes with an entertaining pair of characters, aggro basics, gun upgrading, and it's very 
 well done graphics. I suggest picking this game up, or at the least, borrow/play with a friend 
 at his place. It is worth checking out if you're a GoW fan. If you don't like Third Person shooters, 
 you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vianegativa85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Army of Two, Army of Two... First of all that's impossible, but I'll let it slide for now. 
  Let's start by saying this is a cool idea for a game, and although at this point, the hard core 
 mercenary is actually getting a little old, we'll stick with it being a still fresh idea in the 
 sea of "plots and game ideas." Starting out you and your A. I. partner (or much preferred human 
 friend) begin as Army Rangers, those guys that do things the regular army can't - including our 
 infamous intervention in Somalia in the early 90's.
  You do a little training exercise, although it's seems like child's play for the characters during 
 the tutorial.
  I'll come right out and say it: the storyline is not very exciting. To be fully blunt it's downright 
 predictable and as thin as five year-old socks.
  Well there's plenty of guns to make the storyline not as much of a problem, except that... well 
 the selection isn't actually bad, but they guns don't actually work that well. Most guns aren't 
 that accurate and they all sound virtually the same, for the exception of a few weapons in each 
 category.
  There's unlocks, but they aren't THAT great. Somehow I feel like this has all been done before. 
 Say... Rainbow Six Vegas and Gears of War. The game play just feels old by now, the cover system, 
 firing from cover, etc. I like it a lot, but it's not new.
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2, has better gun selections than Army of Two and they sound better and work 
 more realistically.
  So what does this game really do? The characters are cute and mostly static, the graphics are alright, 
 the guns are mediocre and the level design is taken from the bags named "Far Cry" and "Rainbow 
 Six."
  What we have here is a rehashing of games we have played before and for quite a while, put mercenaries 
 in it and called it something else. It's fun for a bit and I'll admit that, but mostly it's a huge 
 letdown considering the time spent making the game and the amount of hype that originally went 
 into it.
  
  If you don't think I'm right check with him: http://www. escapistmagazine. com/videos/view/zero-punctuation/32-Army-of-Two
 
  
  Reserve hype for something like the original release of STALKER and then it ACTUALLY being a decent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Army of Two has a great Idea behind it. Team up with a friend, Kill stuff, upgrade guns in bizarre 
 ways and keep killing stuff. The only real problems I had with the game were that my guy kind of 
 switched between being a bullet sponge and not being able to take any damage at all. It probably 
 just depended what the enemy was using, but some times I would be able to charge into a group of 
 baddies guns blazing and other times I would stick my head out and almost get killed instantly 
 by a single guy... very strange. 
  
  The other thing I did not like was that one of the characters randomly decides hes going to ponder 
 the use of mercenaries *which is what he is* in the modern world and if its "Ethical" to use and 
 army which reports to no-one but $$. It is a very valid argument and worth thinking about... but 
 It really breaks up the flow of the game. Its all fun and games with the characters cracking jokes 
 and beating on each other until the big guy goes all philosophical randomly... It came out of no 
 where
  
  The final rant I have about this game is that the "CO-Op" maneuvers feel very tacked on for the 
 sake of making it Co-op. With the exception of a few parts where you have to boost your partner 
 up to a ledge this game could have been played alone... which would defeat the point I know but 
 thats how the team things feel.
  
  Now that thats out of my system, Army of 2 is a really, especially if played with a friend. The 
 weapon optimizations is a fun, but not essential addition to the game. Its fun to run around with 
 a gold AK-47 and look like fool :) The graphics are pretty for this game, and the AI is not terrible 
 *not brilliant but not bad eather* For me the game was pretty easy but me and my friend that played 
 with me are pretty good at FPS. Over all a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak34
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Imagine this, you run into a room, you shoot three people, you press a button, go upstairs, rescue/kill/rendezvous 
 with someone and then repeat, does that sound fun? Well that's about it, just repeat the same process 
 in several different environments (they're basically just a change of background) and there you 
 have army of two. Its mind numbingly boring, you just go through different areas, planting bombs 
 on this, shooting at that. It may sound like fun but let me assure it most certainly is not. The 
 tutorial level is boring, as are most tutorials, and it makes you want to continue because you 
 just know that it's going to pick up and get fun and exciting. It doesn't. You have to force yourself 
 to play this game and carry on rather than having fun and wanting to continue. This game will not 
 entertain you in the slightest, apart from some mild thrills here and there, but let me stress 
 that they are very mild and few and far between, avoid it at all costs. I would only recommend 
 it to someone with very low standards, which require only flashing lights and pretty colours to 
 be entertained, anyone else should give it a miss. The multiplayer may seem good but you're better 
 off sticking with the AI because he will not get in your way and always knows where to go, you 
 can almost rely on him, especially if you're lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game that has been slightly underrated. Sure it has some minor issues with gameplay 
 mechanics and storyline, but on the whole, Army of Two is a satisfying and fun game.
  
  You play as Elliot Salem or Tyson Rios who are employed as private military contractors. They are 
 sent to all parts of the globe as they attempt to take out terrorist threats. Shortly in to the 
 story, they realize that their boss is not exactly on the level, so in addition to hunting down 
 all the standard bad guys in the middle east, Salem and Rios must bring the fight back to American 
 soil to protect their names.
  
  There is no shortage of real world weaponry in Army of Two. All of the weapons are unlocked right 
 from the start, but you must purchase each gun in order to use it. You earn money by accomplishing 
 various objectives (usually, kill someone or blow something up) . The game is heavily focused on 
 co-op gameplay, so you are never without your trusty partner. The co-op AI is better than average, 
 and rarely does it do anything overly stupid. As an added bonus, your AI partner is not completely 
 helpless either. You will often find yourself telling your partner to lay down suppressive fire 
 while you flank. Often times, by beginning your flanking move, the enemy AI will attempt to run, 
 and your partner will shoot him in the back. Nice.
  
  While Army of Two is a bit on the short side, there is plenty of reason to go back through the 
 game for extra achievements, or better yet with a friend using co-op split screen. If you haven't 
 tried Army of Two yet, put it down on your list of games to try in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Summary: -Duck and Shoot style gaming with fantastic Co-Op. Single player has its benefits buy 
 teammate doesn't do anything unless told to.
  
  Key Positives: 
  -Fantastic Co-op, as long as your teammate is good!
  -Great Weapon system for the style of game. 
 The amount of upgrades for just about every gun make it every addicting.
  -Online is very entertaining, however, it isn't for everyone
  -Very good audibles, ambient, weapon, 
 and voice sounds are great
  -Controls easy to learn, and aim
  
  Key Negative:
  -Single player is fun, but bot teammate is a buzz kill
  -Takes forever to earn enough money for 
 the big guns
  -Online isn't for everyone, however many find it very entertaining
  -In game music must be of poor quality because I can't even recall it, or if there even is any?
 
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  Yes, And certainly worth renting till you've had your fill. Great games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfbm
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  When AOT first came out I was all excited about it but after reading many a review I was dissuaded 
 from it and figured it was a relatively horrible and or broken game. Well last week I decided to 
 rent it on a whim and I have to tell you I really enjoyed playing it. Once I started playing I 
 was instantly hooked and spent the good part of two days playing it constantly until I beat it. 
 The weapon upgrade is very fun to play with and you are given the option to "pimp" your guns, which 
 means they change the finish to either gold or chrome depending on the gun. 
  
  The story is very immersive and keeps making you want to know what happens next. On a downside 
 the game, true to the reviews, is relatively short but being I am a father of 3 children that is 
 ok since I can't devote as much time to playing games as I used to, but I digress.
  
  In short this won't be the best game you ever played but it definitely is up there and seriously 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteghost0615
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Ok, Army of Two was the first of it's kind, and very well thought out, i'm not arguing with that. 
 Multiplayer was the first thing i played it on, and my first reaction was awesome. But then i started 
 to relize that the reason why it was taking me and my buddy so long to get through the missions 
 was because we both wanted to have the agro, we both wanted to be the sneeky sneeky guy. And when 
 ever one of us wanted to take charge the other one wouldn't listen, i know this is partialy our 
 own fault, but i would have liked it better if when you origonaly choose your guy, that was what 
 decided if you were the stronger of the two players. In single player its harder to adjust to right 
 after playing alot of multiplayer but eventually once you get used to it, its pretty cool. The 
 only problem is that your partner has no balls. When your in an area that has fire coming from 
 almost all directions and your not back to back, your guy basically finds a crappy vantage point 
 and sticks to it, and he just sits there. I know for a fact that if i were in the same situation 
 with a buddy, the buddy would just berserk the place, gain up the agro, and we'd destroy 'em. Oh 
 and don't buy into the commercials for this game. The videos are about 8 times better then the 
 actual game play, like that whole jumping into the helocopter off of a building never even happens. 
 It's crap. And even then, if there is something cool in the video, odds are its in a video, and 
 you don't get to actually take part in it. I give this game a 6.5, only because co-op can suck, 
 and single player can suck, it really depends on how fast you, or you and your buddy learn the 
 schematics of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Lets star ath ethe begining with a nice tutoria level, which lets you play but not be able to get 
 killed in, well yeah cause its practice.
  
  Then the game starts and your gettin hit about a hundred times but it doesnt matter cause the AI 
 is dumb, all they do is cover and fire, cover and fire. Thats all they do, they wont try to flank 
 you, wont try to kill you by well aimed frags, what they will do is cover and fire...
  
  Which is all well and good, but why can a guy fire his AK over a wall using blind fire, and hit 
 me so many times, but when he is standing there, he almost always misses???
  
  Also whats with the really dumb AAI? let me paint you a picture.
  
  Long Hallway with a couple 
 of dorways you can hide in.
  Your at one side with your AI pal, enemies on other side.
  NO cover in between each other, and you (the player) gets hit and your down, what will the Partner 
 AI do?
  You would think he would pull me into the doorway where there is csome cover right? or maybe frag 
 the enemies than pull me to a door, right?
  
  Well the suposedly SMART AI pulls me towards the enemies!!! WHY??? passing the cover of the doorways 
 and enemies before he is taken down himself? WTF!!!
  
  So to summaries the AI is DUMB! not smart!
  
  But then you get pissed off at the AI and let 
 your mate join in! Then all of a sudden the game is a lot better.
  
  Same situation as above only he did frag the closest enemies then pulled me away from enemies, 
 then healed me, like the AI should have.
  
  Really this game is a lot better with a friend, and not the Partner AI, even in split screen its 
 a lot better.
  
  Graphics are good, Sounds is good, Details to weapons and terrain also very good, the length is 
 also too short to fully enjoy, despite the expansion pack DLC, but the AI is very, VERY DUMB. Did 
 i already say that??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a real good game I feel. It has a pretty descent story mode. Graphics are above 
 average especially the scenery and the cinematics. The weapon and body armor selection is pretty 
 good and the upgrades our easy to purchase. Very easy to learn the game controls which I feel is 
 very Important in the new age of Gaming. Co-Op is a little slow. I played through it twice to get 
 as many achievements as I could which are pretty easy. Most of the achievements are fun to get. 
 Like killing so many baddies with a certain weapon or collecting all the masks or destroying a 
 helicopter with a rocket launcher is my absolute favorite. Definitely an easy game to play if your 
 just looking to kick back and have some fun. Some boss fights are a little difficult but nothing 
 that can't be handled. Haven't really tried any online play yet. I'd recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterarbider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, Army of Two is an amazing game, great story line lots of weapons, cool acheivements, 
 and I would totoaly recommend this game to anyone looking to buy a great cop-op game since we can't 
 wait for GOW2 forver. Second off, the online multiplayer is pretty cool, it's like missions with 
 two teams it's king of like doing the missions in GRAW with more violence, cooler weapons, and 
 some humor. One of the greatest thingss about this is all the cool new co-op feature. (Back to 
 back!) Plus the customizable guns gives it a RSV2/ GOW feel. I stand by my rating of 9.5 and am 
 strongly hoping for a sequel. Please let me know guys! Now go out and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldfire44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  This is first and foremost a game, and should be judged as such. It's not trying to make a political 
 statement, just trying to have a way to have modern combat with modern weapons and not have it 
 be the same thing every other game is. Sure the whole mercenary thing is a little far fetched, 
 but i think it works a lot better then trying to explain why all these weapons are available to 
 your average soldier. It's immensely fun and has great game play from the first second to the last. 
 The missions are varied and not repetitive. 
  
  It sure is fun to poke wholes in a storyline for 2 pages, but you can do that with any game, lets 
 have a bit more concentration on the other characteristics that matter gamespot, like the game 
 play, or replayability.
  
  I was really getting tired of fighting aliens every game, and this is a nice change. People should 
 be separate this from reality readily enough, but it still has enough credibility to suspend my 
 disbelief. If gamespot can't get into a game because it offends their sensitive nature, that doesn't 
 mean said game is a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Army of 2 is a great games with or with out a friend. But if u want a challenge and a game to play 
 with your friend dont buy it, because its not challenging with a friend. so if you want a challenge 
 play alone if maybe you like a game for its online play dont get it. this game has some great features 
 though like you buy your weapons and can upgrade them so you can have the ultimate weapon of destruction 
 but lots of people who play the demo are probably wondering about the mask and stuff. well there 
 is only one way to describe them. CRAPYyour better off upgradeing your weapons other then wasting 
 you money on a mask unless you want a curtain acheivement. I can go on and on about the cons but 
 still its a great game for some gamers. But if you playe gears of war and call of duty 4 its like 
 a not as good version of them to combined so i would nott reccomend it to you people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmgonzales0378
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two has a good premise and was fun to play overall; however, the only issue I have with 
 the game is the aiming when turning since it doesn't lock on you lose alot of ammo throughout the 
 game. The AI partner needs a little tweek so if you have a friend to play the game with I recommend 
 going down that path. When told to move up ahead the pack and the AI remains with you it's somewhat 
 of a bummer when trying to disappear off the radar in order to flank someone. That aren't really 
 boss battles in the game or that many interactive environment which takes away from the game. The 
 game was solid and the advisers were perfectly placed throughout the game. I would recommend this 
 game either for a purchase when the price goes down or for sure a must rent, so if you have some 
 free time and want to pimp some guns go pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpetsnazForces
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  6.5 because the AI isn't perfect and it's actually hard to hit someone ? Wow, can't imagine what 
 the score would be if the game was actually too easy.
  
  Great fun, funny characters, big guns and big bucks. Sounds like i'm reviewing Duke Nukem. But 
 I'm not. Army of Two is one of the best 3rd person shooters I've played ( and I like 3rd persons 
 ) . Controls are good, camera's flawless and yeah it is actually hard to hit someone. Big deal. 
 We call that challenge and it's supposedly a good thing. 
  
  The whole topic about the storyline being far from the actual events is just dumb. It's a game, 
 they wanted it to be funny. Of course everybody isn't a terrorist, and of course this is not how 
 private military functions ( also wearing a mask doesn't prevent you from getting bullet holes 
 in your face, but nobody mentionned it ) .
  It does not say on the box : ''Based on a true story'' so please get over it. 
  
  Don't feel 
 like writing a lot, just play the game and you won't regret it. That's all
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is one of those games, like gears of war, that is better off played with a friend. 
 The one on one controls with you and your partner can be amusing and a bit annoying with the controls 
 occasionally being confusing. The game itself is not as in depth as i hoped it would be but is 
 worth it. The way the game uses anger to determin where the AI goes is somewhat a work of genious 
 but could use a bit more work on the clever side as i believe in actuall battle not all the enemy 
 troops will be focused on one guy however the effort to do so is good enough. I now move onto the 
 actual story which is simple but good in a sense its set after the 9/11 attack and you are put 
 in the role of two, histerical, soldier characters which by themselves, hense the name Army Of 
 Two, take on the entire terrorist organisation to kill those who lead the groups and get revenge 
 on what occured earlier on in the game.
  The game does live up to expectations but with a few tweeks it could have been a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnySN1P3R
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is an attempt to tackle real life issues in video-game form, unfortunately it doesn't 
 work that well. But that doesn't mean that this game isn't fun.
  
  This game is fun, overall, it is a enjoyable experience and I would recommend is to people who 
 are bored with the games they have now or just need a time-waster or easy achievements.
  
  The game takes place in the typical game locales these days. You have your ship level, your Arabic 
 level, and your Chinese level and for good measure they threw in Miami. The back story is that 
 your are two former US Army Rangers turned Mercenaries that take your contracts and go around stopping 
 terrorism because apparently the US Army is worthless. 
  
  Eventually Rios and Salem (the two Mercs you can play as) discover that the SSC (your employers) 
 have been leaking troop positions to al-Qaeda and other sinister organizations in an attempt to 
 discredit the US Army. Their reasoning? The Senate is about to vote on a bill privatizing the military 
 and SSC wants the bill to pass.
  
  The whole attempt at using a real terrorist organization in the game doesn't work. Al-Qaeda apparently 
 has super soldiers that can only be killed from behind and nukes. It just makes al-Qaeda stupid. 
 And the al-Qaeda member you have to capture in Afghanistan isn't believable at all. The other levels 
 are a ship that was taken about by some group named abu-sayaf I think. And then China and Miami.
 
  
  The gameplay in Army of Two is acceptable, the weapons are fun to use although I think there is 
 some balancing issues in the primary weapons. Most of the LMG have terrible accuracy and you can't 
 put a grip on them while the assault rifles have the most customization and therefore make them 
 'better' to use. The other weapons you get are pistols, SMGS, Rockets, shotguns and Sniper Rifles.
 
  
  Army of Two also has co-op and that is the games curse and the game's blessing. The co-op is immensely 
 enjoyable and the best part of the game, playing online with a friend or locally is truly what 
 the game was meant for. But with the good comes the bad. Trying to beat the game at Professional 
 is virtually impossible by yourself, co-op is a must. Your AI teammate is really stupid and will 
 often drag you behind cover to heal you, and then will stop healing you and run out of the cover 
 and get killed. The enemies are ruthless and unforgiving.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game and is best used if you need a co-op game when a friends over. If you 
 want to buy it, rent it first and determine if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipper_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  i expected more from this game, thought it was going to be different. co-op is an excellent way 
 of playing this game, not too much for multiplayer but still fun to do when theres nothing else, 
 and possibly so-so for singal player mostly its because of the AI, your companion, who is not to 
 smart aparently, lacks some of the companionship. 
  
  co-op is what i started out playing as and i enjoyed it.
  multiplayer is alright, not the best, 
 but its alright.
  but the solo campaign was fun when you didnt have an actual friend over because after a while your 
 AI companion gets annoying. 
  
  the missions and storyline are easy to guess and is too short. once rios (one of the main guys) 
 starts saying negative stuff about scc, organization you work for, turns out ofcourse they are 
 so you fight, kill them, and make your own organization called "T. W. O.".
  
  the weapons, body armor, and masks on the other hand are really cool. they also introduce some 
 new things like building aggro which is one of the main points in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshxpit91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is kinda odd. The whole idea is simple, hide behind stuff, then shoot stuff. Its very 
 similar to gears of war in some way, just not nearly as awesome. The single player isn't worth 
 your time at all. i played the first mission (i wanted to KILL my AI partner) , then i got my friend 
 matt and we tag-teamed this thing in co-op. So this review is from the perspective of split-screen 
 co-op, so keep that in mind.
  
  Story: Its just there to keep the game from being totally pointless. its the cliche' story of the 
 good guy gone bad and you're out to stop him. its been done a million times before and apparently 
 EA didn't get the hint. But then again, its pretty clear they weren't going for a very story oriented 
 experience.. at least i hope not. If they were, they failed miserably. Just ignore it and you'll 
 be happy.
  
  Graphics: wasn't too impressed.. but again, we played SPLIT SCREEN CO-OP. so usually the system 
 has to downgrade the graphics to make that work. all things considering, you could tell it was 
 current-gen it just simply wasn't anything special. we played some online multiplayer after we 
 finished the story mode. it took up the full screen and was played on an LCD HD tv (32") it was 
 much better, but i still wouldn't say i was "impressed"
  
  Sound: Actually the sound was pretty good. =] it was one of the better parts of the game it made 
 some of the parts that were lacking seem more interesting and immersive. but thats just the sound 
 effects (guns, explosions, ambient, music) the voice acting was pretty abysmal. it made you feel 
 stupid watching the cutscenes cause the script sounded so dumb. but when you're in an intense firefight 
 section of the game. CRANK UP THAT SURROUND SOUND! it'll make you happy =]
  
  Gameplay: It was co-op so it was automatically fun. however it seemed kinda limited. There is an 
 "agro-meter" which encourages you to use tactics to draw fire from your enemies while your co-op 
 partner flanks them. but it only works sometimes, there were many times we used it and it just 
 made the situation more frustrating. We went through 90% of the game just running and gunning it. 
 There are also only about 3 useful actions you can do with your buddy and u only really need to 
 use one of them. there are no co op kills or fancy maneuvers. all you can really do is use your 
 partner to "step up" to get to higher areas. quite disapointing... 
  
  Final Verdict: if the co-op thing draws you in. At least rent it. it'll only take you about 8-10 
 hours to complete anyway, if that. No, it was not horrible and i don't regret taking the time to 
 play it. but if you're looking for a next purchase to play for quite some time, look elsewhere 
 or hold off for a game like gears 2 or mercs 2. Not much longer to wait for those =] =]
  
  thanks for reading,
  FrankusFREAKOUT
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AwesomeAnthony
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Army of two is a madly entertaining third person tactical shooter.
  If you plan on playing this game single player then look into something else, for this game shines 
 when you have two human beings playing co-op.
  
  In single player you get to choose from two mercenary dudes. Its this simple, you choose one of 
 the dudes
  the other becomes mentally impaired and can't fight to save you or himself; all the allied AI is 
 good for is suicide charges.
  
  Game play:
  the game play is what you'd expect from a third person shooter, except, this game has some nice 
 and bad features. 
  first off: army of two features a new teamwork system called Aggro, which is simply this, while 
 on the battle field when one player shoots or suppresses the enemy he obtains all the unwanted 
 attention from the enemy making the other player practically invisible, which allows for flanking, 
 re-healing yourself and other things you do when you are completely unnoticed 
  
  this works wonderfully on bosses, groups of enemies and even on one enemy.
  
  Army of two also 
 features a melee attack when close to an enemy, but since the melee button is the right trigger 
 the game does not like to register whether or not you want to shoot an enemy up close or bash their 
 head in. 
  
  Army of two has a cover system but its odd. its
  not like what you'd see in GTA 4, Gears of war, or Rainbow six Vegas.
  In fact its actually a 
 quite good cover system... kind of
  It works like this, you approach a wall crouched or standing and you take cover behind it ( you 
 don't mysteriously stick to the wall) you just take cover. so you are still free to move around 
 in any direction not just left or right which is nice you can also blind fire while in cover but 
 sometimes the camera goes screwy and you cant blind fire to the left or to the right but its no 
 big deal cause you can move around freely.
  
  Army of two also features crazy action packed modes. when a player reaches max aggro he is given 
 the option of over kill, basically one player goes into bullet time were his firepower is increased 
 but he and his bullets travel slower and the other player moves a little faster than usually and 
 is invisible, all this while the enemies are in slow mo themselves. its a nice treat.
  
  the second action packed mode is called back-to-back
  which is entirely self explanatory. Its 
 where the players move back to back and go into bullet time and blast enemies in slow-mo
  its fun but its only initiated in certain parts of the story.
  
  Army of two's most awesome 
 feature is the immense and ridiculous weapon modifications.
  If you always wanted a golden m249 SAW with a shield mounted on the barrel then look no further 
 for this game has one
  and many more weapons all of which are so upgradeable they become unrecognizable. 
  
  
  Seriously 
 look into this game if you want Great co-op action.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ROMAN_VI_X
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  While many people dislike this game, I rather enjoyed it. The singleplayer campaign was pretty 
 short but it's fun and fill with a nice variety of enemies, obstacles, etc.
  The splitscreen multiplayer is where the game really shines though. This game is hilariously fun 
 to play with friends online. There is nothing like blowing up helicopters in Iraq, or driving a 
 tank around in China and blowing people up :)
  
  But, more to the reviewing part of it lol
  
  Graphics: Never should make or break a game but 
 the graphics in AO2 are fairly good. 4/5
  
  Sound: Some of the gun sounds are a bit cheesy (I never knew a minigun was that quiet lol) but 
 they are pretty good. 4/5
  
  Gameplay: Good controls, nice enemies, etc make this a fun game :D. 5/5
  
  Multiplayer: An 
 interesting new way of playing multiplayer not focused on killing the other team but on objectives, 
 it's nice except you can only play with 4 people per game (2v2) . 3/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Why was this sucha highly anticipated game? Actually it's worth not close to it's price. I played 
 it for a day, then I was done... Nothing really fun. There is no replay value whatsoever. Unless 
 you play multiplayer the second time. The multiplayer is average if you ask me, it's really nothing 
 special with it and, yeah.. You have 1!!! only 1! Vehicle to drive, and it's a hovercraft! The 
 weapon arsenal is pretty big and there are many upgrades for your fella to buy. And there is a 
 bunch of different masks to buy. There are 3 different armours, light, medium and heavy. For the 
 graphics, It's excellent! nothing more to say, it's good and yeah.. The auido is good, but it's 
 nothing special. Actually this seems more like a expansion so there is not much to say. But the 
 multiplayer is pretty good and well, I never played it on Xbox live but i bet it's much better 
 than the couch co-op. 
  
  Over and out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Just as a starting note for this review, I personally believe the GameSpot review is heavily biased, 
 and no way represents the true personality of this video game. Thank you.
  
  Ever imagined being a Mercenary when you were a teenager? Fancied the idea of being a gun for hire? 
 You can live that guns n' glory lifestyle right in this game, in the shoes of Elliot Salem, or 
 Tyson Rios. The starting premise is that you are part of a two man team with the Army Rangers, 
 leading an attack into a Middle-Eastern city in search for a warlord, though not without the help 
 of a Mercenary who will turn out to be quite the antagonist for the story.
  
  The initial training mission and opening level introduce you to the game's primary features, more 
 notably 'aggro.' This is considered a threat meter, and can be used strategically when used correctly. 
 When one of the players fires at an enemy, even in a completely different direction, they gain 
 aggro and the attention of the enemy. The more aggro they have, the more that the enemies will 
 focus on that player, allowing the other to sneak around the enemies and taken them out from behind. 
 This becomes useful against enemies that are completely armored in the front, but vulnerable in 
 the back. There's also a nifty little mechanic where you can interact with your partner, and either 
 commend them on a job well done or punch them in the nads. Your choice. But remember that they 
 have guns too, and can put a few holes in you.
  
  The cover factor, as well, is as simple as Gears of War, if not more. All you have to go is stand 
 behind cover, facing an enemy, and you're done. No button, no fancy movements, that's it. When 
 you fire your weapon, the character holds their gun, in a blind firing movement, out of cover, 
 and still can be aimed towards the enemy. That's it, and once you move from cover, you can resume 
 normal running-and-gunning.
  
  The weaponry in this title are extremely varied, with the traditional Military Carbine to a chain 
 gun that can be employed in the field. Completing objectives in the game world yield cash to your 
 bank account, which can be used to upgrade your weapons, with everything from barrels and stocks, 
 to pimping out the material, which adds gold or silver or some other oddity to the gun's design. 
 Once a player has fully upgraded a Desert Eagle sidearm, it truly looks like a menacing beast.
 
  
  The graphics of Army of Two are what we have come to expect this generation. Nothing over the top, 
 but nothing at the bottom of the bargain bin. Probably the most detailed models in this came is 
 one of the player characters with their weapons pimped. The environment, though, are less flashy. 
 Most are obviously detailed as far as the terrain will let on. The set pieces are nothing unique, 
 and if anything, offer only cover.
  
  Once you complete the first mission, a cutscene shows that both of the player characters, and their 
 squad leader during the mission are invited to the mercenary firm, Security and Strategy Corporation, 
 with a montage showing their endeavors up until September 11th. Then you're off on your first mercenary 
 assignment. The story takes many twists and turns, though none are relevant to the overall plot. 
 The first mission reveals that a fellow mercenary was captured and poisoned heavily with radiation, 
 but it doesn't go any further than it. It suggests that the developers desired to go deeper with 
 this certain factor, but opted that it would be best to let the player's imagination wander. Though, 
 once you're in the final stages of the game, everything comes together and you're in the fight 
 of your life.
  
  Enemy AI, though, is nothing to be entirely proud of. Though it is effective, it doesn't have any 
 actual personality or soul. Enemies always do the same thing, regardless of location, standing 
 behind cover, or blindly rushing at you. The only change in this pace is when terrorists run at 
 you with C4 charges strapped to themselves. You would expect that terrorists and soldiers of the 
 Chinese army would show a little difference in tactics, but alas, there is none.
  
  Army of Two is a game that is surely a rent, and possibly a buy. Despite what the reviewers of 
 GameSpot believe, the modern mercenary is more capable of completing a job without being strapped 
 down by red tape as the Army is. There is no question to that. Though it also shows the danger 
 that Private Military Companies pose if they become too large and strong.
  
  The political message is there, but it takes a clear mind to understand it.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game in 2 days by doing like 3 missions a day, the game's really short. I'm glad I 
 finished it as school starts soon, but that's not the point here. This game has some good moments 
 and there's plenty of action here to keep you occupied. But as I've said the game's short and I'm 
 glad cuz I was glad to get it done, but was still left empty afterward. I wished it was longer. 
 Now, the AI for your teammate is good, but really dump and annoying at times. I mostly had a hard 
 time aiming in this game. Bullets hit and spread funny and I ran out of ammo pretty quick as enemies 
 don't die to easy. That was the most annoying part was unloading bullets and never hitting anybody 
 and it made me die a plenty of times because of it. I borrowed this game from a friend cuz I had 
 another that was looking to co op with me. But he never bought the game and its sad too because 
 the game is really made for co op with a friend. Overall the game's worth playing. I thought the 
 story was okay, although it didn't surprise me of what happened. I love gun customization, although 
 i never got my guns pimped, cuz i generally didn't think they were. Anyway, good game, bad moments, 
 ok fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bredeyabo
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  everybody wanted to play this game before it was out, but when it came out it was not too good. 
 because its too close to gears of war, in gears of war you have coop too but the graphics and game 
 play is so much better. and army of two is like a bad copy of it, thats what i really hated. i 
 wish the company that made army of two could of made it a little different and special. they made 
 people think it was going to be so good with coop but it was not. and i believe this is one of 
 the reasons why it was not that good at all.
  
  playing this game alone is just way too boring and not fun at all, if anyone dos not have a brother 
 or maybe for some people friends. this game is not for you because you really need someone to play 
 the whole game with or its just not going to be that great. playing it coop is way more fun because 
 the experience is so much better. when i played coop in this game with my brother and i we actually 
 spent more time than before. not to mention my friends it was allot of fun to play with them too. 
 anyway, this is why i advice all of you people who have this game to play coop.
  
  i hope you guys will have a changed opinion about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Another game that allot of Xbox 360 fans own is Army of Two, but there was hype that it was awesome, 
 and hype that it sucked. So I did the right thing and rented it and wasn't completely disappointed. 
 In the game you can either play as the tough war hero Tyson Rios, or the young guy who tries to 
 act cool, Elliot Salem. After choosing you character, you go through the training that shows that 
 Co-Op in this game is important in order to stay alive and complete your extremely short missions 
 of fighting terrorist and blowing up enemy bombs and stuff. This campaign can be really fun with 
 a friend playing either split screen or over LIVE with you, but playing alone means playing with 
 your surprisingly idiotic AI partner, and when I say idiotic, I mean idiotic. For example, if you 
 get shot and need healing, your partner will take you halfway across the map (You'll be surprised 
 if he hasn't already died by then) , then take you behind weak cover to heal you, but for some reason, 
 he will turn around and put his back towards the enemy and get shot at until he dies and you must 
 start at a far away checkpoint. And to make the campaign even sadder, the s-bomb is dropped every 
 two seconds. I'm not saying I am one of those people who gasp everytime somebody says a swear, 
 I honestly don't know why people think they're a big deal really, but it really does get annoying 
 in this game when the characters try to be 'bad to the bone.' I mean it's like the script was written 
 by an 8-year-old. Anyway, there are positives in the Army of Two, such as buying weapons, weapon 
 upgrades (larger clips, golden weapons, increased firepower, shields, etc) , and masks to make you 
 look awesome and scary to be near, even for war good soldiers. The Versus mode is also pretty cool 
 and fast paced. Plus there are pretty good graphics, but with some visual issues, and the controls 
 aren't too confusing.
  
  I think that's all there is to say about Army of Two. It's a good game, totally worth renting, 
 but if you really like it, it would be worth buying too, your choice. So have fun, and remember, 
 there is no 'I' in 'team', or in Army of Two. 
  
  -BiG D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaim_odyssey
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Awesome 2-player co-op and overall good game. Good points are in the multiplayer, 2 friends can 
 hook up online or in there living room and get straight into the action. The campaign has a drop-in/drop-out 
 functionality that is always handy for people who just want to get on with it. The online has a 
 new innovative mode that I haven't seen applied else where. The online is based on multiple teams 
 of 2 completing objectives to earn money. While you can still kill each other this is not the object 
 of the game. With your hard earned cash you can buy new gun packs to add more fire power to side. 
 Faults are that it has a slow responding AI that can be annoying on harder difficulties such as 
 professional. Achievements on this game come with a varying difficulties so any gamer whores out 
 there had better be ready for some effort. Keeping true to its name Army of Two delivers a solid 
 multiplayer experience but if your looking for a solid single player shooter you may want to walk 
 by this game and buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  THE WEAPONS! Man this game rocks ( in my opinion ) ! You play two military mercs. goin on missions 
 to make a buck but end up being betrayed by their good friend! In the single player mode you can 
 chose between Salem or Rios! The computer controls the other and it does a good job, sometimes 
 it would get on my nerves cause the computer would get a little stuck but nothin to have a cow 
 over! You can control your partner through the partner control wheel and make him take cover, attack, 
 passive or go Aggro! Aggro is when your enemy focus`s on you or your partner ( you glow bright 
 red ) , which means either one of you can sneak around behind the enemy and take`em out while your 
 partner keeps their attention! You go through six stages and they are pretty nice to look at! No 
 real eye candy but still nice detail in the environments, in the uniforms, and not to mention some 
 pretty kool cut scenes to! Now the real fun is playin with someone in co-op mode, THIS GAME GETS 
 EVEN BETTER! The enemy AI is pretty tough to, they will flank you, rush you and try to flush you 
 out from behind cover by throwin grenades! Some of them even wear full body armour that can`t be 
 penertrated from the front, so in which case you have to flank! This game is tight! You can buy 
 weapons and upgrade them just about almost anyway you want! You make some pretty nice cash to as 
 you finish missions and find and complete secondary missions as well! I was caught up in the game 
 I beat it rather fast but, it`s still a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  my favorite co-op game on 360 (at the moment 8/2008) , playing this game for the first time makes 
 it feel almost nothing unique and you feel really disappointing like it's only gonna be a random 
 shooter, but if you give it a chance you'll find out all the good things about it.. and when I 
 think about customizing weapons this is the first game that pretty much comes to mind.
  I've never really been a great fan of shooters until now, and yeah it is one of these games which 
 has these annoying female voices telling you what to do in-game like Perfect Dark Zero, I really 
 hate those type of games but this is the first one of those I really respect.
  playing this game is like playing Gears of War in different type of world, with more health too. 
 the random jokes in-game are kinda like Gears of War.
  but this game has a lot of good things that are missing in Gears.
  hm.. all I have left to say 
 this game is for Gears of War fans, and they'll like this game as much as Gears.
  what I hate most of this game tho is that your player gets stuck dead at many places where the 
 other player is unable to enter to heal him, like when you just did a step jump and has yet to 
 pull up the other player.. it really does happen a lot.
  I hope there'll be a Amry of Two Two.. which sounds lame... eh, forget it. it was a great extra-Gears 
 of War game on your 360 and I really recommend it because it kicks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster2k
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  My little brother and I had a blast playing this game. Now I want to buy it. I thought it would 
 be tougher, but really wasn't so I would the say the difficulty isn't there, Professional is a 
 big let down. The customization of weapons is cool and you can put on older parts to fit your style. 
 I'd say that unlocking all the weapons by beating the game is a bad idea, I expected game art, 
 cinematic, behind the scenes, or a little history on the main characters but I guess that was too 
 "cliche".
  
  The game is great, you can take a car door and use it as a shield which is helpful if you want 
 to run through a group of A. I. and knock a couple on their ass while you're at it. Being able to 
 switch weapons is cool also, but I rarely used it with my brother, seemed like just a "it's here 
 if you want" type of extra. The synchronized sniping is really cool if you are playing with someone 
 who has a itchy finger, like me, and need to hit a target without two shots firing off with a split-to-2 
 second difference. The mini-bosses and bosses are interesting. Instead of an all out shoot-out, 
 you have to use Agrro so ONE of you gets his attention while the other gets him from behind (bodyguards) 
 or takes clean shots to take his goons out and him.
  
  The game is awesome. I would recommend renting before buying, I did and I'm buying it soon, so 
 you don't get disappointed cause all this hype didn't meet YOUR expectations. Be aware, the game 
 is short and you can jump missions, but won't unlock weapons because you have to finish the missions 
 in order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiterspartan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  If you want a high-quality shooting game with good graphics for your XBOX 360 after Halo 3, Army 
 Of Two (or AO2 for short) is your game.
  Let me first discuss the good. High- Quality graphics and a fanatastic storyline make for a game 
 that should be rated an 8.0 at least. Another plus is the fact that there aren't too many characters, 
 which makes for easier gameplay. It also has 7 levels ranging from Afghanistan to Miami. Also, 
 it has MANY weapons. You'll carry 3 weapons at a time: primary, secondary, and special. You'll 
 pick your three weapons... for a price. You will get cash throughout the game for completing various 
 objectives. Once you complete campaign mode, you will unlock every primary weapon, including an 
 M134 chaingun! :) You will also be able to modify your guns to put on shields, frontmounts, (including 
 a grip, a shotgun and a grenade launcher) extended barrels, stocks, and silencers. Each level will 
 have one hard boss. One has the chaingun, while others may just have machine guns. But if you get 
 a cheap RPG (rocket launcher) those bosses won't be much of a problem. Also, you can do a two-player 
 co-op campaign, or play solo with your computer teammate. In single player campaign, you can direct 
 your partner to regroup, advance, or hold position. Don't get me wrong, these levels are long ones, 
 so using these positions for your partner is crucial. One of my favorite features is, however, 
 is the aggro. While one player shoots, he will attract attention, making the other practically 
 invisible. When one player has enough aggro he can either us overkill to double his damage, or 
 the other player can use it to become invisible for 15 seconds. Another feature is the back-to-back. 
 The game slows down while you and your partner go (obviously) back to back while terrorists attack 
 you.
  Finally, let me get to the bad. I have only one major hate for this game, which is the swearing. 
 There is just too much of it. They swear profusely. We all have this image they swear alot in war 
 anyway though...
  All in all this game is DEFINITELY worth however much it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pewizzle
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 28, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's look on the bright side. Army of Two is not a terrible game. It has some innovative 
 mechanics and likable characters. The weapons are quite awesome, and the game is action-packed 
 to the bone. Hell, the second level has you sniping insurgents from thousands of feet in the air 
 while hanging on a parachute! But it's pretty impossible to play through this game without noticing 
 the many flaws of this game. 
  
  First, let's start with the graphics. While not bad, they just don't take advantage of the 360's 
 capabilities. Army of Two looks like a good Xbox 1 game. The character models and environments 
 look lush, but everything else is pretty much ho-hum. 
  
  I'm not going to spend much time on sound. It sounds like your basic shooter with some nice gun 
 sounds.
  
  The gameplay is quite weak. First off, your single-player partner's A. I. is atrocious. While you're 
 taking fire and ordering your partner to shoot the enemies, he's just sitting in a corner either 
 doing nothing or running into a wall. The cover system is bad, too. There's no real cover system, 
 just crouching and standing next to a wall. Also, the later levels can be stupid hard, mostly because 
 of your retarded partner.
  
  I can't exactly review multiplayer, since the game would never let me into it.
  
  Overall, 
 Army of Two is just a game that had potential, but fell short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormer24
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is a fun game that had all of the right makings to be a great game but fell short due 
 to the repetitive nature and somewhat bad A. I. When you first start playing Army of two you might 
 be awed by the action game play and funny characters, but once you play this game for more than 
 two hours you quickly become tired of the game play. A redeeming quality is the amount of customization 
 available for your character and gun. This reason alone was why I kept playing way past the time 
 I began to become bored with the game play. Another great aspect of this game is the great co-op. 
 If you have a friend that also owns this game you should definitely play it with them because it 
 is much more fun. 
  So, if you're looking for a game to play with your friend with deep customization options this 
 is the game for you. Otherwise, your money might be better spent on another game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremePhobia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Anybody who knows anything about this game knows two things for sure. This is a game best played 
 with a friend (preferably NOT splitscreen) and it's filled with the kind of stuff you'd do with 
 your friend if you were thrown into combat and had regenerating health. The thing you may not know 
 is that the game is a little on the short side. While it's a fun game for a little while, it's 
 just linear enough the the brevity of the story holds you to just about the right length.
  
  Army of Two takes a bold story telling step, not by some kind of Kojima-esk story twist, but 
 by having the story take place during current day events, albeit in the background. You start out 
 in Somalia as an Army Ranger with your partner, either Salem or Rios depending on which you choose 
 to play, and are sent out to keep tabs on a loose canon mercenary who has been hired to kill Mo'Alim, 
 a crazy revolutionary with a golden AK. Things go crazy and of course you handle the situation 
 very well, landing you an offer of work for a PMC (Private Military Contractor) . 
  
  The first real "non-training" mission takes place in Afghanistan in 2001 and you've been contracted 
 into kill an Al'Qaeda top dog. The mission after that takes place in Iraq before heading into a 
 near future China who is somewhat in conflict with North Koreans. Can you see where this could 
 be a little touchy? It's not the first game to do these locations, times or situations, it's just 
 really the first time that a non-established or non-army backed game has done it.
  
  Don't be squeamish though, aside from the set-up of the location and a few crazy suicide bombers, 
 you could really be in any desert hunting down just about anybody. It's really not worth putting 
 too much thought into it, you should just accept it for what it is - a familiar place and story 
 to set-up for you to fight against ridiculous odds for fun and profit. And don't worry, this is 
 only the minor part of the story. Things shift quickly to a more conspiracy story once you get 
 to China.
  
  The story itself won't last very long, especially if you and your partner have played a few shooters 
 before. Army of Two has three difficulty settings, the hardest which is locked until you finish 
 the game for the first time, and they all seem to be built to be of moderate difficulty with the 
 AI. This means that if you are playing with a human partner, you've got a huge tactical advantage 
 that makes the game a little too easy, even on the hardest difficulty. Don't fret, it provides 
 you with just enough time to get familiar with, master, and get bored with the game. It's not long 
 enough to be worth owning, at least not at full price.
  
  If you're playing splitscreen, you have my sympathies because the screen is a little small, especially 
 when your partner, on occasion, has to fill part of your screen for some reason. If you have to 
 play with the AI partner then I'm almost equally as sympathetic. Really on a whole he's not that 
 bad but when the AI does go wrong, it's bad enough to make you want to cry. For instance, when 
 your partner (me) is down and you have to drag him slowly to safety, dragging him by a burning, 
 combustible barrel might be a bad idea. You'd also thing that it would make more sense to shoot 
 the guy directly in front of you with no cover than the man blind firing from good cover off to 
 the side. It should also be mentioned that for the most part, the enemies aren't smart enough to 
 do this on purpose though there will be some grenade or RPG happy enemies. There are enough enemies 
 though that it does almost seem like they might be flanking you on purpose though it's hard to 
 tell.
  
  When you finish the game, there's also a multiplayer system with a few different modes but which 
 all basically equate to you and one teammate carrying out some objective or another before the 
 other team does to make more money than the next guy. Of course you can kill people for money too 
 but unless it's someone you're supposed to assassinate, you aren't really getting paid all that 
 well for it. Unfortunately, since this is rather different than standard deathmatch/slayer/warzone, 
 it means that you are going to get destroyed for a little while until you get used to doing random 
 things while being shot at by people with bigger guns and wondering where in the world all these 
 computer generated bodyguards are coming from. When you get the hang of it then you can destroy 
 all the players that don't know what they're doing. Even if you do get an even match you will discover 
 that you find little incentive to use any special two man abilities aside from aggro.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the most part with nice textures but with so many enemies dressed 
 in the same garb they at least appear to be of lower quality. Given the speed of the game, though, 
 it's forgivable. You aren't going to have enough time to sit and stare at the way they look. The 
 environments are pretty good looking for the most part but they don't carry the minute details 
 that you enjoy in other games. Also of note is the loading screen which never changes or moves 
 except to possibly change the tip they give you at the bottom of the screen on occasion. Considering 
 the length of some of the load times, particularly heading to your weapons shops, it can be almost 
 excruciating.
  
  Sound is passable at best. I can't say that any of the music was memorable and you're never quite 
 sure what certain sounds mean. I've heard some sounds toward the end of firefights that I thought 
 were supposed to be to signify that everything was clear but it would happen two or three different 
 times towards the end of the firefight. The weapons sound just fine and they are at least good 
 enough that you can tell when your partner is firing most of the time. I wouldn't expect any kind 
 of epic music though.
  
  While it seems like it's not really all that great of a game, it still is fun even if the game 
 has glaring short-comings. While the concept sounds like a grade A idea, you can tell that it was 
 more an ambitious idea given life by a less than renowned dev team. With all that said, it's still 
 worth playing at least once and possibly twice if you've got a friend that it's fun to goof around 
 with. Unfortunately it's a little too linear, too short, and un-immersing for it to be worth it's 
 full price but it's perfect for a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I just want to get this out of the way. Army of Two is great in its cooperative gameplay but it 
 falls short without someone to have your back, the co-op mechanics work but that shouldn't make 
 the game of what it is. Really now, Gears of War and Halo 3 have nice cooperative campaigns, but 
 its also great in all other areas, and the single player is playable. What makes this second rate 
 game different from those titles? Just because its two player game works, and is entirely fun doesn't 
 make Army of Two a unique, must play experience. The game simply lacks in all areas that isnt bound 
 by the co-op gameplay, The story is a complete letdown take on a Real-World issue, Two metrosexual 
 wannabe Badass soldiers hunting down random badguys on contracts for no real threat? Thats not 
 really oscar material, and I'm ignoring the fact that These two guys are trying to be too cool, 
 throwing up Generic takes on life, jokes in the most irrevelant time, and its been done in other 
 games but to a better extent, (such as Gears.) The Game soley focuses on its co-op mechanics implementing 
 it every battle, obstacle, etc. But it just doesn't work without your Real life companion, The 
 A. I for your Articficial buddy is just too stupid, you are literally weak, without Co-op the game 
 doesn't make the game work, its your friends. Its also very punishing when you simply can; t kill 
 anybody without the usage of "teamwork", Why can't we just jump and spray the guy thats supposed 
 the boss? or the guy with the turret? Instead, the game makes you use this horrible AGRO system (and 
 no, not the horse from Shadow of Collosus) which is basicly a fake Diversion/Flank system, Patience 
 is one thing. But its totally frustrating when the Aggro system is the only method to kill, and 
 there is no improvision. Its just repetitive. And somehow, your are unable to pick up your fallen 
 enemies' dropped weapons, most of the game I was scattering around for scant weapon pickups, And 
 in most cutscenes, I've seen Rios and the other guy perform superhuman strength, tearing down doors 
 and such, but in Gameplay they can't do it. I also hate how when you buy a weapon from the game's 
 pretty good system, you can't sell it to swap it for another, and sometimes you buy something on 
 accident.
  
  The graphics look like Gears of war, but to a much lesser degree, But its all presented well, Unfortunately 
 the cutscenes look far better than the actual gameplay. And the blur factor is really amped in 
 this game, sometimes enemies blend in with the sun, which isn't supposed to happen. The sound is 
 also very good, and the voicework.
  
  Online and multiplayer is fast and furious, and is much more developed than the rest of the game, 
 but its not that captivating to make a switch from your primary shooters.
  
  In conclusion, the game is worth a try with a friend, but the thrills the game brings is not memorable, 
 its like a decent movie that you rent for the weekend. Its quick and fun. But you are gonna forget 
 it a week from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Army of two is EA trying to make a game all about co-op which makes this a totally different type 
 of game but does this game do what it was intended to?
  
  The single player is not fun playing yourself it just does not work because without a real player 
 you will be struggling to pass the harder missions and a friend makes it fun.
  
  co-op/ single player
  this is the games best part and it works very well especially when you 
 hit your friends guy for a joke it can be a great experience.
  
  Graphics
  9/10 very impressive 
  
  MP
  just like co-op but its 2v2 this is a decent MP but dont expect 
 this to be as fun as the co-op.
  
  Pros
  single player with a real friend is fun
  graphics impressive
  
  cons
  SP is poor solo
  not exactly a story 
  more of a rental
 
  cover system works decent but not gears good
  
  verdict
  decent co-op game but nothing too rave about but if you just play co-op and dont get into it you 
 might enjoy it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bam746
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Personally i think this game is underrated and underappreciated this game was amazing. Even though 
 i beat this in two days i think it has a huge replay value so you can get acheivements. Anyways, 
 the story is about two friends named: Elliot Salem and Tyson Rios, who were two army soldiers who 
 got drafted to a mercenary society called SSC. There was another person in your group and his name 
 was Phillip Cylde, who was a big ass. The new person you work with is Alice Wade who gives you 
 objectives. After the first few missions things started to get suspiscious when soon you find out 
 that your boss who LOVED (not really) you set you up and now Salem and Rios are wanted for murder. 
 Anyways there are lots of coop action like using riot shields giving eacother boosts and even sniping 
 at the same time. It is way more fun playing with a real person than the AI because the AI is like 
 retarded. This game I thought was amazing but if you REALLY wanna try it you should rent it first 
 because this game is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlim615
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This third-person shooter tackles the controversial issue of a privatized military in an exciting 
 way.
  
  As the name implies, you play as one half of a pair, who goes through many important war zones 
 picked from the headlines of the last 8 years.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed the co-op aspect with it as I played with my brother and my friends. Even 
 the AI partner is smart; he took my directives very well and managed to kill a fair share of the 
 enemy without dying too much.
  
  The 6 missions are comprehensive and shows a great variety in environments, but it seemed to finish 
 a bit too quickly. This is not that bad of a criticism; as I'm beginning to like shorter games 
 because I can replay them again without feeling I won't have the time to finish.
  
  On the surface, the story is great, with excellent villains and traitors. But the emotional impact 
 muffled.
  
  Still, an above-average game over-all; I did play through twice, and I'm already halfway through 
 a third game at Professional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I would guess that in todays day and age with "politically correct" demeanor and "unbiased" rhetoric 
 this may have been a "spot on" review. BUT... I like many others play video games to escape the 
 machine that attempts to control everyone's lives. I believe that video games give us the means 
 and motive to do such. The people that review games, (and maybe get paid for it?) have seemingly 
 forgotten what this premise was/is about. A video game much like a Novel cannot be judged for right 
 or wrong. In simplicity it should only be judged for coherent thought and correct grammar. Another 
 example may be like telling someone that how THEY feel is incorrect, rather than allowing them 
 to feel whatever they may. There ONE main issues that this game will not be judged a ten from my 
 standpoint: Game length. NOT the inability to portray a real life issue, ( Who at Gamespot is actually 
 involved in the military to know that privatizing the military isn't a good or beneficial idea?) 
 That is NOT for anyone to decide here. ---It's someone else's story, we are JUST the reader. --- 
 It's definitely Not the sometimes hysterical commentary by the two main characters. Certainly not 
 the graphical prowess or sound immersion. If it was given about 5-10 more hours of gameplay and 
 some slight control tweaks, I say 10. Otherwise this is a solid title that will give anyone a fun 
 ride for the 6-8 hours it can be completed in. 
  
  **Reviewer - take a look at games for what they are rather than what they SHOULD be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Beat this game a few weekends ago and the crude humor of the two main characters reminded me of 
 the main character from gears of war.
  
  Gameplay was fun, and the story was interesting I thought. If not interesting, it was at least 
 unique I thought. Some of the guns were over powered I thought, and the game was extremely easy 
 if you had two capable players. Unfortunately I felt that the game fell short with computer AI 
 and was very glad I had someone to play with me.
  
  One of the greatest aspects of this game is the line they draw for you to show you where to go. 
 It's the mark of a true shoot them up game when they draw a LINE for you so you don't have to think 
 where to go.. Just Aim, Breathe, Squeeze.
  
  Online was mediocre I felt, but all in all a good play
  
  The coolest feature in the game is 
 the weapons. You can fully customize your weapons with the options they give you. They are good 
 options to not like call of duty 4 where you can put scopes on and all that, this is new barrels, 
 clips, skins, and more. It is truly a great detail. Another cool feature is the team work. You 
 must use teamwork to win this game. Step ups and pull ups, back-back, and more. This keeps it interesting 
 to so you aren't just both wandering around lally dagging. I mentioned earlier that the game was 
 short, but if you start at the lowest level and work your way up it is like a 15 hour game. So 
 if you want a quick great game that you will never get bored of I suggest you get Army of Two!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivinitySkate
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is a game that takes place 1999-2001 your charecters are two contractors named salem 
 and rios. You are called upon and end up getting drafted into SSC a private military cooperation.
 
  
  Story: The sory in army of two is dramatic and filled with the occasional laugh. It's fast pased 
 action will keep you intertaned throughout the the game. It has genrally good replay value and 
 is defiantley a game you can play along with a friend.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is revolutinary it uses a system called aggro. Aggro is a system of combat 
 balance it goes like this, if your partner shoots at them and you don't they shoot at your partner 
 and not you, if you and your partner both shoot then whoever has the bigger better gun gets shot 
 at. Other then the aggro system it has pretty average gamelay. The only let down is that there 
 is no force melee button in the game.
  Gameplay: 9/10 it truely is a upgrade in co-op combat systems.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are 
 wonderful. They stand up to CoD4 graphics and beat halo 3 graphics. The only complaint is that 
 the enviroments LOOK good but aren't structured correctly like half your body can be in between 
 a log.
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Multiplayer: If you havent heard already the multiplayer in army of two sort of sucks to put it 
 point blank. But there's a upside if you like to do objectives and a high risk of getting booted 
 out of a game you'll love army of two's multiplayer. The only un fun thing is you only get 1 partner 
 if your partner eaves the game automatically ends and your team forfiets pretty lame.
  Multiplayer: 5/10
  
  Charecter/partner AI: The AI in army of two is generally really good. 
 The enemy is amazing but the enemies don't do anything else but shoot and storm and chuck gernades 
 no don't get me wrong thats great and all but this is a next gen game and the enemy AI should have 
 more to it.
  Enemy AI 7/10
  Now for partner AI it is usually very functunal and very helpful but sometimes it glitches. You 
 have a d-pad controller that has your partner due various tasks like advance and regroup very much 
 like gears VERY much like gears. There are times your partner will bug up and do idiotic stuff 
 like going around in circles or taking comands wrong and leave you stranded on the ocasional step 
 jump.
  Partner AI: 6/10
  
  Rent or buy?: This game is defiantley a rent, the story is absolutley great yet short but sometimes 
 itches you to come back and replay it, so rest in mind that the replay value is pretty high. 
 
  I say: RENT
  
  Conclusion: Army of two is great, and was underated. It's a game that steps up cooperative play 
 and should be recognized for this yet isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Army Of Two is a great game in my opinion. I loved the graphics, weapons improvement and storyline. 
 However the AI wasn't too great. For example, if your partner is trying to heal you, he drags you 
 around even though there was cover ten feet behind you. Also, the enemies spend the majority of 
 the level with their backs turned to you a running almost directly in front of you. Besides from 
 that, the graphics looked great. The storyline was interesting, and the weapons were pretty cool. 
 However, one person did say that you should be able to customize your weapons. I was a little disappointed 
 with that myself. I was also disappointed with some of the looks of the pimped out weapons. Altogether 
 the game was pretty fun though. They did make it pretty obvious that they were going to come out 
 with a new one in a few scenes. I and many others hope they do. But we also hope that they improve 
 the AI and Weapons upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a great one. You'll here many people complain about stupid AI, dumb plot, and 
 of course the short story. Where's the plot part coming from? I thought it was amazing. There's 
 a huge variety of weapons that can be had here, especially after you once complete the game and 
 unlock all the primary weapons. 
  
  Army of Two is best played with a brother or a buddy, but wait! Although my first play through 
 was with a buddy, I went through it by myself again and found barely even less enjoyable. Sure, 
 the AI get's stuck on walls every now and then but tell me a single game where the AI is perfect 
 throughout ALL the game? Exactly. Besides, what other game allows you to literally "pimp" your 
 guns? Like I said, there's A LOT of weapons, varying from 50 cals to desert eagles to M134's. 
 
  
  Overall, the game is a short, fun, enjoyable game that should be a part of anyone's game collection. 
 Army of Two get's a 9.3 (9) out of 10, and I hope you buy it, or do it the dignity of a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Army of Two features some of the best multiplayer ever. Sure the single player campaign isn't too 
 long but the controls, graphics, gameplay are okay. But i'm only saying this because i'm a real 
 hardcore EA fan. The game also succeds in giving highly rendered enviroments. After all these years, 
 well you've kinda learned to expect that from an EA published game. But all in all, to be fair 
 to all parties involved, to purchase this game and call it "money well spent" you have to be a 
 veteran at the FPS genre. Any guy who just bought a 360 or a PS3 would not like ths game. So i 
 say "Sequel anyone?"LOL! But seriously, if a sequel were ever to be done, (NOTE IF YOU'RE A GUY 
 FROM EA) make Army of Two more releastic. I mean come on! The two main guys you're controlling 
 trough out the game are wearing masks which exposes the back portions of their head. What are they 
 trying to prove? That that part of the brain isn't important? Or is it not required in warfare? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalheat239
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  *NOTE* FOR THE REVIEW IT SELF SKIP TO PARAGRAPH 2 OR YOU CAN SEE HOW I GOT THE GAME **NOTE** THIS 
 DOESNT COUNT AS A PARAGRAPH 
  
  At first Me and my brother downloaded a demo called ARMY OF TWO we decided ok cool a co-op there 
 really fun like halo 3 and gears of war.
  So after we got done playin the demo we played it again. And when it finally came out neither of 
 us had money and we asked our dad if he could get it for us but he obviously said no but worth 
 the try. So a few months later at the start of summer i got a job (At BK ( (Burger King) ) . so after 
 two weeks i got my first paycheck. My dad said i have to save half but i could to spend the other 
 half i didnt care because i still had 107$ to spend So after work i went to the gamestop like 30 
 seconds away and looked at the 360 part and saw army of two but then i saw it was rated M and im 
 olny 14 so i bought ENEMY TERRITORIES: QUAKE WARS and got home all excited to be dissapointed so 
 on the 4th i went back there returned that SH@# and grabbed ARMY OF TWO i timed it so the clerk 
 at the desk was talkin to the other one and i grabbed the copy with the NEW sticker over the M. 
 And so i started sayin wow it sucks you gotta work on the 4th and we started talkin about how i 
 didnt ( little did he know it was a diversion) i then hurried out of the store quickly unlocked 
 my bike and hurried of.
  As soon as i got home i told my brother i got it he said got what i quickly opened the xbox (interupting 
 his halo match) Starting a flare of cusing olny to be silenced with excitmentand then we played...
 
  
  At first the game is not that great probally because we played the demo so much wich is the first 
 two levels. The game is basically centered around co-op so if you dont have someone to play with 
 your olny getting half of the high anyway online is ok not great but pretty fun the singlplayer 
 (or co-op) is awsome really great story and you need alot of teamwork to survive. also the game 
 centers around aggro wich if you had a AI as your partner it kinda suck. the game is filled with 
 upgradable weapons and you can even get new masks overall it's a GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3layedreacti0n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  This isn't a bad game by any means but there are certainly worse choices out there. I really do 
 like the idea of a co-op style game playing like, well, a co-op game. The mechanics work quite 
 well actually especially when playing with a friend either on or offline. The enemy AI is pretty 
 stupid and at the same time are deadly accurate. EA seemed to ramp up the challenge by just adding 
 more enemies and making the controller a tad clunky as there are a lot of button presses to be 
 done. My last real gripe is that it is over as quickly as it begins. Just as you really get into 
 it, it's over!
  
  
  If this game kept its concept and played like Rainbow Six: Vegas, we'd have a real winner here.
 
  
  
  Give a try! I think a rental at best as I wouldn't recommend a purchase. Make sure it is your kind 
 of game.
  
  
  With that being said, I do hope that EA tightens the loose ends and gives us a nice big sequel 
 as the game certainly has potential! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -blackpanther-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The story of Army of Two takes place across 16 years, centering on Elliott Salem and Tyson Rios, 
 two battle-hardened former Army Rangers that join the private sector as mercenaries for hire. Following 
 their former commander Dalton to Security and Strategy Corporation, or SSC, Salem and Rios are 
 dispatched across the globe to "take care of problems" in warzones while raking in large sums of 
 cash. However, as time goes by, both Salem and Rios start to notice that a number of leaks and 
 secrets seem to coincide with their missions as well as a bill in Congress to fully privatize the 
 military. Trying to get their heads around what's going on, Salem and Rios fight their way through 
 battlefields in a tale of betrayal, conspiracy and revenge.
  
  While the single-player experience is fun, there are a couple of hiccups that hamper the play overall. 
 First of all, while having a large number of guns is appealing, the upgrade system is a bit skewed. 
 Some only offer the pimped out option, while some aren't nearly as useful as other ones, such as 
 only being able to carry two RPG shells. As a result, you'll probably find yourself picking your 
 favorite firearm and sticking with it instead of dabbling with some of the other weapons.
  What's more, it won't always take advantage of the stealth provided to it when you draw aggro, 
 and will sometimes charge blindly into the middle of battle, swinging the momentum its way and 
 leaving it open to be quickly injured or even killed.
  
  One thing that stands out with Army of Two are the visuals, which look incredible. Both Salem and 
 Rios come across with huge character models and sharp details, from the top of their protective 
 face masks to the tattoos and scarred battle armor. These characters look great, but that isn't 
 solely restricted to the main characters. Enemies are just as large, and animate as smoothly at 
 Salem and Rios do. Environmental textures are clean and nicely done, and with the exception of 
 the random render pass here and there or texture rip, the game runs quite well. Many of the explosions 
 that wind up rocking stages, from the fuel cans you shoot to the planes you destroy, look very 
 good, and if you're looking for a visually striking stage, the sinking aircraft carrier is eye 
 catching indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Army of Two has been hyped for almost 2 years prior to its release. Heres my take on this title
 
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay of Army of Two revolves around you and your partner flanking and fighting 
 your way through craploads of terrorists. This sounds really great but the gunplay doesnt work 
 as well as you would think. Your partner (Either Rios or Salem) is so unresponsive that it seems 
 your the only one doing the fighting. You will tell him to cover your fire and he will just sit 
 there and not do anything. Though this is very frustrating there is still enough fun for you to 
 finish the campaign without pulling your hair out. Besides the horrible responsiveness of your 
 partner, the Co-op play works very well. Another big drag about Army of Two is the insanely stupid 
 Generic story mode. It seems the people who created the game are loaded up on testosterone. Everyone 
 in the game attempts to fit a critera of "Badass" but they never do anything to signifacantly advance 
 the plot. With mediocre gunplay, Decent Co-op play, Lame Story, and glitches everywhere, the gameplay 
 is what has hindered AoT the most.
  5.5/10
  
  Sound: Besides Poorly placed cuss words around every corner the sound and music for AoT is astounding. 
 The explosions and effects sound great, The guns sound real, and the battles are chaotic and out 
 of control. The soundtrack is good with a mix of heavy metal and dramatic music placed into crucial 
 parts of the game.
  8.5/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in AoT are very pretty to say the least. I noticed no graphical glitches 
 and the lighting and shading made a dark and beautiful environment for you to blast around in. 
 Rios and Salam have very good looking suits and masks thanks to the graphical team at EA Montreal.
 
  9.0/10
  
  Replayability & Multipler: The Multiplayer of AoT is very bland but fun in some parts. With only 
 2 on 2 it will feel more watered down than other games on the Market. Intense games can get fun 
 but the Multiplayer wont make you love the game like it will for games Like Call of duty and Halo. 
 Because the campaign is very very short there is very little replayability unless your going to 
 play with a friend. The Achievements are very easy and eveing playing on "Professional" will only 
 attribute to a few deaths.
  6.0/10
  
  Overall: Decent Title. Rent it and if you like it pick it up but it wont strike a chord with most 
 people.
  6.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Why all the negative press toward this game? I must say, if you've got a friend to play this game 
 with, this game is a total blast.
  
  It's fun to buy and customize your weapons and armor. The team tactics that you use in the game 
 make for some rewarding teamwork. One player can get all the enemies' aggro, and the other can 
 sneak around and shoot from behind. All in all it makes for a great co-op game.
  
  Single player is boring I must admit. And online sucks, as there's a ridiculous amount of lag. 
 And the story overall is boring. The biggest flaw in the game is the aiming. Quite simply, it sucks. 
 Bad. It's not precise at all, and it feels like when you aim, your just flailing your gun around, 
 and you'll get lucky to hit something. It's really frustrating.
  
  But despite the downsides, as long as you have a friend to play with, this game is definitely a 
 winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzyg64
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I will start this review out by affirming what many people are thinking about this game: IT RIPS 
 OFF GEARS OF WAR BIG TIME. Just about everything, from the cover system to the level design was 
 done before and better in Gears. The only new thing is the weapon customization system and even 
 that only builds on the ones seen in the likes of Counter-strike and Call Of Duty 4. However you 
 will need to use this whenever you get the chance because, in their base state, you would be better 
 off trying to fight the enemies with a Red Ryder BB gun. These upgrades don't even do all that 
 much besides making your gun look silly and unrealistic. Case in point the MAC-10 or whatever the 
 game calls it. Put on a 50 round clip instead of the usual 30. Makes the grip about 4 feet long. 
 Add a new barrel. Add a new barrel and add another foot or two. By the end you have a gun that 
 would in reality probably be a downgrade due to its crazy dimensiions. And don't forget to put 
 a tacky paint job on it so the enemies will shoot at you that much more. Seriously, what the hell? 
 The reason for this being necessary is that the enemies have more health than God and are sharpshooters 
 with just about any weapon. The only fun thing was playing the co-op with a friend but even this 
 often degenerated into "Oh look, an armored guy! You make a feeble attempt to attract his attention 
 so I can attempt to go behind and shoot him. S***t! He's not taking the bait! We're f***ed now! 
 Great, I died. Can you rez me for the 10th time in the last 5 minutes? What? You're surrounded? 
 Try to fight your way out. Oh yeah! You can't because each guy takes an entire clip to kill! I'm 
 over here! No, your other left! Dammit! You died too! now we have to replay the last half hour 
 of game time due to the broken checkopint system!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a great shooting game that gives us a new experience of fight through whole level 
 with one team mate that can be an AI or our friends.
  
  The story spinning about legalling contractors army to replace official us army. The game doesn't 
 tell us about the depth of the theme but it still fun to play.
  
  The most fun part of this game is the co-op system. Unlike other co-op mode that provided by other 
 game, the cooperation is intense and important. It's very hard to go through the missions without 
 your friend. At first time, you can choose to play as Soren or Tyson. Soren is less hardcore than 
 Tyson but it doesn't really matter. The point is to make yourself or your friend be the main target 
 of the enemy by filling the aggro bar so your friend or you can shoot the enemy freely.
  
  The graphics look awesome! EA is famous for they ability to make a game with teriffic graphics. 
 Everything looks great.
  
  As conclusion, Army of Two is great shooting game with fun co-op and aggro system. Doesn't matter 
 what people say, it still a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  one of the shortest games i have ever played good thing i have xbox live cuz i would be pissed. 
 the game only has like 5 lvls in total but if you have xbox live there are 3 extra campaign lvls 
 for FREE which are longer then the game itself. its fun to play with a friend cool guns ,cool armor, 
 great sounds. o ya get a good partner to play with you so your not fighting over who gets aggro. 
 like a brother or something we think alike i do something and he knows wat to do which is pretty 
 cool. if you dont have xbox live this game suks bad ,its alot better if you have a friend the AI 
 is sometimes stupid not when it comes to healing you it knows where to sent you down and heal you 
 which is awsome but other than that the AI is just stupid it feels like im the only 1 shooting 
 at the enemy. overkill kiks 4ss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Ok so sure, this game has been done before, we've all played Gears Of War (and if you haven't where 
 the heck have you been!?) and this game sure isn't a worthy competitor.. at first.
  
  When you first start the game as either of the two characters, you might step up and think, Gears 
 is better than this or even, gears has already done this but if you stick with it until about the 
 3rd mission, you'll see where it comes into its own and develops into a competitor rather than 
 a copy!
  The weapon choice is far greater than that of Gears Of War and to me even the story line is far 
 better!! The action is all there and the sound and graphics are equally on a par, if not SLIGHTLY 
 better but the fun starts when you play with a friend, or even online! Its just an all round feel 
 good shooter along the same lines as Dark Sector and Gears of War and i know i've compared it to 
 said game alot but it truly is the closest thing you'll get to it until GOW2 in the winter.
  
  And ok, so its probably going to be given low reviews because before this game came out, people 
 were already hyping it up to be the next GOW 3rd person shooter extravaganza but lets face it.. as 
 good as Gears was, its outdated now. So when games such as Army of Two and Dark Sector appear on 
 the scene, don't slate them before you try them!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Concept:
  You're a PMC [Private Military Contractor] , teamed up with another lame, on-liner PMC. You're pulling 
 missions for your company around the world, when you realize that the company you've been fighting 
 for is trying to replace the U. S. Army. That means they can wage war whenever, and on whoever. 
 The story hooked me. Too bad the rest really didn't... Except that you can PIMP out your guns with 
 gold plating. 
  
  Graphics:
  All I can is... it really isn't the graphically best game out there. It didn't 'WOW' me at all.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  So you're teamed with your partner. This game is all about co-op. You rely on your partner for 
 everything. From opening doors, getting up walls, to covering you and making distractions. All 
 the while, you're both spouting cheesy one-liners at each other and your enemies. The controls 
 are fairly simple to pick up. Albeit, swapping weapons with your partner, or switching your own 
 weapons can be odd to cope with at first. Take cover, blind fire, gain aggro, go stealth. You choose 
 how you play this game.
  
  Enemy AI / Difficulty:
  The AI seems okay. They know when to attack, they will retreat if you push. You can even fool them 
 into thinking that you're dead, then spring back up and blow their faces off. But despite what 
 I thought, I was wrong. The AI isn't really good. You will hardly EVER find yourself starting at 
 your last Checkpoint. Even on the hardest difficulty, Elite PMC, there was no challenge. Disappointing...
 
  
  Replay Value: Low -
  Aside from acquiring new guns, upgrading them, and finding the Cases throughout the game, there 
 isn't much to do once you're done. Getting the weapon achievements are tedious at best. Why I did 
 them, I still don't know...
  I say you just rent this if you really want to play. You won't need it any longer than a week. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I played this game expecting something near gears of war but this just sucked. AGGRO is ok it help 
 sometimes but it seems that even when your team mates bar is all the way on thier side when you 
 go to shoot he automatically turn around and start shooting you and completely forget he was just 
 shootong someone else. The Characters are gay SAlem and Rios THey are both Stereotypical Army Heros. 
 one Thing i disliked in this game Was THe aiming was frustrating id like to say im pretty decent 
 at aiming in all games but in this game it was just so frustrating to get a decent aim i woul have 
 to aim as best i could by blind firing because every time i tried to aim it took me to long and 
 my healt bar would go down faster than anything. The co op is sort of cool because alot of games 
 are becoming solely one player and that pisses me off becase everytime i want to play a video game 
 my brother wants to play but its one player and then we take turns and end up getting into a fight 
 about whos played more. Some co op features are cool but some are gay confusing and unneccesary 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is an interesting game. The weapon customization is fun, the Aggro is an interesting 
 concept, and it's great fun with a competent friend. The computer AI is smart on both sides, and 
 your teammate will actually kill people instead of getting in the way. But the storyline is lacking 
 and the missions are way too long. There are 15ish years covered in the game and you play through 
 6 missions. There should have been shorter missions, less "everything goes wrong" and you should 
 get to play through the 15 years. Plus, some of the logic doesn't make sense. For example, you 
 see people try to beat up Rios and Salem with their limbs, but end up hurting themselves. However, 
 during Campaign, I would run up and try to melee someone, but they would somehow manage to flip 
 me over (there were a few times where the grabbed their hand and recoiled, but even that hurt me 
 quite a bit) . The story was too vague, the gameplay is fun, even your dumbest friends can play 
 it too, and you can get pretty sweet guns. Let the price go down; it's not worth $60, but at a 
 reduced price, Army of Two is fun and an easy way to boost your Gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBaybulz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  From when i first bought this game i liked it a lot. Even though it's a very short game the missions 
 are fun and the sound is o. k. when you or one of your friends go to gamestop or ebgames make sur 
 you get this game. this game is one my top ten list which follows: 10. MGS 2 9. Medal of honor 
 rising sun 8. NBA 2k7 7. Pocketbike Racer 6. Lego Starwars the complete trilogy 5. WWE Smackdown 
 vs Raw 2007
  4. Strangle Hold
  3. Call of Duty 4
  2. Halo 3
  1. Army of Two or Lego Indiana Jones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the Gamespot weenie who reviewed this game turn you off to it. He is a liberal wuss and 
 don't 'get' this game. It's full of great co-op action, nice weapons, great AI on the hard difficulty 
 (the co-op aggro meter is key to the game) , and a nice story. It is also not short. The reviewer 
 should play the game on something other than wimp level and he would have noted it takes about 
 2.5-3 hours to complete each mission and all sub objectives.
  
  The game also has a nice weapon/armor/upgrade buying system where yoiu and your co-op partner can 
 upgrade your weapons, buy more powerful weapons and really specialize who you want to be in the 
 game (I usually go assault/explovice and my buddy goes sniper) ... the weapon layouts really allow 
 you to play to any style.
  
  The Gamespot review had some liberal slant on the story and it's too bad his agenda got in the 
 way of him enjoying the story. I'm glad I can play a game that lets me kill terrorists in Iraq, 
 Afghanistan, or Somalia. It's about time we have a game that lets me put bullets in the head of 
 AlQaeda. Props to EA for doing that, no other publisher has had the balls to do it.
  
  The graphics are really great and even on split-screen everything is clear and crisp.
  
  This 
 game is definitely worth a purchase if you want to play with a friend. It will hold you over until 
 the next great FPS on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiGamer23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow Army of 2 i heard was not that good and it didnt get alot of good reviews but that was a mistake 
 army of two is a fun and addictive game the story line is absoultely amazing and one of the best 
 ever the characters Salem and Rios were cool strong and very funny the weapons were amazing and 
 the teamwork u could do was one of the best team work games ever made the online was ok the games 
 modes were fun but the only problem with online was it could only be 2 on 2 they should have made 
 it bigger like up to 6 on 6 that is my only regret for this game and if you have a 360 you should 
 most defientely check this game out because once you try this game out you are going to want to 
 keep playing  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennedy290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  To be honest i would've given it a perfect 10 if it were longer and a little bit harder. people 
 think its gay cuz ur guys r childish, does it really matter like thats gonna affect u playing the 
 game. who cares they joke with each other a little bit, wut? people arent allowed to put a little 
 bit of humor in game..... overall tho it was a very good game.... it was very similar to gears of 
 war nd if u played both games u probly already compared the two by now, i have to say they r both 
 very good games but.......1 bad part bout army of two is the heavy armord enemies r ridiculous 
 nd since when does a chain link fence defend a person from a gun
  co-op was probly the best part about the game i think the only reason ppl dont like it is cuz the 
 dont have somebody to play with i played it single player but i liked it way better co-op.... overall 
 this a great game i think its worth 60 bucks for the buy but if u dont think so i dont really care 
 keep ur opinion to urself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silva112
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  It's hard not to compare new 3rd person shooters with Gears of War. And it's impossible not to 
 with Army of Two. In both you can roll, jump or slide over objects and use blind fire. But the 
 main difference between the two is the aggro system which enhances the whole 2 man army side to 
 the game. Unfortunately you AI partner in the game can be a bit dumb, especially when he drags 
 your dying body across the whole map in order to heal you. The enemy AI is a bit smarter with normal 
 soldiers rushing you while Heavies who can't take damage from their front will hang back and keep 
 you pinned against cover with their machine gun fire. The game allows you to slide and rolling 
 to cover but unlike Gears you don't stick to it which gives the game a less tactical and more run 
 and gun feel.
  
  But Co-Op is where the game really shines. Theres an endless amount of tactics you can use not 
 restricted by dumb AI. Two average shooter players will be able to beat the game fairly quickly 
 even on proffessional difficulty. 
  
  The story is interesting enough to hold your attention for the short cutscenes but is ultimately 
 forgettable. Also the Afghanistan and Iraq levels are poorly written. Seriously when was the last 
 time Al-Qaeda stole old Soviet missiles? 
  
  The multi-player is tactic heavy with the two members of each having to work together to survive, 
 much like Gears with its 4 on 4 multi-player.
  
  Army of Two is an average shooter which is worth playing if you have a brother or mate you can 
 play with. But the easy difficulty and short campaign makes one wonder if its worth your cold hard 
 cash. My advice is to get Gears instead. If you already have Gears, and have a partner to play 
 with then by all means rent Army of Two. but if you pay full price it's like going to a night club 
 and getting wasted, you'll enjoy it while in the company of your friends but next morning you'll 
 have a nasty hangover. 
  
  In short Army of Two is a decent Gears of War clone worth renting for its Co-Op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007link007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two was a better game than what it was put out to be. When I first looked at the ratings 
 for the game it did not look promising, but after I rented the game I saw how good the game actually 
 was. It is a unique shooter and it is most suited for two players. The customization is excellent 
 in every way and one of the best aspects of the game. I recommend this game if you are looking 
 for a fun shooter and an enjoyable storyline. I've played very little online, but the little I 
 have played was enjoyable and it is unlike any other online experience. It is nothing like the 
 normal shooters, but fun in it's own ways. I highly recommend trying this game before judging it 
 because of it's ratings. Some of the bad aspects to this game is that if you don't have a partner 
 to play with it is more difficult. The AI is frustrating sometimes, but you can make it through 
 the game with the AI. Over all this game is something that I enjoyed and plan to buy in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEyeNinjai
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was about a classic story about trust and betrayal. tow guys that get assigned to a organization 
 known as SSC. A organization that hires mercenaries to go to war instead of sending army's they 
 send a elite army of 2 tow guys that work as one and stand as one. they are strapped with armor 
 and have a big arsenal of guns the only down side is you half to save money. You get payed for 
 kills, more for head shots. And you can use the money to buy custom parts for your guns to make 
 them better at power, aim, and capacity. which is pretty good you can pimp out your gun to. the 
 most interesting thing is the back to back your partner and you stand back to back and take out 
 as many men as you can in a circle your partner takes care of himself so you don't half to worry 
 about him just you. I thought that was pretty interesting and bad a##. But the only down side is 
 that the game is only 8 levels long. Like they were in a hurry to make it or had a dead line or 
 something I just wished they could of mad it longer that's all i wanted but maybe the next one 
 they make they'll do that . but its a alright game a lot of shooting and explosions some will like 
 it some wont. Just hope they do better with the next one. if there is one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Something I've always held with a little disdain is the title "tactical shooter". Not to put down 
 Ghost Recon or Rainbow Six, two series which I absolutely love, but you aren't getting all that 
 tactical by blending basic flanking, mediocre stealth, and the varying of a couple different types 
 of grenades. Not to say I prefer the mindless shooting of something like house of the dead either, 
 but at least that doesn't try to be something that it fails to deliver on very well.
  
  The cool thing about Army of Two is that it's a tactical shooter that plays like an arcade one. 
 The heart of the game is the aggro system, where you balance your health with your friend's, and 
 use is to save each other's ass and execute some devilishly satisfying fun. The weapon and grenade 
 system works just like Gears of War, while the command system is a little reminiscent (though probably 
 in fact better than) RSV. You have some basic commands you can give your partner, which work in 
 to passive and active mods in order to have him lose or gain aggro. You can also feign death to 
 dump aggro on him, and if he has enough, you can turn invisible for 15 seconds and wreak havoc 
 on the enemy.
  
  The whole essence of the game is, of course, being a two-man killing squad. Some very cool features 
 are included in this, like back-to-back slow-motion shootouts. Another neat thing giving your friend 
 a boost up a high wall and raising or lowering the analog stick to give him the right amount of 
 cover while he deals with any enemies nearby. If you're wounded, your friend will drag you back 
 to cover to heal you; in turn, you need to shoot at the enemies to suppress enemies and keep them 
 from taking advantage of the situation. Synchronized sniping is also fun, but it could stand a 
 little improvement. These are just a few examples; to truly appreciate the execution of Army of 
 Two you need to play it yourself.
  
  Graphics in this game are great; characters and environments alike look rugged and detailed, without 
 slowing the frame rate. One annoying feature, however, is how your character turns transparent 
 if your partner has too much aggro, and turns red if you have too much. The tutorial does a good 
 job of teaching us the importance of aggro, so I really don't think competent players need this 
 rather distracting reminder.
  
  Sound effects and voice acting is also pretty good. The biggest problem, however, is just how horrid 
 the subject matter of this game is. Team America was a great movie since it endorsed American ultrapatriotism 
 with brilliant satire. This game is more like Richard Bastion, the talk show host for WKTT in GTA 
 IV, taken to an even greater extreme. Rios and Salem slaughter scores of terrorists at a time, 
 and you'll rarely clear a group of bad guys without Salem making a horribly inappropriate remark 
 about how awesome everything is. If the medals and demerits weren't introduced around a year ago, 
 I'd swear gamespot made the "xtreme baditude" demerit specifically to address this game. The back-to-back 
 feature I mentioned earlier really covers both sides of cool; the kind where you feel inspired 
 by awesomeness, and another one where no amount of immersion would stop you from realizing how 
 incredibly impossible it is. From boot camp, you see two soldiers going through what could be a 
 shellshocking experience as if they were in a surfer movie. In the first mission, you encounter 
 an African warlord with a love of violence that's disturbing to say the least, a ridiculous measure 
 of racism, and yet again two people wasting 20 with an arsenal of assault rounds and annoying wisecracks. 
 In the second mission, you and your partner are on the same parachute, one steering while the other 
 shoots out a helicopter with a sniper rifle. Seconds later, you're fending off terrorists, some 
 of them presented as the perfect stereotypical image of a Muslim suicide bomber. And how do they 
 celebrate their victory over the inferior race? Either by fist-pounding, high-fiving, or slapping 
 each other on the head.
  
  Despite its inherent corniness and blatantly racist content, Army of Two has more than enough awesome 
 features to make it a worthwhile campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was funny and was serious at the same time. Like I really enjoyed this game but it needed 
 something more to its storyline and a maybe a little touch ups on the opponents you face. I mean 
 all the people you go against can practically take a full shotgun blast and walk away from it with 
 a quarter of their health gone. Not to mention that they can snipe you by blindfire, kinda unfair. 
 On to the Review.
  
  
  -Gameplay-
  The Gameplay is enjoyable. You and a friend (Real or A. I) depend on each other using a Aggro system 
 that attracts fire to one person, while the other runs around guns ablazing. The Co-op is fun nontheless 
 and is probally the most perfect thing Ive seen. Though its better bringing your friend cause your 
 virtual buddy doesnt really know how to save you, I mean he will drag you across the whole level 
 to a place he deems safe, if you survive of course. No wonder there is a achievement that is given 
 if you do the whole game with the wonderfully smart AI (Sarcasim) . The enemies you encounter arent 
 stupid really, they do move around and stuff, taking cover and what not. Also, they are bullet 
 sponges, they make you use your bullets for your amazing new gun you just bought for 30K like Skittles. 
 A little tweaking would be nice.
  8/10
  
  -Storyline-
  Well, Your a mercenary orgaination that kills for money, but you get screwed in the end and must 
 find out how you got setup for a US Senators murder. Rios and Salem go around doing various jobs 
 for the company until they are set up and decide to go on the attack against the company. The two 
 also get concerned about who they talk to and block out their manager "Murphy". Interesting story 
 but its short, Length would be nice.
  9/10
  -Online-
  Its kinda fun.. ish. The online actually is like the game 'cept you dont choose your own guns, 
 you must find them. Your fight both NPC's and your opponents from around the world. You play a 
 variety of matches, from extracting a person, setting a bomb or an all-out death match. The online 
 has variety but, it gets old all to quick. I mean your better off bunting the guy then putting 
 a few rounds in his body to make kiss the pavement. The online is okay for those who love this game 
 to death, but doesnt really compare to COD4 or Halo.
  7/10
  
  -Replay Value-
  Well your gonna have to replay this game to make all your guns shine like the sun and do their 
 max damage. Of course thats for those who want to feel like a pimp on their Xbox 360, most people 
 though dont have the patience to play a game over and over that will have no effect on your online 
 play. Its nice to change the difficulty as well, but playing on professional is like playing spin 
 the bottle with all the people you hate, Its is gonna suck. It is great though, that you can see 
 the two characters be there hilarious selfs.
  8/10
  
  -Overall-
  Fun Co-op, boring online. Shiney guns, impossible enemies. Funny characters, short story. This 
 game has its pro's and con's but I think its a mostly alright game.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: businessman2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is very straight forward. It's you and your partner... mission by mission gameplay. 
 It carries a lot of the mechanics over from Gears of War. The good part about it is, Gears of War 
 took a long time to make and these mechanics came a long way during that game. Some of them are 
 made better in this game, while other parts of the mechanics were left out. The system they use 
 to allow you to take damage, fall on the ground, wait for your partner to heal you is very helpful 
 during game-play. The one flaw I found about this game was the fact that it was boring after awhile, 
 and that the story can be somewhat weak at times. One other problem was the AI. The AI with your 
 ally can be very bad at times. He'll drag you "Towards" enemies at times to try and heal you.. completely 
 defeating the purposes of that part of the system. The damage model isn't as good as I would have 
 liked but it's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greengir
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game but I did play the story mode all the way threw and some online play as 
 well. Let me say the game previews look like it was going to be a GREAT game but that sadly is 
 untrue. The look of the game was really cool looking but the fun factor was not so much as WOW 
 or omg this is the bomb. It was more like lol thats cool. The story line is really funny the little 
 extras you can do in the game with the expressions you can do. The RPG feel was cool where you 
 can buy new masks and add stuff to your gun was nice to see that at least you can choose if you 
 want your gun PIMP or not. Now the game play is what i got me i really did not like it but it was 
 not something to hate.
  
  The game to me was easy and i did find little tricks in the game that i used out threw the game. 
 Its really the same thing over over again. The 3rd person thing was alright but i rather stick 
 with gears of war or some old school socom. The online was the worst nothing you will ever see 
 your online friends playing like in halo, I could tell that some one will already find a glitch 
 or something. This is a game to rent than to own unlees you really don't care and you want a fair 
 game to keep with for awhile well go ahead there is nothing wrong but nothing to get WOW out of. 
 If you have a friend and you need a new game to play rent this! at least you can play something. 
 A good co-op game i will say is try out Rainbow Six Vegas 1 or 2 try them both out if you want 
 a game with good co-op 
  
  Thank you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Army of Two
  EA
  Xbox 360
  Rated M: Blood, Intense Violence, Strong Language
  
  
  
  In 2006, EA announced that they'd be developing a new shooter that focus heavily on Co-operative 
 tactics and missions. The game "Army of Two" was released in 2008 on the Xbox360 and Playstation 
 3 consoles. The game had mixed reviews from critics everywhere, and the same with fans. I'm going 
 to go ahead and say that if you have a friend to play with, Army of Two will probably be a good 
 game for you. The fast online, nice graphics, and great Co-op do triumph over the less impressive 
 story and single-player enough to save Army of Two from being completely bad.
  
  In Army of Two, you and a friend will take control of two soldiers named Salem and Rios. Salem 
 and Rios are two mercenaries who fight to get paid. As they fight through many firefights, they 
 start to realize something is wrong. Someone within their organization is trying to sell them out 
 to terrorists. The story is really uninteresting and is certainly one that you won't want to get 
 in depth in. For gamers who love having great stories, well you'll be left hanging with Army of 
 Two. Luckily, the gameplay does make up for the disappointing story.
  
  The gameplay of Army of Two is really where everything good lies. You shouldn't ever be bored through 
 out the story, which is expected since the campaign isn't to long. An AI partner really isn't that 
 fun, but with a friend at your side co-op battles are really intense and exciting. You'll have 
 to communicate with your partner to take down the enemies. If one of you tries to take down everyone 
 by yourselves, you'll die quickly. You'll have to use tactics and the "Aggro" feature of the game 
 if you want to last through the campaign. The strong focus on cooperative tactics make it tons 
 of fun to play with your friend do to all the communication and relying on each other factors on 
 the game. This is the main strong point within the game; so make sure you have someone to play 
 with. Without a friend though, most of this aspect is lost which really does a ton of the excitement 
 away from the experience. The game is still average with the AI partner, but certainly nowhere 
 near as good.
  
  The game mechanics of Army of Two work very much like that of other first person shooters. You 
 move and aim with left and right analog sticks, hold LT to look down you barrel and hold RT to 
 shoot. You can push the Left Analog stick down to duck, which you'll want to do when you need to 
 get out of cover. When your taking damage, the screen will become red with blood (sound familiar) 
 to let you know to head for cover. The game mechanics work pretty well overall. Aiming isn't too 
 hard to do, so you should be gunning down terrorists without too much trouble. The training mission 
 does do a very good job of giving you an idea of what to do, and even if you didn't learn from 
 the first time you can always do it again to understand it better. If you've ever played a game 
 that focuses on cover (like Gears of War) these controls and mechanics should feel right at home 
 for you.
  
  One very new gameplay mechanic of this game is called "Aggro". To gain aggro, you need to create 
 lots of chaos on the battlefield. Throwing frags or just shooting a whole lot will make your aggro 
 go up, and all eyes will be on you. That means if your agro is really high, almost every enemy 
 will be trying to gun you down, so you'll have some intense fire on you from that. While you gain 
 agro, your partner looses it, which is a huge factor in the game. The player who has no agro at 
 all can sneak around the battlefield with nobody paying the slightest bit of attention to them. 
 They can use this ability to sneak up and flank turrets, or just take out a big bad guy without 
 much trouble. The agro meter is a very good addition to the game that does add a lot of strategy 
 and cooperation between you partner to the game.
  
  When you complete objectives in the game, you and your partner receive payments for your services. 
 You guys can spend your money on new weapons, weapon upgrades, armor upgrades and things of that 
 sort. You'll want to upgrade your equipment to fit your style, whether it is your weapons powerful 
 to bring down your enemies or your armor so you can stay alive throughout the battles. The customization 
 of your character does add some slight depth to the game, and maybe even a little replay value. 
 And for all of you "cool" people, you could just go the fun way and pimp your gun to make it gold.
 
  
  The AI of the game is pretty good, or at least for the enemies. Enemies have a very good aim like 
 they would in the real world, so expect to be using the cover system a lot. Sometimes though, their 
 aim might be a little to good. Their accuracy seems to be just as good from hundreds of feet away 
 as it is from just a dozen. This can be frustrating, but nothing that drags the game down to bad. 
 Your partner AI is probably the dumbest thing on the battlefield. Sometimes he just won't do what 
 you want him to, and it can be somewhat frustrating do to that. Partner AI is really the main thing 
 that drags the game down, so if you don't have someone to play with you might not get as much out 
 of this game as others with someone to play with. 
  
  The visuals of the game look pretty nice. Your characters look very nice in particular; the same 
 goes with your enemies. The game also doesn't over do blood like some other games, and when it 
 does the blood still looks very realistic and nice. The game also has some long and frequent loading 
 times, so you should certainly expect the visuals you get. The 360 version looks almost identical 
 to the PS3 version, so those of you who are deciding which to get based on visuals there really 
 isn't a positive or negative to either.
  
  The sounds of the game are also fairly good. The guns sound nice, but the voice acting is just 
 average, except for some in-battle phrases that you and your partner say which are just terrible. 
 
  
  The online battles are not bad for the game, which ups the replay value for you online fans. The 
 battles are pretty fast and intense, so you should have some fun doing that. Unfortunately not 
 many people are online though, so it'll take a while to find a match. It'd be nice to have some 
 better way of finding matches than just searching for random people, but it's nothing to complain 
 about.
  
  So overall, Army of Two is an above average shooter if you have a friend to play with. The good 
 gameplay and graphics overcome the crappy story and terrible partner AI to make a solid shooter 
 for you and a friend. Without a friend to play with, you'll probably be left saying: "That was 
 a waste of time". With a friend though, you'll certainly get some enjoyment out of the game. Army 
 of Two is a good rent for two people, and maybe even a buy. If you are looking for a good Co-op 
 game, Army of Two wouldn't be a bad choice.
  
  
  
  EA Montreal's "Army of Two" gets a good 7.5 from me.
  
  
  
  -NFS102
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage5891
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game designed for cooperative play. Anyone who tries playing this game with the 
 AI partner will find out rather quickly that playing with another person is much better than relying 
 on the often faulty AI to do much in the way of helping. Beyond the cooperative focus of the game, 
 it plays like a typical 3rd person shooter (3PS) , with the usual cover mechanics in place that 
 seem to be standard now.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are some of the best available on the Xbox 360 now. Lighting 
 effects and high texture resolution are the highlights of the graphics. It is easy to get carried 
 away in the visual effects of a frantic firefight, with muzzle flashes going off everywhere and 
 explosions all around, the game looks fantastic in motion. The only downside to the graphics are 
 the rather robotic animations, but this is a minor quibble that few will notice, making for an 
 overall great graphical presentation that I would give a 9/10.
  
  Gameplay: Beyond the standard 3PS shooting conventions, such as taking cover, this game allows 
 you to do several cooperative actions depending on the situation you are in. Need to get to a high 
 ledge? Give your partner a boost and then he can pull you up. Completely surrounded by enemies? 
 Go back-to-back and you can cover two fronts. Need to get through a corridor full of enemies and 
 there is no cover? Grab a riot shield and let your partner fall in behind you, blasting enemies 
 as you advance. These are all examples of the cool things you can do with your partner that really 
 cement the cooperative elements of this game. Beyond all the shooting (and even occasional hovercraft 
 driving) , you can also spend money you have earned during the mission to buy a handful of new weapons 
 or upgrade the weapons you already have. Even the basic starting weapons can be formidable with 
 a couple of key upgrades, such as a new stock that increases accuracy or a bigger magazine so you 
 don't have to reload your gun as often. Beyond these elements, the addition that stands out as 
 one of the most original is something called the "Aggro" meter. What this basically means is if 
 you are firing a lot and killing enemies, they will be more scared of you and shoot at you more, 
 leaving your partner to run around behind them and kill them. Although this is a very artificial 
 system that makes the game seem more like a game than a simulation (the enemies having visible 
 health bars doesn't help either) , it can be very useful in situations where you or your partner 
 are pinned down and the other person can try to take more of the aggro so that their partner can 
 move to better cover. Beyond the interesting new elements that this game adds, which unfortunately 
 are very artificial and take away from the immersion factor of the game, it plays like a fairly 
 standard 3PS, so I will have to give this game an 8/10 for gameplay.
  
  Sound: The sound effects in this game do an adequate job of conveying the chaotic nature of a modern 
 battle. Gunfire, screams of agony, frantic orders being shouted, and the occasional explosion all 
 sound appropriate and add a lot to the sense of realism. The voice actors should all be applauded 
 as well for portraying their characters apporpriately. From the gruff voice of Tyson Rios, one 
 of the main characters who seems like a natural fit for the life of a mercenary, to the commanding 
 presence of a naval captain you meet later in the game, all of the actors seem to have been picked 
 to fill roles they sound perfect for. With these elements in mind, I will give the sound effects 
 of this game a 9/10 for doing a fantastic job.
  
  Multiplayer: This game really shines when being played with another person. The online multiplayer 
 is limited to a versus mode, which seems like it would be interesting, but out of the three separate 
 occasions that I tried to connect to a multiplayer game, I only found enough players once, and 
 when the match started, it was so horribly laggy that it was unplayable. Although this game is 
 best when played with another person, the unplayable versus mode forces me to give this game a 
 7/10 for the multiplayer aspects.
  
  Miscellaneous: I feel that I should warn potential players that this game has some very sensitive 
 subject matter. Not only does it deal with the gritty world of mercenaries and private armies, 
 it also brings up several sensitive real-world issues, such as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
 9/11, and privatizing the U. S. Army. I don't believe that these things bring the game down, I just 
 wanted to mention them in case they may be turn-off points for potential players.
  
  Final Verdict: With all things said and done, Army of Two is a really fun game to play with another 
 person. It is just too bad that the AI needs constant baby-sitting in order to stay alive or the 
 game could have been better when played by one's self. If the AI had been stronger, this could 
 have been one of the better games released in the past few months, but being what it is, I must 
 give Army of Two a total of 8/10.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  Gameplay: 8/10 
  Sound: 9/10 
  Multiplayer: 7/10 
  Overall: 8/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt in my mind, critically this game will most likely be burned at the stake. The 
 game bolsters good visuals and well thought through combat, the issue? The story. While the story 
 is actually very good, I can already sense many will find the story too fictitious. The sad truth 
 being that it's all too factual. 
  The government has been looking into and discussing privatized military for a long time. During 
 Desert Storm and after Viet Nam the disscusion was most powerful, to date obviously we still maintain 
 our own. Private Militaries are global and very very real. While most of the story is quite strong, 
 some of the events (mainly those at the end) and the reactions are quite out there even for a stretch 
 of imagination. 
  Combat wise the game is very good, but extremely short. A. I rarely proves to be exceedingly difficult 
 to overcome, usually relying on fixed gun position setups to pose any real challenge. Overall the 
 single player may leave you feeling rather cheated, the short play time and sometime near mentally 
 challenged partner you have can make you feel more like you're playing on your own. Most times 
 the A. I partner you have feels like you are dragging a dead dog being you more than a team mate. 
 Though they do come in handy when you get wounded to the point of needing medical attention. 
 
  The true strength of AoT comes in the form of Co-Op. While the games overall play time is even 
 shorter when playing with a compentent human the enjoyment value is tremendously higher. Being 
 able to actually execute team tatics in real time during combat without having to point and click 
 waypoints for a A. I team mate make the combat feel much more natural and realistic. The Versus 
 mode though does little to extend game life as it feels awkward and in some places just plain wrong 
 turning a pure Co-Op experience into a competitive Co-Op. There is no 'fine line' between working 
 together and working against each other, the concept of competitive co-op is a bad one. It becomes 
 most obvious when you actually play competitivly.
  
  OVER ALL
  
  The Good
  +Good graphics. Running on familiar Unreal technology the game looks great, animations and explosions 
 are right on target. Add in the good 3rd person angle and you really get a feeling of combat.
 
  +Cowboy Up. The arsenal while not as grand as some games is more than expected. Buying arms from 
 multiple suppliers while having to weigh pros and cons to your layout. While a gun may do more 
 damage it may have lower accuracy. You have to choose for your play style which suits you best. 
 
  +Co-Op done almost right. Hey, in this day and age where company heads are blabbing about the next 
 generation of games will be cooperative it's nice to see one company ACTUALLY make a game with 
 coop. Microsoft Xbox boys have been jabbering about coop games for awhile and EA and other major 
 developers aswell. Yet very very few games even offer a decent coop especially in the FPS or Tatical 
 Action genres. The coop is true coop, you fight together, work together and if your team isn't 
 strong die together. Just because a team mate goes down doesn't mean it's game over, the other 
 guy is given a chance to rescue him and administer aid. Very nice.
  
  The Bad
  -While the game tries to incorperate a cover system much like that of Gears of War, it feels clunky 
 and unresponsive at most times. It's easier and safer to just click crouch and stay that way yourself. 
 Though the looking around corners is still a great tool. The sliding into cover system feels iffy.
 
  -Length. Very very short, if one person takes this on they'll probably beat it by end of the day 
 if they start in the morning. But if two people play, by late lunch they'll be done. Super short 
 story makes for a less than accomplished feel by game over.
  -Character Development. The game didn't really seem to know it's self, did it want to be a deep 
 character development based game? Or a pure run in gun shooter? While the weapons assortment is 
 nice and the ability to upgrade and mod the weapons is great. You get the feel characters were 
 suppost to have experience systems and skill upgrades aswell but never made it to final product.
 
  
  Overall, if you're a big Gears of War fan you should give this one a look. Especially if you have 
 a friend or someone that will give it a try with you. The coop is far more rewarding and fun than 
 single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiss1456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Army of two is an awsome game. I beat it on every difficulty with my bro. We loved the game and 
 we hope the second is even better. The story line is good and the weapons you get are awsome. I 
 love the tweak where you can pimp out your weps and upgrade them to make them the best. I dont 
 know if there is going to be a second but at the end they were starting TWO (Trans World Operation) and 
 it seemed to us that there was going to be a second. The game is good enough to buy but try to 
 play on co-op, its way funner and easier. When you beat difficulties you unlock guns. The guns 
 you get are: Primary weapons, secondary weapons, special weapons and you unlock armour and you 
 can buy masks. When your playing when someone falls and they sit up the other person needs to pull 
 him to safe area and heal him. It has Great multiplayer, the split screen is amazing. The game 
 is great and you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: good
  Sound: good
  Entertaining: yes
  Format: third-person shooter
  Genre: shooter
  Replay: moderate
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The title of the game pretty much gives it all away. In Army of Two there are two characters, you 
 can pick between either one of them at the beginning, but choose wisely because once you choose 
 the character there is no chanaging later in the game. What's really cool is that if you don't 
 want to play co-op with a friend, your partner who is being controlled by the computer is fairly 
 intelligent. I've encounter some glithes with the second character. But just a minor annoying one. 
 Usually this glitche comes up when I am fighting an armored soldier, because in the game your partner 
 has to shoot the soldier while the character you play can sneak behind the soldier and attack from 
 the rear.
  
  The game was an alright length, wasn't to short nor was it to long. It was actually at a pretty 
 good length. Graphically the game was awesome. The sounds within the game were good, the voice-acting 
 were good, some minor problems. Overall Army of Two was as good as Halo Combat Evolved. I would 
 recommend this game to those that like co-op third-person shooters, or people that just like TPS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozobee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two has the perfect name for a game of its type.
  You and a friend ( human or A I ) use co-op tactics to complete each operation.
  I myself was'nt 
 going to play the game cause I thought it looked kind of stupid, What with the hockymasks and all.
 
  But my brother bought the game the other day and told me it was worth playing, So we did and I 
 was wrong, It is a great game worth the money.
  I'm still playing the crap out of it. I really like the story too.
  It would make a great action 
 movie.
  The downside is its so short, not along game at all.
  But it has quite a bit of replay value, and good online play.
  I'd like to see more games made 
 with the same kind of imagination that was put into this game.
  If you havent played army of two your missing out on a great co-op game.
  So don't judge a book 
 by its cover, try it for your self or with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinjohns0n
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game seemed to me to be a unique game in a sense that I've never really played a game where 
 you and a teammate were solo on missions and did the whole game coop and in every sense of your 
 imagination, teamwork is essential. The game seemed quite fun to me and the story tied in very 
 nicely. The bad thing was that it was just too short and kinda easy for an experienced gamer like 
 myself. The extra downloadable content w/ two extra missions was nice to get but there's no reason 
 to buy this game b/c after a week your down with it. The online multiplayer is sub-par but I do 
 have to admit that the campaign was pretty straight and the graphics are pretty sick. I liked it 
 and the aspect of pimpin' out your guns was pretty cool, along w/ upgrading weapons made the game 
 a lot more fun. I would have to say that this game is a must rent for yourself or you and a buddy 
 to play and both have to do the same amount of work and work together, making the game quite fun 
 and interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Similar to Gears of War for shooting but different in many ways. You can buy weapons 
 and masks and upgrade your weapons buy collecting money from doing objectives in the fairly short 
 campaign. You can choose to play as either two of the main charcters when playing a solo campaign 
 and you can play co-op offline and online which is very fun. The versus multi-player isn't THAT 
 great and has some terrible connection problems, at least when I played. There are three difficulties 
 for a little more replay value as well.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good and the ragdoll physics are very fun like always.
  
 
  Sound: Good, no complaints
  
  Value: It's for sure worth renting but not totally worth buying but I did and it's kinda worth 
 it. Overall it's a pretty good third-person shooter and is better than the sum of it's parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Army of Two exceeded the expectations I had for it but also failed to meet some simple expectations 
 that you'd expect to see met in a multiplayer based game. 
  
  I rented Army of Two a couple days ago but I've put around 25 hours in. I've beat the game 2 and 
 a half times. The achievements have made me put some extra time in the game and has obviously increased 
 the lifespan.
  
  Army of Two fails in one major aspect. In a multiplayer based game you'd expect that the multiplayer 
 side of the game would be great. Unfortunately, I can't really judge it because its impossible 
 to play a full online match. Either the lag is extremely bad that it's unplayable or someone quits 
 the game which sends everyone back to the main menu and makes you find a game all over again. I 
 attempted to finish a game many times. I probably got into 30 matches. Out of 30 matches I only 
 completed on game. 
  
  I even tried to play coop with a friend but even that was laggy. The EA servers really suck. I've 
 played crappy online modes before (The Darkness and Stranglehold) but this takes the cake for disappointing. 
 At least in those games the online mode wasn't really a big part of the game. Because Army of Two's 
 online modes are broken in my eyes, I will basically be reviewing the campaign mode. Now I'm not 
 sure if the game always sucked like this online because the game came out 3 months ago but this 
 is pathetic.
  
  On to the campaign which I found very entertaining. Now I know most reviews complained about the 
 story but who really plays a game like this or Call of Duty 4 for the story. The game is more about 
 shock moments that occur during the cutscenes that'll make you go awesome or sick and Army of Two 
 provides that. The game spans over years and it has some nice references to historic events. You 
 can't really take the story seriously but it's done well and I really have no complaints about 
 it.
  
  The gameplay is where the game really shines. I found the AI to be pretty good. Countless times 
 the AI came to my rescue and pulled me away even though there were some problems where he'd drag 
 me into a major warzone instead of a nice little corner. 
  
  The gameplay is more along the lines of Gears of War but a little slower paced. You can't run around 
 and stick to walls but the combat is all there. I especially loved how one of the two players would 
 have to shoot and distract while the other would sneak around and kill some people without being 
 shot to hell. 
  
  The graphics and sound is fine as well. I never really had problems with the framerate or other 
 technical difficulties. The sound was realistic but it could of used some cool licensed music to 
 make the game even more entertaining.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is a pretty good game that needs alot of fixing for the online component. 
 The single player doesn't need too touching up because I believe that the gameplay mechanics are 
 fun and entertaining. The game may not be perfect but it does not deserve the 6.5 that Gamespot 
 has given it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBuckeyex92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a great game. The fact that you can play online with someone or with the AI is a 
 neat idea. I think that the online play is the weak spot of the game. It is a 2v2 and you have 
 to wait for a long time just to get a match. When you do get to play it is fun though, you get 
 many objectives that you have to complete like taking wounded to evacuation spots to getting to 
 the roof and defending a chemical warhead is fun because the online play basically requires teamwork 
 or you just won't win it is that simple. The mission is short but the fact that there is so many 
 weapons and the power ups to each weapon cost some money and it will take more than one run through 
 of campaign to get them all. The range of weapons is great, they range from Machine Guns like the 
 M248SAW to the PKM and they also have a Grenade Launcher. The S-System is basically the M4 and 
 the option to "Pimp" out your guns makes it fun to because you are going into a battle with a gold 
 or silver gun. To anyone reading this I think that if you enjoy co-op games this is for you even 
 though the campaign is VERY short but there is Downloadable content that has extra missions in 
 it and hopefully they will be making more so that it isn't that short. Take the time to think about 
 if you want to spend your money on this game. It is very fun for the first time you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chelzach
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Army Of Two is an ausome game. I would give it a 9.0, GameSpot only gave it a 6.5 for some reason. It 
 at least desearves a 8.0 or higher. But it is still a fun game if you like shooters alot. I Played 
 it 4/5 days that I rented it. But beat it in two days. The boss (Dalton) is pretty easy to kill but 
 he acts like he is on your side but later in the game he betrayes you. Went back and tried to find 
 all of the brief cases but did not find them all after I beat it. It also has an ausome multiplayer 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Altair
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game does not deserve a 6. Deserves a 10, my brother and I were stuck thinking 
 should we get Rainbow Six Vegas 2 . . . or Army of Two. We played Rainbow Six Vegas and said let's 
 do something new. Turns out this game was more then we expected, the command were fit, the action 
 was worthy of recognition. My bro (CO-Host on Power2Gamers LIVE SHOW) turned his 360 over an the 
 game got scratched and ruined, $54.99 gone, but the game was so good we went back and paid ANOTHER 
 $54.99 just so we could finish this game.
  
  The games two player is a work of art in itself. Dragging your bud to safety as bullets and rockets 
 fly by, heal fast before he dies. Press A next to your bud to give props or pull the trigger and 
 beat some sense into him. Teamwork says it all and being a huge team gamer this game has everything. 
 Back to back "BACK TO BACK LET'S WASTE THESE GUYS!" 
  
  I will admit the story may not be good but the action and combat was so much fun we had a hard 
 time even focusing on the story we were to caught up in the melee, which makes halo 3's melee look 
 like utter crap. Dual Melee, I went and beat one foe but my bro had come up on the rear and beat 
 him at the same time so as I slammed the guys face downward my bro had kicked it back up and over 
 my head.
  
  Halo 3 all they got is 1 melee, here in Army of Two it never gets old: grabbing the neck, throw 
 a punch and a kick, maybe a head butt and a good stomping on!
  
  On the physical aspects the game seemed pretty right on. As for single player the AI is just as 
 it says Adaptive. I enjoyed every aspect of this game: Graphics: 9 (put halo to shame on one scene) , 
 Sound: 10, Game play: 10, Single Player: 10, Two Player Mode: 10.
  
  Don't rent this game. Check my collection I own many games, I know what I am talking about this 
 is what I do for a living. My bro loved this game so much we played it 6 times over: all difficulties. 
 Even enough to pay double for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allday919
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Co-op is great. When you base an entire game on co-op it can be not so great. The controls for 
 this game are not fluid at all and are VERY frustrating to say the least. Speaking of frustration 
 I hope you don't buy this game counting on the AI partner to help you out AT ALL. Back to the controls, 
 the rotation speed actually fluctuates as you turn causing you to lose the feeling of precision 
 that is important in any shooter. Customization is always a welcomed feature, with so many games 
 now featuring customization, why not take it farther than the last guy? With the high tech weaponry 
 available, the upgrades seem to leave something to want. Even with these flaws, ARMY OF TWO proved 
 to be a breakthrough in the shooter genre. The ability to revive your partner and have him cover 
 your back while you heal him is a nice option. I hope that the titans of the gaming industry take 
 a look and expand upon the unique attributes of this game. I would rent it first if I could do 
 it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycunnings
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Army of 2 is a very solid game. It has good controls and the camera angles are decent as well. 
 The graphics are great but the part that really steals the show is the AI. This is not a game where 
 enemies will blindly come running at you and beg for an easy kill. They will work together as a 
 unit and try different strategies such as attempting to flank you or retreat and regroup if they 
 cannot get a good shot on you. The computer has good patience when it comes to peaking it's head 
 out to take a shot at you. The bad guys will also hold their guns up and shoot at you without exposing 
 themselves which gives you a bit more of a challange. I for one really like the fact that there 
 is quite a bit of teamwork required between you and your partner. There are some areas where you 
 can go exploring by yourself and not be in too much trouble but when things get hot and heavy it 
 is better to have your buddy by your side to help cover you. The aggro meter is also a cool concept 
 as you can take off some of the pressure on the other guy if he gets into trouble. While there 
 are not a whole lot of levels (only 6 in the entire game) , the levels that are in there are long 
 and exciting. You get a good mix of different types of levels as well. Of course Army of 2 does 
 have a few flaws, mainly if your partner gets injured and you need to execute a step jump, who 
 is going to pull you up. Then you helplessly watch your pal kick the bucket. Overall though this 
 is a solid game that I can recommend to anyone who is into co-op shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Army of two is a 3rd person action shooter for the ps3 and xbox 360. You start out as two men named 
 Rios and Salem who are private military contractors. In English their mercs who are hired by the 
 government to do special jobs. After the first mission you're treated to a cool trailer that time 
 lines you working for this PMC (private military contractor) called SSC. I like the premise for 
 being a mercenary yet the overall story isn't very good and the dialogue is laughable with one 
 character calling you **** several times. This is one game you really need to play co-op instead 
 of single player. You can play local co-op or co-op over xbox live with a friend. When playing 
 by your self you pick which character you want to be and the AI controls the other. The AI For 
 your partner does an okay job of covering your back and holding position. But when you tell him 
 to heal you he drags you about a mile away from danger besides going around a corner which by that 
 time you're usually dead. Also when you tell him to run forward he just runs straight at the enemy 
 no flanking or running for cover. The enemy AI isn't much better ,enemies will take cover and flank 
 you but then theirs enemies that run straight at you and sometimes right by you. If you play with 
 the AI though the whole game instead of playing with a friend you'll have a drastically different 
 experience. The co-op mechanics are simple awesome. When you "die" you fall down and sit up on 
 the ground and your partner needs to drag you to cover to heal you. While your being dragged you 
 can shoot at enemies and so can your partner. You can pick up riot shields and slow walk forward 
 while your ally shoots. You can also give you partner daps, give him a high five or a pound it. 
 This is something that gives the characters a little personality. You can take cover in a sense 
 were you duck behind cover and shoot over a ledge but your never actually attached to it. This 
 is one linear game were your hand is guided though open space but you have to eliminate a seemingly 
 endless amount of enemies to continue. But what is cool is that there are certain objectives you 
 can do for a bonus sum of cash kind of like the game Mercenaries. One very annoying thing that 
 pissed me off every time was when you come to a door to proceed to a next small part of the level 
 their was when you come to a door there's cut scene were it shows you kicking the door open then 
 theirs another loading screen. Loading screens are plenty and long some as long for 40 seconds! 
 Mid-mission you can buy weapons form special weapon dealers from around the world. You carry a 
 primary, secondary, special and grenade weapons that aren't all that satisfying to shoot. Yet all 
 the guns in the game are fully upgradeable which includes, bigger clip, putting shields on guns, 
 better stocks ,You can also buy face masks and new armor. Luckily when you get up-close to an enemy 
 you get to perform a very satisfying melee kill. You either head but a guy (with your metal mask) , 
 kick him in the head, choke slam etc. Agro is what Army of Two is all about. Theirs an agro bar 
 on your hud and agro is the more you shoot the more enemies pay attention to you while your partner 
 becomes practically invisible. There are some enemies you have to use agro to kill heavily armored 
 guards. But you end up letting your partner stay back behind cover full on agro while you flank 
 your enemy over and over. Army of two is a pretty good looking game if you ignore enemy models. 
 The enemy models all look mostly the same and their faces look really fake. The cut scenes look 
 great and are actually enjoyable. The multiplayer is a after though with four maps and three game 
 modes. There are vehicles in the multiplayer that aren't in the single player but besides that 
 multiplayer is pretty much single over xbox live. Army of two has some great Co-op concepts that 
 execute rather nicely yet poor AI, shallow single player experience (co-op is a must for this game) , a 
 very disappointing final boss and boring multiplayer stop this game form being great.
  
  Graphics-8
  
  Story-6
  
  GamePlay-8 (in co-op) ,6 (in single player)
  
  Sound-5
  
 
  7.7
  
  RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is possibly the best game I've played this year. I've learned to love 3rd person shooters 
 again after I was let down by Gears of War. Its got amazing customizability with you weapons and 
 gear. The graphics rock and the gameplay is even better.
  
  Graphics- 
  Running on the UNREAL 3 engine this game looks amazing. The metallic surfaces and you armor look 
 almost real as does most of your enviroments. The water effects and particle effects look amazing 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in this game is amazing and is way better than Gears of War. With a buddy its THE 
 best co-op game on the market because you really do rely on your ally sometimes and its important 
 to keep your partner fighting because you can't do it alone. The heavy reliance on partners makes 
 the game really fun because you actually care when your partner dies whether its the CPU or you 
 buddy.
  
  Overall an amazing game with an ending that says "sequel". If you have gaming friends go buy this 
 awesome co-op shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadav
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  You start off by choosing your main character; Salem or Binouche patante. Then, your captain sends 
 you to kill a terrorist from the Ai Quaida or something. What's fun in this game is that you always 
 have a partner that can help you in ways like the back-to-back firing, or simply the healing. The 
 missions are all pretty long but at least they aren't much complex and don't have any enviremental 
 puzzles. The only problem with the missions are that they don't have any variety to them; it's 
 always like go to that base, kill everyone and then disamorse the bomb... But it doesn't really 
 matter because the controls are very tight and the graphics are awesome. Sadly, your A. I. partner 
 is fatally flawed when playing with him. The game also features the aggro metre, it works like 
 this: when you go on a rampage, killing lots of dudes, the metre will increase in your side, making 
 everyone firing on you. Then, your partner is practically invisible, and can make sneak attacks 
 and no one will see him. This is a really good feature. In all, this is a superb game and you need 
 to play it if you have a friend or if you have XBOX LIVE. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 6
Date: May 23, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is allright. i really enjoyed the amazing graphics. but the controls were split up into 
 mini menus and i just got lost. as i continued playing, of course, i got better at it but it is 
 just too much to take in at once. and then times that by two because you have to tell your partner 
 what to do (stay, advance, etc.) . this game is a third person shooter and thus really hard to aim. 
 a cool feature of this game is you can buy and customize your weapons and limited armor. for the 
 record the menu music SUCKS. its some 80s retro crap (no offense to anyone) . i havnt played online 
 but i figure its 2 vs 2 or somthing like that, but i didnt play it cuz i didnt want to screw over 
 my partner... just thank me, that could have been you, lol. well i rented this game so i never got 
 to finish it. but you play as two guys who are hired by the government to kill people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaffarooni
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  I was excited about Army of 2 from the day i heard about its new slant on gameplay and ideas. Entirely 
 a Co-op game not a bad thing especially when you have friends to play along with. Overall the game 
 looks very good, plays nicely even with computer AI if your friends are offline. The biggest disappointment 
 with this game is that the campaign has only 6 levels, these levels are long ones mind you and 
 if you crank the difficulty up it definately extends game life. Online the game is good with the 
 same ideas carried over. Also check the new SSC Challenges out available for download. These are 
 great fun and well worth your microsoft points.
  
  Overall i am really satisfied with this game it could have been a bit longer on the campaign but 
 thats the reason why i gave it an 8. If you haven't got this yet pick up a second hand copy somewhere 
 and get playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  i really liked this game, its important to know that because at the same time i kinda disliked 
 it. i mean its definitely lots of fun and it does a lot of stuff right. the art and style of it 
 are real cool... its also short, enemy ai is composed of snipers no matter what gun they're using 
 and online is kinda annoying. i rented this saturday night beat it about 9 hours later. then i 
 proceeded to play through abunch of the levels again with all the different weapons to get the 
 achievements. after much play time i'm happy i didn't buy it because its not much content at all 
 and the online has few players and the npcs kinda piss me off. definitely a fun game for a time 
 but after a while the annoyances become too much. i'll take gears of war any day of the week. 
 
  
  moral of the story: rent it, enjoy it, beat it, move on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Some First Impressions: 
  
  Finished playing Army of Two a while ago. I guess you could say disappointing. I did not expect 
 really all that much from Army of Two, but I did expect more. The controls feel weird, they don't 
 feel like gears of war, but the game has many similar traits. Sometimes your shotgun can shoot 
 at further distances and more accurately and effectively from a blind fire position rather than 
 any assault rifle. This game is short! Me and my bud sat down for less than 6 hours and beat this 
 one. Some might say that I 'rushed' through the game, but there really isn't much to admire in 
 this game. I wouldn't say that this game's length is out of place in today's games, it's about 
 the same length, but that just goes to show that many games are becoming shorter and shorter.
 
  
  Ok, enough complaints. This game can be really fun! I'm not sure if I've ever used so much teamwork 
 in any other game. If this game's only goal was to make a successful fun co-op game, they nailed 
 it! Army of Two has a couple of fun features like 'co-op snipe' or 'step jumps' or 'back to back' 
 etc. These things really make the game co-op, without your partner you probably could kill a lot 
 of the bad guys, but you'd have a hell of a hard time doing so. I really enjoyed playing Army of 
 Two while it lasted, but now that I'm done I don't see any motivation to play it through 2 or 3 
 times. If you're an achievement junkie, you'll find yourself playing through the game 2-3 times, 
 and working a bit of the online features.
  
  Online is very frustrating, I highly suggest playing with friends you know. I've only played a 
 couple of matches, one was very fun I will say, it was a close match and quite fun. Interestingly 
 you have to worry about both your enemies and the enemy AI. You will be competing to complete objectives 
 before the other team does. Now, the bad part about online is that you can get stuck with some 
 people who just want achievements. I had the priveledge to listen to some guy moan and groan on 
 the phone about how he was playing to get 3 achievements, but the moron didn't read the achievements 
 carefully. He thought that if he never died, and never bought a new weapon that he would get the 
 achievements so he decided that he wouldn't do anything the entire game. You cannot beat any objectives 
 without a partner easily. Unfortunately for my idiot partner, you have to win the game to get some 
 of the achievements. Online becomes a fest of who can run up and grab the other person first, which 
 essentially is based on luck, and the better connection.
  
  Summary
  
  Army of Two is a math equation. Army of Two = Awesome
  
  Fun while it lasts, boring after
 
  
  Cool features
  
  At times annoying style of play
  
  Online: play with friends you know and you're golden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 6
Date: May 16, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Remember the slogan for the original Xbox? "It's good to play together." Hard to disagree with. 
 Strange, then, that it's taken this long for a big name developer to build an entire game around 
 that concept. Is it too much to ask that the game be done well, though? The underlying concepts 
 behind Army of Two have great potential, but they aren't quite fully realized in the final version.
 
  
  EA definitely attempts to emulate the buddy cop film vibe with Army of Two. Just replace the cops 
 with mercenaries working for private military contractors. Two tough guys - Rios and Salem - who 
 do a damn good job of killing people. It's a high-paying job, as long as there's a war going on 
 to provide contracts. There's plenty of social commentary about the U. S's privatization of the 
 military in the post-9/11 world, and the game offers a plot interesting enough to provide motivation 
 from mission to mission. Some of the hokey voice acting and pre-rendered cut scenes could have 
 been done without, though.
  
  Likening Army of Two to Gears of War should paint a pretty accurate picture of its gameplay. Firing 
 guns from an over-the-shoulder perspective, taking cover, and blind-firing are the core elements 
 of gunplay. Some of the controls feel more awkward than they should, unfortunately. Melee attacks 
 are canned animations that require you to be standing right next to an enemy before initiating. 
 The game also lacks any sort of sprint button, making the standard walking speed a fairly annoying 
 method of travel.
  
  Also like Gears, two-player co-operative play for the campaign is a huge selling point. In this 
 case, however, having a partner (whether controlled by AI or a human) is required to progress. 
 Things like hitting two switches at once, giving the other guy a boost up to ledge, and pulling 
 up the guy who just boosted you are all two-man jobs.
  
  Herein lies Army of Two's greatest shortcoming: the controlled and planned-out nature of the co-op 
 moments. Playing shooters alongside a friend usually offers great, unpredictable and improvised 
 moments. Everything about the co-op gameplay in Army of Two  the co-op sniping, the back-to-back 
 shooting, the two-man parachute  are merely scripted events waiting to be triggered. It feels 
 completely artificial.
  
  The way these two guys interact with each other on screen also feels way too forced. You can walk 
 up to your partner, then hit A to "show approval" or right trigger to do just the opposite. After 
 seeing the same air guitar and head butt animations for the fifth time, however, the novelty wears 
 off rather quickly.
  
  Some of the mechanics do encourage on-the-fly thinking, however. Enemies, even on the easiest difficulty, 
 are merciless eagle-eyes, so you have to compensate for their formidableness by building up "aggro" 
 (making the enemies focus on you to allow your partner to flank around them) . One can hide behind 
 the other while holding a riot shield, the brief bouts of "overkill" allow one player to be a damage-dealing 
 bullet sponge while the other becomes speedy and completely invisible, and you'll have to drag 
 a downed partner out of harm's way before patching him up.
  
  Most of Army of Two feels unfinished or otherwise unpolished. The largest culprit? The GPS system 
 that shows you exactly where you need to go by painting arrows on the ground and highlighting objectives. 
 Yet such a feature is necessary since the environments are so bland that you'd get lost otherwise. 
 It's a quick fix for the poor level design, a band-aid on a gaping wound. Loading times are also 
 far too frequent, the controls for switching weapons is needlessly complicated, and the default 
 turning speed makes tracking enemies at close range an impossible task.
  
  Weapon customization adds something to the gameplay, but like the rest of the game, it's mostly 
 superficial. Each weapon only includes one or two optional premade attachments in categories like 
 barrel, magazine, and grip. There's some comedic novelty to the customization (Wait, I can attach 
 a shotgun barrel to a sniper rifle? Sweet!) , and the upgrades certainly do help in battle, but 
 a lot of potential for personalizing weapons into truly unique items goes left untapped.
  
  Multiplayer is nothing to write home about, either. The two-man tandem gimmick translates to this 
 mode as well, but most of the objectives are unclear, and a lot of firefights degrade into awkward 
 circle-strafing.
  
  So what we're left with is a lot of great ideas thrown together without any cohesive force tying 
 them together. At least it's pretty to look at sometimes. EA ultimately failed to capitalize on 
 the potential for a shooter driven by co-op. Hell  the AI while playing solo is so good that you'd 
 probably get better results playing by yourself! Army of Two ends up being a forgettable experience 
 that would have benefited from a more thorough polish job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a pretty run-of-the-mill 3rd person shooter that doesn't try to stretch the boundaries 
 of the genre, but nevertheless is a fun game if you have a friend.
  
  The game emphasizes cooperation, and its objective is to bring back that classic cooperative gameplay 
 trailblazed by predecessors like Contra. Unfortunately, Army of Two is nowhere near as iconic or 
 memorable as its older brother, despite its 3-D advantage.
  
  Still, the game offers a lot of intense, heated combat scenarios that require you to work as a 
 team with your buddy. If your partner is shot down, it's up to you to make your way across the 
 battlefield to revive him. Another feature is the "agro" meter, which allows one player to attract 
 the attention of all your foes while the other player routes them. These two features compel you 
 to fight together and work quite well. Other cooperative features, however, like co-op sniping 
 and back-to-back gunning are quite clumsy and feel as if the developers were trying too hard.
 
  
  The gunplay is pretty fun, though the weapons are highly unbalanced. This means that enemies can 
 be extremely easy or extremely difficult to take down depending on your equipment. And speaking 
 of equipment, you have a wide array of weapons to play with and to upgrade. These are all enjoyable 
 features.
  
  But all this enjoyment would mean nothing if you don't have a buddy to play with. I tried playing 
 this game solo and quit after a short segment because your AI comrade is so dumb. Unless you micro-manage 
 him, he will either run to his death or sit in the same place and watch you die. Single-player 
 was definitely an afterthought here.
  
  Bottom line: if you have a friend, don't hesitate to check out Army of Two for some satisfying 
 co-op run and gun. But if you don't have a buddy to beat the game with, you should pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgT_P3pr
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Army of Two, its definitely not GoW but what a game.
  
  Ao2 has great game play, they have taken the useful cover system from GoW and redone it, making 
 it feel move alive by sliding into cover. The command system which you control you AI partner by 
 are simple to use, using the d-pad will give you 8 different commands, although, i was looking 
 forward to the voice command they promised, but did not deliver.
  
  As well as great game play, Ao2 also has a great story, filled with money and conspiracy, as well 
 as a lot of funny quotes that will make you laugh for days to come.
  
  probably the trademark of Ao2 is the weapon customization, WOW. imagine getting a hobo off the 
 street and turning him into Brad Pitt, you can do that with a AK47. You can turn it gold, give 
 it a underslung shotgun, a shield, larger barrel and clip size... i could go on forever.
  
  Ao2 graphic are amazing, these guys done very well, the detail... although there are a few glitches 
 her and there. but not enough to ruin the game.
  
  All in all Army of two is a great game that you'll play and then want to play again, but a 6.5 
 nooo way, but it doesn't deserve a high 9 -10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofanatic333
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking of the almost-November release. It's quite different. The game's innovative 
 Co-op perspective is what really shines, if you have any friends will play with you. The main two 
 characters are Salem, a younger punky kid (my favorite) , and Rios, a middle-aged tank. You're part 
 of a PMC (private military company) , and earn money for completing objectives. This money can be 
 used on guns, gun upgrades, and facemasks. A word to the wise, don't buy any REALLY expensive primary 
 weapon, bought the M!34 minigun on the last level and I regret it. The story is short, and not 
 the best, but it's relavent to today kinda. In total there 6 levels, and some get quite long. You'll 
 go from Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, China, an aircraft carrier, then to China, and lastly to Miami. 
 The level design is great, BUT can get agravating. THe single-player co-op A. I. is borderline legal 
 retard, but copable. Overall the game is fun. Rent it for a good weekend, and you might end up 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keli1989
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  
  
  I've been meaning to write something about this game and it's score on this page for some time.
 
  
  Im going to go through the review and see what i am unhappy about it because i dont think that 
 the game deserves a 6.5 rating, it's just fun and that's a whole lot better than a lot of the games 
 out there.
  
  Im going to try and sum up the review in a few words.
  
  Review:
  
  The first paragraph of the review is about that it is a dumb take on a present day issue (the iraq 
 war) .
  
  Okay i will agree that it does have a childish story, somewhat, But i don't think that this game 
 has any take on a present day issue. We get to see 9/11 footage in the background and that is the 
 thing that sparks up more mercenary work. So they used 9/11 but there was really not that much 
 of a political subplot. This to me is to minor to even be commented on.
  
  The second thing that botherd him is that some enemies take to long to kill and have superior aim.
 
  
  Now im starting to wonder if we played the same game....
  
  The only enemies that were even a little hard to kill were the heavily armored ones and i could 
 run into a crowd of guys and massacre them with my AK-47... And yeah i played all the difficulties 
 and i did not have a problem with beating this game, i did die sometimes but the game would suck 
 without a little challenge and if anything this game should be harder.
  
  Next up he criticises the AI and says that it will sometimes drag you way to far to heal you.
 
  
  I went through 3 playthroughs with my friend and one with AI so i don't really know too much about 
 this.
  
  But the AI was no problem when i played, it answered all my commands dead on and behaved really 
 good. I mean there aren't alot of games that you would need to rely on the AI as much as in this 
 game so of course there is going to be a flaw here and there. AI doesn't always have common sense, 
 but i will say that the AI in this game beats the AI in so many other games and this is really 
 no problem at all.
  
  He says campaign is short.
  
  I agree.
  
  Says that it mocks the army.
  
  Okay this is just ridiculous, there are things that are meant 
 to provoke thought and there are things that are just suposed to be entertaining, and if you couldn't 
 guess it yourselves then i will tell you now.
  
  This game does not have any subliminal messages.
  
  It does have a short story line but it's 
 fun, and in my case the achievements made this game worth 4 playthroughs.
  
  The versus mode is great, it's fast, it's fun and it's gameplay is worth days of entertainment.
 
  
  Ok so for a game that plays great and looks great the fact that it gets a 6.5 for a bad storyline 
 is just unbeliveable.
  
  Im sorry this got so long...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:8.6/10
  Here is EA's so called 3rd person shooter that was supposed to have concentrated on mostly co-op 
 gameplay. You are provided with an AI teammate, or you can play with a friend, or a friend online. 
 When i first read about Army of Two, and looked at a few screenshots before its release, it looked 
 much better in the images. Sad to say, the game didnt play as well like EA promised, but its still 
 an enjoyable experience. The game borrows a few elements from Gears of War... and most games that 
 rip off other games like Hour of Victory did with CoD and MoH... Army of Two doesent. It uses the 
 borrowed elements quite well, and doesent rip them off. How? It uses a system called Aggro, in which 
 your AI partner distracts the enemy with a gun, laying down heavy fire as you try to flank them. 
 It works really really well (To a degree.) , and although you have to do this a lot, it most of the 
 time doesent get boring due to the uniqueness of the game. Aggro is also built higher, if you have 
 a larger, or more powerful looking weapon.. Like a minigun for example. There is some small strategy 
 involved, and certain enemies in this game. Though there arent a lot of different enemies, it doesent 
 matter. The action will keep you occupied. Blind fire in this game is surprisingly accurate, which 
 is cool though. 
  
  
  You take control of either Tyson Rios, or Elliot Salem in this game. You start off looking like 
 a wimp, but after a small while, you will start wearing the cool SSC Mercenary armor. Gamespot gave 
 this game the Xtreme Batitude demerit... for EA trying to make them look cool, but they do look cool. 
 I like the humor in the game, and the positive attitude the game carries. They're not trying to 
 act cool, THEY'RE MERCENARIES!!!! THEY DO NOT HAVE TO ACT LIKE SOPHISTICATED SOLDIERS LIKE THE U. S!! 
 Very good characters. Back to what i was saying.... Gameplay. The game has a small RPG element to 
 it (in a way) . You use the money you earn from completing objectives by purchasing, and upgrading 
 your weapons. This system works surprisingly well, and makes your weapon look like a total deathdealer. 
 A funny add-on to your weapons is the Pimped out version. This makes your weapon either a a much 
 better and powerful looking version of what it was before, or a golden version. Which is basically 
 the same thing. All this does is increase aggro, but its pretty cool. In this game, you can carry 
 3 types of weapons, a Primary weapon, (like an AK-47 or SAW) secondary weapon (a sidearm, or an SMG) , and 
 a long range weapon (Missile launchers, and snipers) You also have grenades, but there is only one 
 type in this game. With all this, this game really feels fun, addicting, and especially rewarding. 
 There are cons in the gameplay though, such as... Well the game definitely does not start strong. 
 The game felt uninteresting to me AT FIRST.. due to unsatisfying gameplay, but as i got more cash 
 and weapons... I felt like i should keep going. Another con is.... Partner AI. I mean, even the enemy 
 AI is smarter (WHICH IT IS AT TIMES) than your stupid partner. This so called "Virtual Friend" (Thats 
 an achievement just to let you know.) is a complete IDOIT. I mean the AI has its moments, but this 
 is just RIDICULOUS!! Your partner, will more than 5 times do something STUPID in ONE mission. He 
 CANNOT SAVE YOUR LIFE OR SAVE HIS OWN LIFE. There was one time where the stupid partner AI freakin... I 
 was already in cover and was just taken out because i was blind firing, and he did NOT heal me on 
 the spot, which was good cover, AND INSTEAD PULLED ME OUT IN THE OPEN AND TRIED HEALING ME THERE. 
 i was like WTH?!?!?! This game is really best played on Co-Op with a friend. The partner AI in 
 this game is a complete joke. 
  
  Graphics:9/10
  "Graphics are nice" Gamespot didnt even make the game sound even good in the slightest. These graphics 
 are some of the best i have ever seen, especially the models. These graphics are obviously considered 
 Next-Gen. especially on HD.
  
  Sound:7.4
  I wasnt really impressed with the weapons fire in this game. Most weapons sound similar or the 
 same. Voice acting is top notch in my opinion, but the sound effects need work.
  
  Overall: This game is absolutely solid. It just has flaws that drag it down, but the core gameplay 
 itself is impressive, and is really addicting. This game is definitely worth a look at, and most 
 likely you wont be impressed at FIRST, but the game will pick up later. I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supperwinnny
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Ya well I guess I really am the kind of guy who just likes to kill stuff rather than thinking about 
 the story and that but this game is really quite amazing.
  
  The graphics are quite well done especially when you are running around with a bunch of "Pimped" 
 out guns. 
  
  Sure you may say this game has "stepped into a political landmine" but I think the games story 
 is just an excuse to have a plot that keeps you actively killing people :) Even still, I thought 
 the game had a very interesting story. It wasn't a game that made me want to skip every cut-scene.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good though I recommend playing some music of your own while mowing down some 
 bad guys. 
  
  The controls are pretty basic and with an okay tutorial you should figure it out in no time.
 
  
  The gameplay it self has an arcade feel in my mind and I think flows quite nicely. You tend to 
 spend a lot of time hiding behind cover because in this game theres always about a hundred bullets 
 flying at you and your team member Sometimes it can get pretty hard but since you can heal your 
 buddy you can get out of those tough spots. Teamwork in this game is key, hence the title "Army 
 of Two". You can switch weapons with your partner and even give him "props" and various other things 
 including a nice smack to the back of the head when your buddy isn't preforming the way you want 
 him to. 
  
  I think this game deserves a better rating than what game spot has given it. This game reall addictive 
 and intense and once you play it you really get into it and you can't stop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxSoCalxXx1234
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  First i have to say that I was really hyped up for this game for the last year, when I saw the first 
 trailer it looked like some pretty inovative stuff, but after i got my hands on it my excitment 
 went way down. Right off the bat i could tell that this was just another ordinary 3rd person shooter.... It 
 became very repetitive after about an hour.... it seemed liike i was doing the same thing over and 
 over.... there was barly any type of inovation at all.... the whole aggro thing was to dumb..... why 
 make it harder for a person with a bigger gun.... and half the time the when your partner has the 
 aggro and you are sneaking around the enemy they will randomly see you and then you are totaly 
 exposed.... Thank god i only rented this game or i would be very pissed.... thats all i got to say..... if 
 you want to try it, rent it, i think EA has lost its sights on what gamers want and what they are 
 looking for in a game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Gamespot sometimes doesn't know how to rate. You should ignore the 6.5 they gave this game because 
 really, it is one of the greatest games I've ever played.
  
  Appearance - 9/10 - There are amazing graphics for this game. You can see the blood really well 
 and the way you see things on the screen while you are playing is really easy and good. Also, you 
 can visually pimp your weapons which is another cool thing with appearance.
  
  Sound - 9/10 - There really wasn't any importance to sound in this game except for a minor role. 
 For one thing, you can clearly hear the voices telling you what to do. This helps play the game 
 a lot. And I guess then background music for the menu screen is ok.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10 - This is probably one of the greatest shooter I've ever played. The other ones 
 up there are COD 4 and Halo. This game is just fun all over. It is a little bit short, that's why 
 it is a 9.5 instead of a 10, but the difficulties make this game, easy, medium, or really hard. 
 It is a really fun shooter in general. This game introduces something new to shooters called AGGRO. 
 AGGRO is very innovative and it makes gameplay a lot funner. Especially when you are playing split-screen. 
 It is easy to master too, so you can get good at it easily. Another thing that is extremely awesome 
 in this game is that you can customize your weapons. Like i said before, you can pimp them, and 
 you can upgrade them and even trade. So that is a really cool feature.
  
  Xbox Live - 8.5/10 - The Xbox Live is the only place where you can do multiplayer in the game. 
 It is really fun. You and your partner do missions against the opposing partners and it is like 
 an exiting race until the very end. the only bad thing is there is nothing where you just kill 
 each other non-stop, like Team Slayer in Halo 3, or Deathmatch in COD 4. Basically, this is the 
 only thing you can do. That's why it got an 8.5
  
  Overall - 9.5/10 - Overall, this game is awesome. It's one of the greatest shooters I've ever seen, 
 and even if I have beat the game twice, I am still playing the campaign. And also, I am playing 
 the Xbox Live. I even bought the new ssc challenge map pack for this game instead of another Xbox 
 Live arcade game. That really shows I care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is fun and is a good concept but i think the creators tried to hard to make the game 
 a CoOp experience. And yes it has some really fun game play and i have been playing it all the 
 way through with my girlfriend ^_^ but there are certain things that pop up that are just a little 
 annoying while playing. Im going to classify this one as "Great Multiplayer" because it's the truth 
 if your hanging out with someone and want to have a fun multiplayer game to play then go for it. 
 problem is though you generally end up with certain types of guns because you deck one out early 
 on and then you don't want to waste more money. (The gun customization is very well done in this 
 game) . The story line is enough to make you follow it but there are predictable parts and some 
 very stupid lines being said in some of the cut scenes. But over all it's really fun to play (WITH 
 A FRIEND) !!! but alone it is just a hassle it's like working with a really bad player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeherb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Gears of War you'll love Army of Two. 
  The same type of game going on here, co-op missions. It's an all around great game.
  
  It plays 
 great, excellent graphics, also a blast to play with a friend
  
  If you read the review from Gamespot, he talks about the issue of Private Military Contractors 
 and how Army of Two is a macho frat boy take on this issue.
  
  The point is that it is a GAME, and games do not have to be politically correct. Just look at Grand 
 Theft Auto. If nothing else, it will raise awareness of the issue. 
  
  Anyway don't let the ugly 6.5 review on gamespot fool you. Obviously the reviewer doesn't like 
 these types of games or has some issue with the story of this game. It deserves atleast a 7.5-8.5 
 by game review standards.
  
  Try it if you like action adventures. You'll probably like Army of Two.
  
  
  GAMESPOT: I 
 am disappointed in you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: millwrought
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Yippie Kiya Mother F$#&*: Army of Two Review
  
  Opening Statement::
  
  EA has been known for milking entire game series dry until they kill the thing, so when a new IP 
 dubbed 'Army of Two', a game that focused on perfecting the Gears of War co-op, people were shocked 
 EA was actually TRYING something new! The thought was almost overwhelming, but to restore peace 
 among the gaming nation, gamers all around were flaming this new series to no end. Quotes flew 
 from the battleground between EA and a large amount of gamers with no end in sight.
  
  But oddly EA did not respond, and kept most of the news about Army of Two quiet. When they released 
 the game a year or so ago to the game reviewers, supposedly the game was so horrible '1's were 
 flying around, so EA delayed the game further to try and improve what the reviewers had problems 
 with. Again, the anti-EA gamers took this as more evidence on EA pumping out lame titles, and with 
 this new ammunition, those gamers took to the fields again.
  
  So is Army of Two, now released awhile ago, be the new IP that could steer EA to greatness, or 
 to only confirm the epic failure that is EA?
  
  Game Play:
  
  Army of Two states very plainly that it's a game that should be played with friends or someone 
 online. I agree with this because the AI partner is so stupid I would burn this game if there wasn't 
 any option for a non-AI partner. Well that might be a little harsh, I would make my friend play 
 it by himself and have him burn it for me.
  
  Army of Two rips of the Gears of Wars cover system, and over the shoulder camera placement, but 
 I like it and fits the game much better than if it was a FPS.
  
  Having a dumb AI partner is interesting; the enemy AI is top-notch with only a few times were they're 
 shooting at nothing at all. But when you, for example, take enough damage and needed to be healed, 
 the AI comes over like a good puppy, and then drags you halfway across the map before healing you.
 
  
  Leaving the horrible world of AI partners behind us for now, let's turn to the guns. Oh yes there 
 are guns, and lots of them and they make me very, very happy. Why you ask? Well sit down son, and 
 let me explain something in Army of Two that blew me away.
  
  In Army of Two you carry a Primary Weapon (Assault Rifles, shotguns, and very manly machine guns.) , 
 a Secondary Weapon (Pistols, and sub-machine guns.) , some grenades (Which you can't have different 
 ones.) , and a Special Weapon (Rocket Launchers and Sniper Rifles.) . There are about 10 or more 
 weapons in each category, and they're ALL different. Each one fires differently, each have different 
 stats, and you can play with ALL of them.
  
  How you buy these weapons is by completing in-game objectives and hidden objectives or side objectives. 
 Soon you will have enough cash to buy the weapon you want. But that's not it my friends, you can 
 even upgrade them from several different options. From silencers, to stocks, to barrels, to scopes 
 and more, you can even 'pimp' out your weapon with gold, silver, and other shiny bling. While it 
 sounds stupid it actually boosts one of your stats, called Aggro (More on this later.) .
  
  And that is not it, you can improve your body armor to take more hits, while if you do this you 
 slow down and are less agile. And you know those funky masks they ware? You can even buy different 
 masks, and there are quite a bit to choice from. And all of the upgrades and weapons mentioned 
 above ACTUALLY change what your character looks like. I love how they tried to combine the character 
 creation system from RPG's into this game.
  
  Now to another interesting feature, this is dubbed 'Aggro'. Aggro is commonly used in RPG, mostly 
 in MMORPG. Basically when one character gets in the thick of battle more, all of the enemies are 
 going to focus on them, and then other players whom are now ignored can sneak around back stabbing 
 people or flanking them. While this sounds gimmicky, the game actually gives you challenges where 
 you NEED Aggro.
  
  From distracting a turret with a bullet-proof front, to attacking enemies with full uber front 
 body armor, and to assaulting fixed positions. Soon you will usually dub someone to be the main 
 guy who will always gather Aggro in their Aggro meter by firing at the enemy, to increase the amount 
 of Aggro gathered you can upgrade your guns to attract more Aggro (From bigger barrels to 'pimping' 
 out your guns.) . 
  
  Soon you and your friend will be using this tactic over and over again without even thinking out 
 it. There are also bigger bonuses if you max out your Aggro meter, you can activate a mode where 
 you become an unstoppable juggernaut, and your friends attack enemies with them not even noticing 
 him, this usually lasts for a few seconds so use it tactically.
  
  Army of Two really tries to make it so each player feels needed in the game by using co-op moves. 
 From a bullet time back-to-back shoot frenzy (Which oddly you cannot trigger when you want to) , 
 boosting your buddy up a wall so they can help you up, a mode where you can snipe at the same time, 
 to the ability to trade primary weapons, carrying a riot shield while the other gun hides behind 
 you and mows down n00bz, to even dragging a wounded gun into cover so you can patch them up.
  
  Overall Army of Two tries, and succeeds in trying to improve the 3rd person genre, especially 
 in the area of co-op, but some things stand in its way to become a holy deity of shooters. Such 
 as a faulty AI for your computer buddy, to some of the upgrades for you guns doing not that much, 
 a vehicle that steers just as well as a drunken pig on ice skates ,and to sniper rifles generally 
 sucking all across the board. But I need to give a special shout-out to the level designers who 
 gave us so many things to do in one level, thanks guys!
  
  Art:
  
  Art-wise, Army of Two fails pretty short. Well, sort of. The characters look great, the enemies 
 are designed well, and graphically the game looks pretty great. But a lot of the environments looks 
 bland; some of the textures are just plain embarrassing, and generally while the levels are pretty, 
 they are mostly uninspired and dull.
  
  Though one place in the whole game where I HAVE to set above as one of the best video game levels 
 of all times. You will come across this one level were you actually have to storm a captured aircraft 
 carrier, and sink it. And what happens in that level is just pure awesome, that it may even make 
 it all the way to my years end awards blog post.
  
  Audio:
  
  Audio, so let's start.
  
  First off the guns all sound different, and realistic. Which helps give each one a special 
 personality, so you will stick with it throughout the game. The grenades sound a little weak, and 
 that sniper rifles are just embarrassing how weak they sound. I've also noticed that adding a silencer 
 to your gun really doesn't quiet it down that much.
  
  The voice work is quite good, but some of it is ruined by cheesy one-liners ripped of every cool 
 action movie ever made, and are really quite boring after a few hours in the game. Rio's voice 
 actor is actually one of the best actors I have heard in a while, and generally you will ignore 
 the whinny dialogue from Rio's partner, Salem.
  
  The enemies' voices are nowhere near as good, and have just as lame dialogue as the other characters. 
 But I guess you could make the excuses for the dialogue that it was MENT to be cheesy, I mean, 
 this game is really just an interactive version of Die Hard 2, so really I can forgive the character 
 dialogue.
  
  Content:
  
  Overall you have a grand total of six missions, and it sounds just as small as it is. I spent around 
 an hour on each level on the second-hardest difficulty setting, so you can guess this game was 
 made for replay ability. And with all of the achievements you are probably going to miss out on, 
 and all of the cools weapons to mess around with, I have played this game through about 3 times 
 and it still is not boring when I take the time to pop it in.
  
  I could go on and describe the story, but really it sucks. The concept is nice, but they introduce 
 plot twists you could see from miles away, and the ending shamelessly hints at sequel. One of the 
 BIG issues I have is that you don't even get to fight the final boss, but a cut scene appears out 
 of nowhere to do it for you. (Though the second-to- final boss is gratifying awesome because you 
 will hate that boss so much at the end of the game.)
  
  You play as Rio's and Salem, former Army Rangers turned to private military mercenaries. You will 
 slowly unravel a sinister plot to take over the US military, and to find out the people they work 
 for are planning to betray them. The sad part is that this game tries to take itself WAY too seriously, 
 if would be funnier and more enjoyable if it was treated like a Die Hard movie instead (Or a Jackie 
 Chan movie.) . Maybe we will see some improvement in the sequel
  
  Multi-Player wise, the game had a lot of potential, but falls flat on its face. There really only 
 is one mode where you take a number of objectives like 'assassination' or 'defend and transport 
 the pilot' which earns you money, while you battle it out with bots and another team. Whoever gets 
 the most cash wins.
  
  While this is fine, you can't even take the cash you earned in the online modes, and use it to 
 upgrade your character. You have to buy weapons during the match, and once that match is over everything 
 you earned is gone. And it would have been nice to see a character creation screen. Also the servers 
 are region locked, so for example, you won't be able to play with your friend in Japan from the 
 USA.
  
  The online co-op is fun though, playing through the campaign online is usually lag-free, and fun 
 if your buddy gets bored of playing the game, and you rather not play with the AI partner (I don't 
 blame you.) .
  Really it would have been fun to see an all-out death match using a full-fledged character creation 
 screen, buying masks, armor, weapons, and making your character from the ground up. Or even have 
 a huge capture the flag or death match with eight or more other teams.
  
  Closing Statement:
  
  Army of Two tries to be different in a over-flooded shooter genre, and 
 some of the things this game tries out is good, but some are also bad. Multiplayer had a lot going 
 for it, but drops the ball on that one, and some of the game play choices (AKA crappy hovercraft, 
 bad AI partner, etc.) just don't work out so well.
  
  Overall if you have a buddy, or online friend (Who lives in the same region mind you.) who likes 
 Gears of War, or other co-op games, pick this up or rent it and enjoy it, sense it has a lot to 
 offer, but not all of it good ,and personally, I like it and I am excited to see what surprises 
 Army of Two 2 (lol) will pull out.
  
  Game Play: 8 out of 10
  Art: 8 out of 10
  Audio: 7.5 out of 10
  Content: 6.5 out of 10
  Technology: 7.5 out of 10
  FINAL SCORE: 7.5 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  As a rule, I'm not a fan of 3rd person shooters but this game is the exception. I played Gears 
 of War and HATED it!!! The cover system sucked and movement was slower than the second coming of 
 Christ. Army of Two turned out to have all the things that Gears didn't for me. The cover system 
 in this game is fluid and you can't get stuck goin' from cover to cover because you don't have 
 to initiate it to begin with. The customizable weapons are great!!! Especially the P90. More games 
 need to feature P90's cause they just rock. So far I've only been playing with the AI but I can't 
 wait to get some co-op kickin' cause this game just screams co-op. The AI is a little stupid from 
 time to time but it's only AI. Just be happy it's not the HAL9000 AI or else you'd be afraid of 
 your 360. All in all, this game is very entertaining. It's a little short but that's fine by me 
 cause it leads to more replayability in my opinion. Pick this one up if you like customization 
 and tactical shooting, I'm sure you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarshSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a very good game, although stated as too handicapped and the story line being rubbish. 
 The game itself its set around current time but isn't, supposed to completely cover whats going 
 on in the world its a FICTIONAL work. Its got its own plot and theme, as for the gameplay, you 
 should be a good and experienced gamer to be able to use the AI effectively. The AI is mainly there 
 for Aggro and not to completely rely on it. But some critics who are not good experienced players 
 would say other wise. The only thing they are right on is the reive aspect when you need your AI 
 partner to revive you, that becomes annoying. But other than that if you are a good player and 
 good at shooting games and video games in general then you will see what i am implying. Overall, 
 a very good game and recommend it to anyone looking for the latest games out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldsniper1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  First off i was expecting alot from this game. Playing as a pair of mercenaries gives the developers 
 alot of scope for story and missions etc. Frankly i think EA blew it. Admittedly they produced 
 an 'ok' story, i never expected the whole 'conspiracy' thing and thoroughly agreed with Salem (those 
 of you reading this who have finished the game will know what i mean) The missions however SUCKED 
 i got bored performing the same thing over and over flanking machine guns over and over blowing 
 away countless numbers of terrorists who seemed to have accomplished some very impossible things 
 (Capturing an Aircraft Carrier as an example) . 
  
  The way the game plays is pretty good. I cant stand the AI but play with my brother and a friend 
 quite regularly. This sorta goes against what i wrote above and i cant really explain why but the 
 game grasps me: its fun to play, listening to Salems comments about Clyde, Rios's suspicions of 
 conspiracy and watching the two play tricks on each other in cut scenes. Some of it is funny and 
 breaks up the linear combat if only for a few seconds. The weapons seem quite accurate, im no weapon 
 specialist but i would argue the accuracy of some of the weapons. The M4 or 'S-System' as its called 
 in the game seems a little to accurate and the AK 47 seems woefully innacurate. I did like the 
 gold and chrome plate add ons and the customisation ability although i think EA could have gone 
 a little further with this.
  
  The multiplayer is good fun, running all over the map trying to complete the objectives its unlike 
 any other multiplayer experience ive had. I did find it very confusing at first like how you purchase 
 weaponry and armour and the controller sensitivity seemed to drop with me (im not sure if anyone 
 else had this problem) . 
  
  All in all a dissapointing but (for me at least) annoyingly engrossing. I hope for alot more in 
 a sequel and on that note hope EA will make a sequel and TRY HARDER!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLARA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing , the strategy of two people vs. an army , you "aren' tRambo ,but you use 
 a big gun and shot in someone , you go to a safe place shot in everybody , but you use one thing 
 thats make you win : AGRO , agro is theattentionof your enemies , if your partner has a big 
 gun and shot like a Rambo your enemies shot him , you flank now then , you use the agro for heavy 
 armor enemies , machine guns with protection in front , and other enemies , yes the game is a little 
 repetitive , and short , but the amazing moments you have killin a lot and a lot of terrorist , 
 is over the problems like : the AI is sometimes donkey , your partner take you to revive in middle 
 of the war , and you and your partner dead , this is a idiot problem but you can play with him 
 , the game is short , when i think i'm in the middle of the game , become a video with the extras 
 , but , we have the XBOX LIVE and a amazing multiplayer mode , the game is fun , and for TWO people 
 , is not a shoter like COD 4 , is a game you play for have fun , i think you must forget the Gamespot 
 review and buy i have fun 
  
  The game is short but amazing , and if you have TWO controls and a XBOX LIVE gold , spend 60 dollars 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, when I first saw the trailers for this game I thought this was gonna be another "cool" and 
 I use that word loosely, rip-off of Gears of War. Well I was half right. I actually bought the 
 game, and was pretty impressed, at first, but then the farther I got in to the game the more it 
 actually started to become the same thing all over again. Now I'm saying it was a repetitive game, 
 but it was lacking a few things. First, the aiming was way too crappy, I keep finding my-self running 
 around shooting at someone in the head and there not dead, unless it's a sniper rifle. That and 
 it was too short of a game. I expected way more missions out of this. However I did like the story 
 line in this game. It was very simplistic. I did like the 9/11 aspect it was going for. At least 
 they were daring enough to do it. Because all of the other game companies are to much of panzies, 
 because they're afraid they'll "offend" someone. The main thing is that these PMC's (Private Military 
 Contractors) , are doing various missions. And you have to fight everyone the U. S. A. hates. Muslims, 
 Chinese, and then back to other Americans. And my last complaint would have to be the online play. 
 Seriously EA, come on!
  I didn't know what the helll I was supposed to do. I was supposed to do missions of some sort. 
 And I couldn't party up with any friends on it. Look I don't know, it was confusing. But, if u 
 want some easy achievements rent it because it didn't live up to my expectations.
  But then again my opinion is different to other people.
  Oh! and the physics were good in the 
 game too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I never got around to buying this game, mostly due to the poor reviews and other games being available 
 and the promise one of my associates would loan me this game. Well he and his wife finally stopped 
 playing it (they loved it) and loaned it to me
  
  Wow, maybe I had low expectations but that was much better then I expected. I am not sure why anyone 
 would say this game sucks. I mean it does have some problems but nothing that made it un-fun (for 
 me at least) . 
  
  The problems I had were:
  - I was playing Single Player and your AI partner is an idiot and he can't shoot. So pretty much 
 you are playing SINGLE player and just using him as bait. Being as he can't shoot the "back to 
 back" thing and "the shield thing" were not as fun as they should have been. I would think this 
 game would be REALLY fun with a live person as your partner. However, it would be even easier then 
 I thought it was and even with the useless AI partner I thought this game was pretty darn easy. 
 For reference, I played on the hardest setting you can select at the start of the game. 
  
  - There was some slow down for me in one or two places but nothing too bad. 
  - Sometimes the 
 graphics didn't live up to what the graphics in the rest of the game were.
  - The game was VERY short. I started around 8 last night and finished at 3 today, with normal life 
 breaks such as sleep, eat, exercise. However I would replay this at least one more time if I owned 
 it and may go buy it when it gets cheap.
  - Close in combat can be a pain and sometimes in tight spaces the camera would get me to lose my 
 bearings.
  - I really could have done without the boat missions. The bad controls seemed backwards from what 
 I am used to.
  
  What I liked:
  - The characters were interesting enough and I was engaged in the story, even if it was kind of 
 a lame spike TV movie of the week kind of script. I did like the look of your guys. 
  - I thought the voice actors did a good job and there were some funny lines. 
  - I thought the 
 environmental sound were well done.
  - I don't really remember the music, it didn't strike me as good or bad... and in a shooter that's 
 generally good.
  - Some of the graphics were excellent (much better then I thought) , some notsomuch.
  - The shooting 
 controls all seemed to work well (melee notsomuch)
  - There was a decent selection of weapons you could trick out for benefits
  - I just had fun 
 playing it. Not sure if it was the ease of playing it, or the mindlessness of it (though there 
 is some strategy required so its not just run and gun and I like that. So I am not sure why this 
 strikes me as any more mindless then any other shooters)
  
  Due to length and ease it's probably not worth $60 unless your going to play online a lot but certainly 
 worth a play and a purchase when it gets cheap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBobX63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome with the exception of a short campaign but thats jsut about it multiplayers 
 great wiht a little lag. Also with the new dlc coming out it will be so much better. In other words 
 it's It is a w s o m e ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1 1 
 !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! !!  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  As you can see by the large over caped text I hate the AI in this game. Almost everyone has the 
 single phrase to this game "OVER HYPED" I expected more from this game but was denied. In all fairness 
 this might be the best game EA has ever made and maybe saved them. The game has a vast customization 
 level of weapons and also armor. The game has a Solid story in which made me enjoy listing to all 
 the character dialog during the movies and as well as during game play. I did experience some strange 
 glitches and weird character model errors. The most major thing is that you need someone to play 
 this game! The AI is so horrendous that I could make a Silenced Monk burst out in rage. Before you 
 start judging, I did beat this game alone with the AI and got the stupid "My Virtual Friend" achievement. 
 And i believe this might be the largest reason why many people dislike this game is that it is 
 incredibly short (6 missions) . The online isn't that bad, it just needs some updating but knowing 
 EA they'll say that they did or fix some random thing and said the job is done. If you don't know 
 what I speak of... BATTLEFIELD the most glitchy walk through walls instant kill game. But to some 
 up Army of Two, recommended to thous who wanna play a co-op game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # I will never watch another tailer in my life. Never belileve everything they tell you about the 
 game in a tralier.
  
  # The game is a 3rd person shooter like Gears of War where you take cover and fire. 
  
  # The 
 games plot is taste less. Your told that the army is usless and a couple of unstoppable badass's 
 can only do the job.
  
  # The game is way too short it needs to at least twice as long.
  
  # The fact that you can upgrade your weapons is cool as you can do it so many ways. You can 
 pimp out your weapons with bling like flashy paint jobs and if this appeals to you then clean your 
 mouth out with soap. 
  
  # I don't think the game makes the most of the whole TWO thing the only thing you need the other 
 guy for is distracting the badys so you shoot them in the bum. There are parts where you get in 
 a hover boat together but when you do its short , handles like a donkey with legs and blows up 
 fast.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  The game is fun but its not worth 40 like hell it is.
  Its repetitive and broken and nothing you havent seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonicwolf1942
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  it was ok by all means but the problem is this a. on normal it feels like uve gotta hold ur ai 
 partners hand on just about everything i mean come on do i needa wipe for him to really do i?
 
  
  the game does have its challengeing points like when u face couple hundred men in a relentless 
 fire fight and dear god is that short to.
  
  there are a few cool things like the medals look decent for once in xbl, and you can customize 
 your weapons to make them stronger so its not like David vs Goliath all the freaking TIME!!!
  
  the best part and main reason i gave it a 8 is because the co-op play is really good, when 
 ur buddies come over looking for a decent multiplayer action game this is one of those ok lets 
 do it type games, when u have the intellectual ability of another human useing his brain and not 
 his ass things magically happen like being able to beat levels in 5-10 minutes or even beat the 
 game in 2 hours... but pop it on pro and itll take a bit more time.
  
  over all its a let down sorry army of two the hype just didnt quite match the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lOh_Noesl
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two was a highly anticipated third person shooter with a focus on two player team mechanics. 
 The game follows the story of two ex military Contractors (pretty much heavily armed guns for hire) 
 as they complete missions for an organisation called the SSC. Tyson (codename Rios) and Elliot 
 (codename Salem) are the two protagonists in Army of Two and are two definitely likable characters 
 even though they try to hard to look bad. But without a doubt some of their little conversations 
 together and highly amusing and bound to make you chuckle to yourself.
  
  The gameplay in Army Of Two is straight out poor. After a while it really is no fun at all. The 
 cover system is fine and all but the aiming is the shoddiest thing you'll probably ever come across 
 in the genre. Like most other shooters out there, when you take cover you have to options in how 
 you can go about taking out your enemies:
  A) Take aimed shots at them, but leave yourself vulnerable.
  B) Just spray bullets in your enemies 
 direction by blind firing.
  Army of Two incorporates these two options, but their execution is simply terrible. This is because 
 when you're blind firing, you have a pin point crosshair at where you're aiming, and if you choose 
 to take aimed shots, you get pretty much the same spectrum as you had when you were blind firing 
 which pretty much renders these two concepts as useless gimmicks. Also, you AI controlled partner 
 is more than frustrating as you can give him 6 commands. These just vary from 'go here', 'follow 
 me' and 'hold your position' but you can choose if they'll shoot at enemies or do absolutely nothing. 
 This means that there is no option what so ever to have your ally to just sit somewhere between 
 being a total idiot and getting killed as he stupidly takes aim for too long outside of cover, 
 or just do nothing at and just sit there as moral support.
  
  Your partner's actions also tie into something called an aggro system (MMORPG fans know about this 
 all too well) meaning that enemies will be drawn to who ever has the most attention (which is usually 
 obtained by killing, using covering fire and also having a massive and loud gun out) . The aggro 
 system is really just a gimmick for the most part of the game as it only really effects how things 
 play out for the human player since there is no command for telling your partner to flank while 
 you have the attention. The aggro system also comes into play on fights with larger, more armored 
 enemies as you must get your buddy to grab all of the attention while you sneak around the back 
 of the hulking behemoth and hit him where it really hurts.
  
  The graphics in Army of Two are spectacular and possible the best out of any game out for the 360 
 at this moment of time. What makes them even better is that you can customise you weapons which 
 gives them totally new and utterly awesome looks and the models are also carried out into the real 
 world which is definitely an insanely cool option when you've got your gold plated AK-47 with pretty 
 much every kind of upgrade imaginable with it.
  
  The sound is alright but nothing special. You probably won't take much notice to it as it's pretty 
 much people dropping the 'f' bomb in totally irrelevant situations in an attempt to look bad. But 
 the little things that Salem and Rios say to each other is a nice little feature that just adds 
 to the overall gameplay of Army of Two even though it doesn't make up for the rest of this shipwreck.
 
  
  Overall not the best shooter out there and if you're looking for a tactical third person shooter 
 focused on two people, the safer bet is on Gears of War. But if you're determined to get this oh-so-short 
 modern day shooter go ahead, but don't expect the action to last you more than half a day. And 
 for what it's worth, there are plenty of other full priced games that completely trump Army of 
 two in almost every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DATABOY63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This is one one the most exciting games i have ever played on the xbox 360 and i own halo 3 and 
 call of duty 4. The graphics on this game are amazing i personally think this is the best third 
 person shooter next to gears on the xbox 360. i don't cae how people whine saying the ai is easy 
 or the cover mechanic is weak, the cover is great right up there with gears and the ai is fine, 
 aggro is one of the most inventive mechanics in any first person i have played. it is great to 
 play with a friend who plays any type of shooter and people may think the ai in all of these other 
 games are really stuoud but thus ai acts like a human being if you shoot at him he'll head butt 
 you back and he actually listens to your commands and through the whole time playing the game (i 
 am at the very end of the final mission in miami) he has never gotten stuck against a wall or just 
 run around in aimlessly in circles. over all this is a great freaking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesnake54
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love 
 this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this 
 game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. 
 I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love 
 this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this 
 game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. 
 I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love 
 this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this 
 game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. 
 I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love 
 this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this 
 game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. I love this game. 
 I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewelder1830
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  this game has an amazing story. but it is also very short. and online is an epic fail....... my 
 recomendation is to chill wid a frend and rent it.... this game can be easly beat in one night.......... 
 one amazing part is th ecustimization of the  so go 
 and RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  In the months following up to Army of Two, this game appeared to be a solid third-person, "Gearsy" 
 experience. However all that hype has been shot down by a poor cover system, disposable story, 
 and unforgiving gameplay mechanics. 
  
  After hearing mixed reactions about the game, I rented it, just so that I didn't go wasting 60 
 bucks on a game that may have completely flopped. The game started out with a neat cut scene explaining 
 the gameplay and the "aggro" system. The way Aggro works is one player draws enemy fire and gains 
 the aggro. This basically will turn your character into a shade of red and most of the enemy gunfire 
 will be concentrated on you. The other player, however, is almost invisible on the screen, and 
 can shadow in behind the enemy for "easy" kills. This is how the developer describes the gameplay, 
 but when you pick up the controller, it's a little bit less than easy. 
  
  The story is loosely patched together following two characters name Rios and Salem. These two, 
 once Army Rangers, are eventually recruited by private contractor and are paid in full to carry 
 out missions. The story is highly predictable from the beginning. Money, betrayal, sabotage, redemption, 
 it's all here, so pick your poison. 
  
  The dialog is pitiful. You almost feel as if you are hearing the same lines over and over again. 
 (Are Chinese Army recruits trained to scream the enemy to death?) I really don't have to go into 
 the details on this one, Story+Dialog+Bad=Army of Two. Moving on.
  
  The AI I down right frustrating and poorly designed. Don't even try playing this game's singleplayer. 
 Just don't, your AI teammate has the intelligence of a crab apple. You tell him to advance in one 
 direction and he runs in completely the opposite. Why? I have not a clue. You tell him to hold, 
 he makes sure he picks a spot right out in the open. Tell him to regroup, and he ends up getting 
 stuck on an orange cone for ten minuets. Friendly AI is useless. Bottom line. The enemy however 
 is the most frustrating aspect of this game. They are overly-accurate for blind firing with fully 
 automatic support rifles. The rush you with absolutely no tactical awareness. This almost works 
 because the aiming in this game is so far off to begin with. You could have the crosshairs fixated 
 right on their chest and the bullets will go far right. 
  
  This game is difficult mainly because it was underdesigned and full of these flaws. It's a shame 
 considering the promise it was given earlier in the year as a great co-op title, and it doesn't 
 even succeed in that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is better than some shooters i have played. 
  Sound 9/10
  Graphics10/10
  Difficulty 7.5/10
  Campaign - It is very short. I finished the game in less than 5 hours.
  
 The Story could have been better and could have a more realistic feel to it.
  
  The Good: 1) The Co op system works brilliantly.
  2) Graphics are awesome especially in the mission 
 when you are in China.
  3) You can buy new and better weapons and also upgrade them.
  4) Variety in missions is nice.
  The Bad: 1) AI can be very dumb (You might be right in front 
 of the enemy but he will still shoot your partner)
  2) Spotting enemies can be difficult with all the things going around you. (As if they have camouflage)
 
  3) The campaign is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Let me start by saying that if you don't have another live partner to run through this it 
 entirely don't even bother. The difficulty doesn't allow for uncoordinated chaos so two users need 
 to work together in tangent for success. The shooting mechanics are clumsy but passable; though 
 the aggro system is fun and innovative but it has it flaws. 
  
  Gameplay: It seems that this game is built around the idea of two players are always better than 
 one. Unfortunately, the level design suffers greatly from repetitively dull corridors that don't 
 provide anything but an aesthetic background. The only thing that sets this game apart from begin 
 a completely generic 3rd person shooter is the aggro system. Basically, one player shoots at the 
 enemy causing them to start glowing red. After a while they aggressive player will be completely 
 covered in red and the other user becomes transparent allowing him to flank or pull off some melee 
 kills. This systems proves useful and reliable through the thick in thin of this game. Though the 
 mechanic is a welcomed addition it still feels like a one trick phony. The problem with the shooting 
 mechanics lie in the reticle aiming system. When moving from the standard over the shoulder mechanic 
 to a more precise aiming reticle the transition isn't quick as smooth and actually shooting between 
 the two view takes a slight second. Also, the cover system isn't as grounded as Gears for instance. 
 Though the cover system is more realistic in a sense that the character is facing the cover and 
 simply raising the weapon to blind fire. It doesn't allow for smooth transitioning between the 
 outer edges. Overall, the gameplay is fun but pretty repetitive and pretty forgettable. 
  
  Story: The story is your typical Tom Clancy wannabe affair with some twist and turns with a dose 
 of over the type characters. Overall, the characters and scenarios are quite forgettable. 
  
  Features: This game actually offers a lot of different features both offline and cooperatively. 
 There is the standard single player campaign affair but also a verses mode were two players go 
 up against two other players with specific objectives to complete. All of these features are ok; 
 they don't provide tons of replayability but they suffice. 
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this is game is quite impressive: entering and exiting different light sources 
 is very realistic. Character modes have lots of detail unfortunately the animation system is pretty 
 bulky and stiff.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are definitely the weapons aspect of this game. Guns sound like bee bee 
 guns and explosions are laughably weak.
  
  Conclusion: In the end, this game is valuable when you have another live partner working out the 
 story. The mechanics could use some work but the fun factor is definitely there. I would say without 
 a doubt that this game is worth the price of admission when played in the right situation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan1510
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Army of two has a decent campaign but it is too short and too easy! Split screen co-op is a better 
 alternaive if you don't have xbox live, because the AI can be a bit stupid sometimes and generally 
 ends in you needing to restart the mission. if you have xbox live the versus mode is fast paced 
 and enjoyable. but otherwise this isnt a very good single player game. the customization options 
 are very well finished. You can unlock weapons without having to buy them by completing the games 
 on different difficulties. like rockband, not a good game to get if you dont have friends that 
 have it.
  
  You start off with the choice of playing as either; Rios or Salem. although the story doesnt vary 
 between the two. you start of in mexico, you are tasked to kill a general. onthe way you meet a 
 contractor who is has been hired to take him out aswell. after the mission you join SCS which is 
 a private military company and you will be set on about 5 more msiisions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  EA's newest action title, Army of Two, is a highly intense 3rd person shooter similar in style 
 to that of Gears of War. Army of Two (Ao2) puts a strong emphasis on co-operative play. The game 
 features some high octane gamplay fueled by strong weapons and buff main characters. 
  
  The game's main focus on using co-operative play really helps lend itself to some new ideas, well 
 to the shooter genre anyway. The aggro system, simply put, consists of one player taking the damage 
 while the other flanks. It's pretty simple in theory, but their is a system of checks and balances. 
 Leave the NPC in aggro for too long and he will be swarmed with enemies, but if you do it correctly 
 this is the perfect time for you to flank around. Of course, just because the aggro system is in 
 place doesn't mean you can just set the AI to take the damage and you just run to kill all the 
 enemies. They can and will still shoot at you if you take a direct leap into the gunfire, if you're 
 partner has aggro or not. You can also be the one to take the aggro, and send your partner out. 
 This works pretty good in co-op mode, but if you are with the game's AI character some problems 
 arise. I found, at times, that the AI could get a little confused or just not advance at all. This 
 being said, it's usually just best to let your partner take the aggro while you flank. Your partner 
 is also incorporated in other parts as well. If you fall you're partner can revive you and vice 
 versa, and this can also fall into some of the AI problems, because sometimes the AI just won't 
 drag you out of harms way before trying to patch you up.
  
  From the start you'll get to choose between two characters, Rios and Salem. They play identical, 
 but what differentiates the two is their attitudes. Salem is more of the younger or more badass 
 guy, while Rios kind of plays the role of the more honest, straight forward veteran. Though they 
 both fall into a bit of a cliche, they can kind of grow on you and if they don't they at least 
 stay out of the way. There isn't really a backstory so, it's really tough to feel any attachment 
 to them. 
  
  The game's story takes place in a modern time and spans out almost a decade. Rios and Salem are 
 two PMCs, and as such they travel around several locations, including the Middle East, Africa, 
 and China. As foreshadowed in the beginning, the game sets the tone for betrayal and corruption. 
 It's relatively interesting at times, but it certainly not going to take home an oscar and it's 
 pretty far fetched though it's hard to tell if they were going for a serious tone or not. 
  
  The voice acting for Ao2 is actually pretty solid, but some of the lines delivered can be hit 
 or miss. Rios and Salem are always cracking jokes with each other, and although some come of generally 
 funny others are quite juvenile. It's kind of puzzling how these guys are both hardened military 
 soldiers, and in the heat of battle they'll be shooting the breeze with each other. To go along 
 with the solid voice acting, Ao2 has some nice audio effects as well. The guns sound strong and 
 there is a good variation between them. There's some good, authentic explosive sounds as well.
 
  
  Graphically, Army of Two looks really good. The game has a lot of polish and some nice details 
 throughout. The weapons and characters shine through and through. The framerate almost always runs 
 steady, and through my experience it only dipped once or twice. Army of Two doesn't scream "graphics 
 king", but it is still a sharp looking game in how smooth it runs and how detailed some things 
 are.
  
  Army of Two also features online play. It includes three different game types and four different 
 maps. Like single player, you'll have to work with your partner to overcome you're opponents as 
 well as other AI controlled enemies. It's a welcomed edition, though it suffers from pesky lag. 
 Games like Rainbow Six can hold 16 players, but Army of Two can consistently lag with only 4 people 
 in a room. You have to get a really strong host or the game will lag pretty fierce. The multiplayer 
 is also a little light on depth and the modes are pretty similar to each other. 
  
  Though the online may not add a bunch of value to the game, the co-op over XBL will. The game features 
 3 difficulties, and you must beat one of the lower two to unlock the "professional" difficulty. 
 So, there is plenty of incentive to go back through it, and what better way to do that than with 
 a buddy. The highest difficulty is especially challenging so it's best to take advantage of the 
 co-op especially in the later portion of the game. You can also collect masks and "pimp" your weapons 
 in single player and take them to the co-op to show off what you have purchased with your cash. 
 Considering the game's short length, roughly 5 hours, it's good to see developers implement solid 
 online co-op.
  
  Though Army of Two isn't a long or story driven game, it's solid gameplay help it to shed some 
 of it's problems. Though I wouldn't recommend buying Army of Two based off it's current online 
 status, I would suggest it for a rental to anyone looking for a satisfying 3rd person action experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSfanboy101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  so.. gamespot u give this game a 6.5 so u? NOOOOO!!!!!! how dare u!
  
  this game rocks! it might be about 6 hours long BUT if u do every diffucltly
  6+6+6=18 hours! 
 then u have online i am set to play with about 6 peeps online co-op thats just co-op and versus 
 is gonna get better as EA has confermed a patch to fix up those lags and wats up with no one complaning 
 about CoD4s gameplay hours or halo3 they get AAA but they give this a 6.5 cause of the hours???????? 
 come on! give EA a break there not that really used to shooters! and my fav part of the game is 
 the shooping (i know it sounds funnny but...) no im not talking about going shopping for clothes 
 and lip gloss i am talking about WEAPONS i mean i purchesed an AK-47 now it looks like a gold.... ummmm.... turtle? 
 idk anyway its AWSOME u can costumize ur guns even pimp them up! its thats not enough y not by 
 a new mask for urself? or upgrade ur armor?
  
  this is somthing that stands out for me u can choose to play as salem or rios! i had no idea!!!!!! 
 lol :-P
  
  i loveeeeeeeeeeee the gameplay its off the hook! i love how there is an agro meter so if going 
 out there and killing EVERYONE and busting them up is ur style then go agro is u wanna sneak around 
 invisible then go do that i dont really give.......
  
  also back to back stands out when there r a heap of guys around u go back to back it goes slow 
 motion and u turn in circles and killl everyone lol!
  
  if allllllll of that isnt enough then listen to this! u can rip off car doors and use them as shields! 
 now its sorta like uncharted, gears or dark secotr i mean the pop up shoot go down realosd then 
 take some more shoots sorta syestem but u cant stick to things...
  
  there r heaps more featurs to army of two but u have to find out ur self...
  
  BUT i can tell 
 u that there r bosses and yeah....
  
  GO BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  i might have it on PS3 but there the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm more of a PC First person shooter fan rather than a gaming console. However, I always enjoy 
 beating games with my friends and Army of Two was the perfect game for a side by side couch, all 
 night long kill fest with your buddy! I bought the game rather than rented it because we only get 
 2 to 4 hour sessions at a time because we have kids and real life stuff to take care of. However, 
 when real life takes the stress toll on you... What better way to take care of some stress than 
 boot up the xbox 360, call your bestest buddy to come over, and kill some Terrorist Scum!?!
  
  Now, the reviewer kept talking about the "political" incorrectness of the game..?. You know 
 what? I don't think the reviewer played the game all the way through. Also, I'm not sure if the 
 gamespot reviewer was ever even in the army! It's totally true what they say in the game. The real 
 US Army is UNDER-EQUIPPED to fight the war in Iraq! If we had everything we wanted like body armor 
 and IED protected vehicles, then we wouldn't be losing so many damn troops! Also, you are NOT shooting 
 any civilians in the game, all targets are enemy combatants! You are dropped right in the middle 
 of heavily fortified terrorist bases, caves, complexes, and mountains. Also, there is a very good 
 conspiracy story in the game which keeps you interested in all the action, sniping, grenade tossing, 
 punching, kicking, and healing fallen friendlies.
  
  That said, this game is definitely worth playing! You can upgrade your weaponry, and much is based 
 off of real life modifications for weapons and body armor.
  
  Me, and my 6 other friends loved this game. We are all in our early 30's and have seen real life 
 combat in Iraq.
  
  I highly recommend this game, it's done just right, and I think if they spent a few more months 
 refining the game play, then it would've been a perfect 10.
  
  Thank You, and please disregard the Gamespot reviewer's very biased opinion of this game. He has 
 no idea what real life combat and politics are like. This game is a very good "Hollywood" representation 
 of what it's really like out there Gulf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I rented this since I kept seeing Army of Two on websites and on friend's lists. I didn't sucker 
 one of my friends into buying or renting the game to play the co-op that everyone talked about. 
 I just finished the single player campaign and while it was interesting in parts there was parts 
 of the gameplay I just couldn't forgive. The AI of your other guy was sad, I can't tell you how 
 many times he got me killed or just did something utterly stupid. My favorite is when be pulled 
 me into the middle of a area in front of a armored enemy to get wasted. Also the times where he 
 would boost me up to some other place, I would get wounded and have no way to get healed... Also 
 if enemies came up close I would keep hitting the melee button but nothing would happen half the 
 time. I got nailed too many times that way as well as when a enemy came up to fast and I couldn't 
 turn my guy around fast enough or I would lose him. Also loved how a enemy might run right past 
 me to some pre-selected spot. Easy kill but it takes you out of the game to see silly crap like 
 that. Also no real boss battles and most the time I would kill a armored enemy so quickly it must 
 be embarrassing to who ever made this. The even put off the first release date for this, wow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bioshock91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun, the levels are big, lots of guns, (you can add so much stuff to the guns) 
 great game but with some major flaws that are hard to overlook. Starting off on a good note it 
 is a very nice looking game and the Co-op is ASwsome. if you have a friend over or if you team 
 up online there is alot of fun to be had. But the single player and multiplayer online leave a 
 lot to be desired. the single player campaign is not very fun you run around by your self with 
 your less than intelligent CpU friend, who doesnt always choose the best places to hide , i tell 
 him to go to the wall he runs in the middle of the field and crouches , sometimes he wont shoot 
 nearby eneimies that are shooting at him. The multiplayer modes except co-op are less than fun 
 and a real downer for the game. this game is fun a definate rental & a possible buy . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeshkat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Army of Two seemed like a pretty good game, but once the game was popped into my xbox, I couldn't 
 believe the game's mechanics. It was just another one of those co-op shooters. 
  Only a few twists showed up here and there, like the back-to-back interface (which was quite ridiculous 
 based on the scripted times you were able to do it) and the over-used step jump ability. The one 
 part of the game that I really enjoyed though was the weapons system. Lots of cool weapons, and 
 the choice to "pimp" them out was pretty fun and almost exciting, until I beat the game. I recieved 
 all of the weapons and from that point on it was completely pointless. Even playing the game on 
 the harder difficulty levels was a little more challenging, but after beating the game it didn't 
 mean much. 
  The multiplayer for this game was ok, yet I didn't play it very much. The lag was so heavy that 
 it took more than 3-5 seconds for my character to connect to its commands. The objectives are many 
 and they vary too greatly, but it was modeled after situations that could really happen, which 
 was enjoyable.
  Army of Two is a great game for you and your buddy to play on a night for some straight-up shooting 
 but if not, rent, rent, rent. Thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  I really did love this game. That being said, doesn't come without its flaws. First the good stuff. 
 After initially getting into the action of this game... I said out loud a few times, "I'm buying 
 this game!" Now I didnt buy this game because i already beat it below the 5 day rental period I 
 had. BUT this game is alot of fun. Now alot of people compare this to Gears of War.. which is fine.. but 
 GoW shouldn't be a device to help review this game. I see the comparisons but its a different animal 
 in its own right. I like being able to buy my own guns and masks (even though i stuck with the 
 original flames mask) and being able to bling out the guns.. thats an awesome concept. The flaws 
 however keep this game from being a Gem. They are minor flaws.. but flaws nonetheless. Sometimes 
 shotty controls, sometimes your AI partner is SOO STUPID! And sometimes fights feel pretty repetitive, 
 I've yet to experience this game with another gamer but playing it by myself was worth the buy, 
 so im sure playing with another gamer is amazing. Anyway, this game is worth the 60 bucks especially 
 if you have a friend to play it with, but if youre broke like I am... rent it.. have fun.. wait for 
 it to go cheap then buy it. Because i know i wanna play it again. =) But heres my wishful thinking.. EA 
 made a decent release now... but if and when they make a sequel to this game.. hopefully they buff 
 out the scratches and make an AMAZING sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IwilledIt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is well put together. The graphics are decent enough, and the armored guards can put 
 a twist on the game. The concept of aggro is something that makes alot of sense, but has never 
 been in a game that I have played. The only flaw that really bothers me is the melee. It is the 
 same button to melee as it is to shoot. The achievements, all except one, are not to hard to get. 
 The billionaire achievement can take awhile seeing how they have reset the leaderboards a couple 
 of times. The online play is frustrating at first. It entails a couple different options for gameplay. 
 There is Warzone, Extraction and Bounties. You have your choice of four maps. Afghan, Iraq, China 
 and Somalia. Online can be frustrating becasue the server works sometimes and sometimes it decides 
 to kick you off. You win online, you keep the money. You lose and well, you lost. You get nothing. 
 The more that you play online the more that you will enjoy it. Think Halo or Gears with objectives. 
 All in all well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twobad4u
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun and addicting game to play! The sound and graphics are very good and the storyline 
 is a good one also. There is a lot of swearing in this game so if that bothers you maybe dont get 
 it. The guns are very realistic and this game is very challenging. I reccomend to start the game 
 out on recruit so you get the feel of it. Then you may move onto the the level and the professional. 
 I like that this game takes place in modern day in iraq and middle -eastern countries. The killing 
 is very realistic when you shoot someone! There is a back-to-back mode when you are surrounded 
 and the game goes into slow mode. This is a nice feature and addition to the game. You can also 
 go into coop snipe mode which is also VERY AWESOME! I also reccomend with the coop snipe mode to 
 save your sniper bullets, they run out fast. The gear is realsistic that you may purchase. There 
 are many primary, secondary, and special weapons that you may purchase in mid mission. This is 
 a very fun game and i'd give it an 8.5 or 9 out of ten. good job EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Longshot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  What follows is essentially a list of grievances with some pro's listed at the end. If you want 
 info on the graphics audio and single player specifics i recommend you read the GS writers review.
 
  Not really sure where to start with this one. It seems there are a lot of good ideas at work here 
 but none of them really come through to fruition. This game was in production for quite a long 
 time and was hyped up to be rival to games like gears of war. Although it seemed to only mostly 
 borrow from gears and break its game-play. A few examples of this are,
  
  1. The cover system. Why not have a button in place to actually select and stay behind cover? To 
 many times did i find myself attempting to move to cover and have the games collision detection 
 be off enough to not provide any at all.
  The buddy riot shield system also suffered heavily from this. Your parter almost always loses his 
 grip of you during a gun battle and ends up dying due to lack of cover. In which you then have 
 to drag him to another secure location to heal him and that usually just ends up in both of you 
 dying.
  
  2. Amount of ammunition offered. Sure you might be able to make your sniper rifles and rpg launchers 
 look cool, but you only start with about 10 shots per sniper rifle and only 1-2 shots per rpg. 
 The mechanic to find ammo here is to pick it off your dead enemies. Yet you usually only get small 
 amounts of ammo for your side arm and rarely any for your special weapons. Occasionally you will 
 get large drops for your primary weapon. But it would be nice to use your entire selection of guns 
 rather than just rely on the primary the whole game. This also makes getting gun specific type 
 achievements more difficult. To get 100 kills with the sniper rifle I'm not sure how long you would 
 have to play, but i really don't want to think about it.
  
  3. NPC's in multi player. Why!? I just don't understand why, the online could have been the flawless 
 saving grace of this game. Yet they managed to ruin that as well by adding a ton of npcs that always 
 give away your position to the enemies and often end up taking you out at just the wrong time for 
 the opposing team. 
  
  4. 6 playable missions? for as long as this game was in development it seems a bit insane there 
 are only 6 levels each lasting little more than an hour.
  
  5. Story line or lack there of. Army of two could have benefited much more then it did from its 
 source material. Mercenary groups and PMC's are becoming a very real part of today's military landscape 
 and it just seems they could have gotten more out of that and put it into the story then they did.
 
  
  The only reasons this game gets a 5.5 in my book are, 
  
  1. it is still quite a bit of fun to play the split-screen and xbox live co-op player missions. 
 
  
  2. Gun customization. All the models and upgrades are done very well. however there is no balance 
 to them. the highest most expensive one is always the best regardless of what it looks like. Which 
 is unfortunate seeing as to how they could have incorporated pro and con states for each upgrade 
 to encourage changing the style of your guns from time to time. Still they all look sweet.
  
  3. Online multi player. Though it is mostly broken it can be somewhat saved if your playing 
 with an entire group of friends.
  
  Hopefully if they do decide to continue with another installment of Army of Two they will take 
 a little more time to polish the mechanics and maybe add some more elements to the gun customization 
 and story. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I was very surprised to read most of the reviews of Army of Two when it first came out. I was really 
 looking forward to this game and couldn't believe that it "sucked". I decided to rent it and try 
 it our for myself...... and I'm glad I did.
  
  While its certainly not the greatest shooter of all time, it certainly isnt as "broken" as many 
 reviewers would have you believe. The Gamespot review attacked the storyline, however I don't really 
 have a problem with it. Sure it isn't the most mature approach to the Army and war in general but 
 its entertaining. The main characters are badasses who profit off of wars and killing people. They 
 aren't saints so stop hoping they will be.
  
  I enjoyed this game despite what people told me it would be like. Try it out. Its enjoyable and 
 immensely fun. People need to stop expecting every game to be the newest most original thing, just 
 sit back and enjoy a fun game once and awhile. Army of Two is just that, a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I see what "Army of Two" was doing when they came up with the concept. It was reaching right into 
 the hearts of us hardcore co-op players. You know, the ones who beat Halo 3 on legendary with two 
 other dead partners, just to get some co-op action. Those of us who cursed Kain & Lynch for not 
 only being a bad game but forcing split-screen co-op. For people like me and my buddy, there's 
 always room for a good run and gun shooter that has true co-op. Couple that with some amusing lines 
 and stellar graphics and "Army of Two" is much more intriguing now than it was when it's original 
 release date hit.
  
  That's exactly what "Army of Two" is: a solid co-op shooter that incorporates teamwork instead 
 of just merely throwing another avatar into a single player campaign. In order to succeed, you 
 and your partner have to work together. The innovation of the aggro meter was an interesting concept, 
 but at times the AI just can't help but notice that the guy closer to them is the bigger danger 
 (even if he's got zero aggro) . Slight AI issues aside, the co-op (online) story delivers solid 
 gameplay that had me and my online buddy hooked from start to finish. That's, unfortunately, where 
 "Army of Two" starts to fall short. Once the co-op story is complete (and it won't take you too 
 long to get there) , there's really nowhere else to go.
  
  If you are really lone wolf enough to try it on single player, the game changes its title to "Army 
 of One and a dumb a** AI" (I'm completely dodging the fact that all lone wolves should avoid this 
 game completely) . Your partner rarely does what he's supposed to and no matter how much you command 
 him to do so, sometimes he's more stubborn than a child. Just imagining playing this game on single 
 player under professional sounds like a challenge that's ultimately not worth it. Don't let my 
 previous comment trick you into thinking this game is all that difficult, even on the hardest difficulty, 
 but babysitting the AI brings on a whole new degree of challenge that I am fed up with in many 
 shooters. Your "teammate" should not be what makes a game harder.
  
  The online is a logical co-op concept that even throws in some minor and major objectives to add 
 a level, but sadly it's really just more of the same. Most people who are fans of shooters have 
 plenty of alternatives after the recent blockbuster season we had and will opt for a better online 
 game. If you own the 360 version, you'll notice most people online are just going for the 5 or 
 6 achievements and then disappear. The PS3 players seem to be a little more dedicated, but have 
 about 1/10 of the players (and they don't have as many alternatives) . Granted, I only played the 
 PS3 version online for like an hour and this was before Rainbow Six Vegas 2 released.
  
  All in all, this game is a rental. It's pretty innovative for places like Blockbuster Video (anyone 
 else notice they only got an odd number of copies?) as it will prompt 2 rentals for every single 
 playthrough. It'll take you 4-7 hours to complete on any difficulty (maybe a little longer if you 
 go for the newly unlocked "professional" mode after beating the game) and will only be fun with 
 an online co-op partner. For Achievement nuts, this won't take long to get except for the $1 Billion 
 online achievement. I played this game through twice, and by the end of that I had gotten all I 
 was going to get out of this game and the online just made me constantly wonder why I wasn't playing 
 COD4 (or now, Vegas 2) . Don't buy this unless you look forward to short, pointless repetition. 
 For all co-op players, though, this is a must play, if only for one six hour session to complete 
 the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyNate
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  If you are a gamer who loves shooter games but find yourself dissappointed with most of them, I 
 can assure you this is not one of those games. Close to mix between gears of war and splinter cell, 
 this games is a great game for memories with your good friends. I myself completed this game my 
 first two times with my best friend and it was a blast, not only being able to just sit their and 
 play video games, but the teamwork it required.
  The campaign itself is very interesting and easy to follow along with and stay interested in. The 
 great friendship the guys hold is humorous even in many points throughout the game. The achievements 
 set for the game are very well thought out because they may be 'easy' to accomplish, but it does 
 take quite a bit of time and perhaps multiple trips through the campaign to accomplish them.
  The Live multiplayer is also very entertaining and somewhat addicting. Working with either a friend 
 or stranger through as many missions as you can within the time limit, and killing every enemy 
 that gets in your way, to earn as much cash as possible for your team. At the end of the game, 
 whichever team with the most cash wins. The biggest set-back to the online play, at least with 
 the 5+ hours of experience I had with it, is that it lags A LOT!!! It's very jumpy, especially 
 on certain maps it seemed. But altogether the online play is definitely worth the trial run.
  And altogether I'd say that any shooter game lover will definitely fall in love with this amazingly 
 well developed new co-op shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameralex456
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is not worth it if you are planing on playing with the AI because whenever 
 you get downed it trys to revive you out in the open and sometimes it will run around in circles 
 and i promise you will get frusturated and it makes the game much more difficult but if you want 
 to beat it with a friend it is loads of fun. But the game is pretty short on my first playthrough 
 it took me 8 hours. But do not let that stop you from buying this game. me and my friend loved 
 every minute of it. Now lets move onto the multiplayer once again if you get a good partner over 
 xbox live and start playing online you will have a blast but if you are playing with random people 
 the online will get boring very very fast. overall buy this game if you have a friend or relative 
 to play with if not only rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold was one of my all time favourite games, in fact I played it through with a friend 
 of mine (each having a copy on separate consoles, keeping in sync) , at the end of the game I actually 
 watched through the credits, which is my way of thanking an awesome game.
  I never really expected a game to live up to Stranglehold - least likely army of two, a game I 
 purely bought so I could get some easy achievements whilst having a bit of fun with a friend, however 
 this was one of the best games I have ever played.
  To start with the combat; one thing I didn't like was the health system. Firstly when you get really 
 low on health, you can't see anything, making it even harder to stay alive, you don't really know 
 if your down or you're going to get up again, and the health of your downed ally is not clearly 
 marked, meaning that in heavy combat situations it really is hard to revive someone. Yet there 
 were also many good things, firstly the cover system; I loved it. There was no button to get into 
 cover (apart from Y, however that could only really be used when running into a pre-thought position) , 
 this meant that you actually had to work a bit more out for yourself, as well as being free to 
 position yourself in places that offer a reasonable amount of cover, however would not really be 
 described as a cover position. The riot shield was fun to use, however I admit a bit cumbersome, 
 and only really worth it in a few heavy fire positions. The turrets was almost pointless, I found 
 good use for them twice during the campaign. The combat itself; i. e. shooting everything that moved, 
 was also rather good, however I found some of the mechanics (especially for changing weapon, and 
 for using the shotgun attachment) a bit cumbersome.
  The story was nothing to write home about, however it was not bad either, it was good fun, and 
 actually was good enough to provide an interest, and the pre-rendered cut scenes were truly beautiful.
 
  The speech, for me, has always been a major part of a game, I always get irritated over those 
 small comments, and I found there were no such comments in this game. The speech was funny, riddled 
 with sarcastic wit.
  The idea of having to buy your own weapons was rather new to me in such a game, even more so when 
 it came to the amount of customisation, I was blinging out weapons Oo. However strange this may 
 sound, it really is fun, and the fact that all primary weapons are unlocked after beating the game 
 just makes it even better, meaning there isn't a constant grinding to the game.
  I cannot comment on the partner AI as I have not played the campaign with anything other than another 
 person, however the enemy AI was not bad, although simplistic I found their ability to blind fire, 
 get into and out of cover, and in general use basic tactics rather refreshing, as apart from Crysis 
 of late I have seen nothing spectacular in terms of AI (not that this was spectacular, but it was 
 undoubtedly satisfying.)
  The bosses were something that irritated me, significantly; they weren't hard, in fact I found 
 an armoured guy much harder to kill. Yet this lack of epic boss battles was not necessarily a downside, 
 although at first they are rather amazing, after a short while you can become irritated with them, 
 here it was more about getting through the people, the boss was still another human, just a bit 
 harder to kill.
  Back to back, this was truly legendary, the idea of slow-mo killing a hoard of enemies with infinite 
 ammo back to back with a team member is truly brilliant, and even better is that it does not force 
 you to quickly kill enemies, or to kill them for that matter.
  The tactics in this game were deeper than I expected, and the whole agro concept was brilliant, 
 although the game can be completed by running in and gunning down everyone, it's much easier (and 
 more fun) to add some tactics to the fight.
  The graphics were pleasing, the fights entertaining, the controls sharp enough, and the gameplay 
 simply fantastic, although the concept was not something that would wow you, the game itself will. 
 This game has now added to the short list of games I actually completed, and is along with four 
 games that I actually watched the credits to, a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a third person shooter that looks and sounds great and plays very good. You get 
 to play one of the two mercenaries thru 6 missions along with an AI partner (which you need to 
 hold his hand) or with a real person. Playing this game with one of your friends over XBL is a 
 lot of fun. You can even get matched with a stranger that wants to play the same level on the same 
 difficulty level as you.
  
  The story is forgettable but the dialogue and cut-scenes are very well done and should be enjoyable 
 the first time you see them. The game is really short and should take you 6 to 7 hours to finish 
 it with a friend. There's a little bit of replay value if you wish to get all the achievements 
 but once you did everything there's no sense I doing the Campaign again.
  
  The Versus mode basically groups you with another person against another team. The objective is 
 to get more cash then the other team before the round ends. It's nice but there's only 4 maps and 
 unlike the COOP campaign... there was a lot of lag for me.
  
  The graphics are really good and the framerate holds up very nicely. The levels are big but there's 
 only 6 of them.
  
  Personally I don't think this game is worth purchasing until the lag in the Versus mode is fixed 
 but it's a really solid rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Well ill start off with the fact that playing with that AI is boring... this game is meant to be 
 played Co-Op only.
  The game menus and loading screens are dull but the actual game is pretty fun. First off the weapons 
 are cool and the customization feature really adds a lot to the game. Now there may not be as many 
 maps on the offline or online play as people would have hoped but EA has announced adding 2 more 
 offline maps and 1 more online map which doesn't sound bad at all.
  Now if your going to wanna play this game right i suggest buying a shotgun and an automatic secondary 
 gun otherwise you run out bullets because accuracy in this game is a little low because apparently 
 they wanted to make people play more Co-Op style.
  The game is pretty good, even though its only and 8 I would recommend it to people who play mostly 
 with their friends or brothers on the xbox. 
  
  Overall: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 7
  Story: 7
  Guns: 9
  AI: 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is just the game.... I love everything about it... but enough about my opinion... The 
 game is pretty much all the basic army stuff you can do in old games... shoot, take cover, etc..... Its 
 pretty oldskool to me, but they've added so many more things that makes the game worth the buy.... for 
 instance... If you have a partner shoot long enough the heat comes off of you and you can sneak 
 now thats cool and you can also buy weapons between missions... The best thing I would have to say 
 is the back to back... That is the biggest and coolest new feature i've ever seen... This game Is 
 one like no other you can ever get you hands on.... Trust me when I tell you This is one game you 
 will never want to miss out on and regret if you do miss out on.... If you have any questions just 
 ask... FEEL FREE.
  
  GamerTag: Richboy007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Why Are people hating on this game so much. Like ssrly wtf, this is probably one of the best games 
 I played in a while. The storyline is amazing, not perfect but its really good. I mean its campaign 
 is pretty hard with the AI thats why its called friends. If you cant find a friend to play army 
 of two with then wow, go outside and look for one right now or on XBL. If you got a friend thats 
 pretty smart and knows the controls you should have no problems with this game. Im pretty sure 
 most of the haters out there gave it a bad review cause they can't find any 1 to play with. This 
 game is really fun, just make sure you get a friend to play with because it helps out a lot and 
 makes the experience even better. I mean thats why its called army of two wow. I recommend getting 
 this game if you got a good friend to play with, otherwise don't put a hate review about and go 
 buy some other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Games with a cooperative focus are few and far between. It's a mode that really should be included 
 in a lot of the games out there on the shelves, yet for some reason the developers don't want to 
 include the feature. Nothing can beat the feeling of accomplishing the achievement of beating a 
 level together with a mate sat next to you, or a friend online. It's a shame that something like 
 this is so overlooked, so it was great to hear that EA would be working on a new franchise that 
 specifically was focused on cooperative gameplay. The game would be known as Army of Two. The title 
 pretty much says it all. It's a third person shooter that is heavily based on cooperative gaming 
 for two players that sees you take control of two soldiers.
  
  The story behind Army of Two is one that will almost certainly seem familiar. It starts of back 
 in 1993 where you take control of Elliott Salem and Tyson Rios, two guys who are part of the U. S. 
 75th Ranger Regiment. After successfully carrying out the mission, these guys along with their 
 Lieutenant Colonel get invited into a private military contractor group known as the Security and 
 Strategy Corporation (SSC) . Having a successful number of jobs under their belt over the years, 
 Salem and Rios have become extremely experienced, just in time because September 11 2001 has just 
 happened and someone wants them to kill some terrorists that belong to an all notorious group known 
 as Al Qaeda. From there the story is about blowing stuff up, killing terrorists, evil traitors 
 and sometimes maybe saving someone, yep, just the norm you hear about in video game wars nowadays.
 
  
  Just to put emphasize on cooperative play. The game features a play mechanic called the Aggro Metre. 
 The general idea of this is that whichever player seems to be firing off the most, no matter what 
 or how, the enemies will be attracted more to that player than the guy who is shooting less. Let's 
 just name our soldiers for a second. The noisy soldier will be called Mr. N and our sneaky soldier 
 Mr. S. Mr. N goes all hardcore screaming and shouting blasting bullets everywhere like no tomorrow 
 while Mr. S is sitting their enjoying the war ravaged view. As the Aggro metre builds up Mr. N 
 is annoying a lot of enemies. They all turn and focus on him leaving Mr. S all giggly and happy 
 as he turns transparent and can move around more freely without alerting enemies. That's what the 
 Aggro Metre is. This is the major gameplay focus of Army of Two. It comes in handy most of the 
 time when you seem to be having problems in sections, it works surprisingly well within the game, 
 maybe too well. It does feel like an overpowering move, but yet at the same time you are happy 
 that you've got that ability because it just makes the game fun, and that's what you and your friend 
 want to feel while playing a game like this together.
  
  
  There's a bit more to the Aggro Metre than just that though. If a player manages to max out one 
 side of the bar then he will be able to initiate "Overkill" mode. This makes the attacking player 
 go into a bullet time effect, where he dishes out more damage on his foes. The other player will 
 be practically unnoticeable and will be able to go around smacking people in the face without much 
 of a problem. While the Aggro Metre is the main attraction, there are other features that will 
 come in handy in your war against the terrorists. Stuff like co-op snipe, where you both equip 
 your sniper rifles and the screen splits into 2 views. The bottom is split again with both players' 
 aiming reticules, while the top half is the normal view of the battlefield. The rest of the skills 
 are things that help each other, like reaching higher places or pulling wounded partners into safety 
 to heal them. Oh and not to forget the awesome shield protection, where one uses something to block 
 shots while the other dude hangs right behind him popping over the shield to give a "BOOM! HEAD 
 SHOT!" to some unlucky victim. The game really does make you feel like you are working with someone, 
 and that's pretty uncommon in this day and age.
  
  Speaking of booms and headshots, the enemies in the game will take a fair amount of bullets unless 
 you pop them in the head. It might be because they are two of you working together, so EA Montreal 
 probably thought it was a good idea to make the enemies take bullets as if they were bodies of 
 steel. It doesn't affect you to the point where they will kill you a lot, well not till the last 
 mission anyway. It's just annoying and can be frustrating on the later levels where you sit there 
 pumping all this lead into them. It's a point just to get across so you know that this game is 
 more on the side of arcade than realism.
  
  As you know the game is very heavily focused on the co-operative aspect. Just so you know, you 
 can play the game by yourself too. The other player will be replaced by a computer controlled A. I. 
 "OH DEAR!" I hear you all cry as you all sit their wondering if it's actually any good, or if it's 
 just another drunken hobo that just spoils the fun. It's kind of a mixture of both, but probably 
 safer to say that it's actually alright. To be honest though this is a game that most of you will 
 be interested in for the co-op play and will probably never play it by yourself, unless you are 
 an achievement whore. That's probably good because that's what it's really for, playing with friends. 
 If you do ever go play it single though, expect the A. I to make some mistakes occasionally. One 
 point I had my A. I partner think he was some sort of Captain Speirs from Band of Brothers as he 
 wouldn't stop dragging my body across the floor as people fired all over the place at me, the crazy 
 git.
  
  
  Progression through Army of Two is straight forward. The layouts of the maps are rather linear 
 and you can't wander off the path too much. The in game GPS system puts down an arrow on the floor 
 showing you which way to go, so you can never get angry for getting lost as it's impossible to 
 do so. Missions are placed around the levels for you to accomplish, some are part of the story 
 while others are optional. Completing these tasks nets you a lump of money that you can spend in 
 the shops on better weapons.
  
  Weapons are broken down in to certain categories. You can carry one of each of the follow categories; 
 these are primary, secondary and special weapons. Once you've earned enough hard cash you can visit 
 the weapon store and buy new or upgrade equipped weapons. The upgrades are both stat based and 
 visual based, so if you buy a new barrel for your gun, you'll see it on the model. It's pretty 
 cool feature to see all the models of the guns get upgraded; there are some beasties in there.
 
  
  One thing I don't like about the whole weapon store is the amount of loading you have to go through. 
 It must be because they use the game's graphic engine to show the models of the guns in the weapon 
 shops, but for whatever reason it has to load every time you click on a category of weapon. The 
 game allows you to access the shop through the main menu, or if you are playing the game, when 
 you hit certain checkpoints in the level. From there it loads to the weapon menu, then it loads 
 either yours or the other players weapons (if you are playing with someone else) then you have 
 to select the type of dealer you want to buy from (each dealer is basically a category) and then 
 it loads the guns after that. Oh once you done with that section and feel like you want to go and 
 buy from a different dealer, yep you got it, you've got to go back to the dealer page and then 
 load the other dealer up. There's way too much loading for something as simple as that. They must 
 have been a way to avoid this because the loading isn't like a second, it's more than that.
  
  Army of Two isn't a mammoth of a game. The story mode can be finished in around six to seven 
 hours. There are three difficulties to play through; the third is unlocked after beating the game 
 for the first time. They are unlockables to get from beating those modes, so it's rewarding if 
 you want to play through the game again, plus you'll be netting achievement points too on the 360 
 version. They are 1000 points spread across 37 achievements to gain from the game. A lot of them 
 are story focused, while a few others are for the multiplayer. It doesn't seem too hard to get 
 a high amount from the game, so point whores will no doubt lap that up.
  
  
  The cooperative aspect has somehow managed to weave its way into the multiplayer side of Army of 
 Two. Battles are fought with two teams of two. You can either invite someone online or even have 
 a guest account, so you can play split screen online with a friend. Money is the key to winning 
 online as whoever has the most of it at the end of the game wins the match. You gain money by doing 
 certain objectives that are given to you. It boils down to killing things, planting things or shooting 
 people. It's a fun extra but it's also a game mode that you won't stick with for long as it can 
 get old. It would have been even more hectic if it had the ability to add even more teams into 
 the equation, this no doubt will come in a sequel. It is EA we are talking about after all.
  
  Army of Two is on both PS3 and Xbox 360. It's yet another game that uses the Unreal Engine 
 3. The game is graphically nice to look at in places, but it kind of suffers in the level design 
 department. It feels pretty generic till you get to the later levels, which feature an aircraft 
 carrier and a flooded city, the second half of the game is much more inspired than the first. Both 
 systems handle the game well and it's hard to really notice the difference. It seemed that the 
 PS3 version had somewhat longer loading times and a bit more overused bloom effect, with the framerate 
 handled consistently well on both systems. Sound work is high-quality as well with a good soundtrack 
 to boot. The voice over work is pretty good, although sometimes Mr Salem can sound like he lost 
 his balls as he comes out with some phrases that seem to make his voice sound a little different. 
 Just listen for the one in the cut scene at the army base as they make their way in the 44 to 
 the plane.
  
  People who look into Army of Two really need to make sure that they plan to play it with some mates. 
 As a game by itself it kind of feels empty and soulless. Get a mate to join with you and that is 
 forgotten as the fun level rises considerably. It's not a bad game in single player, but you feel 
 as if it really was meant for humans and not COMs to play with you. It's a shame the game isn't 
 longer because the levels really do start to get better as you progress. Like I mentioned before 
 there's no doubt that EA will get a sequel on the way which will make all those things wrong hopefully 
 corrected right. They've got a good idea for a franchise here and should just keep at it and improve 
 on what they have started. For us players we can enjoy a fun game to play with mates, OoAHH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. One of my most favoirte games in history. Great graphics, great single player/ 
 co-op play, and so many great things about this game. One of the many great feautres this game 
 has is that you can customize any gun you buy. You get money by beating missions either known or 
 unknown. You can also buy different masks that your guy can wear. They could have worked more on 
 the details in this section. The plot of this game is pretty good and to me I believe the ending 
 is leading to a second Army of Two. This game is very fun even in Versus mode, online play, and 
 single player. No matter what you play you will have a blast. If you want a good shooter, action, 
 or just a fun game to pick up and play, Army of Two, is your choice. Don't miss out on this game 
 if you want your collection to be a great Xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigsexy541
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good, but the dialog is horrible. These guys are contract killers, but the talk 
 like a bunch of idiots and their positive celebration insert a element for a 8 year old into a 
 game for 17+. The AI is also kinda qwerky. At times it's really kinda cool, and other times it 
 loses all realism. The enemy soldiers will run right at you, while you are firing at them, with 
 no armor. All the bad guys all go to the same spots, so knowing where to shot is very predictable.
 
  One kinda cool feature of the game is the gun store. Upgrading weapons is a very neat feature 
 and kinda fun.
  Game is very short, and is not really fun unless you are playing online with someone else. I wish 
 I would of rented it, before I bought it. I lost $60 bucks : (
  
  Presentation 4/10
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 5/10
  Gameplay 4/10
  Lasting Appeal 4/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafimuhd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  credits to bmsaareagles
  
  Army of Two is a great game. The overall socre for it wasn't to good, but I think it desirvis better. 
 The graphics are great. When a cut-scene happens it seems like your watching your tv. The gameplay 
 is also great. There arn't any bugs in this game and everything runs great. The story is kinda 
 of dumb, thats the only reason it doesnt have a 10. They could have made the story better, and 
 or longer. There are 4 campaign chioces to chose from. You can do an AI, CO-OP, Private, Open (anyone 
 can join) partner. They are all great. The AI partner responds greatly to everything you do. If 
 you need to get fire off of you, your AI partner will get the attention on himself to back you 
 up. If you need to get up a ledge, the AI will stand there reading to lift you up. In campaign 
 mode there are a couple in game things you can do. First you can shop mid-mission. The shop is 
 amazing. There are many guns to chose from and once you get one, there are endless ways to customise 
 it to make it better, or look cooler. You also have the option to pimp it out. This make it gold 
 with diamonds on it in places. The shopping is fun and you can also change armor and masks to change 
 your useres apperance. You can also shop on the games main menu. The achievements are also great. 
 There are hard ones, and easy ones. Its cool because when you beat the game, you feel like you 
 have to go and play it again to try to get them all. Its a great way to kill time. I finished the 
 campaign mode 3 times, and i would not minde playing it again. Its a blast and its great if you 
 have a friend over. The only reason its not a 10 is, story, lenght, and you can only have one save 
 for campaign. Other then that this game is great and a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a great game. The overall socre for it wasn't to good, but I think it desirvis better. 
 The graphics are great. When a cut-scene happens it seems like your watching your tv. The gameplay 
 is also great. There arn't any bugs in this game and everything runs great. The story is kinda 
 of dumb, thats the only reason it doesnt have a 10. They could have made the story better, and 
 or longer. There are 4 campaign chioces to chose from. You can do an AI, CO-OP, Private, Open (anyone 
 can join) partner. They are all great. The AI partner responds greatly to everything you do. If 
 you need to get fire off of you, your AI partner will get the attention on himself to back you 
 up. If you need to get up a ledge, the AI will stand there reading to lift you up. In campaign 
 mode there are a couple in game things you can do. First you can shop mid-mission. The shop is 
 amazing. There are many guns to chose from and once you get one, there are endless ways to customise 
 it to make it better, or look cooler. You also have the option to pimp it out. This make it gold 
 with diamonds on it in places. The shopping is fun and you can also change armor and masks to change 
 your useres apperance. You can also shop on the games main menu. The achievements are also great. 
 There are hard ones, and easy ones. Its cool because when you beat the game, you feel like you 
 have to go and play it again to try to get them all. Its a great way to kill time. I finished the 
 campaign mode 3 times, and i would not minde playing it again. Its a blast and its great if you 
 have a friend over. The only reason its not a 10 is, story, lenght, and you can only have one save 
 for campaign. Other then that this game is great and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is make to play with friends
  
  The game talk about two mercennaries doing mission, well nothing special for this job and the story 
 been touch by that, the story is like...... nothing really, I mean you only do mission just for 
 money and with no specific goal. The rest of the game take care to make it forget this litttle 
 thing. Many gun and customize for gun, mask and armor (well not really for armor but it's cool) . 
 You got some very hard boss and you can't beat it if you don't have your partner with you (sometime 
 it's very ******** when your partner don't help you) . Strong language and violence ^^ Here my checklist 
 :
  
  Graphics : 9/10
  wow dude! It's like GoW or Lost Planet, Cool!
  
  Story line : 4/10
  mercenneries just do this for money at all
  
  Gameplay : 8/10
  Very 
 nice, some actions must be do with your partner, that reenforce the game play ^^
  
  Positive of the game : 8/10
  -Customizing is great!
  -Many little gags in the game
  
  Negative 
 of the game : 6.5/10
  -The game is short
  -Hard to kill a Boss
  -Online isn't so great
  
  well you should just rent it first, it's a good game of one night but not much, not less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreezyGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I heard a lot of people say that this game totally blows or that it's too short or too hard. Sure 
 this game is short but it's really fun. I borrowed this game from my friend and had it for about 
 a week and I was suprised by how good it was. I thought it would be terrible with all the bad ratings 
 but it was incredible. It wasn't hard either. I beat the Professional mode in just 2 days and it 
 wasn't too bad. If you played on Contractor, it's just a little harder than that. The only problem 
 is not about your health but your ammo. I used the M134 the whole game on Pro and it made it a 
 whole lot easier.
  One of the greatest things of this game was the graphics. I've seen good graphics before but the 
 ones in this game made me say wow everytime there was a cutscene. The gameplay graphics are good 
 too but the cutscenes are the best. Some things in this game can be annoying though like when your 
 partner has to heal you and he drags you all over the freaking place and you die because he's an 
 idiot.
  Overall, the campaign is great with a load of weapons and a pretty sweet storyline, but the online 
 and multiplayer... eh, not so great. It just gets annoying and it can be fun sometimes but the 
 trouble for me is that on every single game, I've lost connection at the last minute. It just really 
 gets frusterating and is the reason I'm not a fan of multiplayer.
  As a whole, this game is solid. The campaing is sweet with choices of guns, armor, and mask types, 
 while in my opinion the multiplayer is terrible. This game is really short and if you don't really 
 want it, just at least rent it because you'll beat it really quickly. Oh yeah, if you have parents 
 or whatever that hates swearing, you might wanna turn the volume down because this game swears 
 A LOT. Otherwise, this game is gold. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  The good: Co-op play really requiring teamwork to get through hairy situations.
  Enemy AI uses team tactics as players need to.
  Upgraded and pimped weapons.
  
  The not good: 
 Targeting is a little awkward
  No incentive to buy all the weapons after upgrading No real point to armor upgrades in the game,
 
  Player can take two RPG rocket to the face and not die
  Not enough variety in bosses
  Main boss was easier to take down than lesser ones
  Killing enemies becomes a game of "whack-a-mole".
 
  
  Overall the game does not deserve the rippings it's getting in a lot of these reviews because it 
 definitely is fun to play with a buddy which makes AO2 worthy a sequel of smoothed out edges.
 
  
  As for multiplayer vs mode... too many load screens. Also I've been on more than a few games that 
 had performance issues. Otherwise has fun points but again, fix it up for the sequal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a third-person shooter from EA games. I have been excited for Army of Two since 
 before it was meant to come out in November before a delay. Army of Two is a bit of a risky game, 
 as pretty much focusing on Co-op means you pretty much needs a second player if you are going to 
 buy Army of Two. And while it does show in its single player, the co-op and multiplayer components 
 are great making this a worthy purchase if you have Xbox Live.
  
  This tale full of bullets, cash and F bombs follows Rios and Salem, who at the beginning are Army 
 Rangers. But after the events of the first mission, the game fast forwards a few years where they 
 have joined the Mercenary business as guns for hire. It seems that there is a whole corporation 
 of guns for hire, and now they are trying to push the Army out and use mercenaries only. But does 
 the whole go deeper than that? While the plot itself is pretty standard, lots of pop culture references 
 throughout the game helped me connect to the two main characters.
  
  The gameplay in Army of Two is all about co-op tactics. Whether you're playing alone or with a 
 friend, the story campaign will always have you with another player. But there aren't just two 
 players for more power. There are lots of moments where two people are needed rather than one, 
 whether it is to climb a ledge, go back to back when you're outnumbered or more. The tactics work 
 well, but the fun will come from whether you're playing alone or by yourself.
  
  The single player is Army of Two's biggest fault. This is mostly due to your team mates A. I., which 
 simply doesn't do the job. You can give out commands to your partner like move forward, regroup 
 and hold position. You can set them to be aggressive or stealthy, and being aggressive will attract 
 Aggro. Aggro has been pinched from MMORPGs where the person who is firing, killing and generally 
 being loud will be fired at, while the other person is basically invisible. It works in co-op as 
 well. 
  
  The single player would have been good had the A. I. not been bad for your team mate but it is. 
 When you are downed, the other person must drag you to a safe place and heal you up. It's good 
 in co-op, but for the A. I. team mate it's just too much. You'll either be dragged back to the beginning 
 of the level or die because it wasn't smart enough to find a position for you. Plus, the single 
 player is bland by yourself as the co-op tactics feel cheap. But once another person joins the 
 fun begins. The co-op tactics feel right, the healing mechanics work and the enemy A. I. issues 
 aren't much of an issue. It's just more fun with another person.
  
  There are also multiplayer modes too, which are decent diversions. Up to four people can compete 
 in objective-based modes where you must complete tasks in the levels to earn the most money. Objectives 
 include killing enemies in an area, blowing up a moving vehicle and getting a wounded person to 
 extraction. The modes don't feel much different from each other, but it is a bit more accessible 
 with only four players. Plus the added bonus of A. I. opponents in the game makes it more interesting.
 
  
  Army of Two is another game to use Epic's Unreal engine. This means everything has a shiny look 
 to it, especially metal. Rios and Salem are incredibly detailed and the explosions look nice, but 
 Army of Two looked a bit underwhelming. The environments were bland and sparse, the enemy character 
 models looked stiff and repetitive and there was lots of texture pop-in. But at least the frame 
 rate is smooth. The sound is a bit more consistent, with excellent voice work and dialogue that 
 uses references from films and other media. The music hits the spot, which sounds a bit similar 
 to the music from Command & Conquer, and the guns sound great.
  
  Whether you're alone or by yourself the single player campaign isn't too long, but the achievements 
 add value. There are 37 revolving around killing a number of enemies with a type of weapon, completing 
 the levels on at least the medium difficulty and more. Plus, you will get some fun out of pimping 
 your guns. You can customize your weapons from their barrels to a flame paint job.
  
  Army of Two isn't a good purchase if you're by yourself. The game is repetitive, short and annoying 
 with stupid A. I. but when a buddy joins in the fun the game is great. The co-op mechanics feel 
 right in co-op and the A. I. issues are easier to forgive. It's not game of the year and there are 
 better shooters out there with better single player campaigns, but as a co-op game Army of Two 
 is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Good Points - Coop (Online, Link, splitscreen)
  Upgradeable weapons, mini boss battles, hidden objectives and also online multiplayer. Able to 
 drag and heal your friend, also interact.... There are also levels where you and your buddy both 
 ride in a hoverboat and must travse the waters and blast enemy gun boats. Also a GPS system can 
 tell you where to go, if you are stuck. 
  
  
  
  
  Bad Points - Elements borrowed from Gears and Splinter cell. The cover system is sometimes flawed, 
 enemies still hit you and shotguns are like snipers. Too short, 6 missions really... Your AI buddy 
 (Like most Ai friends) is really no match compared to a real human player.....
  
  **** - Decent game to rent and try out with a friend. Online is where the heart of the game lies, 
 and the fun. Team up and kill some terrorist or your friends.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely adore Co-op.
  I mean, what's more fun then completing objectives with friends?
  You and a friend, doing tasks 
 by sticking minds together and figuring all sorts of stuff out; finally reaching your goal, as 
 a team.
  Co-op is awesome.
  
  Army of Two supposedly had everything: Bad-ass no-nonsense mercenaries, lots of violence, gore, 
 modern warfare and non-stop action.
  EA managed however, to turn it into the biggest snorefest of the year so far.
  I hate this game.
 
  
  The day when there will be complete total immersion with games is still a long way from now, but 
 there are enough games out there at this very moment which can really make you feel part of the 
 action. 
  That's when you know it's a good game.
  
  When you get a game and it feels like your just looking at "a level with textures" something failed 
 at the developers office. 
  And that's exactly how this game feels.
  It's not a labour of love, it's something that had to be done just because. 
  It's a game like 
 this that gives you the feeling the developers tried too hard; too make everything look cool and 
 make it as immersive as possible.
  Too much scripted events and pointless conversations that just look and sound "bad-ass".
  
 
  It's not a co-op game, it's a game that desperately wants to be a co-op game.
  Co-op was never so cheap, with "boost me up the wall" and "let's take this door down together" 
 moments. 
  We get it. Team-work. Okay. 
  Why soldiers must boost the other one up the wall five times in a level is beyond me. And why is 
 every door equipped with two switches, making it impossible for one person to open it? 
  Are soldiers always and everywhere Co-operating? 
  "Hey, i need to till my buddy gets back, cause 
 i can't open this door alone"
  What kind of stupid l... ah never mind.
  Don't get me started about "back to back".
  
  About the story, well, it's weak.
  Trying to 
 keep up with current war situations in the world today, you know, terrorists, Iraq, etc, it's where 
 all soldiers hang out lately. There are no other places on this planet for warfare. 
  Everything involves Iraq somehow this day and age. 
  
  And speaking about Iraq; 
  I've never 
 been there, but from what this game has shown me, it seems like a pretty dull country. The scenery 
 looks practically the same in the whopping six levels this game has. 
  Which brings me to the graphics: just above par.
  Alot of clipping, artifacting and the occasional 
 framedrop are keeping this mediocre game running. 
  Five hours and you've completed the campaign thoroughly.
  
  From non-coop games, you can expect 
 some downsides.
  But from a game that is totally emphasizing on coop, this is unacceptable.
  
  It's short, it's 
 stupid. It's ... Army of Two! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfWells21
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a good game, I don't see wht Game Spot gave it a 6.5. Yeah, maybe it is like Gears 
 Of War and Yeah it has weapons from Call Of Duty 4. But trust me this is aa good game. I played 
 it for three hours straight after i got it yesterday. Playing by yourself is alright but playing 
 with a friend is a hell of alot better. Some parts do get hard though like this one part where 
 you have to protect one guy and you are being stormed by endless enemies that can reach your position 
 in three sots and you cant cover them all? Yeah that is insanely hard but you get through it if 
 you think strageticly which is what this game is somewhat about. In some spots you can just rush 
 in and kill anybody while filling your aggro meter for overkill but when faceing a boss and working 
 with a partner you have to think stragectly to make your way around to kill him by trying to use 
 aggro but in the end if you like strategy games or not this is a game for you. Like I say if you 
 like TPS or gears of war or Call of duty or Halo you will most likely like this game! I give it 
 a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papochini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, the campaign has a lot of action packed and even if a little short it 
 still delivers some really cool bad ass moments.
  Also there is an impressive weapon customization system, where you can really decide how to suit 
 your gun for each mission. The AI is nice it will take cover, surround you, flank you, melee you 
 the hole nine yards. The game's script and dialogue is a little bit cheesy but well acted and the 
 characters are really cool.
  The length of game is deceiving because you'll see how addictive it becomes to storm through campaign 
 to get cash and pimp your weapons, so you'll put a lot of time into this game, besides all the 
 achievements are good and fun to go after, there are some that you'll get in no time and other 
 (well other) that will have you playing this game for a long time. 
  If you like shooter a la Gears of War than you should give this game a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Army of two, well what can i say? my summing up pretty much says it all. I rented this game, i didnt 
 buy it and boy am i glad i didnt! Its not a bad game it just isnt a good one and in the past iv 
 brought and been stuck with my fair amount of bad games, due to this i now rent first.
  Basicly Aof2 is a third person shooter, very much in the vain of Kane and Lynch which, whilst not 
 a good game either is considerably better than this. In its defence though it does bring a few new 
 items to the table, namely mid mission shopping (weapons upgrades and purchases) and somthing called 
 aggro (a mechanism where by the enemy will attack the fighter doing the most damage) aggro is usefull 
 i spose but even though it is a very short game it still doesnt help because it becomes boreing 
 quite quickly. And that in a nutshell is Aof2, the scenery changes-the game doesnt, not worth 50 
 but worth 5.95 for a weeks rent at blockbuster, which is plenty of time to complete twice over 
 on all difficuties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Background of the game
  Welcome to Army of Two you get to work with an A. I or with a friend on line. You and your A. I went 
 to combat to fight off any enemies during different time era. It will bring to different countries 
 to do missions and while you get to use heavy armor too protect you. You an elite solider who is 
 strong and well trained. 
  
  Story-Line
  This game takes to our time to fight off terrorist in different time era, then some-one framed 
 you and many of your commards died when someone in the field betrayed you. So you have to find 
 this person and clear both you and your partner. This story is easy too understand and well detail. 
 Most scenes are quite funny.
  
  Graphics/Music
  Army Of Two had really great graphic, the details is well done with each of the characters. Everything 
 looks really sharp and clear. The music also is good and matches the game. The voice acting is 
 also great.
  
  Weapons/Armor
  The game has many weapons to choose from and a lot to buy as well. The game is easy to get money 
 if you willing to play longer to earn money to buy all the expensive guns and armor. You can also 
 buy armor helments Many designs. Most of the guns are powerful and most are okay and less powerful 
 in the game.
  
  Missions/A. I in the game
  The game is really easy when you play Army of Two. There's only 6 and on training missions in this 
 game really short game. All the missions are really easy and fast pace game. The A. I can be really 
 slow to responds and sometimes it does not really work when you ask something to do. Also the ahcievements 
 are easy to get.
  
  On line
  The co-op and online is good when you have a friend is willing to play or have this game. 
  
 
  For anyone who love shooters this game is a get, and if you really into achievements then you 
 should rent to get the achievements this game is quite fast to beat if you managed to play with 
 in two days or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barzankiller
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  If you look at Army of Two on the outside its nothing thats that impressive it has a weak story, 
 a very short campaign, the AI is not the best and the gameplay while fun is nothing new borrowing 
 a lot from Gears of War (apart from the aggro system where one team mate can draw the fire of foes 
 while the other becomes almost hidden and can flank round ) looking at that you would start to 
 say why would i want this game, well think again because these things are a blessing if you look 
 at the game from a different angle. 
  
  Think of Army of Two this way, you have just come back from work your a little sleepy but still 
 wanna do something so you call your mate round and you just chilling with some beers, this is what 
 Army of Two is made for, suddenly you see why there is no need for good story, the short campaign 
 means you can cover a lot of ground in one evening with a friend and soon you find yourself Barking 
 orders at each other as you work as a team to gun though the campaign, and no matter how many time 
 you do it its still fun. The gameplay is such that its simple easy to pick up and fun that its 
 a snap to get into
  
  The high impact badass stuff that you do in the game at times is so silly, cheesy and over the 
 top that you will be laughing or saying damn that was cool, like Upgrading your gun so is insanely 
 over the top that it it Gold plated has a small shotgun as a front mount and can blow a guy 50ft 
 away . or escaping a sinking ship as it goes down as you rush from the rising water into the heavy 
 fire of terrorists, all of this is perfect for you to sit with a friend and say things like "YO 
 BRO THAT WAS AWESOME" 
  
  This is the kind of game you can play over and over again with a friend or even alone although 
 it loses some of the appeal. its a fun fast shooter that you can enjoy going thought and though 
 and you play in Places like Iraq, Afghanistan, China and even an Aircraft Carrier. 
  
  I would say not to rush out and get this game, but if you have some spare cash and you want something 
 fun well paced with solid gameplay for when your friends come round, Army of Two is a good choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaeagle14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  These are the sort of games that make nintendo envy microsoft and sony.
  Army of two is a superb 3rd person shooter where you play as either salem or rios who embark on 
 monstrous risky missions. To start off the best parts of the game are;
  
  Brilliant back to back combat! (1)
  
  Amazing upgrades on your deadly fire arms!! (GUNS) (2)
 
  
  The best co op story line you will ever play!! (3)
  
  (1) well lets just say back to back combat on this game is truly fun as salem and rios automaticly 
 stick togeather following your control of shooting all the crazy terrorists who are either running 
 at you with pelts of dinamite stahed in there trousers or there will be lethal gunners firing please 
 mind to make this funner (EA) have put back to back in slow motion!!!
  
  (2) secondly the guns and upgrades are a very important part of the game as you will be using them 
 all through the game! depending on what gun you have there will be different upgrades for instance 
 some guns such as assult rifles will have a mini extendable shotguns poking out the end please 
 note all guns form side arms to snipers and primary weapons are upgradeable.
  
  (3) The co op storyline is amazing as there are six uniqe missions about and hour long each so 
 there not much gameplay but then you, there's xbox live so its not that bad really anyway the campaign 
 is left off where there's a few terrorists to be neuatrilized some cool bonus missions to be done 
 for a nice sum of money and then the cut scenes are quite spanking marvelous.
  
  so for 30-40 this is the game for you!! if there are any questions email me 
  at 
  
  richardson. j24@hotmail. co. uk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronowm
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a good idea and is pretty fun to play. There are some flaws that really piss me 
 off though. First the aim thing is really hard to see. I found my self having to look down to find 
 it, gets kinda frustrating. Its the same thing on my projector and my plasma. The 2nd thing that 
 gets to me is how hard it is for up close and personal combat. The melee attacks don't always seem 
 to work out right and i dont know if its how i had it configured but my guy aimed very slow. The 
 so called "GPS" sucks. If your not in the right place you cant even see the little orange arrows. 
 Also the co-op moves seem kinda like a rip off of splinter cell, but thats just my opinion. The 
 multiplayer rocks, "fricken awesome" and the weapons are sick! The game is kinda short but it looks 
 great. I wouldn't buy it for the campaign but I would buy it for the multiplayer. I think gamespot 
 was a little harsh with the 6.5 rating they gave it. I wasn't even going to play it cause usually 
 they call the crappy ones, but I'm glad I rented it. Definitely worth playing if you like shooters. 
 The campaign is really pretty easy even on hard. You really dont have to think to play this one, 
 just shoot and shoot some more. lol. Have fun with it though, really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Army of two. I guess is the best co-op game i've played on so far. but there are the painfull letdowns 
 that follow behind.
  to start off i'd like to share the goods of the games
  
  *THE GOOD*
  
  . Customizable weapons are always cool and it's a nice touch which a lot of games 
 should have.
  . The use of the Aggro system works to a great advantage, and owning people can be fun this way.
 
  . Online is extreamly fun. a variaty of objectives as well as going around doing your own thing... 
 EG killing everthing you see.
  . Co-op play is also fun but it obviously always helps if the person your playing with actualy 
 knows what he's doing.
  . The graphics are incredibly realistic and work with the game quite well.
  . Is the other player 
 lacking in a microphone? no problem with the online command system they'll know what you want or 
 dont want to do. and if they do it nicely throw them a bone. EG giving them high five ETC. OR clouting 
 them around the head or even headbutting them.
  . a variaty of weaponry from machine guns to snipers what ever floats your boat.
  
  *THE BAD!!!*
 
  
  . Campaign mode is extreamly short and can be completed in a matter of hours.
  . The whole. * yo give me some skin bra* doesnt quite.... gel so it seems. at times it can get quite 
 annoying and the whole, hip, yo , cool dude wassapnin kinda thing is really cheesy.
  . The lack of interactivity in the surrounding is a letdown. For instance, Army of two..... first 
 thing that came into my mind was blowing things up. putting gaping holes in walls bullet wholes 
 that DON'T disappier. the other thing about that is that the water.... your constantly surrounded 
 by it but there seems a lack of interactivity with it. no splashes no nothing and when your in 
 the hovercraft there's even less interactivity.
  . Lack of vehicles to comandier. fine i know it aint not GTA but seriously out of the whole story 
 mode.... you only get to drive a hovercraft. to me that's a letdown being able to fly a plane. drive 
 a car. ride a motorbike would sound very appealing to me.
  . The story makes no sense what so ever you don't even know what's going on half of the time.
 
  . The fact that weapons seem to.... seep through your body looks kinda cheap, and i know many games 
 have this... but i mean it's next gen c'mon!!.
  . The explosions really remind me of kane and lynch... the fact that it's just a smoke bomb that 
 can kill and has a blast radious. seriously get some actualy EXPLOSIONS in there!!.
  . Dying can be a real problem, and infact happens quite often. they could have made it so that 
 when your down you could drag yourself to safety, i mean yeah keep the *i'll drag you to safety* 
 but sometimes the teammate might actually be dying themselves.
  . Much more actual... CO-OP action is needed seriously. really get in there and make it a true co-op 
 experiance so that it can live up to it's name.
  
  
  They made it blatant that there's going to be a sequal (fingers crossed... or not) so lets hope 
 that they make it something to remember.
  
  Come on EA i know you can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I've usually been a big skeptical about AI controlled buddies in co-op games. They can either help 
 out a little or be a huge burden to the single player campaign. Gears of War made the first real 
 improvement but it still wasn't as good as a friend on the couch with the second controller. Army 
 of Two is a game with gameplay mechanics that are based soley on you and your 'bro' to get through 
 the game and surprisingly enough its good. 
  
  So one of the first things that makes this game unique is how you and your partner can interact 
 and fight the enemy. A pretty straight forward command interface on the D-Pad for commanding your 
 AI partner helps in tight situations. Left on the D-Pad is regroup, up is move forward and right 
 is hold position. Now what really helps in firefights where enemies are dug in behind cover and 
 are very accurate with the automatics is the Agro metre. This is the key gameplay mechanic in Army 
 of Two that allows either you or your 'bro' to have the enemy concentrate their fire on so the 
 other partner hads the opportunity to flank. So by pressing once on the D-Pad for the command and 
 pressing again will have your partner build up his aggro metre so you can flank behind without 
 being noticed. 
  
  Another key mechanic in Army of Two is Bro moments and these are numerous things like being lifted 
 up to a ledge and killing the guards, taking a car door or riot shield and using it to block fire 
 while your partner shoots behind, hangliding and shooting enemies from above and back to back where 
 both of you are shooting everyone around you . And these happen quite often in the game so I'm 
 glad to see that co-op is still the focus of single player and how EA Monteal want to use it in 
 interesting ways. And of course what would Army of Two be without customizable weapons from the 
 money you make being a high cost mercenary. You can increase the gun barrel for more damage or 
 the magazine clip or front mount like shotgun or grenade launcher and pimping out your gun for 
 a different look. The many weapons and options to customize them makes for a bigger incentive to 
 play further.
  
  For a 3rd generation of 360 games, Army of Two definately looks better than other shooters. There 
 are a lot of details in the environments and character models. Good use of HDR lighting for outdoor 
 environments and on character models and the level of graphic detail for your weapons especially 
 with all the customizing you can do to make Army of Two one of the prettiest games for the 360 
 so far.
  
  Sound is defiantely worth pointing out and especially if you have 5.1 surround sound as it sounds 
 excellent. But of couse it still sounds good through the TV with gun fire and explosions all sounding 
 top. Voice acting is good especially for Salem as a wise cracking show off and Rioz as the concerned 
 leader of the duo.
  
  But this game isn't perfect with the AI sometimes not doing what it's told making hard for you 
 to flank an enemy when your partner isn't giving support fire. It would have been nice if other 
 vehicles other than the hovercraft were included in the campaign and the game felt a bit too short. 
 Cover didn't always work so well and i personally felt it should have used the Gears of War style 
 cover system with the simple press of the button. 
  
  Army of Two is definatley a game designed for people who like to play co-op online or split screen. 
 It's much better to play with friends due to the sometimes incompetent AI partner. For the most 
 part Army of Two does a great job of having you and your friend work together as a team to win 
 and with a good variety of weapons to buy and customizable options, this game is good to have when 
 friends are around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishfan1994
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Co-op games pervide many fun experences with friends. Who hasen't played legendary halo 3 CO-OP, 
 the old school coin-op shooters, or the many other great CO-OP titles. Army of two, is not a great 
 CO-OP title. This game was one of the most effortless games that I have ever played. You have two 
 characters, Tyse and Salem. They might have well just called them Red and Stimpy, they are the 
 most immature charactors the gaming world has seen. One good part of this game is a variety of 
 weapons, which you buy from earning money from contracts. The bad outweighs the good in this game. 
 
  The first bad part of this game is the ease of it. You can blindfire the whole game and be more 
 accurate than aiming. The enemy AI is like that of a bull, They rush right in till they get shot. 
 Melee combat is a joke, just press melee and there is no resistance form enemy forces. The ease 
 of this game makes it last about 15 hours at the most.
  Secondly the story is obnoxious. Your a PMC who acts like a 12 year old suburban w****r. I feel 
 as though this game poked fun at current global issues, and missed the joke by a mile. My emotion 
 went the other way the story developers wanted it to, instead of wanting Tyse and Salem to survive, 
 I wanted to kill them. The emotion to the game was non existant.
  Finally, this game had vary buggy multiplayer. The multiplayer wasen't good from the start. The 
 concept is to complete alot of objectives in the given amount of time, with the aid of a partner. 
 Most of the time the game ends because of EA's terrible servers. The multiplayer in this game gives 
 you no reason to buy.
  In all this game is defiantly not worth buying, but still a good game to rent.
  -Irishfan1994 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Army of two will make u and your partner have to work together, it is a great game but only if 
 u have someone to play with... The AI computer isnt really that good but its a great game if you 
 have a friend to play with... Its really fun...
  
  
  Pros:
  Great Co-Op
  Fun
  Great Graphics Good Story
  Weapon Customization
  
  Cons:
  To Short
  Only 6 missions
 
  Alot of Bug/Glitches
  
  Army of two could've been PERFECT but it was to short!!! and needed a few more extras, other then 
 that its a perfect game for you and your partner to complete! It was worth it... BUT me and my 
 brother beat this game in less then 4 hours thats how short it is... so rent it or borrow it... 
 or wait for price drop unless u wanna buy for $60... Its a good game though so your choice. Online 
 is 2vs2, i didint get to try that but this is a game you can play again in a month because theres 
 3 different difficultys, easy, normal, and hard so yeah you can beat it over and over again and 
 select which mission you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OSSFLY
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is like gears of war. Cover system and all but better commanding moves. The main big 
 thing in this game is Aggro you need this to survive every mission. the game starts out with you 
 in the U. S. Army Rangers and then you move up to SSC the big corporation. You can choose all kinds 
 of weapons which is like the best because there is one weapon that is a maching gun and you can 
 kick some butt with it. Dont believe what the critics say they dont know what there talking about 
 just listen to the people that wrote there reviews because they know what they are talking about. 
 So if you have 50 bucks buy it you wont be disappointed so buy it. Also the game has real graphics 
 like real time. some parts of the game are messed up on some parts but not alot so dont have to 
 worry about it but the action and blood is where it counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and I admit I liked it because of its cool co-op tactics and it had pretty good 
 graphics. But truley it didn't shock me in anything else. It felt like a worse gears of war.
  
  The shooting is normal, the weapons are... normal... and the campaign... is nothing special. 
 not to mention its uber short. too short to be worth buying.
  
  sometimes the commands u give ur partner in single player mode get really frustrating and he doesn't 
 listen.
  
  Don't even get me started with Multiplayer, Its pretty much lame. Well not lame but just a remake 
 of many other games before it. They compeltely took out the co-op tactis and made their multiplayer 
 a plain shoot out. if i wanted to do a plain shoot out ide do call of duty, gears, or halo.
  
  I honestly think the game doesn't deserve the hype some people have given it. I'm not saying 
 don't rend it but i am saying don't excpect anything new or awesome.
  
  the game is short, the graphics are ok, the weapons are unoriginal and the multiplayer is lame.
 
  
  
  Army of Two gets a 7 out of 10.
  
  ~Leaky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics = Awesome, better than CoD4 and Halo. JUST behind GoW
  
  AI = My teammate did everything i told him to just right, the Enemies have pretty good AI. The 
 only bad thing is when your teammate drags you into a crappy spot or something to heal you. (this 
 happens like 1 outta 4 times.)
  
  Storyline = A good storyline that keeps u wanting to know the rest, its one of the best storylines 
 ive seen in a while.
  
  Controls = ALMOST perfect for me, the cover system is awesome, (you dont have to push a button 
 to get in cover and its still almost flawless) the 3rd person is awesome because unlike GoW, u 
 dont run where u look, one stick moves camera and one moves the guy. ( this is nice cause u can 
 run sideways and still see the enemys, so it is movie like.)
  
  This game is the most fun ive had in a while. Its intense, the difficulties are great, AI is good, 
 Stoyline is AWESOME. The only bad thing is ull finish in an average of about 8 hours on Normal. 
 Also the Multiplayer isnt that exiting.
  
  Rent this game, beat it 2 times, and ull remember this game for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting a year or two thinking this game was actually gonna be good. I spent sixty dollars 
 on it the first week to find out its crap. The online is so laggy and you can barely finish a match 
 because it says "Error connection lost". If one of the four people online leaves the game ends, 
 if one person out of the four has bad connection it will lag out. If the error connection lost 
 happens you'll lag out too. Its not just that either, theres only four maps, 3 game modes, and 
 thats about it. The campaign is really short and stupid, you coulda suspected it the whole time 
 what happens at the end and in the middle. Some of the voiceacting was also dissapointing, Alice 
 Murray's voiceacting gets really horrible at the end of the game, fake coughs and what not that 
 you can hear is a lie. The only thing that is fun about this game was the co-op because your offline 
 AI is an idiot who is worse then the guys you fight. The online co-op is even laggy which gets 
 really annoying. If you ever want to buy this, wait for the price to go down and then give it a 
 shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Yeah so the story is kind of short, and the story line, well... i didnt really notice one, but i 
 was happy when i got to kill the bad guy =D 
  This is a great game, its so active, and gamespot say "Your weak when your on own" Well i think 
 who ever said that was just crap at the game cus its not true, yeah its easier to have a friend 
 playing online or split screen but, its still fun and exciting nonetheless. First of all, the grathics 
 are sweet, and your always out numbered and the enemies seem to be everywhere and i thought they 
 were pretty smart, running at your if you try and retreat, and when you start taking some of them 
 out, many of them with actually run further away and find cover in the distance. But if your playing 
 solo you have to know what to tell your AI parnet to do, cus if you dont tell him to do the right 
 thing, he'll die, and yeah, hes a bit of a lemon at times, if you tell him to follow you, you'll 
 have to run away for ages before he makes any movements towards you, and if you tell him to take 
 cover, he will sometimes run around getting shot a lot before deciding to stay still some where, 
 but i only notice any real annoying things with your AI partner on the last level [Miami] 
  One of the cool features of this game is being able to customise your guns [Something im surprised 
 Vegas2 didnt steal, seeings how they stole everything from COD4] And then when you get enough money, 
 you get to "Pimp" the guns out with really just turns most of them into golden and platinum weapons, 
 doesnt make them much better or anything but it is cool running around with a golden sniper. You 
 earn money for pretty much all objectives in the game, and you can go back and do them as many 
 times as you want to earn as much money as you want and its a fun and nice way to play a game, 
 to earn money to buy and improve your guns. 
  Overall this game is good, and doesnt deserve the score that Gamespot has given it, especially 
 seeings how they gave vegas 2 such a postive review, personally im starting to lose trust in the 
 reviews being wrote on this web site. But yeah they are right in saying the story line is poor 
 and that its short, so its best to rent it, but you will love it how ever you play it. Oh yeah 
 and theres a multiplayer, personally i didnt think much of it, but it is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toon9110
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Like the title says, its an awesome game. It has alot of game types in it like Gears of War and 
 its "hide or die" system, modern weapons from CoD4, and alot of new things.
  
  So when I first pressed start, I automatically noticed hte "weapons" selection on the main menu, 
 that means this agme is focused on weapons in order to do and get better. I was right. The weapons 
 have a unique upgrading system that I've never seen in any game before, so that was new for me. 
 It nice and all but you can't upgrade the pwnage weapons except for pimping them out, which disapointed 
 me a little. Then in the weapons screen still, there's armor. you get light, heavy and "middle" (forgot 
 name of it) . I see that you can get those over the campaign mode, so you dont have to buy them 
 like every thing else, weird...
  
  Next, campaign mode. You get single player, split screen, and XBL co-op. But since I dont have 
 any brothers, friends that come over on a daily basis, or a XBL gold membership, I couldn't see 
 how much better co-op play was, so I stuck with single player. In the begining, you start out in 
 the army in a training excersize for Rios and Salem, you can play as either, one isn't better than 
 the other, they just look and talk different. Then right after training you go into battle. But 
 the thing that disapointed me a bit was that you cant skip the tutorial, even on the hard difficulty.
 
  
  Speaking of which, the difficulty was right for each setting. easy, its easy, but not a cake walk. 
 Medium, just right, I love this difficulty. And hard, well, its hard alright, somewhat frustrating 
 durring the last mission.
  
  There's all sorts of things to do in this game, like finding intel for $, but durring the later 
 missions, they become difficult to find, one they are hidden very well, two, every one is shooting 
 at you so its hard to get to them without dying in some cases.
  
  One of the new and never used things before this game, is the aggro system. You kill, you get aggro 
 so every one is shooting at you because you are killing them and making all of the fire. But if 
 your parnter is shooting, he gets aggro, and you go "invisible" so you can sneek up behind certain 
 enemys to flank them, and vise versa with you getting aggro.
  
  I did notice some minor glitches in the game. Like some lag durring a fight I was in, it slowed 
 down for 10 seconds, but then went back to normal. And another thing is that you dont "reload", 
 you reload but the magazine dosen't fall out of the gun, just stays there while you put in an invisible 
 magazine. But thats nit picky things that most people dont care about or dont notice.
  
  The ending was like "OMG, THERE IS SO GONNA BE A SECOND GAME!", which I thought was cool, it the 
 second game is as good as the original and dont change all that much, then I know alot of people 
 are going to be satisfied, including me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fireman1307
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two definitely takes the cake when you talk about innovative game. The game is a must have 
 for 360 when you have a bro over hangin out at your house. The gameplay is immersive along with 
 the story mode and the characters add a rockstar hardcore appeal to the game. The game is centered 
 around co-op play but the your partner isn't exactly the smartest cat in the single player mode, 
 good luck playin single player on professional. The game is innovative in its take on co-op which 
 sets a standard in its own right. Split screen or online co-op would definitely be the way to go 
 with this game. As far as visuals go it doesnt reach the standard set by Call of Duty 4 but are 
 certainly satisfying to the visual senses. A little bit more time could have been spent on the 
 visuals but still nicely done by a company that made itself big off of sports games. Army of two 
 deals with real world issues but puts a hollywood twist on the story so the game certainly is entertaining. 
 The sound effects on the game are very good except for the grenades. Grenade explosions sound like 
 something off of PS2 or even N64. If you're lookin for a well deserved break and want a game that 
 is entertaining when you have a friend is over then army of two is definitely something to invest 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink42x3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Great game with many guns to combine, and fool around with. But it gets to a brick wall were everything 
 slows down to a crawl. After beating the campaign you recieve all weapons, and after that you are 
 given the opportunity to upgrade all weapons. Which takes a dedicated player a day. From this point 
 on in the campaign there's only the achievments left hanging. Finishing those players hit a brick 
 wall, which cripples this games ability for a long lasting enjoyment. From this point on players 
 money stock will skyrocket into the millions with nothing to buy, more guns need to be added.
 
  
  Multiplayer is one of the most dissapointing features of Army of Two, lag, un-interesting, and 
 annoying. Completing objectives is sometimes impossible with AI standing in your way, aswell as 
 opposing players. Achievements are extremely rare in Online Ranked Mode. Leaving the players to 
 cringe at the thought of One Billion dollars in total, and not dying in a match? Either too long, 
 or you go hide and leave you partner hanging. No, huge dissapointment.
  
  Overall: Worth Renting
  
  A good game for the campaign, great co-op, good combat, fun characters.
 
  
  Bad multi player, added content needed, repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koustik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Takes a whole new aproach to fps. You can bling your weapons and upgrade them, REAL co-op play 
 with a unique aggro system. This game has beautiful graphics but the story is just to short. Only 
 six missions. Yes it is a good game and an addictive one that brings a new take on co-op and the 
 fact that you can bling out your weapons won me over. Some parts may be hard at times but for the 
 most part you may want to start on the harder difficulties. The customization lacks some features 
 you think would be in the game like a make your own mask feature instead of picking a premade mask 
 and picking your colors of your armor. All in all it is a good game but has flaws youd think it 
 wouldnt, seems how long this game has been anticipated. Dont get me wrong the game is addictive 
 but after 3 plays and you unlock everything the game begins to be a bore. The online is solid and 
 fun trying to compete against another team but seems as you are an army of two you only play in 
 an army of two so if your the kinda person who likes big team battles and not co-op this game may 
 not be for you but if you do then I strongly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Good: Good voice work, great music, fun coop.
  
  Bad: Some textures look washed, Really short, Not that great online.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Army of Two is a new game by EA. It places you as either Tyson Rios or Elliot Salem. Both characters 
 with unique personality. The story will start you off in 1993 in Somalia, you are US Army Rangers, 
 who have grow tired of being bossed around by their country. After completing their mission they 
 leave the military and join the Security and Strategy Corporation. 
  You complete 5 missions after joining SSC. You will be faced with Betrayal and will have to fight 
 to make things right.
  
  The gameplay in Ao2 is actually pretty solid. The game focuses on this thing called "aggro". Its 
 simple you shoot - the enemy shoots at you. If both you and your friend shoot - whoever has the 
 bigger gun will be shot at more. Who ever has full Aggro will be a bullet magnet and your partner 
 will be pretty much invisible.
  The game is a cover based game. Much like gears. But instead of having to push a button to enter 
 cover, you just stand beside it and you will be able to blind fire or preform accurate shots from 
 there.
  Theres is a shop system in the game. Where you can buy masks, and weapons for you character. But 
 you can fully "pimp" out your weapons. This is the most addicting part of the game.
  The game supports 2 player coop. This is where the game really shins. Get one of your buddies to 
 run through this game with you and its like a whole new game. 
  
  The multiplayer is sadly 4 players online. Its limited by a few maps. It can be fun when you are 
 teamed up with a smart person and you are going against a good team. But its really not something 
 that will out do Call of Duty 4.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good. The character models all look great. The only down part 
 of it is, All enemies look the same (depending on class) . The environments don't always look to 
 great, but get the job done.
  
  The sound in the game is fantastic. The music is really well done. The guns sound like they pack 
 a punch. And the voice acting is really great.
  
  The achievements in this game are really well done. They range from single player, coop, multiplayer, 
 and weapon kills. This is a game you can get a ton of gamer points on if you take the time, and 
 enjoy it.
  
  Overall Ao2 is a very enjoyable game. And should be checked out by any shooter fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Yeah, Army of Two has had it's fair amount of flack from reviewers. I personally see where their 
 coming from, but also fights in Army of Two's corner sometimes. The graphics are pretty good, I 
 play in a 1080i HD resolution and the graphics were good. The chance to play this whole story mode 
 with a friend over Xbox LIVE, makes the co-op experience even better.
  The mechanics work Okay, however I'm not a fan of the cover system. It hard to shoot to the left 
 of your cover and blindfiring is too accurate. As seems to be a formality now with ever shooter 
 coming out on Xbox 360, it is very short. I played it on the middle difficulty setting (contractor) 
 and got through it in about 5-6 hours. There is good customization of your character. This allows 
 you to customize your weapons. You have a primary weapon, which is basically like an AK-47 or something 
 leading to a massive chain gun thing. Your secondary weapon is more CQB. You can have a P90 (familar 
 to all CoD4 fans) . Basically guns like that. Your special weapons contains Snipers - RPG's. The 
 RPG's like the stinger hardly have any ammo. The sniper, on the other hand, is downright hard to 
 control. The next option in your customisation is GEAR. This has 2 things. Armour ( Light, Medium, 
 Heavy) and masks that are really over priced. Overall, fairly good customization to get your teeth 
 stuck into. One slight problem with the game is that melee is more stronger than your gun. So I 
 imagine those of you that played on Recruit, just ran up a guy with a tea-towel on his head and 
 clotheslines him. This a bad balancing of weapons and melee by EA, they should have a word with 
 Bungie about how to do this. The main focus of the game is AGGRO. This is basically where you to 
 your friend in co-op to jump out of cover and shout "Oi, over here". All the madmen will look at 
 him and shoot at him. This allows you the brains of the two to sneak around. This basically works, 
 but there are a few flaws. Like when a machine gunnist, sees you dead close to him, but decides 
 to keep shooting at your friend because he's still putting a few round into his shield. This leads 
 me on to terrible AI. This game must be infuriating to someone who has played this game on their 
 own. The AGGRO system really shows this up. You could be right behind one of your enemies. But 
 he won't shoot at you simply because your friend has the aggro. So I can imagine playing this with 
 an AI partner must be really annoying. You may have notices there are a LOT of cut-scenes. Even 
 when you open a door there's cut-scene. This really breaks up the game and stops it from flowing.
 
  Would I recommend it?... erm if you have someone to play co-op with maybe give it a go. Got no 
 friends? I would avoid this game.
  *Sorry about not reviewing the versus side of the game, to be honest, I haven't got round to playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  1. YOUR CROSSHAIRS ARE LOCKED AND TRACKING the oncoming.. Bad guyz (while you're crouched) .. YOU 
 then.. pull the Trigger .. and... YOU END UP SHOOTING the wall. (TERRIBLE COVER SYSTEM) 
  
  2. YOU'RE ON SNIPE MODE... and.. YOU CAN'T MOVE TO COVER (WHILE VIEWING THROUGH your SCOPE) . Therefore... YOU'RE 
 EXPOSED and Getting shot at. (SH!! TY SN! PER MODE)
  
  3. mmm mmm.. those precious... yellow satchels.. what do they have?? oh yes.. ammo... (FOR your SECONDARY 
 weapon MOSTLY) . What the HELLs the Purpose of "AGGRO-BLIND-FIRING?!! You WASTE YOUR AMMO in the 
 END .... PURE STUPIDITY! 
  
  4. YOU get shot.. your "Buddy RIOS" DRAGS you further down the LINE OF FIRE or if you're lucky drags 
 you around in circles while giving you the "Tour" of the KiLL Zone... hahahahhaha.. THEREFORE.. you 
 Both GET DEAD. (DUMB-A$$ A. i)
  
  5. YOUR AMMO gets "replenished" and.. you only get 1 grenade. (CHEEP EA.. BA$TARD$)
  
  **As 
 for the Campaign.. GEEZ.. no sub-chapters. You just travel from one country to another.. so in other 
 words..5 PLUS LEVELS... and thats it. You're done. Unlike Gears Of War.. you at least have SUB-Chapters 
 per "LEVEL" so to speak.
  
  . Was it worth ..65 dollars. PHUCK NO.
  
  . Was it worth the WAIT... helll NO.
  
  .. One would think it would be worth the wait.. since 
 EA Montreal postponed its OCT release of last year. But sadly.. it still remains to be worked on. 
 A... "P" for PATHETIC... for wanting to POSE OFF... Gears of War ( conisdering the UNREAL Engine.. 
 was utilized for this game.) 
  
  What a "'HACK"... of a job... you would think it would even come close... but . It's so FAR FROM IT
 
  
  THIS is just an HONEST opinion based on an HONEST Consumers POINT OF VIEW. 
  ... Remember.. We "The Consumers" and the ONES putting FOOD on the Programmer's tables.. 
  
  
 .. ENUF said.
  
  ***** A 9.0 on the NEGATIVE SIDE that is... hahahahahhaha. I need a new controller... um.."Trade 
 in??" *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpkeatings
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to state that i feel that this game was really hard done by the reviewers. I feel 
 that the reviewers expectations were far too high about this game and the standard that they set 
 because of these expectations was far too high for an action game of this style and magnitude to 
 achieve. Its not just gamespot's reviewers that are guilty of this, other review sites such as 
 Gametrailers is also guilty of this and thus has led me to now trusting public reviews from members 
 of the sites before reviewers. This stands like a sore thumb with army of two. You look at gamespot's 
 review and it says 6.5, look at the average player rating and its closer to 8. Considering the 
 amount of people that may pass through the site and rate shows that my observation is not without 
 its evidence to back up. But enough of mindless ranting lets get into the review at hand!
  
  STORY
  
  The game introduces you to Tyson Rios and Elliot Salem. They are first introduced 
 as army rangers set off into Somalia in order to meet up with a private military contractor Philip 
 Clyde and to proceed with the mission at hand. After the mission in Somalia we see the two rangers 
 introduced to the private military organization SSC. Here the two contractor's story takes the 
 player through a story based over ten years mainly spinning off the terrorist attack on the Twin 
 Towers. The story from the get go is shrouded in conspiracy about the nature of future privately 
 funded army's. The story in its self is not exactly ground breaking material from Steven King, 
 but does put the game in context and adds slight drama to an already shady business that revolves 
 around the profiteering current of future world conflicts.
  
  GAME DESIGN
  
  The game itself when it comes to action takes a concept well known from MMORPG games like World 
 of Warcraft the aggro system and takes it into a new style for third person shooters. The aggro 
 system allows the players or player and AI team to take turns taking the attention of the enemy 
 or enemies for the other team mate to kill them. This is important part of gameplay as in some 
 places and situations you cant just become Rambo and take them out in a spray of confusion and 
 gunfire. If u act like Rambo you will have your ass handed to you over and over again. This adds 
 an interesting element into the game design in the sense of gun upgrades. The player can upgrade 
 the gun of their choosing with their hard earned cash with firepower upgrades to ammo upgrades 
 and pimping the weapon to add extra aggro. This really takes into effect as if one player has a 
 heavy machine gun and the other person is trying to keep aggro with an assault rifle he is not 
 going to have a chance. This in a sense is good tho as if your playing with a friend you and your 
 friend can take up roles and switch in game with weapon swap feature if you both feel like a chance 
 of styles. The game play adapts a gears of war style gameplay with the cover system but with the 
 aggro system it adds a little more controlled attention toward you and your partner. The game in 
 a sense works best if you are playing with a friend on split screen or online as the AI although 
 can handle simple tasks will at times break under pressure and just mess up and not respond to 
 effectively when you most need him.
  
  ONLINE
  
  The online generally shines through the co-op campaign as the co-op game mechanics really shine 
 through. The PVP based multiplayer on the other hand is not bad but nothing special, the majority 
 of game types pit you and a friend against an other team trying to complete a series of objectives. 
 The multiplayer ain't terrible but its nothing to rival the current online competitors.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  In the end the game is a great co-op multiplayer game that has the potential 
 to be a lot more if the series is continued. In saying that the online PVP multiplayer could be 
 looked into a bit further to improve it, maybe add a ground war based game type were there could 
 be multiple amounts of teams trying to kill each other in death match style game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadlet
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  coop is fun woo woo wooo wooo wooo wooo woooo owooo wowoo woo wooo wooo owoo wooo wooow oo owo 
 oo woooow oooow oowooowooo owo owowwooooo wwwwoooooo woooooooo wwooooooo wwooo owooooooo woowo 
 owwooooo woo o oo wwoooooooo wowoooowo ooooooo wo wo owowooowo ow o wow owowooo wooow ooooooooooooyu 
 wooooo wooooooo woooooo woooooooo woooooo wooooo woooooo wooooo wooooo owwwww owwwww owwwww wooooooow 
 woooooooo wow wowoowow wowow wo wowo wowo wow wo w wow wow wo wow wo wo wow w owo wo wow owo wowowowwow 
 wowow woow woowowowo owwwo woooowow owwwwooww wwowow wowo alright boooooooooyahhhhhh Salemmmmm 
 eooooooo wooooooo woooooo woooooow ooooooow ooow oooooow wo woooo woooooooo wooooo woooooo wooo 
 wooooooo woooooo woooooo wooooooo wow wooo woo woooo wo woooooo woooooo wooooooooo woooooo woooo 
 wooooo woooooooooo wooooow ooooo wooooooow ooooooow wwoo wooow owwwwwwwo wooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaReaper117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very unique combination of different game types and they have done a very good job 
 integrating them all together. There are however a few tricky parts in the game where it looks 
 as if there are unlimited enemy's to the point were it almost feels glitchy. But this may also 
 be a way of slowing you down while working through the campaign and allowing you to really slam 
 into a lot of enemy's at one time. One thing that I wish was in the game is a way to run there 
 are a lot of times when attempting to catch up with your partner after building up some major Aggro 
 that you seem to want to shuttle run like in Gears of War. The Aggro meter is a very unique addition 
 the 3PS game type that really helps set AO2 apart from other games as well as the content emphases 
 on team work through the parachuting maneuvers and going back to back when in intense combat. I 
 look forward to seeing more AO2 games in the future these guys are only going to get better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer622
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  This was one of the best co-op experiences I have ever had. The gameplay, weapon customization, 
 and storyline were great but after I finished the story I was left wanting more. One perk of the 
 co-op is the AGGRO system; theis encourages suppressing fire causing all of the AGGRO to be on 
 one player thus concentrating all enemy fire on that player allowing their partner to sneak around 
 unnoticed. I find that the storyline leaves you wanting more and so you turn to multiplayer and 
 then the crap hits the fan. The versus mode is very limited, laggy, there's no party system, and 
 not mention it's BORING! For a game that focuses on co-op this is expected but I don't just want 
 a good co-op game, I want the whole package. With all that said the co-op is very addicting and 
 it is a must play. This game is a rent for sure but it's a no buy in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  I played all through AO2 and at first I was expecting a game that was a piece of crap after reading 
 a lot of the reviews; but I can honestly say that AO2 is a good introduction to a new and refreshing 
 type of 3rd person shooter.
  Everything now is just guns blazing or put your back to a wall and shoot over it.
  Well, I can 
 say that AO2 has some new ideas that I thought were great. 
  The graphics are good, voice acting is pretty solid as well, and the gameplay is... well..... not 
 as bad as people think. 
  About the new ideas AO2 brought to the table; there just new and fun to a genre that is getting 
 boring. I actually believe that a lot of the bad reviews this game got, were because of the tediousness 
 the genre has sunk into, so we were all hoping for the next-gen shooter of the year, which its 
 obviously not, but its not the piece of crap a lot of reviewers are saying. 
  
  Bottom line, AO2 is a good and fun game with new ideas for the shooter genre. I recommend you rent 
 it first to check it out, I believe its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsurfer_basic
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  I can't really put my finger on this game. I liked it, and I hated it, but I still own it and I'll 
 still play it. Maybe I'm just waiting to trade it in on GTA 4, either way whatever. The single 
 player is very short, too short I beat it over a weekend and I did not even play that long. The 
 multi-player is different, but in a good way I guess. Do you see a pattern developing here? The 
 game is just very.... I don't know..... good I guess, not bad, not $60 worth. One thing that is making 
 me hold onto this game is the promise of upcoming DLC via Xbox live, the development team said 
 they were going to have a ton of DLC and so far nothing, I'm really sick of companies doing that, 
 only Rockband has actually delivered in the DLC world, and that might be the only thing that keep 
 Army of TWO from a one-way visit to the video game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg25lax
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Army of 2 is an excellent game with a lot of diversity. The game has great multiplayer, kickass 
 guns, and some fun situations. With so many things in the game, lets break it down as best we can. 
 
  
  To start, Army of 2 looks great. Buildings and enviornments are wonderful. The attention to detail 
 for some parts of the game is clearly visible. But some of these details look a little bit too 
 similar. A pile of rubble in Iraq looks identical to one in SSC headquarters. It doesn't matter 
 that one is made of bricks, and the other of steel I guess. Waves in the carrier level look like 
 an actual ocean. And the locations, unlike the rubble, all look unige. The characters are also 
 excellent. The details on the faces of Salem and Rios make them look like actual people. The same 
 detail isn't as focused on other characters, but it is still their. The guns look great, and bullets 
 look believable for a third-person game. 
  
  Sounds in the game are okay, but not great. The guns and explosions sound real, and the voice acting 
 is okay. But you can find yourself hearing too often Salem playing his gutair solo. Also, music 
 is pretty good. Similar to Gears of War, when the enemies die, so does the fast pace music. You 
 can hear a cutting off noise just as the last of your enemies fall. 
  
  With the details out of the way, its time for the good parts: gameplay and story. The gameplay 
 is right now possibly my favorite. Aggro in the game is delightful to use. Flanking has never been 
 so fun! The controls work well, and my only complaint is that lining up a headshot with a pistol 
 is too inaccurate, no matter how great your gun. AI is a let down. Salem and Rios are both extremley 
 intelligent, most of the time. When you tell them to advance, they go to the right spot every time. 
 When holding position, they make sure to find some cover nearby. And when regrouping, they are 
 right there, shooting over your back. But if you fall, expect some problems. When dragging you 
 to cover, they can go past tons of safe places and right into the hornet's nest. Enemy AI is also 
 completley retarded. They will run right by you in an attempt to find some cover. 
  
  Custimization in the game is one of the best features. Pimping out guns and loading them up with 
 gernade launchers is great. The sad thing is that these custimizations don't follow you to Xbox 
 Live. Only in Co-op do your guns remain the same. In vs. mode, they dissapper. Speaking of Live, 
 it is a great part of the game. What could have been a failure was a complete succes. 2 men in 
 xbox live is an effective way to carry the feel of the game. They could have gone with normal deathmatch, 
 but they stuck to the true feel. 
  
  And finally the story. Your characters are made to be kickass, don't take no for an answer, great 
 guys. When in actuality, mercenaries are not this. Salem is true to his proffession though. When 
 situation rises, the little Salem is all about the money, but big ole` Rios has his morals. This 
 actually annoyed me, becuase I would have liked Rios to take the money and run. But the story is 
 good and intresting, if not a little familiar. 
  
  And own a side note, the masks are awesome (Red Devil is the best) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefury05201983
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  i'm really picky when comes to games ... i dont play much, therefore when i wanna pick a game it 
 HAS to be good, in the biggining it looked like it was WAY too much controls for nothing, but once 
 you get the feel of the game its Badass!!
  its very humane like as far as the relationship between the two soldiers...
  its really cool, 
 try it.
  and dont give up too soon cos you WILL get hooked!
  
  No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more 
 comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. 
 No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more 
 comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. 
 No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more comments. No more 
 comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wartotehlock
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Huge disappointment, that about sums up this game for me. When I first caught wind of this game 
 I was pretty excited... even for the delay they had last year to March... THINKING they would improve 
 on what already was going to be a great game. 
  
  So in Ao2 you can choose between two characters, neither having any specific attributes. You play 
 through missions carrying out Objectives and earning money by completing them. The story is OK 
 but nothing to write home about, you start off in the Army, then get recruited into a Gun for hire 
 corp. by your old Army boss. From their stuff goes wrong and so the story unfolds. 
  
  Now the single player was not all that bad, though for being on medium difficulty I found it to 
 be a little challenging. Not that a good challenge is bad thing but it'll soon lead to frustration 
 and broken a broken controller (s) . The whole aggro thing didn't quite work out so well. If you 
 have your AI partner hold aggro for too long he gets stupid and just passes out, so you'll have 
 to stop what you just started with flanking and revive him. And consider yourself dead when you 
 are injured and are in the need of his care for he is prone to glitch on walls or other obstructions 
 until he himself is shot down. Another issue with the aggro is when you get behind a heavy armored 
 enemy, the enemy tends to move his fire to you when your partner is AT FULL AGGRO. There for defeating 
 the purpose of aggro. 
  
  Another thing that got on my nerves was the multiplayer. There is no deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 that we've come to love. Bascially you're running around taking out Objectives and or targets for 
 money... money mind you that does not stack and follow through to the next round... you earn money 
 and can only spend that money within the round and if you find a weapon cache which is pretty pointless 
 seeing as the rounds do no last long and there is no real point in trying it out to say you did 
 and how much it blew... so you can only use the stuff you bought in the round where everything 
 resets next round.
  
  If anything this is a OK game for playing with a friend but not for the short tempered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is the best 3rd person shooter since Gears of War. My best friend and I have beaten 
 the game on co-op at the medium difficulty level and now we are nearly finished beating it on the 
 "professional" level. 
  Positives:
  1. Graphics are unbelievable. The best graphics I've seen on 360 yet. 
  2. Action is challenging 
 and non-stop. The Aggro System is pretty sweet and is best used with a real friend in co-op rather 
 than an A. I. partner.
  3. Some of the dialog is very funny. The celebrations you can use between partners is funny too. 
 
  4. The upgrades and customization available for weapons are awesome. Not only can you make you 
 weapon more accurate and more powerful but you can pimp it out in gold and silver plating with 
 engraved designs. 
  Negatives:
  1. I wish the campaign was longer. It was such fun that I didn't want it to end.
  
  Definitely 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IPHANTOMI23
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a must play Co-Op Game!
  I feel that the review for this game is way off. If you liked playing Gears of War then for sure 
 you will like this game. The game mechanics are basically the same but with little strategy with 
 the weapons options. You can only selects three weapons for each mission but during the mission 
 can swap with your partner. It is best to be divers with your weapons selection because there are 
 many situations where certain weapons work better than others. Being able to pimp out your guns 
 is a nice little feature. This option is for aesthetic purposes but definitely a nice addition. 
 Think of it like the AK used in the movie Blood Diamond. The game says that you can unlock guns 
 online but since I have not had a chance to take this game online I have yet to explore that option. 
 This is a must play Co-Op Game. Gears of War had a pointless storyline and so to does this game. 
 The presentation of the plot is very entertaining. It is similar to a Mission Impossible movie 
 briefing. Most people will enjoy the back-to-back and snipe count features. Both can be satisfying 
 and definitely adds to the game-play and preventing from the game in becoming repetitive. These 
 features were pretty creative and work well with a friend. I have not had a chance to play this 
 game online but from reading the review I believe it would be a blast. It is a decent game and 
 deserves a better rating than what it received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_moneyboy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell broke the mold on that. I though this game would be longer, harder and hace coop 
 modes of play. Not versus on a game that was ahile to be a coop gamers dream. Well it was a nightamare. 
 I was looking forward to all that AOT had to offer. I did like playing the game, but it left me 
 wanting more coop. The games was to short. I got all these weapons at the end of the game for what? 
 To look at how nice they were gold plated?
  Why not stay true to coop play and amke the online coop modes against the AI. OK great, I get to 
 run around with my head cut off chasing other players for money. Like Im going to play this game 
 till I reach a billion dollars. (which is an achievement btw) Why not make more intersting like 
 splinter cellish coop. Cool moves, respawn only twice not a million times.
  Put the coop in the multiplayer, not versus in a coop game. Come on. 
  I think it was good start. 
 Looking forward to the next installment. I hope the downloads are more than pretty masks and mulitplayer 
 versus map. Gee, thats new. Heres an idea for multiplayer: two teams of two working in tandem against 
 AI for different objecives on LIVE. Oh and why not be able to transfer your money to a friend in 
 game. Just make a coop game coop all round. At the very least give choices to the player as to 
 multiplayer or coop maps and modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: call4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I have waited a long time for the game Army of Two to come out, so I had hi expectations fore it. 
 When I got the game and started playing it with a friend, it felt very good. But I where a little 
 new to third person shooters and I experienced the game to be a little hard even on recruit. But 
 after playing it for some ours I just couldn't stop plying. The storyline was very gripping but 
 it was also very predictable, witch made the game not ass acceding as I had hoped. But the cot-censes 
 where very good and looked believable.
  The game play on the other hand were very thrilling and action pact almost the hole time, and it 
 was all the time about working together. The game had bin even harder if it was only one character. 
 In between the stages you can upgrade or by new weapons that you can use in the next stage. That 
 was very cool and practical. There are a lot of weapons to chose from, some better than others. 
 
  At some locations there are some mini bosses and some bosses. These are wary fun to take down. 
 But I think that the mini bosses where harder to kill than the primary bosses if you didn't have 
 a shotgun or a sniper rifle. 
  But something that was disappointing to me where the ending of the game. I had hoped that the last 
 stage, witch where set in Miami, where a little herder and that the last boss also where much harder. 
 The game ended so suddenly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SafeCyanide
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Campaign
  
  Campaign game play is fun for the most part after all you are playing with a friend, but in such 
 case where your friend is not there, you turn to either a third party or the games AI. That is 
 where I have an annoyed opinion, I have played all the difficulties and two of them were with the 
 games AI. In the beginners mode I felt the AI was competent and surprisingly enough knew what to 
 do. If you were downed he would come drag you to a safe location and heal you, Take down a fair 
 amount of enemies just like any beginner would. That was good for the first part, but when I started 
 the difficulty on medium, now it was like the computer had trouble focusing on healing me and started 
 shooting at the enemy when I didn't tell him too. All I asked him to do was to heal I would provide 
 the cover fire or the distraction fire that way he could heal me and we would be on our way. No 
 it wasn't that easy; he had to shoot them, he had to get hit and he had to die. This happened at 
 least a couple of times throughout the game causing me to restart the section over again. Concluding 
 the AI performance I like it to a point, but to me it felt like as the campaign got harder to AI 
 got dumber. It's fun with a friend not as much by your self.
  
  Online
  
  The online play is fun and frustrating at the same time. It seemed that every time I tried connecting 
 to someone in the end it would result in getting cut off from the server. Now it might be my connection 
 or it could be theirs, what I do know, I only had a good handful of quality games played and the 
 down side of it all is that when the server gets disconnected you don't get the money from that 
 game. (I. e. you had a lot of money and it's like it never happened) 
  
  Overall
  
  My thoughts completely on the game, give it a try before you go and buy.
  If you like third person 
 and the mechanics from Gears of War then you might like it. The cut scenes are great and the realism 
 is spot on (i. e. when you shoot someone in the head they're dead.) their heads fly back and they 
 fall to the floor. The agrro is very well thought out idea, concentrated fire on one person leaves 
 the other to sneak around as if he wasn't there and take out the enemies. A nice thing about Ao2 
 is that you can upgrade and or customize your weapon to how you want it, whether it's a double 
 barrel for full damage or silenced weapon for stealth. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: broken2424
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  short and sweet, this is very boring right in the get go. yes it picks up toward the end but it 
 is very exhausting to get through. the AI is not up to snuff. your partner is not helpful. i mean 
 it could be allot better. the aggro was fun for a while but then it gets a little played out. just 
 too easy when all you need to do is shoot then go behind a guy and shoot him in the back. theres 
 not to much strategy. play with friends and you will get some satisfaction. online is very tacked 
 on! if all i wanted to do was play team doubles i would do it on halo 3 server which is allot better. 
 theres no reason for this online experience.
  
  so in review. its fun if you are a die hard fan of co-op but this really doesnt appeal to anyone 
 that i know. go pick up gears of war or halo 3 if you havent already much better co-op. also rainbow 
 six vegas 2 is out so have fun with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Okay first of all 6.5 a fair ratinng??? Army of Two is one of the best games I have ever played. 
 It deserves way better than 6.5 that is just BS!!!!!! I think it is perfect. First ever game for 
 the next-generation console based around co-op play. It has everthing you could want. Great graphics, 
 great gameplay. Good story line and it freakin funny. The only weakness it has is the online. The 
 only reason for that it the EA SERVERS JUST SUCK!!!!!!!!!!!! Overall the game is not to hard and 
 really fun especially when you play with a friend on the co-op. Lets face it people rather play 
 with a friend in co-op than "PLAY WITH THEIR SELF". ARMY OF TWO was waaaaaaaaaaaaay better than 
 I expected but now I expect Grand Theft Auto to just blow me away!!!!!!!! So if you are looking 
 for a game to buy I suggest Army of Two all the way. The story isn't too long 6 chapters so probably 
 take you as long as it did to beat Gears of War. With a friend probably shorter, but really fun!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICE01dead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The reason I rated this game so highly was mainly for one reason, Co-op. The main reason to play 
 it is for that reason and a good story. You can choose between Rios and Salem. They both are equal 
 however offer different masks. Masks were neat, but tear away your money just for a 50 gamerscore, 
 which isn't bad after you get the good weapons. The customizable weapons amazed me in the way that 
 it is so fun. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is great itself once you get used to it and offers a solid way to click 
 enemies then just to hold down right trigger. Co-op Sniping is neat, but makes few apperances for 
 it to be good. The controls are great, but you may have trouble learning them until 2nd or 3rd 
 mission.
  
  Multiplayer : It is unique because of its objective based gameplay. If you are looking for a COD4 
 then turn away there is no similarities what so ever. It can be fun, but sometimes can piss you 
 off to easily. A letdown because there is no deathmatch and sometimes it feels more like a beatdown 
 version of Co-op just playing with another team of humans.
  
  Army of Two offers a lot, but not enough to even be close to its price tag. If you are really excited 
 about playting it rent it first and play with a friend, because the only thing that kept me playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizeguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I played this game today for the first time in co-op and its a great game. I honestly cant understand 
 the gamespot reviewers some days there is from my perspective very little to pick wrong with this 
 game. Not only do you get to run around and kill stuff but you can upgrade your weapons to be more 
 effective at killing things aswell as adding bling to show u really are a genuine gold plated killing 
 machine . The graphics are excellent especially for a console third person shooter, the game play 
 is easy to adapt to (and this is coming from a guy who hates third person games) and although it 
 is very short for the short time it lasts its a blast to play
  
  I have always been a review man. I check the reviews before i buy the games and then decide if 
 i want it from there and despite the low score i would still recommend this game to anyone with 
 a friend who has a few hours to spend
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowlarama
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a solid game and isn't getting as much credit as it deserves. Although it has a 
 weak story it is great fun to play especially with a friend. Though if you really give it a couple 
 of hours solid playing you'll be done with it. Co-Op mechanics work fantastically and really enhance 
 the experience because if you don't work together you wont be able the beat it.
  
  Combat is really fun and controls are simple but not too simple, cover works great and isn't hard 
 to get into or out of, you can shoot with out raising your head above cover and you wont get hurt 
 but if you need an accurate shot you need that bit of extra aim. This game is a really good game 
 that makes you think about tactics, like, where cover is found and running with your co-op partner 
 to the next cover. Guns modification is really good and makes a noticeable difference there is 
 a massive range of guns and modifications for pretty much all of them.
  
  Army of Two is a great game and worth a look at but just rent it overnight give it a play and you'll 
 finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa-Coolcat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  It was really good, the ai sucked, but it was generally fun. Nova Scotia rules. 1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; 
 an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis.1. Slang A fool; an idiot.
  2. Vulgar Slang A penis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Its about time. A game that finally attempts to make use of Xbox Live to have a co-op story. You 
 can play as one of two people: Rios or Salem - the private military wrecking crew that must combine 
 their elite talents to flip switches, open doors, and shoot terrorists in the head. In the campaign, 
 it is all about teamwork. If one of you is being the aggresor and attacking the enemy head on, 
 the other is flanking. When you partner is injured, drag his ass to saftey and heal him. Unfortunaley 
 the game is repetitive - and if Salem says "bro" one more time, I will shoot him myself.
  
  On the Positive side: the game is good in co-op...
  
  On the Negative side: .... but only good 
 in co-op. As well, both the enemy and your friend A. I. are sadly just dumb.
  
  In the End: the game is flawed and the A. I. is dumb, which is why it was meant to be played over 
 Xbox Live, but that means that you would both have to spend $120 total on this peice of mediocre 
 stuff! Go buy Rainbow Six Vegas 2 instead. It should be right at the top under similar games. If 
 only the version that was going to come out in November were better... guess we will never know.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prayer31
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game playing with a friend in the co-op. It kept me on my toes, and had some pretty 
 intense moments. Its really short, as you can finish this in one long night if you wanted to. I 
 didn't like the weapon choices, and the sound effects other then the mini-gun all sound like the 
 same weapon. The graphics were on par with most other shooters. The multiplayer is a little chaotic. 
 I had difficulty trying to figure out where to do, and who to shoot at quite a bit, and if your 
 partner doesn't want to work with you, its pretty much a guaranteed loss. The cut-scenes are fantastic, 
 some of the best I've seen in quite awhile, and the story is decent enough where I didn't laugh 
 at what I was watching. I'd recommend it if you like co-op play, I had quite a bit of fun playing 
 with my buddy. I then got store credit after going through it twice after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvt_parts_815
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  If i were to sum up Army of Two in one word, it would have to be badass. when i first put in the 
 game and started playing, i had said to myself, "o geez, what did i just buy?!" but soon realized 
 that it was actually incredibly fun. Once you get used to the controls, you'll be kickin' some 
 terrorist butt and taking names along the way. Anyways, what im trying to get at here is that the 
 game grows on you, you just need to get past that training level. Once thats over with you'll be 
 having loads of fun and breaking faces.
  
  The story is actually really good in Army of Two. My first impression was, great, this is just 
 going to be a run and gun game with no story, but thats not the case here. Army of Two's story 
 grows on you and is actually a lot deeper than it seems. The only thing that bothered me about 
 the story was that it was WAY too short. After i beat the game, i said to myself, Why?! Why did 
 this awsomeness have to end" i really wanted to keep playing, but soon realized REPLAY VALUE!! 
 The levels in the game are so fun, even though they are a bit reptitive, and also, i realized i 
 could play through the game again so that i could purchase new masks, guns, and upgrades. The weapons 
 and upgrades in the game, A+. All of the guns in this game are so awsome, and are even cooler with 
 their upgrades (especially when you pimp somehitng out) . I must say, the upgrading system was very 
 well done, and supreme-o awsome. 
  
  The last thing i want to talk about is the multiplayer. I found it alright, but only if your playing 
 with a friend becasue remeber, its 2v2. The game types were interesting and fun, but the 2v2 bothered 
 me a little bit. Basically, im saying that i would only play this game if i was playing with someone 
 on my friends list. The other thing that bothered me about multiplayer was that i couldnt take 
 the guns and upgrades from single player and use them in multiplayer. Other than the 2v2 and the 
 no single player guns-upgrades transfer, the multiplayer is solid.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is a great game, and i am still enjoying it. this is definately worth the 
 buy. This game definately earns a 9 /10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Espano3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  In the world of gaming, co-op games are now starting to spread out like birds flying to the south 
 in the winter. This game is by far, the flag-ship of co-op gaming, not even the brilliant Gears 
 of War can match the co-op play in this game.
  
  Now you may wonder how Army of Two can be better in co-op then Gears, let me put it simply. If 
 you want to complete the game with your friend, you need all the teamwork that's possible. You 
 have a pretty much new function called Aggro. Aggro is used in this way: One is attracting the 
 attention of the enemies, while the second guy is invisible for a brief period of time, making 
 him able to strike from behind. This function is vital if you are going to take out heavy armored 
 enemies and some bosses. You must also watch the health of yourself and your partner while in combat. 
 If the partner get's hit to often, he will be hurt and will slowly die. While in that period, you 
 can drag him at a safe spot and heal him untill he is healed. Co-op snipe is also a new function, 
 where you and your partner synchronous snipe two enemies, making infiltration more easier and etc. 
 It's too bad that it's not used that often, but when you use it, it makes the teamwork more pleasent.
 
  
  But there is one problem if you are playing with the computer as a partner. The AI on your partner 
 is more dumber then Paris Hilton. No joke. When i was hurt and needed treatment, the computer dragged 
 me all the way back in the level to just heal me. Sometimes your commands won't help at all. And 
 the computer is also reckless and pretty much not listening to you most of the time, which is a 
 problem in the synch-snipe parts, due to the fact that he can suddenly rush if you are not fast 
 enough to give him the hold command. It's frustrating and it ruins alot of the potenional fun.
 
  
  It also got a online player mode where you work with a random fellow (or a friend on your friend 
 list) , although, it's quite the same as the single player, which is good. You get to do some missions 
 to earn money, buy weapons in-game and last, but not at least, give you a challenge.
  
  The achievments in the game is way to easy to get. I just cleared the game once, and i allready 
 got 500 gamer points. If you are a achievment fan, the achievments here are not difficult, but 
 yet, if you want to brag about gamescore, look no further.
  
  All in all, this game is good, pretty good, and the game is at it's best with a friend, but alone, 
 you would probably stick to Gears of War or Bioshock, which are far more superior in single-player. 
 It's a pleasent ride for a short period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShockSplicer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Army of Two had a lot of potential. But potential is nothing if you don't do anything with it. 
 For example, the highly touted "Banter" system, well, it's barely there. And although the AGGRO 
 system works well, the AI itself is well below par. Whenever you get "downed" by the enemy, your 
 buddy picks you up and drags you to cover, where he then heals you. At least he's supposed to. 
 But what he actually does is drag you to cover, then drag you back out, then back, and he never 
 stops! The gameplay is okay, but it feels like it was designed to be a lot more slow paced than 
 the game allows. The plot is also quite rubbish, and most of the characters are rather bland. Co-op 
 is actually pretty good, but that doesn't quite make up for single-player. Ah well. Just another 
 missed opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Army of Two was scheduled to release during that mad lineup of triple A titles during the holiday 
 season of 2007. EA smartly backed out of that match up and delayed it to March due to some review 
 magazines stating how broken it was. Nice thinking EA. However, it has finally been released and 
 now we have a much better product, one of which we can actually call a pretty damn fine game.
 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are beautiful. The lighting effects are dead on and the character models all look 
 great, mostly those of the main characters. You also are granted some fine tuned CG animated cut 
 scenes that portray the somewhat generic otherwise forgettable story. 
  
  THE STORY as I sated is pretty forgettable. Its not really bad at all, but with so many games revolutionizing 
 storytelling within games its kind of hard to even remember this specific story. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is damn good. This is the most co-op revolved shooter ever made aside from Gears of 
 War. Its co-op from the start, and whether you play it with a friend or not, you will never be 
 alone. The gunplay feels solid, and the gunfights are intense. If you get shot down in battle, 
 your partner will come over and drag you out of gunfire to safety while you are laying on the ground 
 shooting away at oncoming baddies. He'll patch you up and get you on your way. You will also use 
 a feature called "step up" to reach higher places and once you get up you pull your partner up 
 with you. Or, grab a shiled and your partner will automatically fall in behind you with guns ablaze. 
 And this will happen even if your playing with an A. I. partner. This is seriously what we would 
 call a "buddy" game. Everything revolves around you and your partner, and you will rely on him 
 more than anything. The A. I. is pretty intelligent here. There some minor hiccups here and there 
 when your buddy will play stupid, but other than that they seem well aware of what is going on. 
 You also earn money to customize your guns, or purchase new ones. This is an addicting feature 
 that will have you replaying missions mainly to earn more money to get that nice .50 cal you were 
 eyeing earlier. You get to upgrade them with more barrels, silencers, extended clips, shields, 
 or pimp that b***h out. "Pimp it out" you say? Indeed, thow on some gold or platinum on the damn 
 thing to increase your aggro levels. The main flaw with the gameplay here is the fact that the 
 game is short and at times, it seems to get somewhat repetative. Other than that, its nails it 
 pretty well in the right spots.
  
  THE SOUND is well done. It supports great voice acting, nice sound effects, and the nice addition 
 of your two comical main characters. These guys mouth off so much its hilarious. Some find them 
 annoying, I find them to actually have a personality. And thanks to their dialogue, these guys 
 have made a name for themselves and developed a personality. 
  
  OVERALL the game is great with the occasional hiccups here and there but they are far from major. 
 The biggest hit this game took was the game length. You can finish it off quickly, but as I said, 
 it will have you coming back to earn more cash to upgrade your weapons. I am real glad to see a 
 new IP such as this and to see it come out just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is all about the co-op action. This game really on becomes fun when playing with a 
 friend or family member or some random guy you met on the street. 
  
  The game is about two ex-marines who after leaving the army joined a private military company in 
 which they do jobs for the US army and in return they get payed...... alot. The single player campaign 
 with an AI partner will take you about 6-8 hours while with a friend you could probably do it in 
 5-7 hours. The game is pretty hard due to the sheer numbers of enemies that will confront you at 
 one time. The cool part though is all the things you can do with your ally. You can have him stay 
 behind cover and shoot thus having all enemies focus fire on him while you sneak around and punch 
 them out. Or you grab a shield while your friend go behind you and picks off the enemies that are 
 firing at you. Probably the best part of the game is the weapon system, as you complete objectives 
 in the game you make money and you can use that money to buy new weapons. There is a huge choice 
 of weapons to buy and you can upgrade them in so many ways. Like buy a bigger barrel, or larger 
 clip, make it pimped out in gold, or give it a shield at the front. So much to do which is probably 
 the only good thing about this game.
  
  
  The game does have alot of problems even though the weapon system is nice. First of all they touch 
 on some pretty deep issues like 9/11 which alot of people are still getting over. People dont need 
 to be reminded about it while playing games. Also the story is pretty weak half the games story 
 is just these two guys going on missions and one of them thinks that someone is leaking information 
 to the enemies. Then the second half is just rescues and alot of cursing. The story really doesnt 
 go that deep which is disappointing. Finally it all get repetitive fast, its just run behind cover 
 have your partner get agro then u just run around them all and kill them. 
  
  
  Multiplayer: not much to say only one game type in it. Basically you and your partner ( could be 
 someone next to you or some random guy) go around and complete objectives around the map like assassinate 
 someone, or destroy some object. Whenever you complete one you get money and at the end of them 
 game the side with the most money wins. Really isnt that rewarding although it is fun for th first 
 hour or so. 
  
  
  All in all this game is worth a rent atleast. If your friends arent into shooters or video games 
 in general then you might not want to get this cause the game is really only fun with a friend. 
 Multiplayer will keep you busy for 2-3 hours while the campaign about 6-8 hours so in totaly look 
 for about a 10 hour game. It was a good idea but the lack of a great story, tough issues, long 
 loading screens, and a weak multiplayer make this game a somewhat disappointment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cripplerxx8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Good five level Campaign with a huge arsenal of customizable weapons which u can bling out (literally) , 
 Multiplayer flaw is with the players and their tendency to quit out when their losing and this 
 results in no experience for you. You run around a map with your partner killing enemy AI and the 
 two other players to earn cash. But thats pocket money. Objectives pop up after another is completed 
 or failed and give you the real moolah. You start with the same basic weapons but weapon crates 
 let you buy different packages of weapons. The melee can be a bit frustrating at times. If you 
 get hit with the melee the other players can just shoot you while you get up and then you have 
 to get revived by you partner. Its also fair to note that aggro doesnt really play out in the multiplayer 
 as it does in the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  So lets get things right off the bat!
  
  To be honest, the game looked a lot more fun on the trailers then the actual game play itself; 
 which seems to be the trend for over-hyped video games (... and movies!) that don't live up to their 
 expectations; H3 anyone?
  
  Granted, the mechanics of the game look great on paper but in action Army of Two doesn't seem to 
 exceed in any aspect to make the game particularly unique. I like the idea of building a game around 
 a CO-OP campaign but the more I played through the game the more I found things I didn't like at 
 all. 
  
  First of all, Army of Two is visually weak, with other great titles out there with and withOUT 
 the Unreal engine I felt somewhat disappointed when it got past the START screen. The cut scenes 
 were a lackluster bust with stiff character models and stale scenery, I felt that the cut scenes 
 actually detracted from the whole experience and I cringed every time they started. Watching them 
 wasn't very interested at all and very informative to boot, you could practically skip every scene 
 and play the game through without ever stopping to think.
  
  Which brings up the next issue, there really isn't much to do other then get from Point A-to-B 
 with the occasional "Hey, if you do this you can get more money,... but you don't really have to 
 do, just thought I'd let you know," scenarios. There's no real urgency to do anything in the game 
 except to get from scene to scene and for the most part its not a very interesting plot line to 
 follow. 
  
  The main protagonist in the game, Tyse and Rios, are quite a pair and are actually something worthy 
 to note. I especially liked the polar opposites these two represented and how they interacted with 
 each other and their surroundings. They play off each other nicely and the chemistry between the 
 two doesn't seem forced in any way, its like playing through a buddy-flick, never mind the AI buddy 
 when you have to play alone.
  
  Game play wise: it looks like Gears of War, plays like a clunky version of it, and a most times 
 it feels like the game is too forgiving and... limited. I don't like the fact that I can blast thousands 
 of rounds of ammunition just to have the enemy conveniently drop a Murse ("Man Purse") of ammunition. 
 I was also disappointed with the whole Back-To-Back scenes which just felt too forced. Some of 
 the aiming mechanics just didn't seem right and I officially have to state that using shotguns 
 in the game (while running) are completely useless. I also have to add that some things they showed 
 in the trailers have been nixed, for example the resuscitation and the lifter-truck buddy-ups; 
 but EA swears that it is to help along with the (unusual) pacing of the game. 
  
  Army of Two's AI reminds me of the 50-50-90 rule, which goes as follows: "If there's a 50-50 chance 
 of getting the answer right there's a 90 percent chance of you getting it wrong." It works sometimes 
 but for the most part you're literally an Army of One. In the instance of needing assistance to 
 heal the AI buddy would on more then one occasion leave out to dry, get stuck, get stuck trying 
 to drag me, or wouldn't respond at all. It wasn't very reliable at all on the 'Professional' setting 
 ("Hardest setting") . 
  
  The Enemy AI isn't all that great either is pretty predictable, you're usually given a handful 
 of masked and unmasked enemies who really don't seem to be very keen on tactics and in instances 
 where you think they AI's got you its usually a fluke and hardly ever happens again. The variety 
 of enemies is far and few between and even then they're not very challenging. It doesn't give you 
 the incentive to really have another player with you because you can quite literally breeze (or 
 run) through ALL the scenarios by yourself until you reach the climatic boos battle at the end 
 of the stage.
  
  The online feature however is a different beast... when it plays properly.
  
  The games I've 
 played online were a TERRIBLE experience, I think I've only completed a ratio of 3:7 games because 
 the game was horribly laggy. Now, generally I'd let it slide but with games like Halo 3 and Call 
 of Duty 4 out there where you're doing up to 16 people at a time Army of Two struggles with only 
 4! One for you and Two for the opposing side, 4! 2-on-2!! It was really depressing actually, I 
 was really looking for something redeemable from this game ESPECIALLY since it was delayed. WHEN 
 it DOES PLAY decently online it is quite fun but like the theme of this Army of Two review: It's 
 too far and too few to actually enjoy.
  
  Army of Two provides you a linear and mind-numbing third-person action game that if you can manage 
 to get somebody else to play with you is actually enjoyable. For the most part I'm not particularly 
 pleased with the presentation of the final product. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1712
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is fun with TWO people, unless your online with a buddy in VS mode. The story is basically 
 two guys named salem and rios who got into the army and someone on the team betrays you and you 
 have to kill him but get through a bunch of people and bosses first. The vehicles are boat and 
 car. This game is online co-op and Vs mode. The Modes in vs mode is Warzone, extraction, and... well 
 thats all I rememeber. You can customize weapons or buy new masks for your character which makes 
 you look awesome. Playing the story mode alone sucks so you better have some friends that own this 
 game or else. You can choose in between both the characters salem and rios, but they're not different. 
 This game is a good game but I would say rent it first to see if you like it and once again... HAVE 
 A BUDDY TO PLAY WITH YOU. 
  
  Sound/Music: 7.5 
  
  Graphics: 9.0 
  
  Gameplay: 8.9 
  
  Overall: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8erHeadshot
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Ever since Gears of War came out in '06, we have been treated to alto of third and first person 
 shooters with cover, blind-fire, etc. EA Montreal takes a shot at the genre with Army of Two, a 
 Co-Op action shooter with some awesome features, too bad the good outweighs the bad.
  
  First, the Single-Player. The title says it all, you are an Army of Two, work for a private military 
 doing for what the US Army Can't / Won't do. Every says the story takes place over 18 years, it 
 doesn't, it is all mainly post 9/11 terrorist warfare. Which brings me to the story, which I will 
 say built up in the end, and then fell on it's face, with a weird feel. "Boss" Terrorists with 
 giant Gatling guns, and enemies with bombs strapped to them, make warfare seem cheesy. If you want 
 a realistic story, that keeps you entwined, you will be disappointed. It's full of conspiracy theories, 
 and small plot twists.
  
  What you will stay for is the awesome two player Co-Op moments, which are wicked awesome and creative. 
 Parachuting into enemy territory, with you partner picking off troops with a sniper. Or going Back 
 to Back, providing cover for each other and a cool slo-mo sequence. The problem is the good moments 
 are few and far between, however. 
  
  The non Co-Op moments, where it boils down to base gameplay, is different at best. It is simple 
 point and shoot, take cover, blind-fire, rinse, repeat. If there is one game where would want to 
 go Rambo on, and just shoot anything that moves, this would be it, but sadly no. You can get cut 
 down in a heartbeat if you don't work with your partner with something called aggro. Basically, 
 one person attracts the enemy's attention, so the other person can "sneak" and flank. The one who 
 has the more attention is shown on a meter, and character turns this bright, almost "over-shieldy" 
 red shade, which just kills the realism for me. The other, turns invisible, at least it looks like 
 it. Every time you sneak over, you may take down 1 guy before you all guns are pointed right at 
 you, and your blown into bite-size bits.
  There is a healing mechanic, and it is what it sound, nothing amazing. Just drag the wounded and 
 heal them.
  
  The graphics for a third-person shooter are amazing, never a dull moment......... when you play, 
 I'll get to what I mean in a sec.
  
  
  Also, level design is pretty bland in most areas, standard dirt, rocks and run-down factories. 
 (SMALL SPOILER ALERT) The airport level trashed up by a hurricane I though was pretty neat though. (SMALL 
 SPOILER ALERT OVER )
  
  
  The cover system is just leaning against cover with your left thumb stick, but you don't get in 
 cover, you have to kind of guess when you are in cover. It's obvious why this is bad, you think 
 your nice and safe, and then your down, screaming for your partner to safe you.
  
  A. I is decent, it gets what It has do get done, but it never really does what you say to do, it 
 does the mission objective. And I noticed when I need to be healed, the AI would drag me away to 
 No Mans Land to heal me. The story is enjoyable with a friend, and is apparent it was designed 
 that way.
  
  The cutscenes are mind-blowing good, but when there should be out-of game cutscenes (last level 
 boss fight, for example) there aren't, and where there shouldn't be great cutscenes (Opening a 
 door, moving a box, wtf?) there are.
  You can "Pimp" out weapons, but only use them in single player/Co-Op.
  
  Main problem however, 
 game length, average gamer can knock it down in about 7-8hrs tops, that's with shooting for bonus 
 objectives.
  
  Muti-player is good, two on two with AI help/ enemies, and both teams fighting over assassinating 
 a target, or escorting something is fun, but with only for maps currently, and 3 variants on the 
 game mode, you will turn heel and go back to COD4, and, of course, Rainbow Six 2, within a day 
 or two.
  
  Overall, at least rent it, it is a blast to play with a friend, but that is about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-CRACK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  My first take on the fame was a bit of a "Gears of War" feel but because of the graphics. But once 
 I began to play the game I began to realize that it does has a few similarities to GoW, but its 
 not as good... because of AI and a few other minor things. Honestly, the games these guys rate 
 at 6.5-7.5 are the games i look for, because these cats are like the Stephen A. Smith (s) of video 
 games... Totally over exaggerating every aspect of the game that they do not like...
  Anyway, back to AoT... The game is short, but it is indeed entertaining... I have not played the 
 easy more, I am unlocking the hardest level of competition, to see how that is... 
  If you like FPS's and you like constant, non-stop shooting, this is the game for you... I mean, 
 2 guys taking on (though they aren't the smartest) armies, by your lonesome... Nuff, said, the 
 shooting is NON-STOP! There, could have been about an extra 10-12 hours of play moss deff, but 
 I know, if there is a sequel, I will not think about getting it, ESPECIALLY IF THESE GUYS GIVE 
 IT A 7 rating...
  Basically, go get the darn game... I have yet to participate, but I hear the online is awesome... 
 I have played 2 player co-op, and it is a heck of a experience...
  
  GO GET THE GAME... IF YOU ONLY LIKE ARMED FORCES SHOOTERS, it probably won't suite you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBubbs
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Everything sucked about the game. Honestly, they could of been on to something with the premise 
 of a co-op tactical where one can draw the fire from the AI and the other can go stealth, but they 
 failed to build on it. The mechanics of the game are very choppy from the sniper rifle which sucks 
 because you can't shoot from cover and the AI has magnificent aim from the same distance with regular 
 assult rifles, all the way to how the AI falls after getting shot, very simular to GTA 1. Whomever 
 said this was next gen must have just put down a Turbo Grafix 16. The online play was the worst!! 
 There is no rhyme or reason to it. I swear, that this was one of the worst experiences in gaming 
 that I've had in a while. I can't wait until they introduce a shooter, first or third, to rival 
 Halo 3. Buy the way, every board is the same, I forgot where the hell I was and what the hell I 
 was trying to accomplish! I'm glad I only rented it. Even Fuel of War was better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danijami23
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I remember when the PS3 wasn't even out yet, this game was on my 'most anticipated games ever' 
 list. It was put across as a very gritty, clever game with revolutionary AI, levels that required 
 tactical thinking, and an exhilirating story. Unfortunately the end result is an average game with 
 a pain in the arse for a partner (unless a friend picks up a pad) , a basic cover system, and a 
 bunch of dudes to kill. Also, I have put a little list of Pros and Cons at the end if you can't 
 be bothered with my ramblings.
  
  I'll start this. The graphics are superb. The cutscene graphics are even better.
  
  The first 
 level of the game is quite a good tutorial giving you a very easy-to-follow explanation of all 
 the mechanics, such as the aggro system, which is admittedly pretty clever - the bigger and shinier 
 your gun, the more you will be shot at. Grenades help too. While that may seem simple the results 
 you get are very cool, whereby your mate will be in  
 mode, while you can sneak (well, more walking whilst crouched) round and flank your enemies, allowing 
 you to eliminate large groups of enemies fairly quickly. Another feature is Overkill; If you have 
 the aggro it gives you DamageX2 for a limited time, and if your partner has the aggro, you can 
 become invisible to your enemies for a short time. Other than the basic 'point at this, now fire, 
 now throw this' Tuts, the level also teaches you about team actions and, moves on to cover; nothing 
 new, think gears of war. 
  
  Then you get to the story. Oh Dear. the plot in the following levels is so crap, and the main characters, 
 Salem and Rios, are really annoying. Not only are they the BooYah type army blokes now stereotypical 
 to anything military, they have no depth, and to top it all, the repeated samples of voice acting 
 wear on your sanity like a dripping tap. I won't divulge too far into the specifics of the plot, 
 you can find that out yourself, but the whole thing just seems like a load of events, followed 
 by a really predictable 'twist' that rios was whining about, contrary to Salem's skepticism. That 
 said, the levels are quite fun, and the guys with dynamite strapped to them are really funny.
 
  
  One cool feature they put into the game that i found quite fun, if a little arcadey, was the weapons 
 shop. This allows you to nip into a NFS style shop where you can basically pimp out your weapons 
 with snazzy upgrades, such as barrels, stocks, magazines, gold plating etc. You can also buy new 
 weapons, masks, and armour (though the armour upgrades are unlocked, not purchased) . Other than 
 adding specs to your weapons, these upgrades pretty much serve to increase your aggro.
  
  
  Finally, there is the multiplayer modes. These are great. they are very fast paced and action 
 packed, and will give you pretty much the only reason to come back once the game has been completed. 
 There are three types; Warzone, Extraction, and Bounties. Warzone provides random objective which 
 must be completed, and vary from defending/attacking positions, extracting wounded comrades, blowing 
 up stuff etc. Extraction is the same as Warzone, but you have to save a VIP and take him to a safe 
 location. I haven't played bounty yet, so I can't really comment. Character customization is not 
 possible like in Single Player, but you can buy preset weapon packs, upgrade your body armour and 
 amount of ammo you can carry. Players need to be careful while shopping though, because it might 
 affect the outcome of the match, since the team with the most cash at the end wins.
  
  All in all, Army of Two is a good laugh, with good Coop, good multiplayer, and a few little quirks 
 and features which are not present in other games of its type. I would recommend this to anyone 
 who likes shooters, but hardcore gamers may have cause for complaint. And Finally finally, here 
 is my sum up
  
  Pros:
  
  Amazing Graphics
  Great to play coop, the actions you can perform make for interesting tactics.
  Varied and exciting 
 multiplayer modes make you want to play the game again.
  Customizing your weapons is a clever feature, and makes your weapons rather deadly.
  The choice 
 of masks is cool.
  The suicide bombers are hilarious.
  Shooting things is always fun.
  
  
  Cons:
  
  The campaign is too short and too easy, and to top it, you have to unlock 
 hard mode.
  The story really sucks, and is really obvious.
  The cover system is a bit of a pain sometimes.
  There are one too many loading screens for my 
 liking, and they are rather lengthy.
  The single player partner AI is thicker than lumpy custard.
  Multiplayer only works in your region 
 (at time of writing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two received a lot of hype, and seems to be a big let down according to Gamespot and their 
 review. The story could of used more work, but it still had a current and relevant issue that goes 
 through to not a politically correct but somewhat Hollywood "we'll be back" sequel hinting end. 
 The game starts off kinda silly explaining the aggro system, and also the way the two main characters 
 look as Army Rangers before they join their Private Military Company - SSC, but after the first 
 mission the game flows very well. I liked this game, and it has its flaws, but for what I think 
 EA was trying to accomplish (giving you an action based co-op shooter for you and a buddy, or just 
 someone you know online) it did well. AOT (my shortform for the rest of the review) was not the 
 best looking game I've played on the 360, but it still had some impressive visuals in the way of 
 lighting (especially the noticeable transition from light to dark places) and some nice rain and 
 blood effects. The sound was also nice, especially the gun sounds, and the music was nice although 
 pretty repetitive. The gameplay itself is not fully realized when played solo, and although you 
 have the option to play it through with an AI buddy (and get an achievement for doing so) , AOT 
 really shines when you play it with a human counterpart (online or split screen) . I've finished 
 the game on two of the three difficulties and it still has replay value for me. It's a great two 
 player game with lots of cool guns to buy and upgrade, and when played tactically using leapfrog 
 "cover and movement" it becomes really fun and rewarding. The enemy in the game can be a bit overpowered, 
 and that can make the game a bit frustrating, but if you stop, take cover, and AIM BEFORE YOU SHOOT 
 (hint there gamespot) , you can take them on from a distance with ease. If the enemy is too far 
 away, or well covered, this is when your buddy with the machine-gun (or if its you) gives lots 
 of cover fire and you flank them and either take them out with your weapon or just smash them with 
 one of the many melee attacks. Another thing that I liked about AOT where some of the little elements 
 that where cool for a third person shooter - including the customizing your character and weapons, 
 the aggro meter which allows one guy to move stealthy when the other draws fire, and healing your 
 buddy by dragging him into cover (where you the dragger can shoot with one arm and your buddy in 
 need of first aid can shoot while being dragged) . AOT is a short game, and if you don't like playing 
 through games more then once, it may be good enough just to rent for a weekend. If you have a friend 
 to play this game with, you might want to go through it a few times to get all the achievements 
 and to also kick some ass co-op style online. So go load up, and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up after seeing the trailer for it about 3 months back. I was glad to break 
 away from the FPS's I had been playing for the last 2 months and with Army of Two I was not disappointed. 
 For starters the visuals on this game are brilliant although not quite COD4 they are great especially 
 on parachuting through Afghanistan. The campaign itself is quite good but is REALLY short (I finished 
 it in a night) which does pose a problem if your only planning on playing the campaign. However 
 the campaign is very re playable (I'm on my 6th run through) with the added incentive of achievements 
 and upgrading your weapons. This is another excellent part about this game is that you can upgrade 
 your weapons both during and after missions which can make a big difference especially towards 
 the end of the game. This also brings greater variety to the weapons on the game that are already 
 quite diverse. The gameplay is great with intense firefights and sniping aspects. The multiplayer 
 is very good and will probably dominate your time playing this game. Overall I would say this is 
 an impressive game with good gameplay and fun multiplayer - a must buy if you love co-oping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a mixture of Call Of Duty 4 and Gears Of War and a sprinkle of Battlefield 2. So 
 if your a fan of those game, Army Of Two is probably the next game you should be looking to buy.
 
  
  The biggest disappointment in Army Of Two is the stupid AI and the annoying sniper rifle. The AI 
 in Army Of Two are rather pathetic as they shoot you from distances and as you proceed to run over 
 to them, they stay foot and shoot, shoot, shoot until you eventually get there only for them to 
 do the close combat animation or run into a wall... very intelligent. As for the AI that'll be 
 on your team during Single Player if you don't have another friend to play with, let's just say 
 the back of the game's boxart is a lie, it does not act like a 'Live' player but in fact acts like 
 a blindman who's never played a game in his life... well maybe not that bad, but it just doesnt 
 beat the feeling of the Gears Of War AI on your team.
  The second problem is the sniper rifle, it's inaccurate, too powerful, and is mostly as the primary 
 weapon on Xbox Live rather than the assault rifle that should be mostly used. Fair enough it's 
 great to use a sniper now and then, but not all the way throughout the game when you know it's 
 basically a one-hit-kill weapon.
  
  If you manage to ignore those problems and get along with the game, you'll find yourself with perhaps 
 a true next-gen game, the co-op is great, the Xbox Live is intense if what annoying at times, and 
 it just shows other game that co-op is needed more in games and shouldn't be forgotten. Army Of 
 Two is worth what it costs, even if it does lack here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dleedude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games. The online is horrible, if you dont play with a freind over xbox 
 live! On Recruit Difficulty, eh, you really can just run through levels with little team work, 
 but on professional, it does what it was suppost to do, you will DIE if you dont use teamwork. 
 I personally see no flaw within this game, people such as gamespot cant stand different! The graphics 
 and everthing looks good except for two things.
  
  1. Glass Doesnt Break!
  2. Well, When You Dock The Hover Boat Thing It Looks Really Old-Gen
  
  Other than that, every 
 moment is amazing, the story makes me want to keep playing, the characters look awsome, online is 
 fun Only flaws i see is
  
  1. If you dont have Xbox Live, or any type of online play, i wouldnt buy, but rent, no matter how 
 good it looks to you, considering this game has 6 levels, 1-5 all take about 1.5 Hours but the 
 last level,6, takes 2-3 hours.
  2. The Game is ONLY fun with a real live player, so if you have no freinds, social life, then well 
 go shoot yourself, or dont even get this game, hehe.
  
  Overall: If you dont really read reviews ill sum it all up
  
  1. If you have no freinds, dont 
 buy, rent, anything, playing with NPC SUCKS
  2. Recruit Difficulty Requires Very Little teamwork, Professional Difficulty is best, contractor 
 is good for beginners i'd Assume, though i havent played it.
  3. RENT dont BUY if you have no online play, online is only fun over live
  4. Expect not to play 
 this games online if you dont have freinds who play over live, multiplayer Sucks with Strangers, 
 Freinds make teamwork process over live play go much smoother, and you might just win! Have Fun!
 
  
  Suggestion: If you are good at shooters, then just go into professional Difficulty, its not hard 
 if you play with a freind you can work well with, you dont die easily either 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinand21
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Descent graphics, beautiful cut-scenes. Sloppy gameplay. The weapon models appear to have been 
 made for a PS2 or Xbox1. I would say they are less polished than the original Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 The character models are pretty good. The customization of weapons feels very limited. Even though 
 their are a few different areas to upgrade you choices lackluster. There are no scopes or red dot/laser 
 sights to upgrade to whatsoever. 
  It appears as if the designers got lazy. With so much time in development they should all quit 
 their jobs and jump from a bridge. If you want a good 3rd person shooter get the club, if you wanna 
 drop $60 on an amazing shooter get COD4 or wait for R6Vegas 2. The gameplay is very unforgiving, 
 the enemies come in huge swarms, you are consistently waiting to be revived and the AI sucks. This 
 game is lousy and i want my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Aot is where you play as two contractors rios and salem and you work for a company called ssc until 
 you find out what they are up two and play '6 yes 6' levels to stop a man named dalton and his 
 loyal slave phillip clyde to privatise the military so them become poewrful and you work with a 
 women named alice murray to stop them and eventually you do and ends up leaving this open for another 
 game, oh and during the game you do objectives to get money to buy new weapons or mask and also 
 whilst in the game you can show your pleasure to your partner with a high five or air guitar solo 
 or you can show your agression by headbutting them or smacking them .
  
  to be honest this is kinda like sour milk and mouldy cheese and yes i know your saying that doesn't 
 go together well it doesn't and neither does this game
  
  
  despite what iv'e been saying this really is a good game with good enlightning graphics this does 
 do quite a few good things for you to do as you can play it over and over again until you find 
 it quite boring but hey you get to pimp your guns and kill people, so what can be better than that 
 you say
  
  
  Well really alot could be better despite all the set backs and delays this really is a off the 
 topic game while its been put in maybe a bit too early to compete with the new games coming out 
 such as the new rsv and is the complete opposite to that online game with only 2on2 poor online 
 play as it becomes quite a drag of a game. so really this isn't a must buy game but is a game that 
 could of been something but as footie commentators say "they never even came out to play the first 
 half and gave quite a poor performance" and that is really what this game feels like as it really 
 is a deep pool of absolute despair and tears of death with this game maybe leading someone to even 
 kill them selves AAAARGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is a game that resembles gears of war at first glance. But after a while of playing 
 it the differences really start to show, for example you character is no longer mangetized to cover 
 when he is hiding against a wall to take cover, you just walk right up to the wall and your character 
 just automaticaly hides up against the wall and takes cover. but that doesnt mean that you are 
 fully protected from enemies, there are times when you take cover and enemies will shoot at you 
 and you will still get hit. and the playtime during the maps are really short so when you are getting 
 into the action you stare at a loading screen again. the sounds of the guns are as real as can 
 be and feel realy tough. thebiggest flaw that gives Army of Two a really big hit to the face is 
 the fact that its extremely short. like your playing the game and at the end yo ukill a guy and 
 you think who was that. the driving in the main game involves you driving a hovercraft trying to 
 get from one end of the map to the other, this part is really disapointing in the single player 
 mode because you can ony drive the hovercraft not acually handle the mounted gun atached to it. 
 in singe player the teamate AI for the most part does a fairly good job at playing the game but 
 some of the bad qualities involve healing you at a clealy dangerous spot or not healing you at 
 all, he dosnt pick up riot sheilds either. then there is the shop system in the game. throught 
 levels you earn money wich you use at the shop. at the shop you buy weapons and upgrades for them 
 whitch is actually really fun, seeing how much you can pimp out your weapons. all in all Army of 
 two is basicaly an alternative two Gears of war with better mechanis but shorter gameplay. so if 
 you played Gears of War and thought it wasnt that fun. give Army of Two a whurl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMTAURUS42
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game to be the best new thing; a whole new game play style, interactive, 
 multi-player buddy system. But in the end, it's just Gears of War with a new story line and about 
 8 months of programing improvements. All-in-all a good game, particularly if you didn't get into 
 Gears, but it felt warmed over and re-served. At times the story seems to jump around and leave 
 you wanting more. If the developers are thinking about adding content down the road and expanding 
 the "single/double player" story line, this could be a good thing. If the game grows old and dies 
 in the next two months, it is a bad thing.
  There were story points I called out two levels before they happened, and the ending left a HUGE 
 plot hole open for a sequel. Which is good because you do end up liking or hating the various characters 
 and villains. Good points on the story line, they don't pull any punches, you are going to Afghanistan 
 just after September 11th. None of the usual PC "op-for" or "UnNamedAstan" country's of other games.
 
  My final verdict, rent it before you buy it. If you like it, you'll want to own it. If not, you 
 can beat it in a week end with a friend; at least that's how I did it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHEDeep
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Army of Two
  
  Storyline - 4/10
  Honestly the storyline was so dull I hardly payed any attention to it at all. The gist of it is 
 you and your friend (or AI) are two budding soldiers with an arrogant and childish attitude completing 
 tasks for instance assassination and protecting people for some organization set in present time 
 during the war in Iraq.
  
  My facts may not be completely straight, but with this game I don't think it matters all that much.
 
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  Unfortunately you only have 6 missions to complete, but they go on for a good hour or so. You have 
 an ultimate goal for each mission but along the way you get smaller goals like talking to a pilot, 
 blowing up a bridge, defending a soldier etc. for money rewards.
  
  In the game you can shoot, lob grenades, snipe, melee attack, take cover behind a riot shield while 
 your partner tags behind shooting, take control of stationary machine guns and more. It's a shame 
 there's no lock on option, but that would be too easy. So you have to use both analog sticks to 
 walk and aim, you can get a closer look by holding down LB, only problem with this is if you're 
 taking cover and hold down LB you give away your position by popping up from behind cover. So if 
 you want to shoot without getting shot (hopefully) just aim and fire without holding down any shoulder 
 buttons, your character will shoot without looking with only his hand and gun peeping out from 
 cover.
  
  On Multiplayer the gameplay is incredibly easy to get the hang of and loads of fun is waiting to 
 be had as you team up with your buddy shooting up the bad guys.
  
  Unlike most shooters, this game has an element of stealth, tactics and team building to succeed.
 
  
  You and your partner can take advantage of a new concept called "Agro". You both have an agro meter 
 that swings your way when you have all the heat on you by causing a ruckus shooting up the place. 
 What this does is allow your partner to be almost invisible to sneak up behind your enemies (by 
 crouching behind objects, sliding into cover, dodge rolling, vaulting objects, hiding behind walls 
 etc.) and take them out unseen with ease. You need to use this technique when faced with heavily 
 armed soldiers that can only be eliminated with a shot in the back.
  
  You and your partner can interact loads by swapping weapons, co-op sniping, agro, step up (helping 
 each other up a wall) , parachuting, driving hover crafts and tanks plus some amusing gags in the 
 game include praising each other with high fives and air guitar solos plus teasing each other with 
 head butts and slaps on the back of the head.
  
  If you get stuck in the game you can just follow your handy GPS with the "Back" button, this displays 
 an orange arrow leading the way and now and again some text with details on your mission. 
  
  In certain parts of the game you will work together with your partner doing "back-to-back". 
 Your characters are fixed back to back while enemies surround you running and shooting at you in 
 slow motion, a fun and easy way to take out large amounts of enemies but can only be triggered 
 at certain story points.
  
  There's three ways to get a game over, if you fail the mission by running out of time, wrong timing, 
 both of you dying simultaneously or one dying and the other not being able to save them in time. 
 If your screen starts going red, dark and blurry that means your need to seek cover quick to regain 
 your energy.
  When you are badly injured your character falls to the ground and your partner has to run over 
 to heal you, they can drag you to cover as your shoot off the enemies that can interrupt the healing 
 process. Your partner has to find and heal you quickly otherwise you'll die and it will be a game 
 over for both of you.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the mid-mission shopping, you can earn money by completing 
 objectives or doing optional objectives/finding evidence. Both of you have your own money that 
 you can spend on Primary Weapons, Secondary Weapons, Special Weapons, Masks or Armour.
  You can also pimp your weapons by spraying them gold for $10,000 or adjusting the barrel, handle 
 etc.
  
  To be honest I have yet to play this game on Single Player since I'm playing it at a friends house, 
 but the idea is the same. You are a tag team with your AI buddy and you have to send them commands 
 with the directional arrows to take cover and take all the agro etc. This is one of the main reasons 
 this game has received a low score from GS, but it's seriously worth it if you can get a friend 
 to play with you, a new and interesting game for me, different from other shooters.
  
  Sound/Music - 7/10
  The sounds in this game are very realistic and really add to the game, make 
 sure you have that volume up to experience explosions, gun fire and the funny dialog that sometimes 
 pops up between the main guys.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  I'm new to the Xbox 360 and the graphics are stunning I have never seen such high quality, bright, 
 well lit, just all out amazing graphics for in game. Off the top of my head I don't think there's 
 any high quality FMVs. Start menu is very nice as well, it shows the two characters back to back 
 and quickly rotates matrix-like around them as you browse through the menu.
  
  Voice Acting - 6/10
  Very stereotypical voices and characters, but at least the voice actors 
 do a good job at keeping it that way.
  
  Difficulty - Medium/Hard
  Well balanced because you can select the level of difficulty, I've only been playing the easiest 
 level which is almost just right for me if not a little too easy, makes the game enjoyable and 
 not frustrating. Though I can imagine it would be unbearable with an uncooperative partner, like 
 an AI.
  
  Re playability - 8/10
  The game overall is very short (6 missions) so it's definitely something you'll be going back to 
 play again and again on all levels of difficulty.
  
  Overall - 8.5/10
  
  If only you will be playing Army of Two, then maybe this would be better on rental, but if you 
 have a friend to play it with then this is a definite must buy for the co-op abilities and team 
 work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  I have to tell you. I am simply. A Single Player gamer. I just brought this game from looking at 
 the cover. I had no idea it was a co op game. After a good hour of gameplay. I was blown away. 
 Graphically its best I have seen. The sound is high quality. Its a very indepth, single player 
 experience. The Artificial intelligence of the partner is very good. Each and every time without 
 fail. He covers me, or uses cover fire, or takes enemies out, when I take to much damage. He drags 
 me to cover to heal me. Always drags me to cover. The pimping weapons is great, as its huge replay 
 value upgradeing all the guns. The interaction between you and your partner is very emmersive. 
 From back to back shooting, from snipeing at same time, changing weapons. 
  
  Forget other reviews. This is my review from just a single player experience. And I wont mention 
 names of games. But most other games with just multiplayer, or co op. Are shallow experiences, 
 with just weak bots. But this game. To me. Is better than such games as gears of war, splinter 
 cell, rainbow six. This is total orignal game. Most games with AI. I dont care if they get shot, 
 as they just get stuck in doors and such. This partner. You really work together. You dont be lazy. 
 And just let him take all of the guys out. As he will die. So you realy help out. But also. You 
 dont just do all shooting yourself. OR you die. So you work together. Sometimes I go aggro, and 
 be offensive, and my partner, defensive, or we change and do opposite of that. 
  
  I brought a Xbox 360. And its my favorite next gen system. But i am tired of predictable games. 
 I also wanted a game to show amazing graphics. This has. This is a must buy game. Best game I have 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodgsonmang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  great gameplay, sick weapons and cool features. online is fun, campaing is great with a friend and 
 ok with the comp. not quite as good as COD4 but close. If you were smart you would probally rent 
 it first. it has Sick graphics and its just Crazyness so ya ya ya ya 1 of the best games i have 
 ever so ya mother paula .like holy crap i cant write a hundred words like wtf how will i write 
 a hundred words it will take me for ever cmon cmon cmon im almost there wait nope not yet there 
 we go nope not quite wait there done 1-0-0 words hells yeah bam bam every one party ya i didi it 
 woooooooo hoooooooooooo woooooooooooooooooo hoooooooooooooooo omg wtf now i need 800 letters give 
 me a break mmmmmmmmmmmmmm toast is done nope wait 40 more charecters yep im done yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 dayum that was hard right onnnnnnn biatch omg wtf your not aloud 25 letter words wtf wtf wtf **** 
 on gamespot i hate this **** screw everybody lalala wooo bye omg you cant say **** what type of 
 site is this **** it **** **** ****mother ****** ' s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harman_pavilion
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game ive ever played in my 
 life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game ive ever played 
 in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game ive ever 
 played in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game ive 
 ever played in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game 
 ive ever played in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best 
 game ive ever played in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The 
 best game ive ever playeits a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. The best game 
 ive ever played in my life!! d in my life!! its a cool game with great graphics. and awesome storyline. 
 The best game ive ever played in my life!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trintyofme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  i liked this game it had a fun CoOp but it was over before i could blink, i hope they make a second 
 with more of a story and more missions cause come on! Also the Guns where fun to play with but 
 they should have let you choose the bling factor a little more cause they got REALLY ugly haha. 
 other then that tho i did like how you could buy what ever gun you wanted and put upgrades on it 
 but why cant you pick up guns from people you kill? even if they let you do that then later on 
 you lost it at the end of the level that would have bin fine with me. I didnt play the online part 
 but i hear everyone comparing it with COD4, well first its not COD4 second its not even an FPS 
 so what the heck, but i guess it could be fun i just dont think two on two all the time would be 
 that good. so all in all this is a good game could have used some work to make it better but it 
 is worth playing if you like coop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeloman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best game's that i have played in a long time gamespot did not give it 
 a good review 6.5 or somthing wow come on the graphics are amazing the level that you are on a 
 ship and runing to the boat befor it sinks if you had a chance to look at the watter that was amazing 
 the watter looks so real they used a wave simulator on the watter (no joke) 
  sure if you are playing the game by your self your team mate is kindove dumb but whatever that 
 dose not matter. the fact that you can customize every weapon in the game is amazing. and that 
 you can PIMP every gun thats funny having a solid gold gun or silver. this game is just to good 
 to pass up alot may think that it is not worth a 10 but to me this is a great game great graphics, 
 and story is good not the best but it is worth a 10 for me. get this game if you do not have it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWhiteHawk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  I've tired this game out, and the multiplayer factor is EXCELLENT. This game was made to be played 
 with a friend, to be honest, so playing this alone and rating it without trying it out with a mate 
 will not do this game justice.
  
  More importantly, in the Gamespot review I see nothing except pure hatred for the game's subject 
 matter.
  
  WHO CARES IF IT'S A POLITICAL MATTER? The game is fun, and its one of the most cooperation based 
 games so far.
  
  The review says "You're not strong on your own".. Well, you're not supposed to, that's why it's 
 a COOP game. You're supposed to be strong when you COOPERATE.
  It also says that it's "A dumb take on a real issue". So what? There are all kind of retarded takes 
 on WW2 and that was a real issue as well. Just because Iraq is still a modern issue, doesn't mean 
 it is any less acceptable to use it as a background story.
  
  The only neutral issues in the "The Bad" section are the "short campaign" and the "sometimes stupid 
 AI". To be honest, when the game has good cooperative mechanics and fast paced online... then it 
 has achieved it's goals as a Cooperative Game, and it's worth a shot. Considering the graphics 
 and everything else, I have no idea how this game was given less than 7.5
  
  Bottom line: It's lame to try and take down a game just because it touches a sensitive subject 
 matter, such as Iraq. I never expected any of the reviews from the major gaming websites to bash 
 this game because of the background, but this review did, and it did so HEAVILY. As a matter of 
 fact, it was one of this review's main issues, and that is simply not fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_dawg84
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Incredibly well made game! The reviewers say's it is almost only good when playing co-op but I've 
 played it myself, with two friends and still haven't gotten tired of it Hope there will come a 
 sequel.
  The single player mode is great because it's so easy to tell your partner what he should do. You 
 can choose in what way he should do the three different choices like, attack, hold position or 
 following you. And by saying in what way he should do it is in either aggressive mode or neutral. 
 That is where Aggro-mode comes in. I personally appreciate the new mode because you always use 
 it as a distraction if there is a lot of enemies. One person can just blind-fire and the other 
 walk's around like an invicible man stealth killing the enemies. 
  The only several things that bothered me was when playing co-op and you had a detached shield your 
 partner sometimes lost grip of you and took damage. The game was also too short but the ending 
 was great therefore I hope a sequel will come.
  If you wanna feel macho then this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fLaMbOaStiN
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Do you love shooters that offer great story lines, easy going controls, and enjoyable game-play? 
 If you answered yes to any of these questions then "Army Of Two" is probably NOT for you! Well, 
 maybe I'm being just a little harsh, but seriously, I consider "Army Of Two" the biggest let down 
 so far this year! That's not to say "Army Of Two" doesn't do SOME things right though..
  
  First I'll start off with "Army Of Two"s plot.. You will play as one of two mercenaries (Rios and 
 Elliot) who are out to earn some quick cash and whoop ass! You'll fight terrorist, save lives, 
 and blow up nuclear warheads all within hours! You'd think getting cash to help out you're country 
 is like killing two birds with one stone; but you later learn that you're just a pawn in some evil 
 billionaires sick scheme.. So, maybe you aren't helping out you're country after all, but hey you're 
 still gonna get rich!
  
  The main thing that "Army Of Two"s trying to push hard on the gamer and what sets it away from 
 the other TPS is the "Aggro" effect. Aggro is achieved when you or you're partner AI are dealing 
 out the most damage. When you have Aggro you'll literally glow red and be the only one being shot 
 at by the enemy AI, while the other players "invincible", allowing him to sneak up and flank the 
 bad guys. It sounds like a nice addition, but its crowded with problems, one of them being when 
 you're partner has the Aggro and you try to sneak up on bad guy's you'll find yourself being shot 
 at and killed more then once..
  
  Along with Aggro is the "Overkill" mode, which will give the player with Aggro double the damage 
 he usually deals and the invincible player more stealth and speed.. Overkill is achieved when you 
 max out the Aggro bar or when the invincible player kills a horde of enemies. OverKill seems fun 
 and useful at first, but it too suffers from some faults, one of them being once you're in OverKill 
 mode you cant duck or take cover and you're pretty much stuck tanking a bunch of damage.
  
  The missions take you all over the globe, from caves to massive military boats and for the most 
 part they're fun! The levels are beautifully designed and offer plenty of cover to kill the abundant 
 enemy AI. If only everything in "Army Of Two" was as good as its environment
  
  Each mission has a main goal and a few sub-goals that will earn you cash to buy new guns, upgrade 
 them with bizarre add-ons, and even pimp them out with some "bling bling." The upgrades increase 
 the gun's damage, accuracy, boost the characters Aggro, and a few other things. The gun upgrades 
 are a nice touch, but once you've totally upgraded one gun you wont want to upgrade another.
  
  The enemy AI are sharp shooters, fast runners, and for the most part they actually seem like 
 their working together to bring you down. On the other hand you're partner AI is a pathetic shooter 
 who gets in the way and drags you from a safe cover to crossfire to heal you! If the game wasn't 
 titled "Army Of Two" I'd swear that the partner AI was working for the other team because he does 
 more damage to you then help.
  
  Everything in "Army Of Two" gets a bit repetitive quickly, beside the few times you actually work 
 as a team like when using a car door or riot shield to block bullets from your partner, or my favorite 
 part of the game, when going back to back. But even the Back to back and shield additions seem 
 forced, like someone just thought about them at the last minute and then decided to add them to 
 the game. I'm dumbfounded as why they're weren't more features like these through out the game, 
 or even more times you were allowed to use them.
  
  The riot shield and back to back additions I liked, but all the others seemed pointless. For example 
 the ability to hit your partner AI over the head when he does something wrong, or slap hands with 
 him when he does something you like, this feature doesn't actually do anything for you except waste 
 time. You can also swap guns with your partner AI for some reason too; which is something you'll 
 never have to do. The worse feature out of them all though has to be is the whole co-op snipe thing, 
 where you and you're partner snipe two different targets at the same time. If "Army Of Two" focused 
 on its gameplay like it did on all the pointless add-ons this game would probably be top notch!
 
  
  You'd think with all these different kinds of features that the controls would feel a bit overwhelming, 
 and they do! There are so many combinations of buttons you have to hit just to do this simplest 
 thing. I can't remember how many times I accidentally switched weapons with my partner when all 
 I really wanted to do was switch from my rifle to my secondary weapon. All these controls confused 
 the hell at of me, it took me until the end of the game to actually feel at home with them!
  
  The singleplayer is decent at best when played alone, and it gets a little bit better when 
 playing with a friend. The whole game only lasts 4-6 hours, but you might not even make it that 
 far because you'll get too frustrated with your moronic partner AI or you're friend playing with 
 you will get bored and want to play some Halo 3 instead. You'd think a game that offers only 4-6 
 hours of disappointments would at least have some mind-blowing multiplayer, but "Army Of Two" fails 
 to deliver that too.
  
  The multiplayer is defiantly a step up compared to playing through the campaign mode, and it actually 
 is pretty fun. But the fact that its impossible to pair yourself with a friend or play with anyone 
 outside of your country thanks to EA's dedicated servers really hurts the whole experience. There 
 is also only one multiplayer mode offered and its just like the singleplayer where you work with 
 a partner to complete objectives, make money, and if you wish kill the other two people your up 
 against. Even a deathmatch mode would be a plus, but it just isn't there
  
  So, "Army Of Two"s plus' are great graphics, beautifully designed levels and cut-scenes, and maybe 
 one or two other things that don't come to mind; and its flaws are pretty much everything else 
 in the game! The whole experience feels forced and broken, BUT, I also think "Army Of Two" is a 
 step in the right direction for future games because some of the features could be excellent if 
 they were improved on, including the Aggro system. All in all "Army Of Two" is something new to 
 play and once you beat it something new to trade in to Game Stop!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiburon1186
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Co-op is fun and the comic relief is quite amusing for the more lighthearted 
 folks. The single player campaign is rather short but the Aggro system works out amazingly. Just 
 having the ability to work with one of your friends is great. This game is severely underrated 
 by gamespot and i am really starting to question their criteria and methods of reviewing games. 
 Give this game a chance, Innovative online play, instead of the boring everyone kill everyone else 
 you need to fight with your teammate against another team to complete the most objectives and earn 
 the most money. Weapon customization is really cool, you can change clips, stocks, barrels, and 
 add silencers, shields and under barrel shotguns and grenade launchers to most weapons. And the 
 selection of weapons is phenominal. Everything from the desert eagle to a 6 barrel chain gun. Don't 
 knock this game until you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandg23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is a great game, great co-op its very fun to play there are some things that work very 
 well but somehow a few glitches got into the game.
  
  The aiming and movement most of its gameplay is based on Gears of War.
  the aiming is really 
 poor you see a bit of the enemie's head that is under cover and you try to shoot at him but the 
 bullet gets lost or trying to shoot through a normal fence like in the playgrounds that really 
 bothered me. 
  
  i got to say that this is a really short game, i mean it, it has 6 missions and if you are playing 
 on your right difficulty you'll beat it in about 5 or 6 hours.
  
  it was a good incentive those missions that you get paid for and that was a good way for making 
 made the secondary objectives. another fun part of the game is that you can uprgade and purchase 
 new weapons i got to say that they are awesome.
  
  the AI im not gonna lie is way way too stupid and so are enemies. I RECOMMEND you to play on xbox 
 live or split screen. When you're in open conflict some corpses are like moving thats really weird 
 but its not something that really annoys you. The vehicles when you are playing with a real person 
 get really difficult to dock.
  
  All the features that they said this game would have work fine and in that way it is fun to play.
 
  
  BUT THIS GAME IS JUST EA's VERSION OF GEARS OF WAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  What can be better than running around with a fellow soldier killing people for loads of cash and 
 shoving tampons in each other's bullet wounds? Army of Two answers this question for you, playing 
 with a friend.
  
  Few games have ever had such a deep co-op experience as Army of Two does. Previous attempts have 
 amounted to two players playing with each other, but at the same time by themselves. In Army of 
 Two you can't play with someone and run off in a separate direction or completely forget about 
 your partner. There is a built in reliance on your fellow soldier, a sense of companionship that 
 can't be had in any other game. You'll finish this game knowing you did it as a team, and you'll 
 think it was awesome.
  
  If you strip this game down to its bare bones, its a shooter. You shoot to kill, you go towards 
 objectives, you find cover to regain health, but then theres a few more things thrown in. You get 
 the aggro system, upgradeable weapons and armor, a saving system for when one of you goes down, 
 secondary objectives, unlockables, and on top of that you even have competitive multiplayer.
  
  The extra mechanics work very well. The aggro system mentioned above is a great strategy to 
 use as well as a way to know when to find cover and when to become more aggressive. You could have 
 one team member get the enemy's attention, while the other fills them full of holes from behind. 
 This is also an essential tool at some points, as some enemies can only be hurt from behind. A 
 very cool bonus for using the aggro system is also incorporated. If one person is at full aggro 
 for a certain period of time, you enter a special mode where the one currently attracting attention 
 moves slowly but deals double damage, and the other becomes invisible and can use melee attacks 
 on enemies, however, this bonus only lasts a short period of time.
  
  Say someone is under heavy fire and is at the brink of death, he can use a "feign death" system, 
 falling to the ground and transferring all aggro to their teammate. This can be a life saving system, 
 or a fun way to really piss off whoever you happen to be playing with. If you do go down though, 
 you enter into a system much like that of Gears of War. Your partner must get to you and bring 
 you back to life. Your teammate can drag you to cover and then shove a tampon into your wounds.
 
  
  If you're playing with a computer, you can either show affection or disapproval to them. By walking 
 up to them and pressing the A or R buttons, you can either pat them on the back or hit them. This 
 can tell the computer that what they just did was bad or good. If you piss off your Partner AI, 
 he can do something like refuse to cover you or even hit you back. The PAI is about as intelligent 
 as you would expect it to be, but you can issue it commands via a radial in the bottom right corner 
 of your screen, which is also used for weapon selection.
  
  The weapon system is executed extremely well. You can buy new guns with money collected from completing 
 objectives. These arms fall into three categories - Primary, Secondary, and Special. The Primary 
 contains shotguns, assault rifles, and Light Machine Guns. The Secondary has pistols and some Small 
 Machine Guns. The Special section contains the "Fun" weapons such as snipers and nasty rocket launchers. 
 You can buy accessories for most of these guns such as stocks, barrels, shields, new cartridges 
 for ammo, etc. You can even pimp out your guns, coating them in gold, diamonds, and making them 
 shine. If you're feeling especially loose with your hard earned cash, you can buy new paint schemes 
 for your masks. These range from flames to clown paint.
  
  The campaign is surprisingly short. This is a let down, but at the end of your first play through 
 you wind up completely ready to play through it again on a harder difficulty in order to get new 
 guns and whatever else you want to buy. The narrative itself is one of betrayal and military conflict. 
 The actual missions themselves take a backseat to the political side of the story. A bill to privatize 
 the army is trying to be pushed through, which would replace the entire army with private contractors 
 like Rios and Salem. There is not much of an emotional attachment to the characters, but at the 
 end of it all you still wind up caring about them. Then again, would you want to be emotionally 
 attached to mercenaries toting serious firepower?
  
  The competitive multiplayer is sort of a shrunken down version of the campaign mechanics. You buy 
 weapons and weapon packages in between rounds as you and a partner fight another team of two. This 
 is surprisingly fun, as it works just like it should. You win by using tactics such as the aggro 
 system, although the meter is not on the screen, of course.
  
  If you don't have someone to play though the campaign with, rent the game before you consider buying 
 it. This is without a doubt the best co-op ever made, and I can only hope for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesmiller777
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Although many people do not like this game, its a solid shooter. If your looking for a multi-player 
 game this game is probably for you. The game has distinct features, great graphics, and a great 
 aggro system. It only has minor problems such as the AI. 
  One of the best features about this game is the weapon buying, and upgrading option. You can turn 
 every weapon in the game into a killing machine. Another distinctive feature of the game is it's 
 story line, this is a story that has not been put into a game and is somewhat refreshing. In addition, 
 the great graphics also add to the gaming element. The aggro system is a new and refreshing element 
 that can make fire fights more strategic and fun. 
  The only real problem with the game is the AI. Sometimes enemies can freeze up or lag making playing 
 elements not fun, but sometimes makes the game easier. 
  Army of Two is a solid game that introduces new gaming elements, great graphics, and distinct features 
 that are really fun. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  +Another great co-op game, fans of Gears will probably like
  +Good graphics
  +Cinematics are entertaining, and well produced
  +Upgrading weapons, and "pimping" your equipment 
 is the most enjoyable factor in the game
  +Online is surprisingly fun
  +Aggro is a welcome addition to the shooter genre 
  +Does a good job at keeping a light tone, 
 and a somewhat humorous approach
  
  Cons 
  
  -Minor graphical hiccups, and texture popping 
  -Short campaign 
  -Minor character development
 
  -Predictable plot
  -Makes me realize this is the only game I may use a golden arsenal 
  
  Questions
  
  What the hell is the sequel going to be called? 
  
  
  President Eisenhower 
 warned the world about the uprising of Private Military protecting the United States in his farewell 
 state of the union address. Company's such as Black Water, Titan Corporation, and Triple Canopy 
 were gaining too much power in warfare, and has the potential to undermine the safety of both the 
 U. S. and their allies. This is neither a history lesson, nor a current events lecture, but the 
 plot to EA Montreal's latest action packed co-op shooter, Army of Two. 
  
  The game follows a sixteen year path of the two protagonists, Elliot Salem, the younger cockier 
 guy, who throws out the word "bro" every time he gets the chance, and Tyson Rios, the conspiracy 
 theorists.
  You first get introduced to this duo in Army Rangers training. After a brief following mission 
 in Somalia, Salem and Rios decide to follow their commanding officer into the world of the private 
 military, joining a corporation known as SSC. As mercenaries these two guys will find themselves 
 traveling the world fighting battles for fat checks, not truly knowing what exactly they are fighting, 
 and why. Thats where the plots trails to, which is predictable once you get to the halfway point 
 in the game, bro. 
  
  The game itself is a fairly tactical third person shooter with an arcade feel, built with a co-op 
 focused game design. While the partner AI is adequate, you'll want to exclusively play through 
 the campaign with a friend. Not that the AI will disservice you, but the game both functions better, 
 and is more enjoyable. To keep both yourself, and your partner alive, you'll be utilizing the ever-so 
 popularized aggro system, something any WOW player should be a pro at, but if you aren't familiar 
 with it, aggro is gaining the attention of enemies by attacking them and maintaining the role as 
 a moving target. Whoever is not holding aggro will be practically invisible to the enemy, encouraging 
 flanking tactics. I felt the aggro system was the only thing keeping the combat from feeling generic, 
 however you can get away with ignoring aggro unless you're playing on a harder difficulty. 
  
  Quite possibly the coolest aspect of this game is the weapons upgrade system. After completing 
 various objectives within a mission for cash, you are open to spend it as you like in the games 
 varying stores. While you can spend a lot of time buying fearsome masks, you'll spend most your 
 cash purchasing longer barrels, heaver stocks, and secondary attachments to your owned weapons, 
 and of course there are over three dozen other weapons to buy. In addition to making your weapons 
 stronger, the completely radical upgrade that the Resident Evil 4 (as well as every other game) 
 merchant needs to borrow, is the "pimped" upgrade. Spending a mere 10 G's while make your weapons 
 of choice golden, silver, and/or covered in diamonds. I can no longer fight with non golden weaponry, 
 bro. 
  
  Aside from the campaign, Army of Two posses a relatively decent multiplayer, no Deathmatch, or 
 CTF here. Like the campaign, the Multiplayer is interlaced with cooperative gameplay. You, and 
 one other person will be called to complete a multitude of objectives against enemy AI. If you 
 enjoyed the campaign, you'll most likely find some fun in the MP. 
  
  Army of Two is an explosive package, that action fans should enjoy, and bring a friend along. The 
 game primarily suffers from the fact the game's only about eight hours. Some people will be turned 
 off by the cheap one liners, others like me find the games non serious tone entertaining, and fun. 
 These one liners aren't horrendous, and corny in a bad way at all, so please don't get me wrong 
 there. The dialog between Salem and Rios during gameplay has its moments as well, theirs a funny 
 bit where Salem randomly asks Rios who is the best rapper in the Wu-Tang Clan, just to give an 
 example on their personalities.
  
  A serious fact I randomly noticed is before you start the game's second level when your sent to 
 Afghanistan, you see the television broadcast of the 9-11plane crashes, which I felt surprised 
 to finally see a videogame tackle that issue. Army of Two is a game that I believe co-op fans will 
 enjoy. While theirs not much to say, but it's a kick ass game, with baditude (in a good way) , a 
 decent plot, mixed with third person combat, all these formulas together create a Michael Bay esque 
 game, that should not be missed this spring. So all you bros should totally give this game a look. 
 
  
  Steven _Beynon
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is an exciting game where it has a lot of tactical desicions to make and a lot of fast 
 paced action though this game has its ups and downs. When I saw the trailers I was amazed and this 
 was instantly one of my most antisipated Xbox360 game, but its when i actually played the game 
 I had some mixed reactions. There is supposed to be a deep story about modern war as I remember 
 reading on a lot of blogs of the game having a deep story but I really didn't see a deep story 
 in fact i really didn't care about the story. It really didn't stick to me. The graphics though 
 really look good. This is one of the best looking Xbox360 games on the market so far. There is 
 a lot of details in the game espesially in the character designs and in the weapons too. The thing 
 where the game has a lot going for is, no not the graphics and no not the cursing man that cant 
 stop cursing for 5 minutes, its the gameplay! EA really out done themselves this time and a whole 
 new step forward from the nice controls of MoHH2 to a more tactical style gameplay. The gameplay 
 is really fun to do and is really uniqe. There is so much to do that if explain all of the tactics 
 this review would be long. But thats not saying the gameplay is perfect. The actual shooting is 
 pretty hard because of the aiming redicul. Also the riding vehicles while shooting is diffucult 
 to manage. One thing though about the graphics is that there are some points that the graphics 
 are amazing and then there is one point where youre like uh okay just dont look or else youre eyes 
 will burn. Im not saying that it is horrible but its just not the right graphics for theXbox360. 
 The multiplayer is good but not great like say Call of Duty 4. The multiplayer is good and uniqe. 
 The game deserves a rent and you should check it out for youre Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farsided
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Gone are the days where you're forced to be glued to a wall, because now in Army of Two, you automatically 
 start shooting around cover as you approach it. And thank god you can actually hit stuff (and get 
 hit too! hands bleed ya' know?) whenever you decide to blindfire. And now, enemies don't just sit 
 there, waiting for you to peak out so that they can deliver a headshot, because they're to busy 
 dealing with your buddy who is raining death from his pimped out machine gun. Patting your fallen 
 comrade isn't going to let him get up anymore, you gotta drag his ass into cover and take your 
 time to patch him up. Yes, Gears, I'm talking to you. Learn your lesson on how to properly produce 
 a 3rd person shooter, and don't make me hit the "A" button to just so that I can peak my head around 
 that barrier in front of me. Sure, Army of Two doesn't have chainsaws or satellite based attack 
 lasers, and yes, it does have it's share of glitches (hell, gears certainly does too) but it finally 
 fixed all the issues I had with the genre, and makes me appreciate my roommate's ability to distract 
 those turrets more than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Good :
  
  - Can be great fun with a friend
  - Graphics are nice
  - Weapons, and upgrading them is a nice addition
  - The macho-dialogue, fits to the game
  - 
 The tactics make the game feel a bit different, albeit those can make it too easy at times as well
 
  - Most of the time everything works just great
  
  Bad, or just not-so-good :
  
  - Could definetely use a button for switching view to other shoulder
  - Due the aforementioned 
 fact, it's sometimes tricky (if not impossible) to shoot without fully exposing yourself if you're 
 shooting from cover's left side
  - Add a separate button for melee attack, and we'd be golden. Now it seems somewhat like guesswork, 
 unless you're frequently pulling the trigger
  - Short. Couple of more missions, and we would be at somewhat average length. Took us about 10+ 
 hours to play through.
  - The gun sounds weren't bad per se, but we were hoping to hear a bit more volume
  
  
  The 
 longer stuff :
  
  There isn't a whole lot of co-op campaigns available, even with a gamesystem such as XboX 360, 
 which is a bit weird, considering there's probably a huge demand for those. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 will be coming out soon, but for now, Army of Two tries to blow some new winds to the genre.
  
  AoT is an arcade shooter, no question about it. Your "heroes" are two guys who are wearing 
 ballistic masks and packing some serious heat. The fun thing about that is that you get to upgrade 
 both your firesticks and bit of the protective wear as well. Upgrades usually consist of more damage, 
 better aiming, bigger clip capacity and so on, making perhaps a rather whimpy weapons more more 
 fearfull to meet in battle. The money reward from missions is luxurious enough for you to fully 
 pimp out all the weapons you can carry at once and couple more, but still doesn't allow you to 
 buy absolutely everything, which adds some interest and replayability.
  
  Graphics look nice, even when they're not completely top notch. Animation is nice though, altough 
 even that isn't the best there is. Sadly the pimped out weapons do not look as pimped in use as 
 they do in the menu, but they're still excellent in graphics. Generally, I found nothing big to 
 complain about the graphics, since they work and there weren't more than a few glitches throughout 
 the whole deal.
  Sounds are quite good as well, altough I would have hoped to hear more juicy sounds from bigger 
 guns. Now, they're a bit lackluster, so adding some volume to guns alone wouldn't hurt at all. 
 Usually the sounds are filled with gunfire and your opponents yelling orders and stuff to eachother.
 
  Music felt good, actually very good at times. It varied according to missions and seemed to fit 
 to the action at the times I actually had time hearing it.
  While both graphics and sounds were good, both sound and graphics for grenades and everything explosive 
 as well, were quite bland and didn't really feel powerfull at all. Pitty, because AoT would have 
 been a great game to go a bit overboard with explosives.
  
  Enemy AI is a bit simple, but the "rules" it seems to follow often make some sort of sense, which 
 in this case basically mean that they fire semi-blindly from cover and often stay there, unless 
 they're getting hit or one of the players is advancing towards them. Makes sense, somewhat, since 
 that's what us as players do as well. They also seem to maneuver sometimes to better position, 
 and try to get to fire players from open positions. In some gunfights, you start to feel slight 
 panic when you're going with your last clip and there's still bunch of people shooting at you with 
 automatic weapons, and the nearest ammo bag is between you and them. Gladly the game's system doesn't 
 let you die very easily (unless you walk straight to one of those few mines littered around the 
 game) , and when you "go down", friend of yours can come and drag you to safety while you keep holding 
 the opponents at bay.
  
  Story-wise the game is a bit bland perhaps, since first half of the missions seem to be just for 
 the money, and plot doesn't have that much time to evolve. So you could say there isn't any, but 
 there is, albeit a very small one. Perhaps there will be more, since a sequel is greatly hinted 
 in the end. Personally, I'd welcome a sequel with the current gameplay and graphics and the whole 
 shebang, just with more and new missions. There's some small annoyances, but none of them really 
 ruin the game, but sometimes you have to work around those little flaws.
  
  So, is it worth buying? Well, if you play relatively lot of games (ie. have money to buy more than 
 one or two per year) , like shooters and have a friend, it's hard to imagine a game currently existing 
 that would be better than this really (well, Crackdown is actually, but even then, that's just 
 one game) . If you play it with an A. I friend, you'll be missing both the fun with friend and half 
 of the game, so to speak. And since the game is rather short, but isn't allowing you to unlock 
 all the weapons for example, a re-run through the game with your friend (the same or the other) 
 shouldn't be as boring as it might be with many other games.
  However, if you're the type of person, who buys a few games a year or so, this may or may not be 
 it. It won't last for long, but the while it lasts, I found it pretty good. Definetely worth a 
 rent or a buy when the price goes down.
  
  In the end, Army of Two is a nice shooter with a friend, with "kick-ass action" and a small tactical 
 element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 44_shepard
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost exactly like an action move, lots of fighting, cool co-op moves, and it has 
 no real story at all. Onto the real serious reviewing stuff.
  
  Well first impressions were good, and me and my friend played 3/4 through the game in 4 hours. 
 The campaign is criminally short for game today. After we finished the game we decided to try online, 
 well only 4 people allowed online in one match. Well we started playing and npcs were everywhere. 
 All the game types were exactly the same. Every one had you doing missions, there were some variations 
 in the missions. The graphics were okay with some pretty cool co-op moves. The story is okay. I 
 mean more could have been done with the story. It seems like a generic action movie about how you 
 got framed and now the government is after you. Such a cliche storyline. The game seems rushed. 
 Before the game came out they talked about all these cool moves you could do at any time. Well 
 that got cut and so did cpr. We played through and beat it on contractor, then we played it on 
 professional and it was way too easy.
  
  In conclusion, it's short cliched and feels rushed altogether. Also easier than a prostitute who 
 hasn't made any money in 2 years. Rent it before you buy it and if you like it then buy it. Don't 
 make the same mistake I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  you really need a friend to make this fun. That can be a problem because not many people have it 
 with xbl yet. But its fun and the fact that it actually requires teamwork which made it a huge need 
 for me. a few problems were that the animation were sloppy such as reloading and breaking a door 
 of a car. The difficulty is great. you cant just lone wolf it you have to actually work or you will 
 get destroyed. Another problem that i have with it is that the sniping is a little difficult. some 
 times the sensitivity on it seems a little extreme and when editing it it could completly destroy 
 the other aspects of aiming other than sniping. The story line of this game is great and it does 
 not say anything bad about the army. it just says that they dont like how they dont have any saying 
 over there missions so if that is keeping you from being interested in thin game dont let it discourage 
 you any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cponoodles
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I beat this game in 5 hours, yes 5 hours. This game is not even worth the time. I could have played 
 Call 4 and gotten more satisfaction than this game. The story line sucks. And the comments it makes 
 about the US Military pissed me off. It was simply uncalled for. Your players are cheesy and have 
 absolutely no depth to them. The multi player, if you can even call it that, is horrible. I spent 
 ten minutes waiting for a player to match up with and then it was laggy and glitchy threw out. 
 And that's another thing..... the glitches in game should simply not be there. They should have 
 been worked out along time ago. Like in testing!!!!!!! Bottom line is that this game is not worth 
 your time. Unless you need gamer points and even getting those are unsatisfying. Don't waste your 
 time go play Call 4 or an Xbox Live archade game and you'll feel better. Cp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willimate
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  army of review is a good game, and the playable character is rios and salem, either pick and play 
 it started at 1993 until when u finish all mission, it will take u there to the future as 2009, 
 if u want to buy weapons, buy it from sierra leone, south korea, ukraine and u. s. a. and u can get 
 money by finish the objective things, and sometimes when u get hurt, ur partner will grab u and 
 u can shoot them when rios heal u, and if ur lost, u can put gps, press the select button, and 
 later when u and partner were trapped, its like matrix because they were slow and u can shoot them, 
 before u play, watch out, defend ur self and enjoy it. its like how u become a soldier 
  
  and for more information about this game, go to gamespot. com or giantbomb. com or offical website 
 of army of two
  
  have fun and enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a new game from EA. It is a thrid-person shooter and if you like Call of Duty 4 
 and Gears of War, you should like Army of Two. The campagin is great but it is a little short. 
 I finished it in 2 days. Some of the levels go to Iraqi and Afghanistan. Also you get buy and upgrade 
 your own weapons. Lets say you brought a AK-47, you can pimp it, put more rounds on it and even 
 you can get a shotgun for it. The weapons are really good in this game. The control scheme is really 
 easy to learn after the first 3 missions. The online play is so laggy. One of my friends says its 
 region lock, so that means you can only play people in your conutry. The online play is really 
 laggy.
  
  I recommend this game to Co-op fans not for random gamers or shooters. You should really rent it 
 first because it is not for other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  So EA's Co-op shooter after some delay has finally came out.
  Was it worth the wait? Yes and no.
  
  It's a good game, of that you can be sure.
  As a Co-op 
 fanatic, this game is heaven.
  That it can be played Splitscreen is a plus.
  Lots of games add online multiplayer nowadays whilst neglecting splitscreen.
  Some of us want 
 to play with friends in the same room.
  Some of us aren't willing to purchase an extra 360 and two of every game we want to play to accomplish 
 this goal.
  So yeah, splitscreens a welcome addition.
  
  It plays remarkably like Gears of War, it just doesn't feel quite as tight unfortunately. Everything 
 from aiming to the cover system just feels that slight bit looser then it does in Gears. It may 
 take some getting used too, but once you do, well you just wont notice after a while.
  
  Theres a decent amount of weapons customization there.
  New stocks, barrells, ammo clips, front 
 mounts and more.
  I love customizing stuff in games but there is one particular weapon upgrade that annoys me here.
 
  'Pimping' your weapn. Getting it all black, gold, jewel encrusted and stuff.
  It's just lame. I'd expect the 'pimping' schtick in any other EA Game.
  Madden perhaps, Basketball 
 certainly, Need for Speed you betcha but come the heck on. This is a military shooter. 
  Any 'pimping' is too much pimping as far as I'm concerned.
  On the otherhand I'm sure theres 
 a whole host of people that welcome this sort of customization so I guess I can't blame them on 
 that front.
  
  The major concept displayed in the game is that of Aggro, taken from the same general concept thats 
 used in MMORPGs in which one guy will lure enemys and take the punishment whilst the other (s) bombard 
 the enemies with whatever they've got.
  Similar here.
  You can often just play the game like you would any other tactical shooter.
  Run and gun between 
 cover until you've taken your enemies down.
  However some enemies are armored and attacking them from the front is futile, so in this instance 
 you or your partner will want to 'get aggro' by shooting at him, basically - some weapons have 
 more aggro gaining potential then others too - so whilst you or your partner is shooting at him 
 to get aggro, the other will want to sneak behind him and blast him in the back where he's vulnerable.
 
  It's a simple concept, but it adds a little bit of variety into otherwise standard tactical shooter 
 fair.
  
  I couldn't go into major detail. I'm not a graphics buff.
  I don't know the various terms.
  But it's an attractive enough game.
  Visually and also audibly.
 
  The voice acting is good and the back and forth between Rios and Salem is great and occasionally 
 hilarious. 
  
  Theres a couple of major problems, however.
  It's quite short.
  My brother and I finished it in just over 10 hours I believe.
  And the finale is somewhat disapointing. 
 The final boss if there is such a thing, was easy - in the heat of battle I wasn't even able to 
 differentiate him from random foot soldiers. Thats how easy he seemed to go down.
  And one of the games major characters, near the end - attacks you in a helipcopter with a gattling 
 gun.
  This seemed like a good set up for a REAL final boss fight.
  Dude in helicopter with big gun.
  Plenty of cover to be had on the roof top.
  Him being in 
 a helicopter also would've meant lots of running between cover as well, it could've been something 
 challenging.
  Instead we get a cutscene. Thats all.
  If nothing else, there was enough set up that if the game does well enough a sequel isn't out of 
 the question and I hope there is. 
  
  Because despite being short, this was a great game.
  Just needs a little fine tuning and I hope 
 it gets the treatment it deserves.
  Again, theres not enough good games out there available for Co-op players, particularly those of 
 us who enjoy splitscreen.
  
  Give the game a rent at least and if you enjoy it I implore you to by it.
  Theres very few Co-op 
 games that come close to being this fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShuaGuyMills
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  As any user of GameSpot out there knows, these guys get you the goods when it hits the airwaves, 
 but as most users know their rating system seems to hold some serious bias. 
  
  Bottom line, Army of Two is to be taken lightly. (This is not COD 4) It's a big gun, big damage, 
 senseless violence kinda game. The kinda violence that makes you (and now a friend) go: "Whoa! 
 that guy like broke his spine on that railing after a shot him in the face! Yah! Rag doll!"
  
  I read the review that Game Spot posted, which did two things. One make me question their reliability 
 of putting a game to the same standards as others, and two it insulted me right at the end. 
  
  "If you're the type of person who would rather shoot first and ask questions never, by all 
 means, pick up Army of Two. But if you like to think -- and the fact that you're reading this review 
 suggests that you do -- be warned: Army of Two is less than the sum of its parts.-Joe Dodson, 
 Game Spot 
  
  Suggesting that anyone who enjoys the game, doesn't think or actively pursue the process, is just 
 adding injury to insult. I mean you can happily have your opinion on the game, but @#&! you when 
 it comes to making personal attacks to the very people that play and pay for the games and reviews 
 and content here on Gamespot. 
  
  I'm really just saying that I think the user rating is what any gamer should go by. Hear from the 
 people for the people. The game makes fun and prys at issues that in real life are very serious, 
 but a game with one of the main bad guys calling the player a "@#&!-O" can't really be taken too 
 serious. The bit about everyone being terrorists in the review and game, well that might have something 
 to do with you targeting actually terrorist bases and facilities. It's not like you're killing 
 random by standers for no reason. *cough* GTA *cough* 
  
  I'm not bashing GTA here either, I'm just saying check the games rating if you're old enough and 
 feel you can handle the content enjoy the game, if not, don't play.
  
  ~Shua
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is not perfect, but it is deserving of more than a 6.5 rating that gamespot made. Alot 
 of funny moments in the game, although not neccessary, added a warmer feeling to the game. Game 
 looks great, co-op mechanics are impressive, but following some of the dialog during heavy firefights 
 makes it difficult to catch. It is pretty short, and could of used smarter AI, but nonetheless 
 the existig AI was challenging. The bugs i noticed were with the cutscenes. sometimes only half 
 of the intended cutscene would play, and it would spring you back into action without catching 
 the entire thing. It made the plot somewhat confusing the first time around, but you should be 
 able to catch everything the second time around. 
  
  Pros: Good game, looks great, Neat weapons and gear shopping. 
  Cons: Too short, can't pick up 
 enemy weapons, Cutscene cutoffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcranberry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I bought this game the day it came out, so I had no idea. 
  
  My brother and I started out with some split-screen co-op, and beyond the usual field-of-vision 
 problems that arise from only having half a screen, the game handled pretty well. We tore through 
 the first three chapters in a couple of hours, no biggie.
  
  The next day, I took the game online, and found the experience pretty decent as well. When I had 
 a talkative player to run through the game, the progression came rather easily. One player in particular 
 suggested that we up the difficulty, but after clearing the aircraft carrier level, we both admitted 
 that we couldn't really notice a difference.
  
  Then, I tried single-player. That about killed it for me. The AI buddy they give you is dumber 
 than a box of rocks. His method for swinging the Aggro his way was to stand in the middle of crossfire 
 and get shot, resulting in the undoing of whatever I was trying to do so I could drag his sorry 
 ass around the corner to heal him. Then he'd go do it again. Needless to say, I was barely able 
 to get past the first level.
  
  Now, I was able to forgive the brevity of COD4's single-player campaign because of it's incredible 
 intensity. Not so much here. With the exception of the one time I drowned my online buddy on the 
 canal level (I learned new swear words!) , there isn't much difference from level to level. I will 
 say that the healing mechanic is great to have, and I would like to see it implemented in more 
 games, but that one detail couldn't sustain my interest through the rest of the game. 
  
  Look. I won't say that this game is total crap. The online co-op can be a hoot, but I'd certainly 
 recommend renting first, or at least waiting until you can snag it used. $60 is a bit much for 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenSoop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is just Fun as hell to go online with a Buddie and just blast away some terrorists and 
 with all the weapon upgrades it just makes you want to play it even more to unlock everything. 
 Sure the game is a little to short but this isnt Oblivion This is just a Simple game to enjoy with 
 your friends and it does get difficult at times on single player because the team mate Ai isn't 
 so great but this game was really ment to be a Co-Op game anyways that requires team work with 
 a real person to play. The Story is Average this really isnt the games strong point but it's an 
 ok story and it didnt bother me that much that it included some real world Events like Iraq and 
 Afghanistan. If your looking for a great story based game then this isn't the game for you the 
 story is there mainly just to give you a reason to blast away all these terrorists. But this really 
 isnt a story telling typ of game anyways it's a Shoot everything that moves typ of game and it's 
 really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHS_Kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and the most fun i have had with game since Call of Duty 4. The campaign is 
 just plain fun and you will find yourself playing it ovr and over again to get more money and the 
 acheivments in this game. The acheivmentsin this game are a good dificulty though some of them 
 are a little easy. The only one that is actually hard is earn one billion dollars in multiplayer. 
 This game is better with a freind so if you have some freinds who want to play this game then invite 
 him/her over and play until you cant anymore. The AI is also good but sometimes playing by yourself 
 can get frustrating because the AI can be kinda stupid at some points. If you want a game to compare 
 this to its kinda like gears without aliens or blown up world. What i mean by that is the controls 
 are alike. so if you want to have some freinds or you just want some fun with a game then get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ocelotpoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  You have to admire a game that takes current events issues head on. While Army of Two may have 
 gone too far in some respects, the game feels more down to earth as a result.
  
  So many games put characters in the middle of make-believe conflicts that feel like cheesy rip-offs 
 of real events. Army of Two puts the characters in the middle of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
  
  The gameplay in Army of Two is excellent. The cover system is very organic and the game requires 
 only minimal button pressing. Players only need to press buttons to shoot, jump and interact with 
 your teammate. 
  
  While the AI is uninspired the unique aggro system which allows players to draw enemy fire while 
 their teammate flanks and kills opponents makes playing with a friend extreamely fun. 
  
  The story woks for the game and the graphics are also excellent. Overall, the game is certainly 
 worth several hours of fun, aside from the fact that the story mode is only worth about five or 
 six hours of gameplay. If you like to game with a friend, this game is probably one of the best 
 titles available. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Army of Two was supposed to be realeased in 07 but was pushed back to March 08 to tune up the game 
 a little bit. They fixed some stuff and added more in. Now lets see if Army of Two payed off or 
 is just another big dissapointment. 
  
  In Army of Two you play as Salem or Rios. Two army soilders who have become Mercenarys who are 
 decked out in heavy army and there prety badd ass looking. The Story has Salem and Rios go to Iraq, 
 China and a few more and each mission usualy takes place a year or two appart. The story has realy 
 no big twist in it a few but overall its kinda week. 
  
  The Sound in Army of Two is Ok the voice acting is good and a litte cheesy at times. The guns sound 
 good the machine gun on the back of a vehicle in multiplayer sounds like its just going to rip 
 you to sheards its prety cool. The music is prety good for a action game it goes realy good in 
 the moment.
  
  The Graphics in Army of Two are also ok as well. The Character modles are bad but with the armor 
 on the Two main characters it makes them look bad ass. Other than that they don't rack up to other 
 big titles to today. The lighting is prety good in the game and the level designs are not half 
 bad.
  
  The Gameplay in Army Of Two is well bult around Two. The single player campagin is ok by yourself 
 the AI partner is smart and a little dumb but he works most of the time. WIth a partner it is realy 
 fun. The Combat is kinda like Gears of war meaning you are behind cover a lot. The cover systeam 
 dosn't have you put your back on the back of a giant slab but it has you stand behing them wich 
 works. The Combat is realy fun you have the co-op elements in there for example you have somethingcalled 
 back to back wich will have you and your partner back to back as you lay wast to every bad guy 
 around you. There is also some thing called "ARGOR" wich has one of the two of you glowing red 
 why the other turns bassicly invisable and he can go around and kill every one. You get "AGRO" 
 by blind fireing or just laying wast to every body. When you die your partner can drag you and 
 you can shoot and he can take you around cover and heal you its realy fun. Each mission Gives you 
 certain objectives to complete and as you do you get more and more money wich you can yousue to 
 by more mash or weapons and each weapon has upgrades you can do and its realy fun to pimp out your 
 weapon.
  
  Multiplayer is also prety fun its two on two, but there are lots of AI bad guys to get in your 
 way. The gameplay has you and your partner VS the other two people going around and doing objectives 
 to earn money. The more money you have the more weapons you can by. The team who has the most money 
 wins. Its prety fun for a while.
  
  Overall Army of Two is a fun game that suffers becase of its lenghth. The gameplay is fun and the 
 characters are prety cool too. If i were to say this one is a rent.
  
  Story 7/10
  Sound 7/10
  graphics 7/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Multiplayer 8/10
  overall 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin00
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game and has a few minor flaws do not let the reviews persuade you into missing 
 out on this game. The story is good too. This game may not e as fun if you don't have a friend 
 but you can search online for a partner. it has a very good amount of guns and customization. The 
 campaign is pretty short but it is fun even the second and third times through the game. If you 
 like cooperative games then army of two is right for you. you actually have to use your partner 
 to win you can not act as an army of 1 or you will die. The multilayer is very fun and different 
 it is not the same as the campaign but it is very fun. If you don't own army of two then your missing 
 out on a lot this is a very fun and unappreciated game that I think is way better than people say 
 it is. I also like the cover system. you do not stick to cover like in gears of war but you still 
 use it. you can do the basics in cover blind fire pop up or pop up and aim. You can also slide 
 into cover which is cool and useful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  I completed the game with a friend, and that part is so fun, the best part is that it's not in 
 split-screen but online, so we play on our own tv, the graphic is very nice and it's a great action 
 game, don't know if it beats Kane and lynce.
  
  when I first started the game I really didn't know what to expect, but when I got throug the training 
 and on with the missions, it hit me, I couldn't stop playing it really catch me, the history is 
 good and the two correctors have a little sens of humor.
  
  After completed the game once I started again with a friend. All in all I like the game and I think, 
 if you liked Gears Of War, you might like this to, they both 3rd person shooter with Co-op and 
 high speed from the start.
  
  Then there's the story, it's way to short, and it doesn't take that long to get through the different 
 places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaRail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the most underrated game in a long time. I believe it has an immersive story, 
 great customization and solid online play. Though the game is short, you can play it on all difficulties 
 and each time still being fun.
  Some of my favorite parts of the game is co op campaign. It makes it a lot more fun than other 
 games because of this. I think the cover system is a contender with Rainbow Six Vegas and Gears 
 of War. Unlike both, you are not locked to what you are behind. Also. the customization is great! 
 You can make every single gun "pimped out"-most of the time gold but sometimes a cooler finish. 
 I would estimate there are over 40 guns-including special weapons and secondary weapons. Another 
 fun part of the game is having aggro parted with this game, when you have no aggro you can go around 
 flanking the enemy-also when someone gets enough Aggro-they go into overkill with 2x damage, while 
 the team mate goes stealth and can move quickly. In back to back, both Rios and Salem go into slow-mo 
 back to back with extra gunfire and no need to refill ammo. 
  There are a few elements that make this game less appealing though. Online problems are horrific-Even 
 though I love it, there are tons of problems, when you are running it almost seems like you are 
 just casually walking. Takes forever to find a game and when doing online co op, you have to do 
 complex methods to actually get the other person in-but this will all be fixed with a patch soon. 
 Also, the campaign is TOO SHORT, if this game had a solid 12 hour game play, I think this game 
 could be better than Call of Duty. 
  Verdict-8.5, massive online problems and short campaign just makes it fall short of a10. You may 
 want to rent it or wait until the price falls to 50-40. Also, it has a 30 minute to hour learning 
 curve.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotSniperMonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I had a hard time getting through the campaign by myself because the AI doesn't help you to much. 
 But then me and a friend went through it and it was a lot more fun and we went through it a lot 
 faster than I did alone. I also enjoyed the multiplayer but it was confusing to me at first because 
 there is not tutorial on what is going on. It actually took me two matches to find the way to buy 
 weapons and armor. After I had figured it out it is very fun. Im still waiting for my friends to 
 get their own copies so I can play online with someone I know. Plus I still don't understand if 
 there is a way to customize your characters look online. It appears that there might be a way but 
 I still havn't figured it out. Overall I think this game is pretty good but by no-means a Halo, 
 Call of Duty, or Gears of War. Thus an 8.5 is appropiate as long as you have a friend to play with. 
 And some friends who also own the game to play online with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tito0909
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game on the 2nd day it was released, after waiting months for it, and the next place 
 I wanted to put the disc after my xbox was the garbage. The game was so bad, I couldn't believe 
 it, my A. I. partner was worst that an ennemy in Hour of Victory*. The review I would have given 
 then would be around 4/10 for the graphics and the effort of making the game. The next day, my 
 friend came over and wanted to try it so started a multiplayer campaign, and seriously, the game 
 was totally changed. Tactical game play with a real player instead of the stupid A. I. really changes 
 how you play. So, graphics are great, the game has a lot of humor, great action, the sounds aren't 
 representative of reality (the guns sounds like a plastic toy gun) and the multiplayer game is 
 incredible. The bads; the sounds and the A. I. partner. 8/10 seems to suit this game perfectly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSynDrom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Allright, coming up to this games release, I admit I was a little giddy. The thought of having 
 a Gears esque shooter that would be formed around co-op got me pretty damn excited. I mean, I've 
 spent countless hours playing GoW as is. Now I think I might switch up which game is constantly 
 in the disc tray.
  
  This game honestly was addicitive. I got it thinking it would be something that would be worth 
 the buy, and that it wouldn't come close to the play time I give GoW or CoD4. Of course it won't 
 if I never have anyone to play with. There is no way I will actually sit down and play the campaign 
 by myself, of course I have reasons for actually saying that, but I shall touch on those later.
 
  
  First off though I shall discuss on of my few problems with this game. Short. That sums up the 
 campaign mode. It didn't take too long for me and a buddy to get through teh first campaign difficulty 
 and unlock all the primary weapons. In fact we did it in one sitting. Not to mention, it does have 
 a slightly lack luster story line. I wouldn't expect it to really, it did deal alot of the time 
 with one of the most useless wars in history. Even though it lead off in it's own path eventually, 
 still wasn't too spectacular. Though I have to add this little tid bit in, the dude that speaks 
 like a overly egotistical FPS player rocks.
  
  I do like the characters in the story line though. Not all of them, but Salem and RIos are interesting 
 enough. Thankfully you get to play as them. I wouldn't have minded getting my hands on that unbalanced 
 psycho Clyde a little as well, of course it wouldn't make sense if we could play on of the villains 
 of the game. Who knows, maybe a Clyde skin will become available for multi player online if it 
 isn't already. (I'll actually have to check that.)
  
  Now what really makes me a crack addict for this game is the game play itself. Though it is very 
 GoW like, it seems fresh considering all the small little tid bits that are thrown into it. All 
 those little co-op moments, using the shield, the snipe, the boosted jumps, the parachute. All 
 make the game enjoyable in there own little ways. Regardless of how little the parachute is used, 
 or how often you will need the Co-op snipe. It also does have a little comic relief for you after 
 you clear out any particularly messy areas. You can smack your partner around a little bit with 
 the trigger, or you can just throw out random props. What makes that entertaining for me you may 
 ask. Two words my friends. Bill & Ted! If you don; t know what I am talking about, I feel sorry 
 for you.
  
  Now it also is fun to be able to modify the selection of guns you have in your arsenal. Modding 
 the barrel, clip size, stock, adding one of three attachments to the front and finally straight 
 out pimping the gun can make for some very entertaining looking weapons. Not to mention the amount 
 of aggro a golden AK47 with a grenade launcher and every other full upgrade is absolutly insane. 
 (It even has more aggro than a mini gun for crying out loud!!)
  
  Now what pulls down the campaign is if you want to do it solo. It just is a pain in the ass to 
 order your partner around when he is just so hill billy stupid. Seriosuly, I had to drop most everything 
 to revive his sorry ass the majority of the time. That gets annoying after hearing the stupid thing 
 constantly yell "I'm down, help me!" Espeically when you are the middle of trying to take out a 
 heavy.
  
  Now we have to move onto a few of the technicalities, but honestly I don; t have any complaints. 
 Graphics look nice, sound quality is good, controls work very nicely (Really similiar to GoW of 
 course) ... So yeah that's done with. So I highly recomend this game, go buy it, play it, and just 
 enjoy it with a buddy. I say 8.5. (Stupid reviewers for hire. Making it sound bad by giving it 
 only a bit above average!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valentino07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Army of Two was definitely a must buy for me. I didn't really care about the whole "EA" thing going 
 on with people. I always go by how fun the game looks when buying a game. Well, I bought it the 
 first day it came out and played for hours straight. I was amazed, the game looked beautiful. I 
 felt so lucky to be playing this game. So here is my thoughts on the game:
  
  Gameplay: Controls are not that bad. When walking backwards and firing, that is the biggest issue 
 i had with the game. Sometimes, he wouldnt know wether to fire from his right or left, so the enemy 
 would kill me. Moving around feels a little slow. The cover system is alright, while you arent 
 completely stuck to the wall, your more like just crouching behind it. You can still fire around 
 corners and blind fire and such.
  
  Story: Game has an O. K. story to it. It does deal with current and past events. (Which kind of 
 bothered me) But its just a game right? Me being in the Army and all, i really dont care for the 
 things they say about us in this game. Game lasted me about 6hours on recruit. I was highly disappointed. 
 Game only had like 6 missions. I then played it on professional, and it felt even easier than recruit. 
 So when you purchase this game dont be expecting a Mass effect duration here.
  
  Weapons: The weapons system in this game can be related to the weapons system in counter Strike, 
 you kill, get money, buy upgrades. You can buy barrels, stocks, suppressors, you can even pimp 
 out your gun to gold and silver.
  
  Overall: Game could use some more add ons to make it last longer. Once you beat it 3-4 times, even 
 on co-op, game gets boring. Yes it looks good and yes its fun, but that all dies out on the fifth 
 run. I highly recommend renting first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsikki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  In the world of shooter games the story line is in the background and not something you should 
 focus on, it only creates a flickering reason for you to pull the trigger and fight your way through 
 the enemies.
  So putting that aside we a nice looking shooter, easy to use and well functioning controlls. Swapping 
 weapons is as easy as it gets and switching between crouch and standing modes is painless. Playing 
 the game feels natural and you don't have to check out your controll to find your fingres.
  Between and during the missions you get to buy and upgrade your weapons as you like. For each weapon 
 there are several categories for upgradeing. Suchs as the frontmount and the stock of the weapon, 
 capacity of the ammo magazine on the weapon and many more. 
  As for the actual playing of the game... Well that when the problems come along. The idea of takeing 
 and shooting from cover is the same as in Gears of War etc. But it doesn't work as good, slideing 
 into cover is good and the somersault can save your life but often from shooting behind the cover 
 you hit the cover not your opponent.
  This brings us to the basic view of the game, grahics are nice and the effects work their magic. 
 Camera tends to be the problem, often when playing with your buddy the split-screen is not enough, 
 specially if you are close to each-other (in-game) you just see your back. Or if takeing cover 
 behind a wall, takeing aim to shoot from it all you really see is the wall. If you simply mind 
 these few mistakes you have a nice piece of action shooting comeing your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spat69
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  To go straight to the point army of two has only two major flaws and there not to complicated. 
 the first has little to do with the game and more to do with politics and personal opinion. this 
 apparent 'problem' is that the game has a weak story that 'patronizes' to days army and 'glorifies' 
 mercenaries. personally i think that this game did not make me wanna be a mercenary anymore than 
 those army strong commercials made me want to enlist and kill some terrorists. this is the same 
 concept as grand theft auto in the way that if youre stupid ebough to be presuaded into doing something 
 that is apparently glorified in the game i. e. going out and pointlessly sluaghtering random people 
 or in this case becoming a mercenarie or whatever negative things this game apparently promotes 
 u shouldnt be let out of the house let alone alowed to play video games. 
  The second problem is the A. I. youre partner is sometimes an absolute retard and it makes u want 
 to smash youre xbox against a wall and the enemies are somehow as deadly accurate as billy zane 
 in sniper. but wait a minute, didnt call of duty 4, a game praised for its AI have the same problem? 
 from terrorists throwing perfest grenades that bank round corners better than most MLG halo players 
 can do to youre own marines taking cover behnd an explosive barrel. the only reason that people 
 are noticing the partner AI is because the expect it to do so much and the game itself trys to 
 force u to use the sometimes dumb AI to succeed in defeating the super heavily front armored enemies 
 or the turrets. 
  I think this is a great game with some fatal flaws that can and should be fixed by either the sequel 
 or an update of some sort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrkoolaidman420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that this games has brough new light to a TPS Game, I thought Kane & 
 Lynch was good, this was amazing.
  
  One of the things I really enjoyed for this game was you can choose to partner up with a friend 
 in co-op campaign, which is what a gamer really wants. If you had to choose between Single player 
 or co-op, I'd say co-op is your best bet, while the co-op mode is impressive, the single player 
 mode doesn't meet the hype, it takes a great amount of time to control two people, one being an 
 AI, who can't really do everything you want him to, opposed to a player as the 2nd person, doing 
 everything you need them to. 
  
  The games storyline is one of the best I've seen in a while, it's in depth, and it has great characteristics 
 that catch your eye the moment you watch it. Instead of dreading the moment a cutscene begins, 
 Army of Two is almost the same as watching an anime movie (Much like that of Advent Children)
 
  
  As Army of Two progressess, the campaign gives you options to do certain tasks that will help you 
 earn more cash, that will help you in the long run. Army of Two doesn't just fit you with any normal 
 weapon like most shooter games, it allows you to buy and upgrade your weapon like never before, 
 upgrading is taken to a new level by being able to customize a weapon to increase it's stats, taking 
 your weapon from pea shooter to deadly.
  
  All in all I'd recommend this game to all shooter fans, Enjoy. 
  (PIMP MY AK-47 MTV!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb0fFilth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out back in the early 90's (about 1992) when Salem and Rios are still in the Army 
 Rangers. At the beginning of the game player 1 is prompted to choose which character they wish 
 to control. When playing co-op the remaining character is assigned to player 2. When the game starts 
 both players are together in what doubles as their training and a tutorial for the player to learn 
 the basics of the game and the controls. After the tutorial the duo is sent on their first mission 
 together and the story begins to unfold. Throughout the game you play side by side with each other 
 completing missions as mercenaries working in the private sector all while passing through the 
 years until 2009.
  
  Weapons and Money - Herein lies the meat of the game. As you play and complete primary and secondary 
 objectives you are awarded with hefty sums of money. It will quickly become addicting to upgrade, 
 trick out, and "pimp" your weapons with all that hard earned cash. Between each mission and often 
 mid-mission players are prompted with opportunities to buy weapons. There are a lot of weapons 
 to choose from and dozens of upgrades ranging from barrels and silencers to mounted grenade launchers; 
 and yes, even the bling bling of gold plating just to piss off your enemies that much more. Epic 
 customization for a shooter game.
  
  You will quickly feel a connection with your characters and establish an understanding as to why 
 they risk their lives - the guns are so dang cool! You will never feel as though you have no drive 
 in this game.
  
  Aiming and Controls - As a third person shooter the game can feel somewhat awkward at first until 
 you get used to the aiming. Once you become proficient and adjust the sensitivity to your liking 
 you will find that getting headshots can be a very effective alternative to the unavoidable spray 
 and pray. Similar to Gears of War, Ao2 allows for players to blind fire when ducking or peaking 
 out from cover. You're going to waste a lot of bullets this way, but sometimes it's the only way 
 to survive. We highly recommend you learn to zoom in for a more accurate shot whenever possible.
 
  
  Co-op Strategy - The title isn't kidding. This game is all about the co-op gameplay. If you've 
 read reviews from other sources the common trend is that the game is really not as enjoyable when 
 you play alone with the AI. Lucky for us we don't have that problem but we can sympathize with 
 those that do. Speaking purely from the perspective that will find this game most enjoyable, we 
 think the strategies and co-op moves rock. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is overall a really great game, and is fun to play whether its with a friend, or awith 
 the partner AI. It has some really great features that ive never seen in any other shooter.
  
  First off, the story in this game is simple and easy to understand. You work for a private 
 military contracting company in which they believe that battles should be fought with few extremely 
 well trained men, instead of a whole army. As the story progresses, people are debating whether 
 the entire military should be privitized, due to the success of private contractors. I dont want 
 to give much more away, but basically the company you work for turns against you and you have to 
 the eliminate the leader of the company that hired you in the first place.
  
  The gameplay is really great, to me it plays really similiar to gears of war. It has a similiar 
 cover system that enables you to blind fire, but the cover system feels much looser than the one 
 in gears of war does. Theres also a lot of cool features in this game too, such as the aggro system 
 and back to back. Aggro works like this, if you shoot at the enemy while your partner is not, you 
 will obtain the aggro. If you have the agrro, then your partner can walk around and be somewhat 
 invisible. Aggro makes the gameplay really dynamic and makes teamwork really crucial. Back to back 
 is another cool feature. When you are surrounded you and your partner will go into back-to-back 
 mode, which is when you and your partner go back to back, and eliminate all the enemies that are 
 rushing at you. On top of all this, everything goes into slow motion. (Its really satisfying to 
 see tons of enemies fall backwords in slow motion after you shoot them) . The combat is also really 
 intense in this game. You will find yourself juggling around the aggro with your partner so that 
 you can flank the enemy, or distract them while your partner hits them from behind. You will come 
 across a bunch of different enemies, over the course of this game, some can be taken out fairly 
 easlily but other enemies, known as "heavy" enemies require one person to draw all the aggro towards 
 him, while the other shoots at him from behind. 
  
  The best feature in this game is the unique weapon customization system. At the beginning and inbetween 
 each mission you are give the option to purchase or upgrade weapons. All in all there are about 
 30 different weapons, each in a different category. The categories include primary, secondary, 
 and special weapons. The guns range from weak pistols and SMGS, to the enormous mini gun and a 
 heat seeking missle launcher. You can also upgrage each guns barrel, stock, clip size, and add 
 attachments such as a grenade launcher. You can even "Pimp" your weapon by making it gold, or adding 
 diamonds. Pimping it makes you obtain more aggro .
  
  The environments in this game are preety well designed, I mean its no COD4, but the graphics are 
 still good. It has good shadows and lighting effects, but the textures could have still used some 
 work. Some of the environments you will be fighting in include China, Somalia, Irag, and a huge 
 aircraft carrier. The aircraft carrier is my favorite, it ends with you sprinting to the top of 
 the sinking ship, trying to reach your helicopter while huge jets are falling downs at you. 
  
  The only place that this game suffers is online. They recked the online by adding NPCs into 
 the game. You will be in a full on firefight with another player, but a random NPC will spawn and 
 finish you off. It really makes the game unfair and i think that the NPCs should just be taken 
 off the game. Another thing that i dont like about the multiplayer is that all the game modes are 
 objective based which doesnt make for very diverse gameplay.
  
  All in all, this was a very great game that offers a great coop experience. i just whish they could 
 have made the online better.
  Graphics-8
  Gameplay-9
  Sound-8
  OVERALL:9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrubs_06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I was lucky enought o get my hands on this game a week before its release. I Have just played through 
 its single player campaign by my lonesome. I Must say straight off the bat i had no major expectations 
 for this game and so far i have loved it every step of the way And that wasn't even playing it 
 co-op.
  
  I will say now yes it did have its flaws. The occasional getting stuck in a corner glitch and the 
 A. I. partner ignoring your plee that you were dying and he wasnt there to cover you or heal you 
 (Happened Rarely But it did happen!) . Other than that, the story is very easy to follow. When i 
 say easy to follow i mean a 7 year old would know whats going on and even see whats going to happen. 
 It is a bit of a fun dumb story, but does not in the slightest ruin it or the characters involvement 
 (Gee Gamespot whats your dillemma with this title dudes? Calm down and take chill pill) The characters 
 are fun and you like them straight away, there just two awesome idiots Air Guitaring there way 
 through the game.
  
  Dnt get carried away and think its truly next gen, but serously its worth the buy and when you 
 get a friend coming along the fun doubles!
  
  D. Hunter
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  After playing Kand & Lynch I approached this with caution. As soon as I seen the main menu I knew 
 this game was better. Heck the training level put Kane & Lynch to shame.
  
  Where to start...
  
  Storywise I think its well done. Its actually a pretty nice thought out 
 story that while may be a little out there is not at least your typical story that you can always 
 say "Gee I saw that coming!". And the characters while maybe a little over "bad boy" acting really 
 get you into the game and even make you enjoy it more.
  
  Graphically its really impressive. Its not the best ever but its still nicely done. From upgraded 
 weapons to the awesome "back to back" mode ingame! 
  
  Music and Sound are good although at points it seems like the enemy doesn't have much to say but 
 the same repeated swearing lines over and over.
  
  The gameplay is the best part obviously. This game fun with or without someone. I totally enjoyed 
 playing by myself but with a friend its 100x more fun! It becomes everything you want in a COOP 
 game. You each earn your own money, gear, weapons... etc. When not playing with someone you can 
 order AI around and for the most part he isn't that bad. But if your trying to do Professional 
 Mode (hardest) get a real friend to help you because the AI buddy tends to forget to save your 
 life when your dying on the ground and need a revive.
  
  The game is pretty straight forward action. No real freeroam action per say. You sort of follow 
 a specific path buy there are many ways to take down a enemy and the game features diffrent tiers 
 of enemies such as heavy enemies that can't be shot at from the front and take ALOT of hits from 
 the back to die. One guy will have to keep him busy from the front while another sneaks around 
 back to kill him... etc. This keeps it intense, more then just "Kill 10,000 guys through out the 
 game and your done!".
  
  After every mission or so you can choose to upgrade your gear with money you earned doing objectives 
 and finding things in game. Even after you beat the game or in general you can replay a mission 
 at any time on any difficulty to earn more money for gear you want! And yes you can even do this 
 with a friend so they can money too!
  
  The controls aren't actually like your typical FPS so it takes awhile to get use to. You have to 
 hold LB for instance to switch weapons and RB to switch to COOP Snipe or to switch weapons with 
 your partner. Its not as hard though as people claim it is.
  
  On to the problems of the game...
  
  -Online is like COD 4 in that its either you'll like entirely 
 or you won't. It doesn't offer much and its really confusing. Its not very fun (besides the online 
 COOP) . This doesn't totally kill the game for me though since the SP is so strong.
  
  -THE GAME IS SHORT! Great game don't get me wrong. And the premise is you'll play again and again 
 because you will want to upgrade your stuff and what not but the fun gets old after the 3rd time 
 through and you've pretty much tried all the weapons or if you've done a few missions over for 
 fun.
  
  -Sometimes the AI is TO good. You yourself aren't actually all that powerful. You die easily and 
 even with whatever weapon you have maxed out don't kill guys easily but they tend to have perfect 
 aim and take multiple shots! Sometimes, more so on harder difficulties this gets on your nerves.
 
  
  -Not sure if anything about really be done about this one but when healing alot of the time you 
 or your partner die because you just can't do anything. If you go to start dragging him you get 
 shot at and die and if you manage to find a safe spot your big head or something usually keep getting 
 hit so you restart the healing process over and over and over so eventually your buddy dies. All 
 this happens once again on harder difficulties. What makes it annoying is if you aren't perfect 
 and have to revive someone you know already you have to redo the whole giant section your in again.
 
  
  Overall this is still an awesome game just for the COOP online or off, with or without a friend. 
 Just to bad theres not much else to do afterwards. I'd rent for sure and only buy it AFTER renting 
 it beating it at least once to make sure its what you want. Because theres not much to this after 
 the initial "awe" factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokermont
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I only rented this game. But after my 2 days rental period I had got almost all the achievement 
 points. I'd finished the game on every setting and had a good old whack at the multiplayer too. 
 It's fair to say that the single player is great. It gives a feel of a mixture of gears of war 
 combat and Splinter Cell: Double Agent co-operative play. The levels are aesthetically pleasing 
 with detail where it's needed. The voice casting is fairly great too, with the main characters 
 having very individual styles and personalities. There are quite a few weapons to choose from, 
 but there could have been so many more. The customization is good although you do start to feel 
 slightly limited with the choices you're given and "pimping" them seems to always lead to either 
 a bright gold or silver gun which was a tad annoying. As you can see I'm slowly leading to the 
 downsides of the game here. So, The single player contains 6 real missions. The first five are 
 relatively short then the sixth is a crazy action packed mad house of carnage. Lot's of bad men. 
 Which is fun, but may prove frustrating on the higher difficulty levels. The game leaves a lot 
 un-explained. I won't go into detail here in risk of releasing spoilers, but there are many questions 
 left un-answered. Silly things that could of been included in the games plot.
  Finally, the multiplayer. What a shambles.
  Aside from the games being on occasion, fun, when 
 playing with your friends and you end up just running around trying to earn as much money as possible 
 to unlock a particular achievement and not actually bothering to kill each other, the games suck. 
 Lame repetitive objectives "assassinate this guy". "Destroy these ammo boxes". Basically, the first 
 person that gets there kills the person or destroys the boxes and then they move onto the next 
 one. It's a race. But a boring one. You can purchase new weapons and such in-game to give you the 
 upper hand, but this takes time so no-one really seems to.
  All in all, it's a good, not great game with a solid single player and a deeply lacking online 
 experience. I wonder if Army of Two... two?... Army of three?... Whatever, will deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imbulletpr00f
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  alright lets get started on my review of army of 2...
  
  The bad side:
  1. terrible story line
  2. online is only 2v2 
  3. campaign is way to short
  4. little replay 
 value
  5. the cover system is messed
  6. ur partner A. I. seems a little mentally handicapped
  
  the Goods:
  1. beautiful enviroments
 
  2. upgradeble guns
  
  
  my number one complaint in this game is the terrible cover system for example. if an enemy is taking 
 cover behind tipped over piece of cement there head is showing so when you go to shoot the piece 
 of their head it does nothing what so ever.
  
  and whats up with 2v2 online yes i know its army of 2 but still couldnt u do 4vs4 or 3vs3. it gets 
 annoying for when your other friends have the game and then they always do 2vs2 with each other 
 and then i cant be on their team.
  
  some points when im playing this game with an A. I. partener it just seems he was dropped on his 
 head while growing up. for example when i was trying to activate a switch he needed to activate 
 his at the same time but of course i turn around and he is pacing back and forth.
  
  the stpryline seems a little retarted u work for some thing called the SSC and u are sent out to 
 do these missions
  
  
  this leaves me to give this game a 5.0 out of 10.0
  
  also whats up with needing 2 peopleto open a door im pretty capable of myself opening one in real 
 life alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyC
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is the most entertaining co-op game that I have ever played! This game actually makes 
 you want to go through the entire game with your buddy... and not try to leave him in your dust. 
 Your success in this game actually depends on each other's ability to survive and/or resuscitate 
 the other player. Sure the game's premise may not take itself as seriously as some might have wanted 
 it to, but it is a game, and not a war sim. The game plays like an enhanced version of Gears of 
 War and a perfect version of Kane and Lynch. The only difference that I see between the three games 
 is that Gears has you killing aliens and Army of Two has you killing humans, while Kane and Lynch 
 was just disappointing in almost every aspect. There are plenty of side quests and extras that 
 will keep you busy and coming back a second and third time to try to collect and complete everything. 
 There is so much to buy and upgrade in this game. The weapons and armor are what you would hope 
 for in a game like this. The game is graphically impressive and controls like a dream. Ever since 
 I played the first Gears game, I have been looking for a game to hold me over until Gears 2 came 
 out... this is that game. Kudos to EA for making a great game that appeals to the co-op gamers 
 like myself and shame on any and all websites/magazines that do not see this game for what it was 
 intended to be... A GREAT CO-OP EXPERIENCE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skhyzm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Like it's title, Army of Two is a pure co-op game. For those of you without another human to play 
 the game with, don't bother. The AI is just plain stupid in most situations, and it leaves you 
 as an Army of One. The game is good, don't get me wrong; just not without another human at the 
 controls. Then of course, there is the special, one time weapon unlock codes that EA sent out with 
 the game, but I'm not even going to get started on that. The game itself is fun, but not very diverse. 
 Once you have beaten the game, it turns into one of those games where you already know what is 
 going to happen, how it's going to happen, and where the bad guy is going to be hiding. So, you'll 
 probably end up playing it, then either returning it for another game, or taking it back to blockbuster 
 (If you were smart) . True to it's title, the game just doesn't play well with AI as your partner. 
 Weapon customization keeps things interesting, but there isn't really too much punch to this game 
 once you've cleared it. Unless you're an achievement hunter maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPaStorTroyx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Ok some people are expecing GTA to be the GTA of all GTA's, some GoW 2 to be the best game ever 
 and then compare every game after to it... whatever your fancey most people expectations are honestly 
 rediculious, it seems that yes you have a basic shooter A. o. T that takes basic elements and makes 
 it fun, you have a ggreat cover system I hapen to like better then gears no buttons needed just 
 duck behind ... because instead of having to be sUcked into the cover like gears or take cover 
 by pushing a button .. yes you too rainbow six... I think its still effective, you can pretty much 
 duck behind or hide behind anything and it takes you into the cover system.. DONT listen to half 
 these haters and gamespot just go and try the game for youself, its fun especially the co-op it 
 holds its own.. it made me put down COD4 for a while.. anyway gamespot rating is biased... most 
 sites at least gave it an 8... but I honestly it depends on the person reviewing it , all they 
 have to do is review games so yes their looking at it from a industry view, graphics scale this 
 .. presentation that., not a consumers view... because its not always about that.. look at mario 
 and I think that game was very repetitive... but Fun... : IE pacman, fun.. list goes on... as far 
 as this game I think it has its flaws but what game dosent.. now and days.. and if the person expects 
 too much out of something hopeing for the perfect game, your gonna end up dissapointed in the end... 
 all in all .. this is a good/ fun game I just had to let it be known because it seems like someone 
 always is compairing some game to another thing now and days.. either their favorite game or a 
 game they think other games should live up too.. and not enjoying it for what it is... everyone 
 has diffrent taste which is understandable but myself comming from the NES and atari and Tandy 
 era I can honestly appreciate each game for what it is... people want to experience the movies 
 instead of watch them however.. people dont want to respect the catagory they are in... meaning.. 
 if you want to watch a horror movie you know what to expect ,, if you want an action movie.. you 
 know what your in for.. romance .. etc.. so Y does a game thats a FPS or a RPG or 3rd person in 
 this case get slammed for following a format .. just make your own games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marky214
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  well all i can say is another disappointing game show from ea?. the idea was great and yes it plays 
 well enough but not patch on gears of war !, it has alot going for it ie; 8 for grahics. 7 for 
 game play, coop online is abit mis matched and auckward to play. the game it self is at best half 
 good and half bad lol. aiming at best is touchy and controling is not good either, 
  so if you fancy army of two?, you will get some enjoyment out of the game but i would think very 
 limited. there are much better first shooters out there graw 1 and 2, gears of coarse and quite 
 a few others as i am sure you know guys and girls. that i think would give much better game life 
 and have more fun on too boot.
  well my copy is already back in the shop so you have to make up your own minds. but for me very 
 disppointed at what could have been a great game?. but is just an ok game.
  rocky bald boa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseyborn88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  It seems that EA shared our opinion, announcing that the game was to be delayed a few more months 
 to allow the team to tweak it. As with the Alien remix, these improvements mainly involved ripping 
 unfixable content out. So the Dance Dance Revolution-style tampon stuffing minigames? Gone. Vehicular 
 combat? Mostly gone (more on that later) . Boring single-player gameplay? Definitely a thing of 
 the past. Welcome to Army of Two - The 'Director's Cut'.
  
  Despite the tinkering, the core storyline has remained the same, as Salem (Skinny, money obsessed 
 thrill-seeker) and Rios (Burly quarterback, conspiracy theory nut) , rip their way through 18-years 
 worth of political hotspots, high-fiving their way to the plot's incredibly obvious (and slightly 
 abrupt) conclusion like a pair of wrestling fixated teenagers. Designed as a co-op experience from 
 the outset, you'll always have a partner, with the second character controlled by a friend or AI.
 
  
  Much of the work done on the game since November has gone into improving the partner AI, and it's 
 made a huge difference to the single-player campaign. Although you still issue the same orders 
 as before (aggressive and passive flavors of Go, Stop and Re-group) your pantomime-tough pal responds 
 much more effectively than before, and by combining commands it's now possible to place him anywhere 
 you want. Now you don't have to worry about your partner, you can finally relax into the pair's 
 juvenile camaraderie - to the point where you actually look forward to running up and chest-thumping 
 your heterosexual life-partner after particularly cool shoot-outs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearsDeuce
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Over hyped, disappointing, and not worth buying. I'm just glad I used a gift card to get this one. 
 But that serves me right for not renting before buying an unsure game. Reminiscent of an old one 
 from Sega Genesis: I'm over defeating bosses, random levels, and cut scenes that don't flow with 
 what you were just doing. You can beat the campaign in two to three hours MAX. It tries too hard 
 to be funny and clich action packed (i. e. blasting your way out of a falling plane on a hovercraft) .... 
 it's like playing Triple X... we all remember how terrible that movie was. Like I just said, it 
 tries too hard. I think the makers tried to come from another direction with the private military 
 corporation-contractors-heavy metal-on steroids angle. That's cool, a good idea, but it didn't 
 work. And the further you play, the more disappointing it gets. All the way up to ending which 
 is the worst part and leaves you saying, "That better not the end". Saw the trailers and got excited, 
 played the game and I'm waiting for Rainbow Six Vegas 2 even more than before. For what you get 
 in return, it seems life a game that was rushed to the shelves. RENT IT, RETURN IT, and wait for 
 next Tuesday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serenei
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Single Player campaign is pretty dull with an AI that makes very RARE smart moves. During it, I 
 felt as if I was an Army of One, since my AI partner would run around. This game really is only 
 fun with split screen or online multiplayer.
  
  Versus Mode makes me cry the most. It is very unbalanced and is horrid. Carrying a hostage to safety 
 gives you $10,000 while reaching a point on the map gives you $30,000. To revive you need to spend 
 $10,000. Oh and did I forget to mention, The points in the game is the currency, which you need 
 to buy new weapons. The worst part, It requires no skill whatsoever. You can simply run up to someone, 
 hit right trigger, knock them to the ground and shoot them as they get up. Guess what! You killed 
 them! It's whoever hits RT faster, and how you tap "A" to revive your own partner. I was expecting 
 it to be alot more similar to campaign with the dragging and healing allies. In the game, You never 
 really use cooperative action.
  
  The game, for sure, is one that is "Rent it first, and if you like it, buy it." I feel as if I 
 wasted $60 on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Army of two. The start of a new genre. I remember about a year and a half ago, when EA announced 
 AO2 and made it clear that it would be a game focusing on co-op play and that it wouldn't have 
 any flashy, complicated features, just a core, intense co-op play. Well, rest assured, because 
 they have kept their promises and delivered well beyond them. With an easy to understand co-op 
 system and a smart A. I. for those that prefer going to war alone, AO2 is a must even for those 
 very casual gamers. The types of gameplay and strategies used in this game, for example Aggro, 
 are very innovative and have never been seen before. AO2 is a joyous, fun to play game that serves 
 you with plenty of action and plenty of surprises. And if you have seen some trailers, you may 
 have guessed that it is not lacking humor either. In other words, get this game or die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360pwnge
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Army of two puts you in the boots of two mercenaries/solders/secret agent whatever. This game is 
 based on co-op like but not like co-op in halo or gears they whole game is based on co-op from 
 boosting your player up on ledges or double parachuting of a cliff. Online multi player co-op is 
 best the computers A. I. is above your average but is best enjoyed with real people. OK if you read 
 any other of my reviews you now you know I don't do this but ill also rate it based on a score 
 system
  
  Story : 8 it has a good story but like a lot of games its just a reason to shoot guys
  Game play 
 : 8 good but it feels a little clunky in snipers
  Sound : 10 great sound the absolute highlight of this game from funny phrases 
  to pop culture 
 refrinces 
  Graphics : 9.5 Outstanding visuals Eliot and Rio's character designs are some of the best I've 
 seen 
  Replay value : 9 The story mode will keep you trying to get guns no one has seen before and great 
 squad based multiplayer means you will keep this game for a pretty long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360-Games-Wiz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This amazing game contains lots of different things to do but the AI character can be dumber than 
 a post some times. Very bad at the start in Somalia but as it got on other levels it got more interesting. 
 I think that all the games should have something to collect in it. As in this games it is briefcases 
 that also get you a bigger reward every time you get on to the next level. The story was pretty 
 cool that it was based on two men the the army going on to being top hit men.
  Another great thing about the game is you can buy and customize your weapons and use them in Versus 
 mode and Story mode. Once you complete a difficulty you will get the Primary weapons and unlock 
 Professional difficulty then complete that and get all the remaining weapons. There is also a new 
 thing to games called Aggro. This mean that if you attack the enemy it's like your glowing red 
 and everyone aims at you. And when your not it's like your invisible and can do whatever you want 
 to the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHO_ONE
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  I personally like AOT, by the end of the night tonight I'll have played through it 3 times, and 
 the multiplayer is also ok. I give it a 8 / 10
  
  Graphics: (8.5/10) are good and the cut scene's are excellent, the attention to detail is there 
 and helps bring the characters to life. Both in Game and CGI cut-scens are excellent, I'm remembering 
 a scene with F-16 and both my brother and I thought the planes and action was awesome. 
  
  Sound : 8/10 The humor is actually funny, voice acting was done well and because of this I actually 
 wanted to watch the cut scenes. It never became to repetive, un-like Area 51, were the charecters 
 around you basicly had 4 lines in there vocabulary and it was made painfully obvious!
  
  Controls: 7.75 / 10 The controls were simple sometimes a little to simple, but effective; however 
 there were times I wished I could ask the A. I partner to preform a task and there was no such method 
 in the interface. I thought the cover system worked well most of the time, but there was that occasional 
 hick`up when you'd try and duck and cover and the reticule would have you shooting the wall next 
 to you.
  
  Game-Play: 7.75 / 10 The games mechanics and enemy A. I seemed decent enough that a game played 
 on the professional setting had you and your partner actually discussing aggro, and technique! 
 The Achievements worked out as well and didn't feel misplaced and honestly hunting for them was 
 welcoming! The EA Server would crash at the wrong time leaving you to start entire missions from 
 the beginning simply because you dropped right at the end of the level but didn't quite hit the 
 check point. Would have been nice to have more check points to alleviate all the re-doing!
  
  Over all, I loved playing this game, wish it was army of 4 so I didn't have to pick and chose 
 who I had to play with. I've decided that this game is an excellent game and an 8/10 is fitting 
 due to some of it's flaws and the length of the campaign and A. I issues. I've personally decided 
 that this games going to be traded in for Dark Sector when that comes out, I think it's play value 
 will be gone by then!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  If you've ever wanted to fight terrorists in Afghanistan or use a hovercraft in a flooded Miami, 
 then Army of Two shouldn't disappoint you. However, Army of Two's six missions it has to offer 
 can well and truly be completed in under ten hours. Now, of course, to get as many achievements 
 as possible, you'll need to replay these missions. If you're not one for replaying something on 
 your own, then you can jump into its mediocre co-op mode.
  
  You can go through the whole game with the AI or with a friend (local and online) . Now, the only 
 main problem with the co-op mode is that you can only join at the start of a mission. Unlike some 
 titles, you simply can not just hop into the mission in the middle of it. Whilst this in a way 
 seems realistic, it just seems inconvenient for the players. Also, another problem is if you are 
 not hosting the co-op, then it will only save your progress at the end of the level. However, if 
 you are host, it saves at every checkpoint. So, if you accidentally get disconnected near the end, 
 you would need to restart the whole level whilst the host can simply load the last checkpoint. 
 Then, the host is unable to invite you back in because they are not at the start of the level. 
 Inconvenient - certainly.
  
  If you feel like playing with the AI, then you can indeed do so (there are achievements for doing 
 this with the AI only) . Now, I use "AI" lightly because it feels more artificial UN-intelligent 
 at times. Now, you do have control over what your partner does. You can command him to move ahead 
 and fight (to allow you to recover) , tell him to stay back (which seems to probably be the best 
 option most of the time) and tell him to stay close.
  
  Now, for the first half of the game, you would probably want to keep your partner staying back 
 and having him come into fight occasionally to get the focus directed towards him from the enemies. 
 If he stays ahead and fights for too long, his health will decrease and can be downed. So, thankfully 
 it is not game over but will be if you do not recover him quickly. This is done by walking up to 
 your downed partner, holding A and that will heal him. However, sometimes you may need to move 
 him to a more safer place behind cover if the enemies are shooting at you or him. The good thing 
 is, he can still shoot whilst he is down to make the enemies back off.
  
  Now, if you get downed, this is where it starts to get annoying. The AI will recover you luckily 
 but if there's too much going on, he will even sometimes just drag you right into the gunfire and 
 attempt to heal you. Now, this is why the AI seems to not be very well programmed at times. It 
 really does get annoying when you can see a perfectly good spot for him to drag you to but he decides 
 to go in the most dangerous of places. Now, since you don't have any control of the movement, you 
 are pretty much hoping you'll get through this.
  
  The gameplay of Army of Two wants you to focus on using this "aggro" system. Basically, if you 
 are firing at enemies, then your meter will increase. This causes enemies to keep their focus on 
 you. However, if you be tactical and tell your partner to get his aggro up, then you can quickly 
 sneak behind enemies on turrets and take them out (you go invisible) . This works well also on taking 
 out the much stronger enemies. Enemies have blue, red or green icons above their heads. The blue 
 seems to be the less armoured men, red seems to be slightly more armoured but the green are where 
 it proves a bit tough. Usually, you'll need to get the partner to distract them, so you can sneak 
 up behind them. You may also find it useful to use a grenade or rocket launcher against them to 
 decrease their health. Good teamwork is essential for taking out these guys. The same applies for 
 the bosses that are similar to the green icon men.
  
  Enemies can be killed in a variety of ways. The most common (and obvious) way would be to shoot 
 them using the game's various groups of weapons. There are assault rifles, machine guns, handguns, 
 SMGs, shotguns and sniper rifles to be used. There's also some other weapons such as a stinger 
 (this locks onto enemies) and rocket launcher (should usually take out an enemy instantly if aimed 
 directly) . Now, at times, you can be stealthy on some parts and take out enemies with sniper rifles. 
 Doing this correctly can actually prevent more enemies from coming out - saving you a bit of time 
 on the level. All weapons can be tweaked - they can have various upgrades to improve their performance. 
 You can probably get through the entire game by only using a few weapons but it can be made easier 
 if you choose the more powerful types.
  
  The first mission is set in Somalia. Thing is, everytime you start from there, you have to replay 
 the tutorial level. It is indeed a very helpful thing to have but there really is no need for them 
 to make you play through it again everytime you want to play Somalia. You'll travel to other locations 
 such as Afghanistan (where you get to shoot suicide terrorists) , Iraq and eventually get to Miami. 
 The environments look quite good - some better than others. The best would probably have to be 
 in a dark, gloomy Miami. Since you can see the waves moving realistically (because of the hurricane) 
 and the indoor environments look very polished. For character models, they look quite good. In 
 a way, they kind-of remind me of those in Crackdown. The menus could have been improved. It just 
 seems slow to navigate through them because of the annoying transitions.
  
  The good thing is that when you complete all missions, you still keep whatever weapons you purchased. 
 So, you can replay on a higher difficulty using those weapons you unlocked. Weapons can be unlocked 
 by purchasing them (money is earned by completing objectives in the missions) or if you complete 
 all missions on any difficulty, you unlock all of the primary ones automatically. All others can 
 be unlocked by completing on the highest difficulty (Professional) but of course you can pay for 
 them without needing to go through it. You can still earn money by replaying missions too. So, 
 you're never stuck on making money. There are not just weapons to buy but there's also masks you 
 can buy. These seem to be a more decorative aspect but certainly something good to have. You can 
 also unlock armour upgrades which will certainly help you out at the later parts of the game.
 
  
  Back to killing enemies in a variety of ways. Another way is you can use the grenade. This works 
 in two ways. You can blind throw it or aim and then throw. The latter seems more effective but 
 it takes more time. This works in a similar way to how grenades are thrown on Gears of War (with 
 the line indicating where it will land) . They have a great impact but don't always seem to be accurate 
 when thrown at times. Enemies can also be knocked down if you are close to them. If you catch them 
 at the right moment, the melee can be done successful. However, at times, I have noticed they can 
 reverse this and indeed kick you down to the ground. So, be careful not to overuse this! If you 
 find a turret nearby, you can indeed use that as it is quite powerful and has infinite bullets. 
 The enemies always seem to like using these. Sometimes, if you take one out who is using the turret, 
 another will go and get on it. Very cheeky enemies, indeed. One last way is by using the shields 
 that you will find at various points in missions. One partner grabs the shield (the AI won't pick 
 this up for some reason) and the other guy stays behind and does the shooting. It works good and 
 if enemies get too close, the partner holding the shield can simply whack them (kills them instantly) .
 
  
  A feature that probably is going to be most fun to use with a partner on local or online is the 
 praise / negative system. You can walk up to your partner anytime and press A - this praises him 
 (shakes his hand) . Alternatively, you can be negative (use RT near partner) and headbutt him. The 
 actions are different at times so it's not always the same thing. It is indeed a useless but comedic 
 thing to have in. Army of Two focuses on two main characters named Rio and Salem. Both seem to 
 have that love-hate relationship between them and you'll soon pick up more about them through their 
 dialogue as you progress. They go well together and don't necessarily have to act all serious. 
 They communicate constantly, as required when you are directing where to go. The other characters 
 in Army of Two seem to be more stereotyped. Many of the enemies you see in cutscenes (these are 
 done nicely by the way) will probably remind you of other characters in other video games and movies.
 
  
  You can take Rio or Salem online too. In fact, you can use more characters this time. It follows 
 a similar rule to the single player. You work co-operatively and have to complete objectives to 
 earn money. You earn a lot more on multiplayer but this money is separate from your single player 
 bank account. There are a few types and maps to choose from too. However, currently the multiplayer 
 has one main flaw to it. That is if anyone quits, then everyone else is disconnected. This is rather 
 unfair and it will not notify you that someone disconnected. The error message seems to think you 
 lost connection. This is the main factor that makes it very weak and unfair multiplayer indeed.
 
  
  Army of Two is probably best played through its missions with a partner locally or on Xbox LIVE. 
 The AI certainly needs improving a bit as explained earlier. The most fun will probably be when 
 you are playing with a friend. It seems to be a great online co-op game once you're in the mission. 
 I would have liked to see some backend improvements done in a future patch and maybe some more 
 missions? Since this is a short title, it probably is worth renting but if you want to attempt 
 to get as many achievements as possible, it is certainly worth purchasing. There are three main 
 difficulties - the difference is noticeable between them but not too greatly. It's best to pick 
 "Contractor" since you'll earn some of the secret achievements that way then. Army of Two could 
 have done a lot better if they worked more on the multiplayer but still it is certainly a title 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beasterxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  My issue with Army Of Two isn't one of gameplay but compatibility. As one of the most highly anticipated 
 games of the year (or last year for that matter) I find it unbelievable that the developers were 
 not able to or, chose not to be able to play in "versus" mode or cooperatively with people from 
 around the world! I honestly think that it misses the whole point! When developing a game with 
 multiplayer capabilities for the most robust online gaming COMMUNITY out there, to have something 
 as ridiculous as REGIONAL VERSIONS has got to be one of the biggest oversights in online gaming 
 history! The whole point of playing online is to play with people you know, people you want to 
 play with, hence the friends list on Xbox 360. The developers really missed on this one! The inability 
 to play with AU, UK and other English speaking countries is the whole idea behind the word COMMUNITY. 
 Make a patch, Do it fast..... or this game will fade into obscurity faster than you can say "RAINBOW 
 SIX VEGAS 2" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  you must empty your mind before starting this game of everything; it is real world and reality rules; you 
 never see that someone help you without any request; your friend will turn to be your enemy any 
 second if your commander wants it; the war is not like the one on the cinema and one shot is your 
 ticket to death; there is one way, oh there is many ways to fight but their goal is one ,kill or 
 be killed; when you see an enemy you must show no mercy to him because he/she will **** down you 
 at once;
  the world will not remember you as a hero but the poeple will call you the blood-sucker, huge monster 
 or mad evil; the government will act you as a slave and after your death will kick you to trash 
 can as a broken puppet;
  your gun is not yours, it is for them; you are not aiming, they do; it is not your own plan or strategy, it 
 is theirs; and you are not you, you do not exist as your own; they creat you and they will erase you;
 
  you are a true soldior but with a weakness you do not any feeling; in the war it is so good but 
 for you it is so so so bad;
  everywhere you go, you bring honnor for your government and country and sorrow for your own;
  
 you are mercenary, not human; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad900
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game with a lot of potential. The gameplay is fun, as is the buying and upgrading 
 of weapons (although it could have used more balancing and fine tuning) . With a friend at your 
 side, you'll have a blast as you fight your way through the game's surprisingly short six levels. 
 Whether you're tandem parachuting, unloading guns back to back in slow motion, or just using the 
 aggro system to advance forward, the co-op is always more than just shooting guns next to each 
 other.
  
  Gameplay wise, this game is entertaining. Shooting your gun is very fun, especially once you outfit 
 it with some upgrades. Melee attacks have scripted sequences, but they rarely feel obstrusive or 
 annoying, and since the moves you do are generally short and vary depending on the level of aggro, 
 they rarely get boring to watch. It's not a very difficult game, but it does a good job of ramping 
 the learning curve up at a rate that's challenging but not annoying.
  
  The guns are well balanced, but you'll notice that hitting moving enemies can sometimes be a challenge 
 because of hit detection. It's nothing game breaking, but it is occasionally frusturating. The 
 cover mechanic is well done, and will automatically set you up if you approach the corner of a 
 wall or crouch behind a low object. The aggro system, wherein one player can get the enemies to 
 focus on him by firing at them with larger/more extravagent weapons, is also fun to play around 
 with. While it might seem like a great tactical tool for allowing one player to flank, it's undercut 
 by the fact that aggro is so easily gained that maintaining a balance between players is very difficult, 
 especially in a harsh firefight.
  
  There are a myriad of Co-op moves available, although most of the major ones are context sensitive 
 or automatically triggered. Back to back, for example, is now triggered automatically with a cutscene, 
 instead of being engaged by the players. It's no less fun, but it does take away some of its value. 
 Others, such as opening doors together or giving the other player a step up to reach a high place, 
 seem like they were tacked on to make the players feel like they had more cooperative moves, and 
 largely serve no real purpose. Finally, there are moves like Co-op sniping, which sound (and are) 
 very fun, but are ultimately just not very useful. It's a pity though, because the few (very, very 
 few) times where co-op sniping actually was useful, it was very fun.
  
  The AI is a mixed bag. It's a far cry from what EA was claiming it would be, and although it is 
 very smart comparatively, it still suffers from a few obvious problems and doesn't hold up its 
 end of the bargain in single player. For example, it is very good about healing you should you 
 fall in battle. However, it will take the time to drag you all the way to what it deams 'safe' 
 cover, even if all the enemies are dead. Sometimes this means it drags you halfway across an empty 
 map to heal you, sometimes it means it will head straight through the line of fire of a Mounted 
 Machine Gun. This isn't to say it's not smart. It will follow your commands well and, in their 
 absence, fight well on its own accord. However, in a game where you rely on your partner so heavily 
 in almost every firefight, it does not fufill its requirements. The enemy AI is much the same, 
 ranging from brain dead goons who charge out of cover to attack you even while you fire your machine 
 gun at them to some intelligent enemies, who will flank you and wait for you to reload before charging.
 
  
  Graphically the game is quite nice. Although you might not notice on the first few levels, with 
 their drab Middle Eastern setting, the last three show through as quite nice. The water is especially 
 realistic, which is nice since you spend a good portion of time on or around it towards the end.
 
  
  In terms of sound, the game is acceptable. The voice work ranges from some extremely well delivered 
 (and funny) banter between the two main character to some low quality voiceovers in cinematics. 
 The sound effects, especially the guns, are good quality. For a game that seems very arcady at 
 times, firing your gun can be surprisingly vicseral.
  
  The online multiplayer isn't a straight up deathmatch, like one might expect, but rather a two 
 vs two race for cash. You run around a map with your partner, racing to complete objectives before 
 the other team can, which earns you money. This in turn, can be used to buy new guns (for that 
 multiplayer match only) to use on both the AI enemies and the opposing team. It's a fun setup, 
 but is ruined by a few things. Firstly, lag is very prominent. Bullet lag especially hampers gameplay. 
 Also, some weapons that were balanced in single player, against the AI, seem overwhelmingly powerful 
 against other players. Shotguns and sniper rifles especially seem to be a bit too effective when 
 dealing with your opponents. It's a fun experiance if you can get a good partner (and good opponents) 
 to play a lag-free match in. That won't happen often though, so be prepared.
  
  In the end, this game is worth the price if you've got a friend willing to play it with you. Otherwise, 
 you might just want to rent it, or skip it altogether. It does a very good job of making you and 
 your partner work together, whether it be tackling heavily armored soldiers who can only be damaged 
 in the back or advancing on an entrenched machine gun. It's great working through those situations 
 with a friends, but with the AI it can be frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: postal83
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, this game is what I expected. It's pretty fun at first, you get to do missions 
 all over the world with a hard-edged veteran and a younger easy-going ex-ranger for comic relief.
 
  
  One of the cooler aspects of this game is the ability to purchase weapons and then upgrade many 
 parts of them including barrels, stocks, magazines, suppressors, and a few others. There is a decent 
 selection for primary and secondary weapons.
  
  You earn money by completing certain objectives through the mission and are given the chance through 
 the map to purchase weapons/upgrades.
  
  The other cool thing that this game does is it uses an aggro system that works pretty well. However, 
 if you're playing with a friend in co-op, you will find that covering someone can really consume 
 a lot of ammo which you can replenish by picking up ammo packs that the enemies drop.
  
  The multiplayer can be pretty fun if you have the right people, and considering that theres only 
 2 v 2, its very important to be playing with the right people. My one major gripe with the multiplayer 
 is the melee-fests that occur. It can get very frustrating when you are charged by the enemy, and 
 they initiate a melee attack which locks up your controller and you have to sit and watch the animation 
 while they choke slam you to the ground then riddle your defenseless self to death. Multiplayer 
 would be great with this removed. It does create an excellent feel of cooperative gameplay though.
 
  
  Single player co-op is okay, but stepjumping and riotshields tend to get old after a while.
  
 
  The graphics are pretty well done and the game feels fairly polished, but some aspects of the gameplay 
 can be frustrating at times.
  
  The game appeals at first, but it slowly wears thin which is why I recommend this as a rental, 
 especially when you can beat it and get most the achievements pretty quickly.
  
  The difficulty settings definately reflect the ease of the game, some parts can be pretty tough! 
 There are three difficulties, but the "Professional" is unlocked after beating the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax897
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two had a lot of skeptic criticism before its release, mainly because of the game carrying 
 the EA tag under it. Most people were quick to brush the game off as another boring EA let down. 
 But I would have to say Army of Two has done a lot of new and different unique games that deserves 
 a higher score then the crap scores that Gamespot gives.
  
  First, Army of Two has shown that it can take a common game type and expand on it dramatically 
 which it did. The aggro system is by far a great addition to 3rd person shooters and expanded on 
 the co-op gameplay that has never been looked at a lot. The AI is very intelligent in this game 
 and people need to realize that its Artificial Intelligence. People have gone low on reviewing 
 this game as to say that the AI is retarded like "one time the ai was just running into a wall 
 and was stupid this game is teh suck durrr."
  
  Seriously, on my time playing this game I have not encountered dumb AI whatsoever. But that could 
 be because I play on a difficulty HIGHER then recruit but hey I guess I'm a stupid gamer. The AI 
 knows whats going on in a fight and does its best to counter anything you do in this game. They 
 have flanked me and take strong defensive positions that made the game fun as hell to play.
  
  The AI partner is even pretty intelligent to order that you give him and not some dumb idiot 
 that shoots at walls all the time. He knows how to back you up and hold aggro when you want him 
 to. The tactics the game implemented in this game have reached new innovations for Third Person 
 Shooters instead of the whole run and gun scenario.
  
  Although I clearly like this game a lot I will say that this should be a rent first. Its not the 
 kind of game that will appeal to all game enthusiasts and should be rented first before deciding 
 if this game is for you. The difficulty in the game is to say the least... difficult. The AI is 
 incredibly intelligent and can get frustrating at times, but at the very most it should also make 
 you feel good that they didn't create jackass AI that ride the short bus.
  
  Sound Effects are great in this game and the guns are incredible. The guns don't sound to unrealistic 
 and overdone or to mild and soft sounding at all. They reached the sound expectations of making 
 the perfect gun sounds for the game.
  
  All in all this is a great game and should be considered by a lot of people that own a X-Box 360 
 and should give it a shot at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trision
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Salem and Rios, the main characters and army rangers, quickly learn that they could be making more 
 money in privatized military, so they leave the army and and become mercenaries for hire. You play 
 as either one of these soldiers of fortune during the modern day war in Iraq.
  
  Sounds good right? Too bad it's only true half of the time.
  
  If you're playing with another 
 friend cooperatively then AO2 is a blast. On the other hand, if you are playing on your own then 
 your experience will be very frustrating. The proficient graphics engine delivers clear and crisp 
 visuals while keeping the frame rate well above 30. Furthermore, the gameplay, while similar to 
 the GOW franchise, feels fresh and exciting. Sound effects are realistic and satisfying.
  
  The AI is noteworthy too, but not in a good way. If you are playing single player then the friendly 
 AI will drive you up the wall. Your friend will dive out of cover if he's at low health, run into 
 enemy fire, etc. It's a real nuisance because you only have limited control over his actions.
 
  
  What you end up with is a divided game. It's a lot of when played with a friend and very frustrating 
 when played alone. It's no GOW game, but it's an average filler until the third instalment is released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devestator173
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I felt that this game doesn't receive the respect it deserves. I mean if your'e looking for a complex 
 plot with deep characters and intricate plot twists, you probably won't find that here. What you 
 will find is a solid shooter. This game is short, but that is why there are multiple difficulties 
 and an online option. It's also a great game that you can just sit down and spend 30 minutes on, 
 or spend a whole day playing it. The ability to customize your weapons makes it even more interesting, 
 adding new ways to play through the game again. Want to get up close and blast people with a shotgun? 
 Or maybe you're looking to use a beastly chaingun. I also found that the AI isn't as bad as people 
 say it is. Your partner will listen to your orders, and the enemy provides for a great challenge. 
 It is also a great game to play with friends. It was made for the co-op mode. The bottom line is 
 this is a solid game that is rated too harshly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfunkmusik
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Review: Army of Two (X360)
  By: pfunkmusik
  
  Army of Two is deserving of mediocre reviews, but not for the reasons specified by Gamespot's reviewer. 
 First of all, with games like the Grand Theft Auto and Manhunt franchises out there, I find it 
 a little difficult to get worked up over the apparent lack of moral clarity displayed by Army of 
 Two.
  
  Army of Two is a cooperatively-played third-person shooter that puts you in the boots of a member 
 of a private military corporation (PMC) , much like Blackwater Worldwide or Aegis Defense Services. 
 PMCs are now a billion-dollar industry, recruiting members of military services (especially those 
 in special services, like the SAS, the Green Berets and Rangers) across the world and providing 
 security and intelligence services to governments willing to meet their price tag. Governments 
 often find this solution attractive because it cuts their costs of operation significantly by employing 
 mercenaries rather than deploy their country's sons and daughters in the uniform of their nation's 
 military to project power abroad, which is infinitely more expensive, both in terms of money and 
 political popularity.
  
  The realism in this game ends there. Firmly. This game essentially is just another Need For Speed 
 chapter, but with guns. You essentially run around in various real-world trouble spots with the 
 aforementioned large guns, shooting many, many people with funny accents, all the while you're 
 dressed like the main antagonist in a B-grade horror/slasher film. You earn cash based on completing 
 objectives and killing as many people as possible which you can later spend on bigger and ostensibly 
 more lethal firepower. The customization options are pretty shallow and aside from the immense 
 howitzer you can tote around, I really couldn't detect a massive difference in how effective each 
 weapon was.
  
  The main thrust of the game is cooperative play. It was meant and intended for you and a friend 
 to play the game together by split screen or via Xbox Live. However, you must unlock all the areas 
 of the game by playing through the single-player campaign, which can be finished in about a day 
 if you really want to sit through it.
  
  The method by which you systematically engage enemies on Army of Two's rather anemic battlefields 
 is nothing short of ridiculous. The first gimmick employed is the Aggrometer, an actual measuring 
 device that indicates the amount of attention you're drawing from the enemy. The more you draw, 
 the less your partner does and as the amount of 'Aggro' you incur goes up, your body literally 
 begins to glow red while your partner's body becomes translucent and he can literally mince about 
 the area of engagement, capping people at his leisure.
  
  In Max Payne, it was called Bullet Time. Need For Speed: Most Wanted called it Speedbreaker. Army 
 of Two refers to it as Overkill, but it all works the same, tired way. Kill enough people, you 
 can slow down time andwell, kill a lot more. You also have a little mechanic that's a cousin of 
 this called Back to Back, in which not only does time slow down, you and your AI partner put your 
 back to each other and proceed to mow copious numbers of bad guys down indiscriminately with no 
 penalty to the amount of ammo you were carrying before this kabuki theater started. Unfortunately, 
 you cannot pick and choose when to use Back to Back, and it's events like this that make the entire 
 game feel like you're being led around on a leash.
  
  There are a couple of multiplayer modes, including Versus, in which you and an opposing team try 
 to compete for kills and mission objectives for cash along with the obligatory cooperative campaign. 
 You can also play through on split screen, but this is probably the least desirable option of them 
 all. Essentially, it's the same as single-player, you just might have a marginally smarter team-mate, 
 depending on who you play with.
  
  What would I have liked to see? Some realism, for one thing. The AI was an utter joke that pulls 
 cheap shots in order to manufacture tension and difficulty, like opening a door and a swarm of 
 bad guys come pouring through and maneuver to surround you, oblivious to your gunfire. And what 
 useless gunfire it is. Your bullets exit your gun at the approximate speed of a Toyota Prius. You 
 can lead your targets on the run, but the game is much better suited to 'stop-and-pop' tactics 
 as opposed to 'run-n'-gun', so it's to be avoided.
  
  Other tactical shooters like Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield and SWAT 4 for the PC and even Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas for the consoles have been successful at reproducing the feeling of tension and the 
 outright dread of opening a door into a room full of people who want to fill you full of virtual 
 lead. They did so without having to resort to cheesy stunts performed by AI with room-temperature 
 IQ. Sadly, Army of Two is not such a game.
  
  One thing I want to congratulate EA on is sheer bravery. They decided that not only were they going 
 to make a shooter in which you'd be in Iraq, shooting hordes of people speaking Arabic-accented 
 English, but you'd be high-fiving your team-mate after having done so. This game takes the panty-waisted, 
 politically-correct hand-wringers by the nostrils and firmly plants a boot in their butt. In this 
 age of sanitized violence in artificially-created nations and cities, Army of Two takes no prisoners.
 
  
  And I suppose that's the target audience. The people who think shooting non-English-speakers with 
 funny-sounding names and weird clothes is cool. For those that have actually picked up a rifle 
 and a ruck, they know that running around in Third World crapholes with people trying to shoot 
 you is not cool. It's not even fun. This game takes war and puts big yellow smiley face on it, 
 topped off with a bullet hole in the middle of the forehead. For those who want a little more realism 
 (and a sense of accomplishment) , I suggest you look elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Well i must say for an EA game its pretty good considering they had lots of time i think they could 
 have done better but the game as it is now is pretty good.
  
  graphics are really great especially the characters and lighting effects and it doesnt seem to 
 have any lag problems from the game quality, the CGI scenes or w/e are also well made, i havent 
 completed it yet but from what i have heard the story is fairly good not the best but ok, sound 
 is up to par, weapons and customization is good a few more options for your character would be 
 nice but its ok for an FPS, co-op campaign is really good and fun the campain is of average FPS 
 length, the enemy A. I is also v. good and challenging
  
  online is also great 2v2 racing to complete objectives for money while each team tries to stop 
 each other whilst there are also CPU enemies hindering both sides
  
  bounty is assasination based, and the other is destroying certain things or holding places and 
 warzone which is the ebst is just a mixture of the two, you can also upgrade weapons during the 
 match but once the match has ended you lose the weapons/upgrades, you get a lot of money so it 
 dont really matter, only has 4 maps but they are rather big and they should release more maps
 
  
  at the moment they have a few minro issues with online like connecting but it should bve patched 
 within a few days, so far i have had 6 games and its great
  
  
  Overall: 
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 8
  Weapons/customizing: 9
  Online 9 (once issues have been fixed) 10 
 if they got more maps
  Value for money: 7.5
  Co-op campaign: 8.5
  
  only buy this game if
  1: you were planning to get it in the first place
  2: you have a good 
 m8 they you like to play with and is going to or already has the game, as playing with a good friend 
 is makes campaign and online so much better
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokedaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is getting bad rep, mostly because of the singleplayer partner AI and the no cross 
 region play. But the facts are, if you have a decent gamer to play this game with, online or off, 
 then you are going to love it. Sure the AI is dumb but I have not yet played it with the AI and 
 thats really how the game should be played in the first place. The only other troubles is the cross 
 region which should be experimented with and fixed, if it is only so we can play with users in 
 another continent just on the story mode. And if that only means the US and the EU playing then 
 fine, as long as they can add a little bit of cross region.
  
  The other issues were sometimes not having enough ammo when needed, which is easily fixed with 
 buying bigger mags, although I would have liked to have bought a higher ammount in total if I wanted 
 to use smaller mags. The game doesnt really have as many weapons as I thought, although they are 
 great. There is only 6 missions, but they are pretty decent, though there could be a bit more. 
 But that doesnt make the game in any way bad, just lack of content. The online is good, but alittle 
 stupid that the bots shoot at whoever, rather than being set a number of bots for each side, as 
 you end up battling every single person in the map apart from your teammate, and its a constant 
 game of shooting and reviving your teammate in close quaters.
  
  The game is great, and I think anyone should experience this as long as they have someone to play 
 it with. And because of the less than large story lenth and the AI and the region lock. Its been 
 getting bad reviews which I totally disagree with.
  
  This game deserves at least an 8.5.
  
  There is also going to be more content coming. Which 
 only leaves the region lock and SP ai ( which I never even play with ) that makes this game bad, 
 if at all. 
  
  The game is brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curupted4N631
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Im going to keep this short and simple, Army Of Two is a GREAT game, not amazing but still great. 
 The characters are great and the banter between them is just classic. Yes the campaign is pretty 
 short but the levels and intense action make up for it. Along with the upgradable weapons, Armour 
 and masks its very fun to customize. And the story actually makes you think about what they are 
 talking about. The multiplayer is also pretty fun with teams of two competing for the most cash.
 
  
  Now people arnt going to like this, well americans wont like this but; I know the USA loves its 
 army like a son but still most of what this games tries to tell you is correct. I think its very 
 childish of Gamespot/USA to say this games bad because it belittles your army. Armys kill thats 
 what they do, and as for the word WAR that means when TWO armys fight. That is not whats been happening 
 in Iraq or anywhere like that. 
  
  This game is a SOLID 8/10 maybe alil more and should not be rated lower due to small minded americans, 
 im from the UK and as such i am unbiased towards this game and its brilliant.
  Go get it, play it and remember its just a game dont take it to seriously. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I followed this game from the begining due to the subject matter and the coop idea.
  
  I must say Gamespot seems to have missed the point of the game entirely while it does have a fairly 
 lack luster campaign the multiplayer is quite amazing. The amount of real life military tactics 
 one uses due to the aggro mechanic raises this games fun in my eyes from alright gun wank to excellent 
 gun wank.
  
  The multiplayer is fast paced fun and innovative while the campaign is boring compared it still 
 is quite playable.
  
  This game scores high in my mind due to the subject matter intercret gunplay and faced paced multiplayer.
 
  
  Now for this
  
  Half a league half a league,
  Half a league onward,
  All in the valley of Death
  Rode the six hundred:
  'Forward, the Light Brigade!
  Charge for 
 the guns' he said:
  Into the valley of Death
  Rode the six hundred.
  
  
  
  'Forward, the Light Brigade!'
  Was there a man dismay'd ?
  Not tho' the soldier knew
  Some 
 one had blunder'd:
  Theirs not to make reply,
  Theirs not to reason why,
  Theirs but to do & die,
  Into the valley of Death
  Rode the six hundred.
  
  
  
  Cannon 
 to right of them,
  Cannon to left of them,
  Cannon in front of them
  Volley'd & thunder'd;
  Storm'd at with shot and shell,
  Boldly they rode and well,
  Into 
 the jaws of Death,
  Into the mouth of Hell
  Rode the six hundred.
  
  
  Flash'd all their sabres bare,
  Flash'd as they turn'd in air
  Sabring the gunners there,
 
  Charging an army while
  All the world wonder'd:
  Plunged in the battery-smoke
  Right thro' the line they broke;
  Cossack & Russian
  Reel'd from the sabre-stroke,
  Shatter'd 
 & sunder'd.
  Then they rode back, but not
  Not the six hundred.
  
  
  
  Cannon to right of them,
  Cannon to left of them,
  Cannon behind them
  Volley'd and thunder'd;
 
  Storm'd at with shot and shell,
  While horse & hero fell,
  They that had fought so well
  Came thro' the jaws of Death,
  Back from the mouth of Hell,
  All that was left of them,
  
 Left of six hundred.
  
  
  
  When can their glory fade?
  O the wild charge they made!
  All the world wonder'd.
  Honour the charge they made!
  Honour 
 the Light Brigade,
  Noble six hundred!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coops606
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is overall good.... which I do not get why gamespot gave it the review they did. The single-player 
 and Co-Op were short... but still very fun to play with your friends. I have probaly beaten the 
 Co-Op campaign 3 times with friends. The storyline was good and there was tension around every 
 corner for the next guy to try to take you down. Besides the campign being short, it had only one 
 other real flaw in campign, which would be that scenes are short. It may take you 10 minutes to 
 get to another load screen... which gets annoying but at the same time builds you up to go and take 
 down terrorists. The multiplayer is a different story. The multiplayer needs like a tutorial or 
 something because.... these secondary objectives arent even fair. You dont even need to hit up the 
 primary objectives to win the game... which seemed like the main point. Occasionally you will get 
 a bad connection from the get-go or it will hit you in mid-game which will get frustrating... but 
 besides those points multiplayer is alot of fun. If EA wants to save this game... they need to fix 
 their multiplayer for sure... otherwise everyone will go play vegas 2 or COD4.... if the secondary 
 objectives are taken out (they are just too easy to make money from) and the few lagg issues are 
 fixed they could have a better game on their hands. Army of Two is still a good game and everyone 
 reading my review I recommend you at least rent it to try it out. No Game of the Year for Army 
 of Two thats for sure.... sorry EA... better luck next time.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newSage
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is truly designed to be a co-op action game. It does it quite well but some glitchy 
 aspects make throw some people off. The story line while over the top (which is how its intended) 
 is fun and if you like to tough guy back and forth type dialogue then this will be a great setting 
 for you. 
  
  The highlight comes with the true need to work in a team. Whether its going back to back, one person 
 flying while the other shoots, or just dragging your partner out of a heated situation that he 
 shouldn't have gotten himself into so you can heal him ... its all quite fun. 
  
  The problem comes into play when some of the things just seem forced and could have been written 
 in a little better to add a sense of immersion. When it takes to people to call an elevator, or 
 two people to pull a chain to bring down a wall -- it feels a little force fed. The creative points 
 (which it could use more of) when your partner uses a shield and directs a path while you supply 
 fire from behind him. Or, one boots the other person up so they can shoot and your control how 
 out of cover he is. 
  
  All of these aspects really require a partner around to do and just not the same with an AI. Can 
 they do the job? Yes. Can it be done a much better way with a friend? No question about it.
  
  The other problem lies in some glitches. Occassionally the character won't attack in hand to 
 hand like you want him to. Instead just get himself unneccessarily killed. The opposition isnt 
 consistant in how it takes damage. Shot to the leg will put him down, but 10 rounds to his chest 
 (with no armor) will get you a clothesline to the face for your trouble. Also the surprise mines 
 will occassionally provide some amusing profanity from your friends. 
  
  The other point that had great potential that was just a but rushed is the purchasing system. You 
 can take money you earn and not only buy better weapons but upgrades to the weapons with use and 
 cosmetic difference. This could have added an immense amount of replayability and fun but blows 
 as quick as a champagne bottle when you realize that some of the other weapons just arent worth 
 it and they cant even be modified. It feels like they just had a great idea and ran out of time 
 with it.
  
  The game has fantastic fun aspects although a little lopsided at times but will certainly bring 
 fun enjoyment. I hope this game does well so we can see other similar title of its kind. We need 
 more fun co-op games like this ... just with a little more polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daviddown
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I had originally planned to split the cost of this with a friend of mine so we could play through 
 it quickly on co-op and then fool about with weapon customization, however, after enjoying the 
 online multiplayer immensely, (and finding that split-screen makes this game very difficult) we 
 decided to pay for 2 copies. 
  
  The controls are tight, although I think that a cover mechanic would have been useful, especially 
 in some of the later firefights, and like GS says, it's very difficult to hit anything while you're 
 moving. The weapons are cool, although some of the more powerful ones, like the Desert Eagle and 
 the Minigun, are far more useless than you would expect them to be. 
  
  You can play through this game on co-op easily if one of the players carries a light machinegun 
 like the PKM or the M249 to generate aggro, and the other carries an assault rifle (possibly silenced) 
 to make the actual kills. Certain parts of the last few levels can be really frustrating, and you'll 
 be forced to replay them several times until you get it right. The checkpoint system leaves plenty 
 to be desired. 
  
  Multiplayer versus is not as polished as single player, although my experience with it is limited 
 to a half-dozen or so matches, many of which had crappy partners. 
  
  My biggest bone to pick with the GS review is that it seemed to really rip this game on the controversy 
 of its storyline. The game isn't perfect, sure, and the story is a little lame, but the reviewer 
 seems extremely upset with the way the game handles the issue of military vs. PMC. I feel like 
 there is some sort of personal reason for this vehement reaction, and that the score is unfairly 
 low.
  
  If you are offended by the black and white view of good and evil presented in this game, then you 
 may find yourself in agreement with GameSpot's review, but if you're able to suspend your disbelief 
 and enjoy the game for what it is, some mindless violence, then you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatrixTheGreat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  RENTAL! Beat it within hours. Graphics are great, some glitches where I got stuck and could not 
 move, and is better with a friend to play with.
  
  The game starts out entertaining but as you get futher you start thinking about the 60 bucks you 
 spent on this game. : (
  This is a game you play when you have nothing else to do because when you beat it you definitely 
 would not want to play it again. Oh and the bosses are LAME. They tend to just hide and only run 
 out if you get too close but then It's a watered down Gears of War and nowhere near a better shooter 
 than Call of Duty. The online gameplay is SAD at best although the AI help is cool they are more 
 of just a distraction. The online menu is simple and plain without all the little extras that you 
 would find in a game like Call of Duty 4. The point is to rack up as much money or bounty as possible 
 in order to beat the other team. The fun factor drops very quickly after about 2 to 3 games. The 
 problem for me is that you can't use the money you earned for anything. Basically they would have 
 been better just using a point system if you ask me.
  
  Don't do what I did. Save your money and rent it. If anyone wants my copy I will have it up on 
 EBAY tonight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluekatze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics are awesome. Especially on a HDTV. The cut scene graphics are impressive. 
 Reminds me of the episode of According To Jim. Jim buys this massive HDTV and it was so life-like 
 that Andy kept trying to dive for the baseball. Yeah that realistic.
  
  I give the graphics a 9.6, the minor clipping of the AK-47 going through your arm looks cool, but 
 kind of annoying. Other then that and the GPS interface being lack luster.
  
  Repetitive shooting reminds me much of Halo. Thats what makes the game fun. Even though in Co-op 
 with AI, you don't get to control the turret on the hovercraft. Explosions on the other hand are 
 sweet, but lacking that of James Bond movies or Die Hard for instance. Heavy armored guys get to 
 be a hassle, especially with the retarded AI helping you. Aggro is pretty sweet though, but has 
 its problems. Even when you are invisible to the enemy, the computer automatically focuses on you, 
 when you approach them from the side. Am I missing something here?
  
  Even though you die a lot on Easy. The AI needs to help you out more than just become a stupid 
 target. Game play in my opinion is a 7.5. A professional gamer could of been a huge help for AI 
 control.
  
  I some how get the feeling EA rushed this game a little to early. 6 missions all together. Whatever 
 happened to the 24 hour marathon shooters we use to get? This is one of the reasons why it shouldn't 
 cost $59.99. Another is the lack of customizations and amount of weapons you can purchase. The 
 RPG is pretty cool even though you get 1 round at a time. Thirdly why the lack of options of game 
 play to choose from?
  
  All and all the game is good, but could of waited a bit longer to offer the players that ultimate 
 experience. Even with its minor flaws and set backs. Its a game to buy when lower in price, but 
 is a must rent. 
  
  One last Halo reference. Even on Easy mode. The computer still kills you just as fast if not faster 
 than Legendary in Halo. I think the EA guys have been playing way too much GTA haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian5
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Game Spot review is mostly dead on. I jus saw one guy on hear give this title a "10" & compare 
 it to Gears! Wow, slow down there junior, throwing around hyperbole like that and you will lose 
 all your street cred. I have a few question for that person. One do you work for EA? Two are you 
 just giddy that someone tried to make a "Army Meets Gears OF War"? Buyer be ware here friends when 
 parting with your hard earned sixty bones. Are the graphics next-gen, you bet . Are they Gears 
 Of War good? Um-no! How does it control? The controls are for the most part spot on as long as 
 you are standing still or behind cover. However hitting guys while running unless you have shotgun 
 equipped are a bit of a chore. Also, play this game on the professional difficulty setting and 
 you can forget about completing this solo unless you love repeating section's of levels, dealing 
 with long load times, and breaking controller's in fits of rage. They might as well have called 
 this setting Army Of One. As your A. I. partner is useless moron who likes running into the open, 
 getting killed and then calling out for you to save him so he does not die alone. For sure grab 
 a buddy or go online to have any fun with this game on the professional setting. I'am talking to 
 you achievement whores (50 gamer-points for finishing the game on professional) As far as online 
 goes I ran into a ton of lag, which for a game that features only 2 VS. 2 deathmatch is pretty 
 much unacceptable to me. In short Army Of Two is a good experience as long as that experience is 
 in short doses. It's a much richer one however if you can bring a friend along for the ride. That 
 being said as far as longevity goes which is what the online component is for this game won't be 
 replacing Call Of Duty 4, Halo 3, Rainbow Six, or Gears Of War for that matter in your Xbox or 
 PS3 anytime soon. For those on a budget I would recommend A weekend rental first and save that 
 sixty dollars for either Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 or GTA4. -Stu- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seaweedopm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've been through the game on Contractor (medium) and Professional (hard) single player then I 
 went on Co-op and played w/ someone I met on Live in Professional. Co-op seemed much harder without 
 the, sometimes ignorant, AI but man it is really fun. We finished it in two sessions with no problem 
 continuing where we left off.
  I've only played a few games Versus on Live which are also quite fun.
  My reference to Gears 
 of War is that I felt that Gears should have had game play similar to this yet it turned out to 
 be IMO too arcade-ed out.
  Now I'm going to play some more Versus on live until Vegas 2 comes out... then GTA IV...
  
 
  The only immediate negative I have is that it loads so much when dealing with weapons.
  
  P. S. Please don't have me because of my feelings towards Gears, even my best friend hated me for 
 a couple weeks for what I thought.
  
  Love you all,
  Zac 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Hello and thanks for reading my first full blown review.
  
  Well Army of Two what to say of it. This game brings fun and action at a fast pace trough out the 
 entire game.
  
  Beginning:
  You start off in a training mission. (You cannot skip it so when you start a new game you have 
 to do it again) . You first learn how to "jump" over things and then ducking. You have to shoot 
 at some boards next and throw a grenade through a door. 
  
  Aggro:
  Aggro is the next thing you encounter. The aggro systems will give you advantage against certain 
 enemy's. If you let your partner shoot at the enemy they will focus on HIM. And HIM only. Now is 
 the time to flank your opponent. And the AI does only focus on you if you get to close. So flank 
 the enemy and shoot them. This is something you even have to do with certain heave armored enemy's 
 because they can only be shot from behind.
  
  But there is more:
  Even more? Of course I did not tell you anything yet :D. There are a few times in the game (If 
 I am not mistaking every mission at least once) that you will hear: BACK TO BACK!!! Then you will 
 enter a 'slowmo' mode and enemy's will come from all sides. The problem here is that it isn't hard 
 to do at all. Not even at the Professional difficulty. You can't run out of ammo so you just shoot 
 at the enemy's and let go of the shoot button until you have finished all the enemy's. That's kind 
 of a sat back.
  
  COOP Snipe:
  The cool thing about the game is COOP snipe. When you see 2 guards standing in front of a building 
 just give the command COOP Snipe and both of you will enter Snipe Mode. Playing with AI partner 
 he will shoot when you shoot. If you play with a friend over XBOX Live then you can select countdown. 
 Take out the guards this way and there might even be a reward waiting for you after a few times 
 :P.
  
  Healing:
  What the hell!! What happened to good old fashioned med packs. Seems that they stopped using that. 
 But ok I can live with Regenerate. Just take some cover and wait for 7 seconds and it's full up 
 and ready for action again. BUT what happens if you get shot enough that you fall down. Will you 
 die instantly? NO of course not! The fun of this is that your partner can heal you. With AI partner 
 this kinda sucks because he is to slow and heals you without dragging you to safety. So he gets 
 shot too :S. But playing with a friend this is way better. He drags you into hiding and heals you 
 while you shoot the bad guys.
  
  The Missions:
  The missions are kind off a disappointing factor of this game. The game is VERY VERY short. It 
 took me about 6 to 7 hours to see it start to finish (with partner AI) . Playing with a friend will 
 probably shorten the time to finish the game. I must say that the surroundings are great. Level 
 design is good. And the factor that you HAVE to work together is very fun. The story however is 
 not very outstanding. They could have done a better job on this. I won't go into further detail 
 because I don't want to spoil anything but don't get your expectations up to high.
  
  Mid Mission Shopping:
  If you get through a part of a level they will let you go into "Mid Mission 
 Shopping". Here you can buy new weapons. You have the primary weapons, secondary weapons and special 
 weapons. And of course you can but armor and masks. The fun part is you can really upgrade you're 
 weapons with nice new things. Upgrade the barrel, put a shield on it, pimp it :D, upgrade the magazine, 
 and you can upgrade the back of the gun (I did not remember the name :P) . 
  
  The downside of mid mission shopping is the armor. You can't actually BUY it but you will GET it 
 when you progress through the game. That is the only downside.
  
  Cut-Scenes:
  The Cut-Scenes in nice game are nice. Not perfect but nice. The downside is that certain things 
 that they put in cut scenes could have been playable. In a mission they start by telling you you 
 have to get there by hovercraft. When the mission starts it's POOF (meaning the end of the scene) 
 and you are on land. If they had put that in the game then it would have been way better.
  
  Overall:
  I think I wrote some story especially for my first review. Overall the game has 
 a high fun factor and the difficulty is just right. If you really need a game with an excellent 
 story than this is not the game for you. But if you can find balance in the story and the action 
 then this IS the game for you. Decide for yourself.
  
  Now for a tiny request. If you have read this review can you please let me know what you think 
 of it? Thnx in advance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bravo316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Thought the game was very intense. action is almost non-stop! Some people are saying it was short. 
 I beat it with a friend in about 7 hours, where I beat Gears of War in 6 with a friend. Multiplayer 
 can be frustrating as the connections aren't always the best. However, when you get into a good 
 MP game it is a good change of pace. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a shooter fan. 
 It is finally nice to have an adult, gritty, shooter out there. The story is fun, and makes light 
 of real world events with Blackwater and the military. Voice acting I thought was great! The graphics 
 are amazing and smooth. I definitely recommend playing through the story with a buddy. You will 
 love the results! AI commanding i easy, but sometimes it acts like an AI and does stupid stuff. 
 Listen to the banter between Rios and Salem, it has its moments that will have you lauhing pretty 
 hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I can't say I'm too impressed with Army of two. Sure the visuals are nice,
  there are some laughably lunkheaded attempts at humour, and it plays fairly well -even singlehandedly- 
 but ,I can't help feeling like I've seen it all done a lot better, many times before-at least in 
 single player.
  
  The co-op element of the campaign works nicely, and xblive is fun for a bit, 
  but with the bar 
 for shooters having been notched up a few meteres
  by the likes of Gears and COD4 et al, I expect more from my shooters.
  
  Much has been made 
 of the dubious moral content of this game, but surely only the feeble minded could find this truly 
 offensive. The whole package is simply celebrating the "glory" of violence, and as such
  has much in common with two thirds of the world's current media  
 etc) . Same old same old.
  The makers of AoT twist and distort "real world" issues because the game is a work of fiction, 
 merely "inspired by world events.
  
  In short, a dissapointing (and brief) single player shooter, improved considerably if you add one 
 friend.
  In even shorter- rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seshkii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, I've came to the conclusion the reasoning behind Gamespots reviews is.. they are all RPG 
 Lovers. I've noticed that if it doesn't have the most ground-breaking story line, they don't rate 
 it high. The fact that they even considered that EA was attempting to make a realistic army based 
 game is utterly retarded. Look at the title.. "Army of Two" What exactly about that makes them 
 think that it was an approach on realistic life-time war. EPIC Games was in on this game as-well.. 
 EPIC games was in on Gears of war. They are both 3rd person shooters, they both have the same quality. 
 I don't understand how this game will get a 6.5, and gears gets a 9.6? Don't get me wrong, Gears 
 is a good game.. I'm not bashing it. But You've got to give this game a bit more of credit. I've 
 already played through this campaign 3 times now, I've given it alot of thought. The campaign is 
 fine, the plot is fine, the game play is fine, and the graphics are fine. I strive for these Co-Op 
 games to bring me back to my Perfect Dark 64 Days. I think EA has done a good job. Two people can 
 sit down, on their couch with 1 game and 1 xbox and play a good cooperative game. I'm sick and 
 tired of buying 3 games, just to play some damn co-op and online, with my friends. Game-Spot.. 
 your very wrong, lay of the World of Warcraft and Oblivion and play a shooter. Don't go through 
 the first mission of a game and rate it a 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedFragg
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two has been hyped up to no end and delayed for months.
  
  The result is a slick looking game with some nice little features and some smooth AI.
  
  The 
 game enters in Somalia with our two main characters Salem and Rios, both US Rangers who after training 
 get orders to assist with an assassination of a warlord with a crazy fella called Cylde who works 
 for SSC - a Private Military Corporation or "PMC".
  
  The plot takes us from Somalia, Iraq, A US Aircraft Carrier, China then to Miami, each of which 
 has some pretty basic objective to complete and a large amount of enemies trying to stop you from 
 doing that.
  
  The enemies that'll try and stop you are relatively smart, as in they will flank you and kill you 
 pretty quickly most of the time.
  
  The game is hugely based apon the Co-op mode which is a nice idea in theory and when you have no 
 friends on to play with the AI does a fair job of replicating a human player with the orders you 
 can give via a few buttons.
  With Co-op the games based around the "Aggro" system. Basically one player shoots at the enemy 
 to gain attention and all enemies will focus on that player allowing the other to flank and kill 
 the baddies.
  It is a good system but it's used to much to be special, if you don't flank you will die simple 
 as and there are not any other tactics that can really be implimented into the playing style.
 
  
  As for the story, there are a few twists but nothing I'd really call fantastic although there is 
 some good humor in the game and it can be a good laugh at points.
  
  The multiplayer vs mode is... Quite frankly rubbish, its a game of who can throw the most grenades 
 the quickest most of the time although when you don't get people throw 20 grenades in your direction 
 every time they spawn it can be very fun... Although again a few hours playing and I didn't come 
 across any of these people, also it is PLAGUED with people that'll quit if you complete the objectives 
 maps first.
  
  There are three vs modes "Warzone", "Extraction" and "Bounty"
  Warzone is your basic kill or be killed, Extraction is get a hostage held by enemy AI to extraction 
 and stop the other players team from extracting him and bounty is what you'd expect assassinate 
 a group a AI enemies before the other player team.
  
  There is no deathmatch and its only 2 vs 2 vs 100x AI sadly, I would have liked a 2 vs 2 deathmatch 
 but its non-exsistant really.
  
  Overall EA have a damn lot to explain such as, why on EARTH was this game delayed so long?? a 4 
 hour campaign and a lousy weapon upgrade system with a half-baked VS mode? Save your money and 
 purchase something else.
  
  
  Reviewed on Xbox 360
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juan2370
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  It's a terrific game, the graphic and audio are quite good !! But the most enjoyable part is the 
 Co-play !! I am now playing the theProfessional" level and I found each time you place your 
 teammate in different place , you have different result !! 
  
  Every time I see the review of theco-play" game , there are always someone blame the AI... the 
 dumb teammate... and so on , I am not quite agree about it !! The AI teammate can't play itself 
 , it need your command to do the action... if you think the AI is dumb doing nothing and you always 
 get kicked ass.... in other word, you might have given it the bad command and place him in the wrong 
 place !! If you enjoy playing the heroic FPS game, don't buy anyCO-Play" game and blame the 
 AI !!! because the dumb is notAIbutYI ( your intelligence) !! no offence but it's the 
 true !! I was kicked ass too at my first play !! You can't expect the AI to do everything for you 
 without having your command !! you can't blame yourAI" is dumb and does not save you on time 
 when you under the fire of RPG , AK-47 and other heavy weapons !! You probably won't save your 
 teammate in the same situation ! 
  
  in Army of two , when you call your teammate toadvance" , you should have a good look at his 
 going and tell him to stop at right place with good cover !! then hitstopagain to turn his 
 status to aggressive doing the aggro , but before you do this , make sure he was equipped with 
 a good weapon !! while playingCo-play" game , you would have to think any possible strategy 
 before the fight start !! chose the role you wanna play in the current battle , provide cover or 
 sneak behind the enemy , then equip with the right weapon and give your teammate a sutiable command 
 !! If you do so , I am sure that you will stick withCO-Play" game in the future !
  
  Spend more time on this game , and you will find it worth while to have such a wonderful game !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is simply fun and exciting. With a al partner, you will complete missions together. The 
 graphics are good and the sound systems are not bad! The weapons are good. There are many options 
 in the game. There is the campaign mode which is the story mode. You can play it with a partner 
 or a computer-controlled partner. The computer controlled partner is not anticipated to play with 
 even though it is useful to have him around when fighting enemies. When you are injured, he is 
 supposed to drag you to a safe place to inject some life into you. But he is quite dumb. Instead 
 of dragging you to a safe place beside you, he will drag you across the whole place which result 
 in enemies shooting at you continously. Also, when you are injured, he wouldn't care about you 
 when he is busy shooting at the enemies. So it is highly recommendable that you play the game with 
 your siblings or with others. The missions are very interesting and even if you play the missions 
 on any difficulty level, it is easy to complete them. With a beautiful game like this, the 6 main 
 missions are too short for this game. In between missions, there will be mid shopping where you 
 can buy new weapons or upgrade the weapons.
  
  Next is the versus mode. this mode enables you to play so-called missions to earn extra cash to 
 upgrade yourself or to buy new weapons. So if you want to earn more cash before playing the story 
 mode, You should play this mode. However, this mode is only fore xbox live players. So if you didn't 
 subscribe to xbox live, too bad!!!
  
  Overall, this game is highly recommendable to everyone and i give it a rating of 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loudkid258
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  While playing COD4 on XBOX LIVE I had the pleasure of speaking with some fellow soldiers of mine 
 about Army of Two. They spoke so highly of this game just by playing the demo. I must say my troops 
 let me down on this one and I don't mean the COD4 battles. Army of Two is flat out awful. This 
 game is more silly than stupid and the first chance I get to trade it I definitely will. First 
 off, the aim is very unrealistic. Turning sideways and shooting accurately is about Atari-ish a 
 game can get. 
  
  While I was wounded on the ground, my fellow partner tried to drag me to safety and ran into the 
 wall. Now, one would think "hey" if there's a wall here maybe I need to go around the wall and 
 save both of our hind parts. Does my partner do this.... NOOOO, he just keeps running into the wall 
 and gets the both of us killed. Big dummy!! He made me start from the saved point all over again 
 which was very frustrating. Call it a glitch or what you will I call it a total waste of game trades. 
 And, if you spent money I call it a waste of good money spent. Rent this game first before you 
 make the same mistake of trading or buying.
  
  The only good I can honestly say for this game is the co-op and interaction... when it works right. 
 Graphics are about average and game play is ok. Biggest disappointment is the multi-player. Where's 
 the people??? I can't believe people at Gamestop. com game this game a 4.5 stars out of 5. They 
 must have been absent when COD4 was released and still don't have a copy today. Unbelievable!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincap
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely suprised with how good this game actually is. Its just plain fun. I recommend buying 
 it if you love action packed shooters or if you dont have xbox live. I usually agree with gamespot's 
 reviews but not this time. Its badass like gears yet tactical like call of duty 4. 
  
  Good: 
  -Great graphics from armor, weapons, and visuals
  -Sound quality is good and voice 
 animation is excellent, some funny voices and just the right amount of cussing.
  -One of the best Co-Op campaigns in a game
  -Purchasing, upgrading, and pimping out your weapons 
 and armor is cool
  -Interesting storyline with some twists.
  -So much fun by yourself but ten times better with a friend.
  -Barely or no glitches or game 
 freezing
  
  Bad:
  -Online multiplayer could have been better. Instead of bots just have more players.
  -Aiming 
 can be hard , just takes time to get used to.
  -Campaign could have been longer.
  
  So Overall this game is definatly worth checking out. Awesome shooter and incredibly fun with a 
 partner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orbz_jr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I need to get on thing straight before I start this review. I never bought into the hype. In fact 
 I only really started looking at that game the week before release and thought 'I need a game with 
 big guns I can play with some friends until Vegas 2 arrives on my doorstep'. So I read the previews, 
 looked at the screens and one of the trailers and preordered it. Booked it, Packed it, ****ed off 
 as Peter Kay would say.
  
  The game is almost a masterpiece. The only things that holdsit back for me are the repetitive things 
 that the character's come out with (I only need to be told once that I need to flank someone. In 
 fact I don't even need to be told, I am capable of doing it myself) . And the annoying horizontal 
 split screen. After R6 Vegas, I'm a vertical man.
  
  This aside, the game plays fantastically and a hell of a lot better with a friend. If it's your 
 xbox and your game, always make sure you're player 2 on the split screen, otherwise you'll lose 
 your campaign progress. Another upside of being player 2 is that you still rack up money for your 
 main campaign ,if you want to play it single player, allowing you to buy and customize some seriously 
 nice weaponry. Also bigger is not always better with Army of Two. Attaching a 40mm grenade launcher 
 to your assault rifle reduces your accuracy, despite being far more expensive than the hand grip 
 which allows for precision fire. 'Mid mission shopping' is a prime feature in the game. It allows 
 you to blow your hard earned cash in mission, in order to better equip, or re-equip your character. 
 In Co-op games, this feature is open to both players, though in single player the AI buddy doesn't 
 seem to use it.
  
  The cover system in the game is very good and is certainly unique compared to the one's I've used 
 in R6 Vegas, Gears of War and GRAW2. By this I mean that your character is not 'locked in' to cover, 
 leaving you free to move around at will to give you the best tactical advantage. Nice. 
  
  Another nice feature is the 'back to back' mode that crops up at least once per mission. In back 
 to back, your character and your friend (AI or human) become more or less immortal, move in bullet 
 time and have no ammo capacity to worry about. It's a fun way to kill 50 or so enemies without 
 taking yor finger off of the trigger.
  Other Co-op features are cool too. Never before seen moves like the step jumps, where you lift 
 your partner to the next floor, allowing him to kill any enemies present and then pull himself, 
 and then you, up. The riot shield mode is interesting also. One of you picks up a riot sheild, 
 or car door, and crouches behind it, using it as portable cover while the other one of you shoots 
 at the enemy from behind your partner. 
  Despite the fact that game was created with co-op in mind, the single player works very well, as 
 the AI is actually quite intelligent. He follows your orders, and moves in what he deems the best 
 way to deal with the enemy. He even returns to you when you are down to drag you to a safe spot 
 and heal you. The co-op features work almost perfectly with the AI ally, but there are obviously 
 some glitches. Sometimes he'll drag you into the line of fire and then try healing you. Surprisingly 
 enough to no avail.
  
  The 2 vs 2 multiplayer online is bizarre but fun. It's all about making more money than the other 
 team. An objective is stated and you must complete it by fighting through AI bots to reach the 
 objective first, killing the other team as you go. Completing the objective before the enemy has 
 chance earns your team money, which you can spend on bigger and better weapons.
  
  The storyline of this game has been met with some harsh words. Even from Gamespot. Something needs 
 to be cleared up. This game does not at any point attempt to depict real events in the war on terror. 
 The contexts are real, the events are not. Nor does it mock the regular servicemen of the Coalition 
 forces. The two characters merely express that they are relieved not be in the regular Army with 
 all of the ambushes that are spoken about in the media. Understandable relief, I feel it too. This 
 doesn't mean I'm mocking the Army. The storyline is actually based around the fictional SSC, the 
 worlds largest private military contractor and a bill to privatise the US military, due to the 
 massive loss of life it is experiencing in wartime. As typical in action games/films one of the 
 good guys is really a bad guy, gets hold of too much power, and tries to use it to do bad things. 
 While the conspiracy is predictable, it does provide an entertaining backstory to the game.
  
  Final verdict:
  Brilliant customization options.
  Fantastic co-op gameplay.
  Short but 
 thrilling campaign with good replay ability due to the above reasons.
  Graphically stunning and sounds amazing.
  Features one of the best cutscenes in an action game 
 , involving two fighter jets, a cargo plane and three p***ed of mercenaries.
  Well defined characters with many humorous remarks and shenanigans throughout the game.
  Solid 
 multiplayer experience.
  Solid single player mode, but better with a friend.
  Split Screen in horizontal is annoying at first, but livable with and fun nonetheless.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_french_cool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  If youve read the gamespot review then youve already got the idea.. but there are a few things i 
 should add.. firstly, this is a good game.. not great.. but solid, the 360 is now turning games out 
 at the same rate as the ps2 was in its prime.. and that means some games fail to sell.. this how 
 ever wont be the case with this.. its a real big hitter.. its in your face.. but you get the sence 
 that the developers wanted the heroes to appear laid back and cool.. but that is just stupid.. these 
 mercenaries should appear just that..."mercilous" for gods sake.. i mean.. when u see these two "bad 
 asses" play air getair in the middle of a war zone its hard to get emotianly involved.
  
  but it doesnt want u .. so thats all right.. all though i would like to point out that the co- op 
 features dont always work brilliantly... example.. your in a boat... and fires coming from everywhere.. so 
 u tell your partner to give u cover fire.. and he does and the majority of the bad dudes shoot towards 
 him.. and you move out of cover but you cant actually see where the enemies are as they are all 
 under cover... this would not matter but when u do stumble across and there still shooting at your 
 mate and have not seen u... they will spin a 180 degrees and start shootin as if they knew where 
 u were the whole time.. so it defeats the object a bit...
  
  but if u r after a goog solid shooter before the summer blockbusters on ps3 or 360 arrive.. this 
 will keep u going for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game that is heavily based on co-operating with your partner-in-the-flesh or AI. 
 With that said, you should want to team up with one of your friends to beat this game to not be 
 stuck with the poor artificial intelligence the game gives you. The co-op components are not forced 
 when combat is in play but are highly recommended.
  
  With the newly-introduced Aggro system, players are allowed to move up the field of battle as long 
 as the other does not stop shooting. This is very useful in battle, because it may stop one player 
 from dieing. If one of the player's health does reach 0, the game is not completely lost. If they 
 player "dies" they fall right onto their ass and can not move, much like the system for Gears of 
 War. However, the second player may run to their disabled teammate, drag them to some safe cover 
 where they won't be shot and apply medical treatment to the other.
  
  The back-to-back system allows both players to fire an unlimited amount of bullets with stopping 
 to reload, or even check to see if their targets have been eliminated. This can be taken advantage 
 of, even if the player is completely out of ammo. 
  
  The multiplayer is interesting, with randomly generated objectives not having to be completed since 
 both teams of two player-controlled characters can just go for "sub objectives". The value of the 
 "sub objectives" increases by $10,000 every time one is picked up. The team with the most money 
 at the end of the game wins. However, it is much more complicated that 2v2. It is 2v2vterrorists. 
 Depending on the objective, a certain number of terrorists will be spawned nearby to "protect" 
 what the players are attacking.
  
  The achievements are somewhat easy to obtain, but take time. The achievements for getting a certain 
 number of confirmed kills with a specific weapon can be unlocked in either single player or multiplayer. 
 Some of the achievements require you to play with a player-controlled partner, and some with the 
 AI.
  
  The only thing that this game is missing is the option of "instant action" equal to that of the 
 Terrorist Hunt of Rainbow Six: Vegas. Such an option would greatly add to the replay value that 
 is diminished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The story line is good and has a bit of realism in it. The graphics are very good what you would 
 expect for the 360. The sound is hard hitting and the voice acting is very good. The controls are 
 at times crap. They are sluggish at close range you will see the butt of a rifle more then they 
 will. The AI is good for the most part but your partner of the other hand well... A cool feature 
 of this game is the ability to drag your teammate to cover and heal him. But with the computer 
 team mate you will give you the ability to swear at the screen "Where the hell are you going" 
 and "Stop, stop heal me here, what are you doing, no not there, AHHHH!" over and over again. It 
 is a new idea with some bugs but it is fun none the less. With weapons that can be upgraded to 
 specific components such as type or barrel, clips, stocks and the list goes on. But I think I would 
 save some money and rent it. Because the storyline is very short you may beat it in 3 hours one 
 way. With the tactics of covering fire and flanking which the computer will also do to you. This 
 game really reminds me of playing paintball tournaments. So if you like that you may really enjoy 
 this game and what it has to offer. It does get old after awhile, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnybadass666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Ive been looking forward to army of two for a very long time now and i dont want to say that i 
 am upset, i did expect a little bit more, the game is pretty short, but look at most games today 
 anyway.
  
  Ive played single player with a bot, co-op online and split screen and i must say if you are going 
 to get this game make damn sure your going to be playing with someone else, playing split screen 
 was a blast as well as online co-op with a fellow pc clan member. the aggro system works great 
 to make the game play a lot more tactical when your trying to flank around the heavily armored 
 enemies. 
  
  The graphics are really nice the characters aren't super realistic looking with and art style leaning 
 towards almost cell shaded. the environments are really well done. personally i hate night level 
 where your constantly having to turn on a flashlight or night vision. i like nice bright maps where 
 you can see the world around you and thats what this game has.
  
  As for audio, the gun sounds, i'm not to impressed with. They all sound very similar but not to 
 similar to ruin the game but if they had more variety in sounds that would be nice. the voice over 
 are good the voices suit the characters which ive had a problem with in alot of games and the dialouge 
 is very funny but very m-rated.
  
  The multi player is nothing special you play in 2 man teams working to complete objective and earn 
 more cash then the other team but my problem is there are bots trying to stop you as well as a 
 second 2 man squad. which im not a fan of in multi player games. now if they had 5 2 man squads 
 competing this would be a different story. 
  
  All in all i had alot of fun playing army of two and i would recommend it to anyone who like shooters 
 and wants to have a smile the whole way through just make sure your doing it with a friend. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guts5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  You'll get no BS politcal complaining about the plot in this review. I'm shocked that gamespot 
 would even post something like that. It's rather sad. The do actually almost mimic the rise of 
 Blackwater and it's for each person to decide if it is a necessary evil or not. A thought provoking 
 subject for some. However, this is a GAME and the game should be reviewed. Best way to describe 
 the game is Gears of War with the ability to customize your guns. It has a familiar cover mechanic 
 like in GOW. The enemies DO have a health bar so you can tell how much life they have left. So, 
 don't believe the gamespot review on that topic. There are 3 different aiming options. The standard 
 aim with the right analog stick, the zoomed in version, and the firing from behind cover version. 
 There are a lot of similarities with GOW that I won't mention.
  
  The primary differences are on the co-op. The aggro system is completly new and MUST be used to 
 survive. You will have enemies in complete battle armor with only their backsides exposed. One 
 of you will have to draw fire using the agro system, while the other works around for a clear shot. 
 There are areas that you cannot get to on your own and you need the help of your parter. They do 
 the whole lift one guy up to grab a ledge and then the guy on tops lowers a hand to pull you up, 
 all in the middle of a firefight. Some objects can be moved by one person, but others require a 
 partner. You earn money depending on how well you do each mission. This money can be used to buy 
 new guns, masks, or upgrades. Most guns can have the barrel, stock, cartridge, and more upgraded 
 multiple times. To increase damage, accuracy, and ammo amount for instance. The online mode is 
 fun, but nothing really we haven't seen before. You don't have prestige ranks or unlockable guns 
 like in COD4, but you remember you can unlock the guns by earning money. 
  
  Summary it's Gears of War with more gameplay elements. So, if you like playing GOW you will like 
 this game. For those complaining it's short. ALL single player campaigns for shooter are short 
 in my opinion and this includes GOW and COD4. The fact is they aren't really short though, because 
 the idea is to challenge yourself on the harder difficulties. Which this game does force you to 
 do. It won't let you shorter the life of the game by choosing the toughest difficulty off the bat, 
 you must earn it and then play it. So, the length is fine to me.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagon90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Army of 2 is an extremely entertaining third person shooter that manages to incorporate a major 
 real life issue, a badass yet realistic feeling, and pimped out guns and hockey masks (Eat it Call 
 of Duty 4) . If there's anything bad to be said about the game, it's your partners occasional lack 
 of a 50+ IQ and the apparently impeccable sharpshooting your enemies can do... with a shotgun.
 
  
  Army of 2 places you into the shoes of Tyson Rios and Elliott Salem, two guns for hire and former 
 Army Rangers in the employ of SSC, Security and Strategy Co. You travel the word kicking ass, taking 
 names, and racking up the big bucks in the pursuit of justice against both the many Middle Eastern 
 terrorist cells, as well as a double crossing friend using his power to try and set you and your 
 partner up. The story behind the game takes you from Somalia to the Middle East to the middle of 
 the Indian Ocean and back, all the while letting you and your either AI controlled partner or (preferably) 
 real life buddy gun down anyone and everyone in your way. Contrary to a lot of flak the game has 
 caught from reviewers, the story behind Army isn't so much weak as it is under appreciated. There 
 isn't anything more satisfying than kicking a guy out a high window or bombing the hell out of 
 a bunker when there's a good reason for you to hate anyone not blown up or full of lead. The AI 
 IN the campaign, however, could have used some work. Your partner, should you lack friends (or 
 friends with Army of 2, but we all know the truth) , is generally good to you, but avoid depending 
 on him to drag your bleeding ass to safety. He'll sooner drag you over a mine in most cases, killing 
 you both. But the Aggro system works wonders, and allows you to let your AI partner draw the heat 
 while you sneak around a group of enemies or a mounted machine gun and give them a piece of your 
 mind. However, should you find yourself the equivalent of three football fields away from said 
 enemies in open terrain, and you don't have a sniper rifle, you'd best start prayin'. The enemies 
 in Army have the accuracy of world class sharpshooters with any gun, and in some cases can track 
 and shoot you across the entire length of an aircraft carriers deck. 
  
  The main attraction to Army of 2 is, like the title makes you presume, the co op functions. Playing 
 with a friend, coordinating and collaborating against some of the tougher enemies in the game, 
 gives you a genuine feeling of accomplishment, and damnit, it's just plain fun. Not to mention 
 there's always the competition over who has the biggest/strongest/shiniest gun. And there's nothing 
 lacking in your arsenal, letting you choose from anything from a Desert Eagle handgun to an Ak-47 
 to a P90 to a Stinger missile launcher... and gold plate it all. The guns can mostly be upgraded 
 with customizable stocks, forward mounts, barrels, and even shields on them. Add in a front mounted 
 shotgun attachment and you've got a nice new toy. 
  
  Lastly, the story of Army of 2 touches on some real issues with the privatization of the army, 
 of conflict in general. Sure, hiring a hit man to take down that annoying Jehova's Witness that 
 makes his rounds every saturday is one thing, but the thought of companies making money off war, 
 not off the tools of war but the actual soldiers, is another thing entirely. And Army serves to 
 remind that there is always a puppet master somewhere, influencing events in one way or another, 
 and that the world is nowhere near as full of sunshine and happiness as we'd hope. Nope, instead, 
 it's full of soldiers donning cool masks and pulling out their golden rocket launchers and letting 
 loose on anyone in their way. Which, when it's in a game like Army of 2, is a hell of a good time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormwalkerx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gave this game 6.5 but it's not that bad it's actually a pretty fun game. You start at 
 a Us army training camp learning how everything works
  and then they send you to clean up a terrorist man doing bad stuff.
  After you killed the guy 
 Salem and Rios decide working for the private military
  for Cash. The story could been better, cause just moving through 1250 kilos of dead meat is very 
 repetitive and to the end kill the leader of the terrorist group.
  But the story is not all lame, it have secrets and stuff you don't understand until
  the end 
 end and it's pretty cool. In every mission it's mid-shopping, it can become very addictive after 
 cause it's so many things to do whit a weapon everything is customizable and it's cool pimping 
 the weapon to pure Gold:) 
  The humor in this game is very funny, if you push A near your partner you will
  playing air guitar 
 and other stuff, and if you push RT near you team partner
  you can kick him in the stomach or punch him whit your head. Multiplayer is very cool 2vs2 whit 
 warzone assassination ''moneymaking'' but it will be welcomed if EA put it to 10vs10:)
  
  Grapichs: 8.5 -- it's very similar to Gears and that's what making the games so fun to play in this 
 days.
  
  Gameplay 8.0 -- When it come too game play it lose a little. The Ai in this game are incredible 
 dumb and your team partner have just about 90 IQ (enemies 60IQ) But whit customizable weapon and 
 armor and you can play it on coop whit a friend and that's cool;)
  
  Story 7.5 --- The story could have been better whit just shotting leaders of TT
  but it's a conspiracy 
 mystery in the game soo its just about 7.5 score.
  
  Sound 9.0 -- Salem and Rios are good to making the game humorous
  and that's very impressive. 
 The explosion and bullet fire are also good, but it's the people in the game making it good.
  
  Replay 8.0 -- well it's not fun playing over and over whit AI, but whit a friend it never becomes 
 old.
  
  
  Overall Score 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plakskull
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two promised to set a new standard for multiplayer cooperation. The game's credo was "Combat, 
 Camaraderie, Cash." Let's delve into that.
  
  Combat: The targeting system of this game is terrible. While firing over cover at long distance 
 baddies works well enough, shooting at hostiles as they get close is miserably implemented. You 
 will often find that it is much easier to just give up on your weapon and run through bullets to 
 go for the melee at close range. Forgive me for saying so, but a combat system has to work up close 
 and at range in or to be functional. Thus, this system is broken.
  
  Once you resign yourself to eliminating run-and-gun close range tactics and restrict yourself to 
 either methodical ranged attacks, or melee-spamming, you will find that the combat is more enjoyable. 
 Working as a team to coordinate suppression and flanking works well, but works infinitely better 
 in the Brothers in Arms series, making this game look poor in comparison to a system that has been 
 around since the original Xbox. There is something to be said, however, for the ability to do this 
 with your closest pal over Xbox Live, but look for the next generation of Brothers in Arms on the 
 360 to blow Army of Two away in this regard.
  
  Camaraderie: Opportunities to work collaboratively to accomplish objectives (other than the aforementioned 
 suppress-and-flank combat mechanic) are few and far between. The only cooperative operations that 
 are supported are:
  - at scripted times in the game, you will go back-to-back with your buddy and enter bullet time 
 to fend off an onrush of enemies.
  - at scripted times you will have to do a tandem parachute jump. One of you will steer, the other 
 will be able to snipe.
  - at scripted times, you can get in a hovercraft. One of you will drive, the other will shoot.
 
  - you can occasionally find riot shields (or car doors) in the level to create rolling cover for 
 you and your buddy
  - at limited locations, you can boost your buddy to a high area that they can shoot from
  - when 
 your buddy is hit, you can drag him to safety while he shoots to cover you
  
  The expectation for a game built around two player coop is that coop is built into the general 
 fabric of the game. Instead, the players are dropped into role-based mini-games at scripted times, 
 which disrupts action and seems shoehorned in. There was so much potential here... For example, 
 why not let either player tackle and cover the other, such as when you both get caught behind the 
 same cover facing a grenade you won't get away from? How about making the two characters physically 
 different enough such that only Rios can lift certain objects, or only Salem can fit through certain 
 areas (thus increasing the replay value, so you can try to beat the game with both characters) ? 
 Perhaps giving Salem the ability to hack electronics and Rios the ability to perform bomb disposal... 
 The potential is endless. Sadly, this potential is never realized.
  
  Cash: The opportunities to get cash bonuses during the campaign are woefully slim. There are perhaps 
 four sub-missions during each level that are placed right in your path. There are no real "side-quests" 
 that you can do for extra challenge or extra money. In my first playthough, the only objective 
 my buddy and I failed at was shooting down a Chinook helicopter, and that's because we didn't have 
 rockets. This game would have benefited from an open world environment like Grand Theft Auto that 
 would enable players to take their own routes, and perform their own sub-missions along the way. 
 Sadly, everything is laid right out in front of you, so it feels like the amount of cash you earn 
 is fixed.
  
  Be that as it may, the cooperative multiplayer is the best part of the game. Playing with the idiot 
 AI as a partner in the single player campaign is frustrating and not worth doing, unless you've 
 just got to have the achievement for it and the competitive online experience is absolutely miserable. 
 Only one in six attempts will land you in a ranked game that will run to completion without a disconnection 
 occurring. When you are able to find a stable game, it's just a lame experience. Objectives spawn 
 out of thin air within a very fixed amount of map space, often requiring the player to blow up 
 the same map target twice in the same game.
  
  While I applaud the developers for attempting to build a game around the cooperative element, unfortunately, 
 the game just fails to execute. I would recommend that folks rent it to try out the online coop 
 with a good friend that they know will finish the coop campaign with them, but otherwise, don't 
 bother spending the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_hall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Whilst I would agree that the story could use some work, its about the only part of the Gamespot 
 review I do agree with.
  
  Army of Two is a fun, fat paced and entertaining shooter with some interesting mechanics and great 
 multiplayer, either co-op or vs. With brilliant graphics and better gameplay.
  
  The only real letdown was the story, but it isnt as bad as it may appear. Yes, it glorifies mercenary 
 forces, but it never asks to be taken seriously, from the opening mission it is obvious that it 
 isnt meant to be realistic. 
  
  What it does, it does well. The agro mechanic is inspired, and as far as I know, the first time 
 anything of the like has been tried in a FPS. I personally dont mind the 'street cool' language 
 that one of the characters uses, because the other is always ribbing him for it, its just some 
 light comic relief.
  
  Whist short, Army of Two provided me with the most pure fun game that ive played in a long while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TGChaplain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Really enjoyed this game. The story is very weak, but tolerable. The two main characters are memorable. 
 The gun physics lacks a bit, but gameplay can be fast and fun. Definitely needs to be played on 
 co-op though. The main campaign is very short, leaving much to be desired. The levels seem a bit 
 linear. You'll enjoy the actual fighting though, as the game keeps the action going through out. 
 The subject matter about the private security firms and what not didn't really hit any nerve, as 
 anyone will recognize that it merely serves as a backdrop to the idea of two mercs shooting at 
 stuff. The game reminds me of a summer block buster. Mild story, lots of shooting, cursing, and 
 explosions (maybe not so much explosions, but still) . 
  
  I personally was expecting a bit more from this game, as you can tell that they really wanted to 
 do more with this, but simply didn't for some reason. As a result, you find yourself thinking that 
 they envisioned some much, and delivered so little. It'll keep you occupied until Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarnag
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Army of Two I had my doubts, it seemed to be way over-hyped as "the best coop 
 game ever". I pre-ordered a copy so I could try it out and go along for the ride with a good friend 
 of mine, and boy am I glad that I did!
  
  The game is built around a borrowed concept from many MMORPGs: Aggro. And while many WoW fans will 
 catch onto this concept immediately, others it may take a bit of explaining, but either way you 
 will catch on quite fast. It is best explained by the drill sergeant in the opening cutscene: if 
 you gun and you fire at enemies, they will back at you, allowing your friend to do whatever he 
 wants.
  
  The single player campaign is good, but it has its flaws. Your AI partner wont always perform the 
 way that you want him to, sometimes holding a position outside of the cover you want him to stay 
 in, or "sneaking around" right in front of a heavily armored enemy you need to flank, mostly due 
 to the lack of a precise "go here button" (think Mass Effect's LB) that is instead replaced by 
 a three choice movement pattern on the D-pad. You can tell your partner to either stay put, advance, 
 or follow you and do so either aggressively to take aggro or passively while you cover his back 
 taking aggro yourself. At times your partner will make bad choices, choosing to drag you in the 
 opposite direction of cover to heal you after you have been downed, or even refusing to fire in 
 a crucial "coop snipe" maneuver. Flaws aside, your AI will mostly do what you want if you tell 
 him correctly and cover him well, and you will find a good amount of fun to be had even alone.
 
  
  The game truly shines in online or split-screen coop, where any AI problems are replaced by a friend 
 or someone who decides to join you. In this mode you can truly master the aggro system and manipulate 
 it to your advantage, allowing a buddy to snipe at enemies while you blind fire safely from cover, 
 or launching a grenade or rocket at an armored enemy while he is distracted. This really allows 
 you to play the game to the fullest, and it makes all the difference in the long run; replacing 
 frustration with satisfaction at pulling off something difficult. But all in all there is no escaping 
 that the story mode is generally short (I spent about 5-6 hours on my first playthrough with a 
 friend on Recruit difficulty) but the achievements and rewards, as well as an opportunity to further 
 customize your weapons, by playing through multiple times on higher difficulties will mean you 
 will see Rios and Salem through their story more than once.
  
  The story itself is surprisingly interesting, I went in suspecting not much more than two guys 
 mowing through hundreds of people, and while thats just what I got it was packaged with a gripping 
 storyline that was surprisingly relevant to today's Army and PMC events. The game was even unafraid 
 to show images of the Twin Towers going down to add to the storyline, and the characters even seem 
 to rag on the military before they delve deeper into the storyline.
  
  Multiplayer is nothing revolutionary, you won't find your typical shooter deathmatches here though, 
 only 2 vs 2 objective games. But with a friend it can be quite fun as well, just nothing new.
 
  
  Overall, buy this game for the coop, rent it for the single player and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: End_all_Be_all
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I popped this game in my 360 hoping for the best and was deeply disappointed almost immediately. 
 First and foremost I was hoping to see some new aspects added to co-operative play, though few 
 were delivered and what was, was less than impressive. Nothing innovative was implemented at all 
 asides from the aggro system which Ive personally never seen but this system is ridiculous and 
 used way too many times. Every boss is to be taken out the same way, your friend/partner shoots 
 him head on and you go behind the target and shoot him in the back, there, I've pretty much spoiled 
 the entire game for every reader who hasn't played this yet, sorry. For some odd reason your target 
 just doesn't seem to care about the guy who's 5 feet away from him and going around his back to 
 kill him.
  
  I remember months ago reading about a part in which the two players moved such and such into place, 
 then one of you would hop on a turret while the other would reload the weapon or something along 
 those lines, you know something that sounded intricate and new for co-op. In actuality all the 
 co-op elements from every other shooter before this is what I got, the co-op elements are as follows:
 
  
  You can heal your teammate, the new part of this is the downed teamate can shoot while being dragged 
 to safety which is actually a good new feature to co-op play I haven't seen before. 
  
  You can help your teamate on to a higher platform (only at set locations mind you) and this is 
 done so often its annoying. 
  
  And lastly you can go back-to-back and shoot around in a circle in slow-motion ( at set locations 
 only) and during these scenes its next to impossible to be killed which will have you asking yourself 
 during the tougher parts of the game; why cant we just go back-to-back? Basically any time you 
 think your about to do something cool and new all it turns out to be is you and your partner go 
 up to an object, press A, then watch a cut-scene of what you would have done had this been a good 
 game.
  
  Oh, and you can either congratulate your partner by giving him five and doing a stupid dance or 
 scold him by slapping him in back of the head, by pressing the assigned buttons. all of this gets 
 old about as soon as your halfway through doing it a second time. 
  
  Another thing you can do is customize (some) of your weapons, which seems cool at first but really 
 isn't anything special. All the guns have an option to be "pimped", wow!, how hip is that? you 
 can pimp your guns out homey. why not have an option to have xzibit add a snow-cone maker to the 
 AK or place a hairdryer on the shotgun.
  
  Not even the graphics are good, they appear very drab and sometimes straight up ugly, they're absolutely 
 unimpressive, Im not sure what GameSpot saw in them but whatever. To sum it up this is a very short 
 game (4-5 hours) in which you will get nothing more than room after room of enemy's to shoot and 
 nothing more. If your looking for a mindless afternoon of shooting up bad-guys with a freind then 
 give it a rent, otherwise stay away if you have any type of standards.
  
  End all Be all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Who really expected a deep serious story out of this game given the goofy antics of the teaser 
 trailers? Gamespot did!!
  
  Honestly, a game like this has to be taken with a grain of salt because loosely basing a story 
 on real life events is a tricky affair. It's near impossible to not offend anyone when the subject 
 matter is "post 9/11 occupation privatized army in the middle east" based. The fact that our Army 
 of Two heroes remind me of those red state voters that liked Bush because he seemed like a guy 
 they can have a beer with, really doesn't help the image of the game either. But you know what? 
 Not every game made has to be Bioshock or Mass Effect when it comes to story telling, especially 
 when it comes to war games.
  
  The game play in AoT is very good. Fault can be found with the AI in single player mode. At points 
 of the game "the two" will go back to back and as you rotate to shoot enemies, your mate stays 
 at your back and shoots enemies on his side. It doesn't always happen that way though. Sometimes 
 your mate stays in place and you end up having to cover the entire 360 degree area and try not 
 to shoot the idiot in the back. This behavior also occurs when you get shot and your buddy drags 
 you to cover. He'll drag you right in the direction of an enemy that's opening fire on you and 
 you'll end up shooting your mate instead of the enemy because he's in the way. These kinds of problems 
 with the AI don't ruin the single player experience, but it does make you regret spending your 
 hard earned cash on a not so perfect game.
  
  Co-op offline and online shines very brightly though and it's what you'll buy the game for. 
 
  
  For most the game is a week long rental but if your looking for a great co-op 3rd person shooter 
 with very nice graphics and more brawn than brains, Army of Two is just what you'll want.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odins_Fury
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  What really inspired me to write this review was the horribly unfair rating given to the game by 
 the gamespot reviewer. A 6.5 doesn't do this game justice at all. The reviewer takes the topic 
 of the story far too seriously and fails to recognize it's unique and humorous approach. 
  
  The cooperative aspects of the game are spot on. Some people don't like the back-to-back mode 
 because it goes into slow motion, but I found it to be a welcomed shift in gameplay. Aggro is done 
 pretty well for the most part. In my experience don't think that one person can just keep firing 
 and the other person can run around and kill everything. Once your partner has aggro you can go 
 in and flank enemies undetected for awhile but they will soon turn their attention to you. I find 
 the idea of getting money for completing certain objectives, some of them optional, to buy more 
 weapons and gear to be fun. I hear of a lot of people complaining that the weapons are basically 
 the same, but they all have different stats ranging from firepower, ammo, aggro, and accuracy. 
 
  
  I would have given this game a higher rating yet, but there are a few things that bugged me. Maybe 
 I just suck but I would have liked to see more checkpoints. Aiming between "zoomed in" mode and 
 "blind firing" mode seemed to be far too different in sensitivity. When you're holding down the 
 LT zooming in your targeting box moves too slow and when you're not zoomed in it moves too fast. 
 Melee attacks are hard to execute. If an enemy gets too close to you it is often hard to dispatch 
 him. 
  
  There are 3 difficulty levels. My friend and I just completed the campaign on the mid range level. 
 We're going to start playing on the hardest level tonight. I'm more of an RPG gamer, but this game 
 is a blast to play. I haven't played with a computer partner so I can't say how fun that is, but 
 if you have a friend who's willing to play the game more than likely you'll have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killfooler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  You have to completely ignore Gamespot's scoring of this title. It is by NO means a 6.5 game. The 
 whole point of the gameplay revolves around having a human co-op parter - hence the title "Army 
 of Two." Seriously, I hate EA as much as the next guy, but they totally scored with this title. 
 If HALO3 can be graded on it's Online component alone, why can't titles like this be graded the 
 same way for consistency's sake? 
  
  The animation and gameplay is silky smooth. It's crazy over the top action that has you really 
 appreciating your partner. Small gestures like the little "knuckle-bump" along with the "good job!" 
 really do well to drive home the whole teamwork initiatives. The graphics and presentation are 
 top notch (looks like a finished game) and the game-play is solid. If you're going to be playing 
 this by yourself, a 7.5 might be warranted... but as it stands, played the way it was designed 
 to be played, it is a solid 8.5. Think CONTRA of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Oates
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Back to back firing and weapons upgrade and purchase systems keeps me well enough entertained. 
 The face masks are an item that should be a little cheaper considering the lack of effect it has 
 on stats. I havn't played all the way through or tried online yet, but this game seems to be pretty 
 cool. I don't always dig the review this site gives, but they have a point about the story. There 
 isn't really much of one. The body armor could have used a bit more of variety, along with automatics. 
 More explosions maybe. I'm not exactly an expert on the subject matter, i just know what i like 
 in my shooters. Depth is ranked 2nd, right below arms and bombs. The suppressors in this game are 
 kind of questionable because I havn't run into any stealth-like scenarios yet. Seems like they 
 just take down accuracy and damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I think it's obvious that the GameSpot reviewer must have a family member in the military, or perhaps 
 it's the fact that the military is currently running an ad campaign on GameSpot, because the GS 
 review harps on the fact that Army of Two isn't exactly pro-military needlessly and endlessly. 
 Just look at the GS User Scores and the scores given by other critics. There's no doubt Joe Dodson 
 has a chip on his shoulder when it comes to jabs at the military. The fact of the matter is that 
 Ao2's story is purely fictional, and the events in game are necessary to explain what's going on.
 
  
  Essentially, in Army of Two, the US government-supported military is failing to get the job done 
 in Iraq (which is arguably true to real life, depending on how you look at it) . Therefore, to alleviate 
 some of the pressure off of the US Army, a company, not-so-subtly called Black Mountain, is hired 
 to take over much of the operations in the war. This is where your characters come in, two former 
 Army Rangers who have recently become mercenary commandos.
  
  Sure, the game sheds a bit of negative light on the US military, but only to explain why two mercenaries 
 are running amok in the middle-east. If you have family members in the military, or if the military 
 is currently paying your salary by advertising on the website you work for, I could see how this 
 might chap your ass a bit - but in the spirit of unbiased criticism, this shouldn't play such a 
 strong part of the "Official GS Review". 
  
  As far as the game itself is concerned, it's a raucous good time. It has a short but intense campaign, 
 sort of like CoD4. The coop tactics are fun and exciting, but occasionally are difficult to pull 
 off. The Aggro system adds an interesting twist to the game, and makes it possible to do some pretty 
 neat tactical maneuvers. Upgrading your mercenary's equipment is easy and rewarding, thought they 
 could have left the "Pimp Your Gat" idea out. 
  
  The gameplay is fairly solid, except for the aforementioned difficult coop tactics. The enemies 
 seem to have a tendency to run straight at you, which can be annoying. The "Martyr" enemies are 
 a bit silly, but are actually quite fun to dispatch.
  
  The mercenaries are fairly accurate with their weapons, though they could be a bit more accurate 
 when moving. Also, I would have liked to see a cover system along the lines of Gears of War or 
 even kill. Switch. 
  
  The witty banter between the two characters can be funny at times, and stupid at other times. Still, 
 it's nice that they gave the characters distinct personalities to help differentiate the two from 
 each other. 
  
  All in all, the game is definitely worth a buy. More developers need to start focusing their efforts 
 on cooperative gameplay, instead of only the competitive and single-player sides. The fact that 
 it was built from the beginning as a cooperative game is definitely a plus in my book. Just don't 
 trust the GS review - take a look at the User Reviews and the other critics - at least they don't 
 get all butt-hurt about the insults towards the military.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cukr7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  A great game to play with a buddy (or wife:-) for co-op play. Playing solo with the AI is okay, 
 but not nearly as enjoyable as with a *real* partner. The AI does a good job, but the dialog variety 
 is a little weak and doesn't provide you with any battle feedback, i. e., "Watch out on your left." 
 Also, avoid using your GPS; it's too much hand-holding. It's more fun to explore and figure out 
 your route and objectives on your own. The game is fairly linear, so what's the need for the yellow-blinking 
 brick road?
  
  Things that would've given it a higher rating in my book:
  1. more AI instructions, i. e., go left, right, forward, etc.
  2. more levels! Too short going 
 solo. Good length for co-op though.
  3. customizable armor, i. e., speed versus armor
  4. more innovative co-op moments
  
  No game is perfect. This game is similar to Gears of War 
 in some regards, but even Gears has its little annoying tendencies. Gears has great take-cover 
 moves, but these sometimes hinder movement in tight quarters. Army of Two has good moves getting 
 to cover, but not quite as good as Gears once in cover. Nit-picking. I know. 
  
  So, before i scrutinize each and every little thing, I'll just leave it as a solid game for people 
 who enjoy 3rd person shooters with a buddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the first trailer for this game I knew I would end up buying it. The concept is 
 simple. but everything about the game just takes it to another level. A lot of innovation here 
 in the game play side of things and the detail of the graphics are top-notch. Army of Two offers 
 a co-op experience that is intense from start-to-finish with a lot of re playability. The story 
 is short, there being only six levels, but they're solid and pack a lot of content within it.
 
  
  This is the perfect game to play with a friend because the characters; Rios and Salem feel like 
 ordinary people that are called in to do great things. This game revolves around a private organization 
 that contracts elite soldiers to carry out seamlessly difficult missions in exchange for cash. 
 The weapons vary and can provide a tactical edge depending on what you and you partner are using. 
 Everything from the standard assault rifles to sniper rifles all with upgradeable components. One 
 feature about the weapons that make it unique is you can pimp it out which is interesting because 
 it can be done on every weapon. One of my favorite customizable features is the masks mainly because 
 they personalize your character and they look good.
  
  Everything that relates to the story is almost taken out of the headlines found in the newspapers; 
 the War in Iraq, the 9/11 terrorist attack. The online for this game is well done, its not a team 
 death match but more like an attack and defend mode. It's a time-based objective strategy game 
 where across the map there's specific tasks that have to be done with the threats of the opposing 
 team as well as civilians that are prepared to defend their homes. It's actually done quite well 
 and is definitely a worthy addition to this already great game. All of these elements tied together 
 make for an incredible experience that any modern shooter enthusiast would enjoy.
  
  Army of Two: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuezion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  The conspiracy theory story line was some what thought out, and could have possibly been a movie 
 not a game... wait... to late (already been done) . The occasional "Water boyantics by the AI, 
 makes you want to use the game for wall art. The "Professional" difficultly is really no harder 
 than getting caught shop lifting with Winona Ryder.
  
  Outside of running the risk of getting the one newb who decides to go straight for the on-line 
 play, instead of attempting to learn the controls first, the game almost levels itself out with 
 the weapons and the on-line play.
  
  EA your next time around... please be a little more conscientious about, what your doing! One thing 
 you could do is obviously MAKE THE GAME LONGER, I don't know about you, but I really dislike 3 
 to 5 hour games-unless it is an arcade game... then it is understandable, with all of the technology, 
 and others things I have seen you do with games... it is safe to say that I am very disappointed 
 in you!
  
  Until next time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morechebba
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting a long time for this game and when it got put back last year i was very dissapointed 
 but i am glad ea did hold it back to do the extra work on it and just to give it a more polished 
 look. Because now the game is out i can tell you that it could have done with being worked on some 
 more so just think what it would have been like if ea had released it last year. To look at the 
 game is very nice lots of detail in the charecters but the background are very dull and almost 
 look unfinished at times. nice water effects. The gameplay to start with is alot of fun even when 
 playing on your own with your ai partner but it soon becomes very boring and generic. The best way 
 to play is with a friend and the mid mission shoping is cool gives you a chance to customise your 
 guns and buy new hockey masks. the achievements are also very good so buy the 360 version because 
 to look at its about the same on the ps3. so all in all its ok not a bad game but could have been 
 alot better it does start to grow on you after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedDser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time, since it first was annouced that the game was 
 being produced, with mercs and customization, I thought this game would have been great. Sadly, 
 in my opinion, this game fell short.
  
  For the amount of time that the game was delayed, I thought huge amounts of improvements would 
 have been put into the game. Graphics aren't that great, mind you most games with great graphics 
 have the unreal engine, but the graphics are still good. I was worried when the loading screens 
 popped up though, as well as the mask selection screen, those areas are terrible, mind you that 
 barely has relevance to the gameplay, but still, its the little things like that that bring the 
 overal game worth down.
  
  The game play is fun, but a few things were missing, like the minigames of healing your partner, 
 or having more control over the environment. Nothing was destructable other than a few barrels. 
 
  
  The other thing that came short for me in this game was the overall lenght of the single player. 
 I beat the game 3 times already, all the times on contractor, but the first time took me 6 hours, 
 and the other 2 times only took me 4 hours max. Thats terrible. I expect now a days for games to 
 last me around 15+ hours. Lost Oddyssey is 50+, and thats great. I don't expect to be done with 
 a game after getting it for 2 days. 
  
  Multiplayer has really disappointed me as well. No custimazation what so ever, other than choosing 
 a certain character. That really annoys me, with games like rainbow six, call of duty 4 (not so 
 much that one, but still more than ao2) have good, if not great, customization for the multiplayer. 
 
  
  Overall, I am disappointed overall, with the amount of time this game took. EA has yet again let 
 me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Kebeler_Elf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Honestly... I Think this game could have been a game of the year but since it wasnt really that 
 long .. thats what brought it down. The gameplay is great, think of gears of war but only more 
 team work and controls over your character. The characters Rios and Salem are awesome. They have 
 to be one of the best co-op teams in video games. They correspond with eachother and act like brothers 
 throughout the whole game. The only downfall of this game is it should be longer and the AI of 
 your partner should be alittle more like human. Other than that the story line was descent. Playing 
 Co-op with a friend is really funn.. and intense. the single player mode is harder because u have 
 to control you and the other character. This game could have been better in some ways, but i still 
 think its a really good game. The creators will look at there mistakes and make it better if they 
 make a sequel to this which i think they should!! its just an overall great game... ill give it 
 a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Army of Two sets you in a modern time period and gives you missions that are sort of based on world 
 events. The main characters are Rios and Salem. The storyline between these two is given in great 
 context. They are former rangers turned mercenaries and are comical throughout a lot of the game. 
 The boss fights are not very epic considering that we don't actually get a story on each boss. 
 All we are told is that they are terrorists and what they have that justifies us killing them. 
 Apart from that the only way to tell them apart is that they actually look really different in 
 their own respect. They are unique compared to everyone in the game and actually reflect the look 
 of a boss so its not to much to complain about, considering that a lot of shooters don't spread 
 focus out on to many characters. The other character you will get to no is Clyde. Clyde is a phychopath 
 and is very simliar to the Joker (yes the one from Batman) in the way that he handles himself which 
 adds to the nonchalant story line.
  The graphics are not the best we have seen. Character models are great. The guns look freakin awesome. 
 The environment is bland most of the time. The few parts of the envrionment that shine are the 
 ones that you use as cover and most of those are that pretty either. Animations are awful. When 
 you plant a bomb, the bomb magically appears out of thin air. Reloading animation seems to go through 
 the motions, but nothing really happens. Solund design on this game is perfect for the game. The 
 movement is easily picked up. All of the attacks sound different. Melee, the variety of guns all 
 sound great and give themselves a distinct feel. The music is there, but it really doesn't leave 
 a lasting impression. It comes in when its suppose to as it matches with the action, but it is 
 easily forgettable. Gameplay is somewhat lacking as well. Melee attacks are not very predictable, 
 and the cover mechanic takes some getting used to. There is no button that makes you cover, you 
 just kinda duck behind something and hope that its tall enough to cover you, which it usually is. 
 You can blind fire or come out behind cover and fire. Blind fire is preferred because I often found 
 myself shooting my own cover when i came out behind it. In blind fire my character reached over 
 the cover to fire. This is quite bothersome. With all the negatives there is a shining light in 
 co-op. Once you get ready for a harder difficulty, you really can't do an extensive amount of soloing, 
 and you really have to work together. The co-op actions such as step jumping are fun, but sometimes 
 tedius, considering that almost every actions that advances the game is co-op. The customizable 
 guns are something that brings in some replay value considering you have to buy all the guns and 
 use money to upgrade them. Online mode is pretty much an extension of the single player, except 
 instead of being alone with the bad guys you have to race another two man squad to the objectives. 
 This is fun for a little while until you figure out that melee attack then shotting your enemy 
 while there on the ground is pretty much unbeatable. All in all this game is good, but I would 
 appreciate another release with a lot more polish, depth, and duration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest when I first clicked Game spot's review and saw the 6.5, I was actually a little 
 surprised. For being an innovative co-op experience, I would have at least thought the person reviewing 
 this game would have atleast slid in a couple of brownie points. The co-op element may not be perfect 
 but atleast this game will be a stepping stone for games to come.
  
  In my opinion, I feel the co-op started to turn sour when the developers didn't incorporate any 
 type of goals for teamwork. All you do the whole game is stick together. The most you may split 
 up would be to scope out a building for a briefcase or two. But for the main action parts, the 
 game seems very scripted.
  
  And once again we deal with a game that suffers from having a normal income system. What is the 
 point of money if you unlock everything when you beat the game? Not to mention the fact that you 
 pretty much get paid by assignments, so their is really no surprise in what you are going to receive. 
 I don't know, maybe I am just reminiscing about the good old days with random treasure. It would 
 have been nice if you earn stuff the good old fashioned way. Kill a boss and receive a new gun 
 or something. 
  
  I could ramble on about twenty different things I dislike about the game, but the bottom line is 
 for an innovative co-op experience like no other, this games rating was a slap in the face.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icp513
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing the campaign with a friend. However, when you play online the game turns 
 to crap. I've never been a huge fan of EA's servers and they definitely dont shine in this game. 
 It take forever to find a match and once you do it seems like there is always somebody that gets 
 kicked out. On top of that the game play stinks online. The basic concept is that two groups get 
 put on a board and whoever earns the most money wins. Well, this almost turns into luck as whoever 
 is lucky enough to be close to the objective once it is announced. They try to make it interesting 
 by allowing you to buy upgraded weapons and armor. However, matches are so short and upgrades are 
 so expensive it could actually cost you a game if you try to buy anything. Overall I loved the 
 campaign and concept of the game but they could have done a better job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I hate to heap bad vibes on something so many people spent many long hours crafting..... but this 
 time it really is called for.
  
  The concept and design were superb. You could almost have THE perfect videogame fodder here. The 
 delay in release to perfect it, the chunky looking graphics and dynamic trailers. It all looked 
 so goddam promising. Then you hit the first level....
  
  And your heart sinks.
  
  Empty, vacuous, clunky and embarrassingly redneck dumbass in its machismo and world view. Something 
 went drastically wrong here in production. I have the sneaking suspicion that the delay was due 
 to EA throwing a wobbly over the failure of the game to deliver.
  
  It is too short, too linear, too basic, lacks any sort of freedom of choice, soon loses its graphical 
 sheen, broken AI routines..... and sadly empty online experience.
  
  I LOVE co-op. I LOVE the idea of mercs and PMC's. I love shooting and wat games.
  
  I hated 
 this.
  
  Rent it or borrow it first!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjay31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  5 words: WOW! This game kicks ass! After experience the severe disappointment of Frontlines, I 
 then became a little nervous about all new releases besides Vegas 2. On top of that, I was having 
 quite a difficult time trying to get my hands on a copy as well. Well, it's worth it! Graphics 
 are absolutely amazing. The story is pretty good with a good amount of suspense to it. The wise-cracking 
 characters do a good job of keeping you entertained all throughout the campaign. One of the things 
 I like the most is that all the features talked about and shown in trailers are actual available 
 for you to do and it looks identical. "Back-to-Back" shooting (my favorite) is cinematic-looking 
 and fun as hell. Another great thing about this game is the weapon choices and customization. Not 
 just making your weapon stronger or more accurate but look better, too. "Pimped" weapons in gold 
 and chrome is enough to bring a smile to anyone's face. Not to mention you can see the "pimped" 
 weapons in action through cut scenes and actual combat. Teamwork and "aggro" are definitely key, 
 so master them and master the game. The only negative (not really) I can say is aiming can be a 
 little strained in the event you're rushed from multiple sides but that can be avoided by playing 
 smart. I haven't tried the Versus mode yet but the campaign has sold it for me, kinda like Mass 
 Effect. Not to mention it's CO-OP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  You gotta play this game with a friend! Its a blast! BUT you don't have to buy it. You can rent 
 it, beat it in two or three days, get the acheivements, then return it. The online play doesnt 
 have much replay value to it. So RENT IT.
  
  Personally, I was disappointed. I thought it was gonna be a little more hardcore with these MAD 
 MAX looking dudes, but the game tried to pull off some kind of Gears of War/Hitman/Army game mix 
 up and it came out pretty stupid in that aspect.
  
  I was under the impression of a post apacalyptic battle land or some kind of crazy bounty hunters, 
 but they are just army rangers sent to kill terrorists, And they wear masks I guess. I still dont 
 get the mask thing either.
  
  In summation, I recommend the game for a couple of people who wanna get together and play a new 
 game and are ready to beat a quick game and move on. Warning! Its boring to play alone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKong1989
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all lets get this straight, this game is not a 6.5 so dont believe game spot's review. 
 This game was not meant to have a serious take on war, its meant to be a fun co-op experience which 
 it achieves in more than a hand full of occasions. Those who saw the previews for the game know 
 that the games two characters were gonna be a cocky in your face duo, so incase you dont like these 
 kind of stereo type characters ( i love dante's attitude in the last two entries of devil may cry 
 so rios and salem were a welcome) then play call of duty cause this games not for you. Now with 
 that being said if you want to play with a buddy in split-screen, online co-op, or mission based 
 competitive two vs. two matches then welcome to army of two. This game is a breath of fresh air 
 for those who are tired of sticking to walls in gears of war, which i give kudos to EA for implimenting 
 the walk up to a wall and your in cover ,as well as the back to back , parachuting, and riot shield 
 tactics. This game achieves great graphics fun tactical co-op, the controls get some getting used 
 to if you play gears alot ( which i do) not much of a story but thats not why i play this game. 
 All in all this was a game that i was waiting for and im glad its  
 a different note im wondering why games like army of two and dragon ball tenkaichi 2 are receiving 
 low reviews when a game like two worlds receives a higher rating than both??????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sectshun8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Hey, just because a critic writes for the big boys doesn't mean they don't contradict themselves 
 with their own hypocritical rheteric. You're reviewing a game, not the politics behind it.
  
  This game rocks, hands down. As a Iraq vet, and one with close ties to Blackwater, this game 
 hits home... in an completely entertaining and unobtrusive manner. This game is what every soldier 
 strives to be... and no place better to do it in the private sector that offers big $ for being 
 all you can be. The weapons are sweet and the game is fab is 1080p. 
  
  The only real downsides, not being able to give orders to your partner in single player campaign. 
 Sure you can say proceed or stop and whatnot, but it would be nice to give directional orders. 
 Aggro is insane. Great concept putting that in to this type of game. 
  
  The ONLY thing I agree with in the review is that trying to hit anything while moving is damned 
 near impossible, and yes, the enemy does seem to have remarkable aim. But both of these are small 
 potatoes if you play the game with the right strategy instead of going balls to the wall. You do 
 have to THINK a little... trying to determine the best way to flank those heavy armor guys isn't 
 the easy thing to do!
  
  A 6.5 by the staffer is blasphemy. This game is every bit of Gears of War and then some. There 
 is no reason the actions of Blackwater or our Armed forces in the real world should hinder the 
 rating of this game below an 8.0. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_9_9_4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  im a little pissed cuz i waited for the review of this to come out so i could read it ( i already 
 preordered the game) and i started it earlier today. I think gamespot completely missed the point 
 of army of 2. The whole point i think is to blow **** up (of course) but the story really isnt 
 that bad and as far as making fun of the army? they went into Iraq underequipped to do the job, 
 and besides its just a video game. Also the reason your inaccurate when you run and gun is because 
 your not supposed to run and gun your supposed to take cover and return fire. Moving and firing 
 a large automatic weapon? can you honestly say that should be accurate? Bottom line this game is 
 fun for people who like to shoot **** with a story to back it up and i can see myself replaying 
 this one by myself and with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEDman_X
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Overall, fun campaign, horrible multi, poor control, and terrible interface. 
  
  It's a pretty fun game, despite that it's poorly designed. The campaign offers a short but fun 
 experience if you can co-op with a friend. You might even find the dialogs funny if the game caters 
 to your type of humor. Unfortunately, the online mutiplayer is just a plain mess. There are only 
 four maps for online muti, accompanied by perhaps one of the worst interface I've seen in 360. 
 
  
  There's pretty much only one variant: 2 v 2. You race against the other team to complete missions 
 and earn cash. The team with the most cash wins when the clock counts down to zero. 
  
  The interface is horrible! You cannot create a party like Halo or COD4. You have to manually invite 
 your friend every time before you start a new game. You do not know if your friend has a mic. Further 
 more, you can enter the game room as friends, but get separated on different teams! Even now, I 
 still can't figure out if I am allowed to play a ranked multi game with my friend. Most importantly, 
 there's little incentive to keep playing; you don't rank up or get new skills. All you do is accumulate 
 cash. However, you don't ever know how much cash your opponent or yourself have. 
  
  In game, the melee is extremely powerful but inconsistent, creating a situation where no one can 
 predict who gets the beat down. The controller is also pretty bad, the "A" bottom controls way 
 too many functionalities, creating confusion when interacting with the environmental. 
  
  The manual doesn't explain much either. To me, this feels like a game that has never been playing 
 tested, or that the developers put in little effort to make it functional. I am deeply disappointed 
 at the poor delivery that killed the potential of the game. With that said, I somewhat regret buying 
 this game. I would highly recommend people to rent the game if you have a friend to play co-op 
 with. It's a fun game to rent, but definitely not a game that's worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_and_dumb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Right when you put in the game, you notice a few things; one is the gorgeous graphics that are 
 apparent right in the menu, another is the great dialogue between you and your AI partner, and 
 lastly is how long it takes to ease into the combat.
  
  It's by no means hard to play, just a bit to get used the combat controls. Telling your AI guy 
 to do a certain thing isn't exactly fluid. At first anyway. Once you've spent maybe twenty minutes 
 running around with your head cut off, something kind of clicks. And then it's like you've known 
 the controls your whole life. My one gripe with controlling you AI is there is no way to send him 
 anywhere except forward. If you want the guy in a certain spot, you have to get him to you, then 
 make him hold there. 'Advance' is only really useful if you want to send him to his death. They 
 just needed a 'Go Here' button.
  
  With all that said, playing with a friend whether online or off, is the exact reason you put it 
 in the tray. Great fun to be had if you're part of a duo. Easier to coordinate your tactics that 
 way. As long as you can figure out who gets the ammo that is supremely sparse, everything works 
 out.
  
  The voice acting is excellant, the banter that floats everywhere is just great. The story actually 
 appears to be someone actually put some thought into it. The game is really short though, maybe 
 six hours at best. Achievements are a nice challenge and a good mix between story, online, and 
 progression points.
  
  Excellant game, great co-op, fun multiplayer. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhodio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun the first maybe 3 missions but then you just do the same thing over and over; and 
 no achievement for beating it on the easiest difficulty (unless you did it with AI) And they did 
 not even do close to as good as a job with cover system as GOW. And peoples body parts do not explode 
 : (. Aggro is really cool to use and the graphics are very good. i am going to continue to play 
 it for achievements. It does not have the best multiplayer but it's playable for a while. You can't 
 use your campaign customized weapons!?!?!? Now onto the weapon customization.... it's INSANE you 
 can make the coolest gun eg. you can even add a shotgun to the bottom of your AK-47. So i give 
 it 8.5. 
  
  
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Good: I was a little turned off about buying this game when I found out that it was going to have 
 a fluid cover system (meaning you can't stick to walls, like in Gears of War, or pin to them like 
 in Rainbow Six) . As it turns out, though, my hesitation was unfounded. Ao2's cover system is rewarding 
 for the tactical player and simple enough for the run-and-gun, Halo/CoD/Half-Life aficionado. A 
 good variety of weapons to choose from. You'll always have an arsenal of three guns (one assault 
 rifle/shot gun/RPG/LMG; one pistol/SMG; one sniper rifle/rocket launcher) plus grenades. You can 
 buy new weapons with the money you earn on missions, upgrade said weapons with said money, and 
 even trick out all your guns with more gold and diamonds than Mr. T. (Seriously... a golden Gatling 
 gun... enough said.) The Aggro system is very innovative, very intuitive and very effective. The 
 enemies are bountiful and /mostly/ intelligent, but fear not, because you can take quite a beating 
 before going down. They also have a health bar that hovers around them, which sounds like it would 
 be irritating, but it's really not so bad (plus it's kinda nice to see how much more punishment 
 you need to deal out before they take a nap) . The story and characters are well-developed throughout 
 the course of them game. Characters personalities contrast well. Story is innovative and intriguing, 
 if not a little predictable at parts. Voice acting is great.
  
  Neutral: The mobile cover system (car doors and riot shields) is aspiring, but not terribly useful 
 in the heat of most battles. It's only successful in situations where you're pushing down hallways 
 or other confined spaces. Otherwise, th enemies tend to just flank you and then your Ford-class 
 shield is effectively moot. The campaign is on the shorter side of reasonable length. It can be 
 easy to miss bits of the storyline if you're not paying close attention, but it doesn't inhibit 
 your ability to progress through the levels for the most part.
  
  The Bad: Nothing is really all that terrible about the game; there are just some minor annoyances. 
 For example, having to buy the different masks for your character... not a bad idea, but they're 
 all rather pricey. I mean... c'mon... given the option between looking like a rodeo clown or saving 
 up for a canon of a pistol called "Dead Man's Hand," who is really gonna drop 10K for the mask? 
 (Okay, I did, but who else? Really?) Also, you can't go back to back whenever you want (at least 
 not that I've found) and when you do, you're practically invincible and have unlimited ammo in 
 your primary weapon; I failed to see the point of it other than for the developers to deliver on 
 their promise. Co-op snipe is barely useful enough to justify its inclusion in the game (best for 
 online partners who don't have mics) . Clyde has some weird, less-than-believable quotes throughout 
 the game. (Salem offers clever retorts to these, though.)
  
  Audience: Despite those complaints, I still believe Ao2 is a very good game. It's not as forgiving 
 toward the run-and-gun play style as other games (like Halo and Half-Life) , but far more so than 
 some (like Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon) . It tries to play well with both while still curtailing 
 your ability to live out your John Wayne fantasies. I said the difficulty was hard because I imagine 
 it would be for the casual gamer. Personally, I felt it was just right, but I am a very big fan 
 of tactical shooters. My first play through, I was wounded probably a dozen times and only died 
 maybe twice or thrice (on the easiest difficulty) , so take that for what you will.
  
  
  
  By the way, Joe Dodson, if there were any better place I could respond to your review, I would've 
 posted this there. Seeing as there isn't (that I found anyway) , I'll say it here. Your review proves 
 to me two things: 1) you are completely incompetent when it comes to the criteria for making a 
 good game. 2) You absolutely SUCK a shooters if you thought the aiming was poor in this game. I 
 mean it Joe. You suck more than my pool filter, and it's a broke *** piece of crap that can suck 
 the whole thing dry in an hour. You suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The game trys to do what gears did but died in the middle of the process. The story is based on 
 9/11/01 your a mercenary fighting taliban and suicide bombers galore. The sad thing is no real 
 cover all you can do is crouch behind something and hope you don't die. Co-op is the only reason 
 this game doesn't get a 1 because they managed to get something done. Graphics are pathetic all 
 you see in the commercial are all cutscenes. Graphics 3/10
  Online play: pitiful its like Game Informer said it's spy on spy. 4/10
  Campaign/Story: The main 
 characters are idiotic morons who only cuss to talk through the story. Story is pretty lame that 
 they couldn't make one up on their own. 6/10?
  
  Grand Total: 13/30
  Game Informer 7.75/10
  Xbox World 1/5 anticipation
  
  If you must rent it but don't buy it 
 the game had promise and just took a heaping crap all over the graphics and story and pretty much 
 everything else the game was going to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCCRT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased Army of Two I was hoping for an excellent Coop experience, and that is exactly 
 what I got, but first things first.
  The first thing I did was get straight into playing with the AI partner (I know, stupid right?) . 
 One of the first things that I noticed were the great visuals that the game offers. Once I began 
 playing the frame rate remained steady for the most part and the game stayed smooth, which was 
 cool. The controls are also ok, but I did have a few issues with them, mainly that the A button 
 (X on PS3) is used for way too many actions, whereas the B button (O on PS3) isn't used for many 
 (or any at all?) . I began to dislike these controls the second I accidentally feigned death instead 
 of going into Overkill. This also can get annoying when you attempt to drag your partner but feign 
 death because you weren't close enough for the game to realize you wanted to drag your partner 
 (This could be a matter of inches) . Then I "died" for the first time. The AI partner did a good 
 enough job getting me back into the fight, but on other occasions he killed us both. 
  Now to talk about the Coop.
  It is amazing. Playing this game with a friend makes it feel like 
 an entirely different game. The aggro system also works well when playing with a friend, flanking 
 the enemy now became a core part of game play, which encouraged teamwork and communication. The 
 game was having a very positive effect on me and at that point I would have given it a score in 
 the 8.5-9.0 range, but then my opinion changed a little bit.
  I began my first multiplayer match expecting an awesome, tactical and very team oriented game, 
 but all I got was a screen telling me I have lost my connection and had to go back to the menu. 
 I said "Ok, lets try again." So I did. The match started and I quickly got the idea of things and 
 began going for objectives and bringing in the cash... until the players on the other team quit 
 and I had to go back to the main menu and look for another game. This occurs a lot online, and 
 can get quite frustrating. The game is also region locked, so you can't play with friends in the 
 UK/US if you live in the US/UK, respectively.
  So, Army of Two gets...
  
  Game play......8.5
  Story................7.5
  Graphics.........9.0
  Sound.............7.5
 
  Re-playability..7.5
  
  Overall Score : 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGuy13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is the first of its kind from EA. The game ceters itself entierly on co-op. Working 
 through campaigne mode with a buddy has never been so fun.
  Money comes from objectives and once you get good you will be able to get plenty of it. Money is 
 spent on wepons and gear aswell as upgrades and P! mP@Ge. Wepon upgrades work well and there is 
 a good variaty. 
  Few problems but the majior one that i had was that it was to short!
  With only six missions your going to want to play the next game in the series (EA has said they 
 wish to continue it) The missions are long but after beating them once you will go through much 
 faster the second time around. 
  The Multiplayer is actualy very fun. 2 on 2 objective based sounded a bit iffy to me at first but 
 know after playing it i have found it very fun. However so far i have found it laggy and i get 
 kiked out of rooms at random. oter frends have had this problem and hopefully they will fix this 
 in the first update, whenever that is.
  You could rent it first if you wanted to but i think that you can save your self 7$ by just buying 
 it. Belive me Youll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentlord833
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where to begin...... well I guess I start with the good things:
  
  PROS: Pretty good storyline, exceptional cut scenes make you really want to get in and start causing 
 some chaos. 
  The character interactions are great with another player, whether it is playing some air guitar 
 after taking out a bunch of enemies, or smacking your partner for taking to long pulling you up, 
 it adds fun to the gameplay, also some of the things the two characters do to eachother in the 
 cutscenes got a lol from me. 
  Gun buys and customizations deepen the game to an extent, setting up a S-system with a shotgun 
 on the end is just great. 
  Being able to play with a friend and run on through the game makes for a good time.
  Great achievement's 
 and names, for anyone who is a fan of the old school action movies.
  
  You will notice most of the things mentioned do not have anything to do with playing the game....... on 
 to that....
  
  CONS: Aiming and bullet impacts are at best shaky, hitting an enemy in the head does not always 
 mean they die, infact sometimes they aren't even hurt. 
  The ingame partner A. I. which was one of the big sells for the game falls short, older games have 
 a better A. I. system in place, this one for me was beyond frustrating.
  Short game, for the price, and the fact that there is really a minor online multiplayer design, 
 begs this game to be a good co-op/single player, and it does not deliver, on contractor (hardest 
 setting available out-of-the-box) it took less than six hours to beat with a friend, the only saving 
 grace for this is unlocking Professional for another go at the campaign, and of course the above 
 mentioned gun upgrading, but really this game isn't worth the $60 price tag, seeing as a week rental 
 could probably give you all the time you need for playing it to the hilt.
  Army of Two goes from kinda easy/moderate to insanely hard between missions five and six, my friend 
 and I breezed through the first five missions only to get slammed once on the last one, combined 
 we probably died about five or six times through missions one to five, and then about twenty times 
 on mission six..... maybe I'm just not good at games.
  
  OVERALL: I think the idea of Army of Two was much better than the actual game, there is definately 
 an open end for a sequel, which if EA makes, and fixes these problems could be a great game, Ao2 
 set up for much more than it delivered, and while I may not really like the game, I would be open 
 to another go at it with a deeper experience, and improved mechanics.
  
  RECOMMENDATION: If you like Gears of War, Rainbow Six, and other like games this is worth a rental, 
 if not, then don't bother with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gannonmoss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  First lets start with the concept. Everyone always rags on EA for being cookie cutter and their 
 games are always 'safe' to put it plainly. They stay within the boundaries of successful frameworks 
 and don't push the limits. Well it is safe to say that this game does not fall under that category. 
 
  
  First of all they have jumped on board with the Tom Clancy idea of incorporating real word events 
 (9/11, Hurricane Katrina, the war in Afghanistan) into the storyline, which is a fantastic idea 
 that more developers should explore because it gives the game such a good foundation period. It 
 helps add reality and depth and not only that, because these things actually happened, the gamers 
 themselves now have a vision of what the game is supposed to feel like, that imaginative hole is 
 effectively been plugged.
  
  As far as character development goes, Army of Two leaves a little to be desired. Not to say that 
 Rios and Salem (if they were to turn this into a series) can't and aren't already America's favorite 
 guns-for-hire, however we don't know really anything about them. I am afraid in EA's attempt to 
 release a edgy game yet maintaining substance in the actual gameplay, they shirked their duties 
 in character backstory and development. The dialogue between the two is often hilarious, not to 
 mention the businees like attitude of their contract filer, Alice Murray. A great addition to their 
 team, she is sexy, smooth but still has enough of that womanly gait to keep the men in line. I 
 felt the bad guys in the movie, especially considering how close they are to the main characters, 
 and how often we see them; were not developed at all.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, there are two ways to slice it, pardon the pun. In single-player, despite 
 a few hiccups with the AI (to be clear they are few and far between, and are rarely life-threatening) 
 the gameplay is fantastic. They have made the companion AI realistically accurate (so he helps, 
 but he won't dominate in the kill count) so the battles can be intense, but once you learn just 
 how your partner will act after you give each order, which each has a passive and aggressive mode. 
 Another cool feature you can use in co-op or single player is the advent of the synchronous snipe. 
 In single player, the AI will fire at the same time effectively dropping two unsuspecting guards, 
 or piercing the hull of a large gas tank, giving you the drop on the enemy and providing you with 
 some awesome explosions. 
  
  The array of weapons you get to choose from, not only that but the 'pimped' status you can add 
 to any gun, which increases the aggro output, are a lot of fun as well and it would be hard from 
 anyone to not find a gun they didn't like in this wide selection that Rios and Salem get. Not to 
 mention the skull masks everyone has been buzzing about (there are ten for the both of them) and 
 different armors they can wear, gives the game all the more depth and a little bit of individuality.
 
  
  In Co-op however there is a totally different experience. I've only played split-screen with my 
 bud, but it is an awesome game, not only to play together, but to watch as well. With the kudos 
 and 'I hate you' buttons as we have dubbed them, they give comic relief after a tense battle and 
 AoT, in our expert opinion has sparked some very Rios-and-Salem-esque discourse in my living room. 
 If you are on professional difficulty, you have to sit back, pause the game and plan out every 
 step, and though it sounds stupid, every bullet. It makes you think very strategically and synchronous 
 snipe work much more like the military with a countdown button, "3...2...1... Fire."
  
  The story itself is easy to follow there are aren't really any hiccups or things that don't match 
 up and the twists and turns are hard to miss. This is not a game where you really have to think 
 a whole lot, however the political intrigue backplot gets a little jargon-filled.
  
  The graphics, while should never detract from a game's review anyway, are good enough for our time, 
 but I can't say they took any risks graphically. Body movements are fluid and the cover system 
 feels like an updated and a little more common sense version of Gears cover. The aggro sysyem which 
 MMORPGers will have a strong familiarity with is a welcome addition to shooters, another trend 
 we will probably see lurk it's way into more FPS and TPS games in the future.
  
  All in all, a great game and I hope they make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun and has nice graphics. I have played the whole campaign and it was very, very short. 
 In general I don't mind to have a short campaign as long as you have an excellent multiplayer. 
 In Army of Two you can have a fun multi player although it is nothing spectacular. 
  
  The campaign is fun and trapped me until I finish it. I way more fun with a friend. It has diversity 
 of environment and you can fill the rush. The aggro component of the game makes it different from 
 any other shooter. You have a lot of room for strategy. You have a nice selection of weapon that 
 you can buy as you finish different missions during the game. Some times the dialogues are not 
 the smartest in the industry but who cares.
  
  The multiplayer is way too laggy for my taste. EA servers are not the best out there. It is fun 
 and gives you the rush of adrenaline but the lag can catch you and disrupt the fun. The fact that 
 the multi player is a two against two is a shame. Of course I knew it was going to be two vs. two 
 but I think I really prefer more people after all. You can buy weapons during the game although 
 you will spend the money which at the end of the game is what decides how won. I rather prefer 
 to have ranks a buy the weapons that you are going to use in the multiplayer before hand. That 
 would give you an incentive to keep playing. 
  
  In conclusion, the game is fun and I recommend it. But I think that you would like to rent it first. 
 Just in case.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoidbergUK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Electronic Arts delves into the seedy and dangerous world of private military contracting with 
 their newest release, Army of Two. Army Rangers Elliot Salem and Tyson Rios are disillusioned with 
 the military and joing up with a PMC with the promise of large paychecks and access to superior 
 armor and weaponry. But even with pockets full of cash things aren't always as good as they first 
 appear.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Army of Two is a third-person action shooter that relies heavily on cooperating with your partner 
 to achieve your objectives. EA has implemented the "PAI" system, or "Partner Artificial Intelligence", 
 to allow the single player experience to flow smoothly without an actual human counterpart. To 
 get through the game you'll have to work with your partner to help each other up walls, go back 
 to back while surrounded by enemies, snipe enemies at the same time, use riot shields together 
 for maximum effect, and even drag them out of harm's way to heal them when they take too much damage. 
 It works out for the most part, with only minor problems as the AI gets hung up on the occasional 
 wall or won't approach from the direction you'd prefer them to. The true fun in the game though 
 comes when you actually partner up with a friend over Xbox Live to tackle the missions together.
 
  
  EA has also introduced a new gameplay concept in Army of Two, known as the "Aggro Meter". All weapons 
 have a varying amount of aggro that they generate when fired, and as you or your partner continue 
 to fire your weapons the meter will swing in that respective direction. As the meter swings to 
 your side, more and more enemies will become aware of you, or "aggravated", and will focus all 
 of their fire towards you. On the flip side your partner becomes almost "invisible" to the enemies 
 and can initiate flanking manuevers with greater ease. Lastly, once a player's aggro meter is full 
 they can enter "Overkill" mode. For the player who has a full Aggro Meter it will double all damage 
 they can dish out but slows them down. Their partner however will be able to move at an increased 
 speed while still being "invisible" to enemies. This raises some interesting gameplay mechanics 
 as players are able to tackle different objectives in a variety of ways by effectively using the 
 Aggro Meter.
  
  As players go from mission to mission they recieve payment for their "services". This money can 
 be used to purchase new weapons, armor and masks. Besides having a huge amount of weapons to choose 
 from, most of the weapons can be upgraded by adding on silencers, stocks, longer barrels, grenade 
 launchers, etc. You can even spend extra money on a weapon to "pimp" it out *author's rant* I hate 
 how that word is synonymous with "upgrade" *end rant* which will raise it's ability to generate 
 aggro. (Cause you know that if you're sporting a golden diamond encrusted AK-47 those bad guys 
 are going to want to take you out first!)
  
  Graphics
  
  Army of Two looks great on the Xbox. Character models are all rendered very nicely and a lot of 
 attention has been paid to your own character model and the weaponry you and your partner carry. 
 It's great to see the different weapons in action and watch them evolve as you upgrade them. Explosions 
 are great to watch and it's very obvious that a lot of attention has been given to the physics 
 of the environment and such. A great example of this is towards the end of the Aircraft Carrier 
 mission (you'll know when you get there!) . In between the missions as well are some pretty nifty 
 cutscenes that look fantastic as well.
  
  
  Controls
  
  The game just FEELS like Gears of War. It's hard to explain really, but once you start running 
 around I think you'll agree with me. I found myself kept wanting to be able to roadie run, but 
 you move fast enough for the most part. Even getting in and out of cover feels very reminiscent 
 of GoW, complete with blindfiring and all. This isn't necessarily a bad thing though because GoW's 
 controls were pretty refined and tight. The trigger buttons are what you would expect, with LT 
 aiming and RT firing. The bumper buttons are reserved for switching on weapons as well as some 
 teammate controls like co-op snipe. D-Pad is for giving orders to your AI teammate. I found that 
 the Y button is a life-saver in many occasions, allowing you to roll around out of the way of fire, 
 as well as climb over obstacles and such.
  
  Sound
  
  Voice acting to the game is top-notch. It's fun to hear the banter back and forth between you and 
 your squadmate and the script is pretty well written. I have no complaints in this section really 
 as all the weapons sound pretty good and the musical score is also appropriate for the game.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer with Army of Two takes it down to the simpleness of 2v2. 
 Two squads of two ultra-warriors facing off against each other to complete various objectives such 
 as protecting a zone, escorting a hostage to an airlift, destroying objectives and/or assassinating 
 an enemy. All of this happens of course while your enemy is trying to do the same thing. As each 
 team completes an objective they receive funds with which they can aquire new weaponry and/or armor 
 upgrades as certain Supply Dumps on the maps.
  
  Army of Two offers both ranked and unranked gameplay. I've only played a few matches so far, but 
 it works out pretty well as long as you've got a teammate who communicates with you. One thing 
 I did not like was at the end of the match it will quit back out to the main menu, forcing all 
 players to search again for a new map.
  
  Oh, and of course there is online co-op with a friend through the whole campaign.
  
  
  Conclusion
 
  
  9.0 out of 10
  
  Army of Two is a wild, short ride down the conspiracy rabbit hole but it's certainly a fun and 
 enjoyable one. Great graphics, customization of weapons, an interesting two-man squad multiplayer, 
 and of course a great co-op experience make for a solid purchase in this reviewer's opinion. If 
 you go flying through the game on the easiest difficulty you'll be able to beat the game in about 
 4-5 hours. but that's no fun and who wants to do that? So, take your time, buy some badass weapons, 
 invite a friend and become an Army of Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robobie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Army of two from EA is one of the best games to be released in a while. Many people will disagree. 
 But that is there oppinion. Army of two sets you and you partner in places such as Somalia, Iraq 
 and even Miami. There are only six missions in the campaign mode but they are pretty long. You 
 will need your partner for everything in the game and you can not survive without him hence the 
 name Army of two.
  
  You can take control of two characters. Rios and Salem. Rios being the tough guy and Salem being 
 the joker of the pair. Controls are your basic aim with LT and fire with RT. Taking cover is done 
 by just kneeling behind an object. You can fire from behind objects using blind fire or pop your 
 head out and get a more precise aim. The Graphics are superb and the sound is great. Guns and explosions 
 sound perfect.
  
  The storyline is ok. You are part of a private military organisation and you are sent all around 
 the world to take care of missions. The story goes a bit deeper but I will not ruin it for people 
 by saying how that goes. Other features such as customising your gun and encouraging your partner 
 are good. 
  
  So this is a perfect game right? Not quite. Sometimes even if you have a strong weapon it feels 
 weak. Alot of the guns take 3 or 4 shots to kill someone. Also the game is very short but that 
 is seen in alot of games these days. 
  
  Army of two is best played with a friend but it can also be played with one of the characters being 
 controlled by the AI. The AI is very smart. So smart that it could be easier to complete a level 
 with the AI than a friend.
  
  All in all Army of two is a great game but small things stop it from being perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy10009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  It was fun to finally get a game back that had some oldschool ps2 syphon filter style gameplay, 
 like how your able to buy and upgrade guns, work side by side instead of v. s, ect. but unfortunatly, 
 after unlocking evrything, (which is not that much when you look at it) there is nothing left to 
 do! 
  
  i was hopeing for this game to turn out as more of cod4 for online. working your ass off to get 
 to the next rank, spending 20 + hours to FINALLY get the last rank/gun. But to my suprise, i found 
 i have already unlocked all the weapons within 3 days! WTF! now, half the fun of playing online 
 is being able to show off your cool guns and ranks to the other noobz, but when evryone else has 
 the same kick-ass weapons as you? that was a let down. from the point that you unlock all that 
 you need, its just a slow steady decline down the hill towards the bargin bin. 
  
  it may even be the new gears of war: TOTALLY AMAZING for a little while untill people got tired 
 of it, then over a period of a short year, it will never be heard from again.... sob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seadub
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  The developers obviously borrowed quite a bit from Gears of War with the way you throw grenades, 
 slide into cover, blind-firing, etc. 
  
  The enemy AI is pretty good in spots where they will attempt to work together to flank you, and 
 sometimes will try to pull back to a safer position if you move up on them.
  
  The Bad:
  The single player game is maybe 6-10 hours your first time through. There are too many needless 
 cut-scenes (example: you push a button and a cut-scene then shows you opening the door and walking 
 in, then back to the game) . The AI partner could have been easier to direct and give orders to. 
 
  
  Most of the "bosses" are no harder to fight than the regular low-end guys. They usually just have 
 a bit more health.
  
  The LAME heavy metal bits of music combined with the "what up, bro?" type of dialogue makes me 
 want to play the game with no sound. Maybe if you are lame and listen to ICP or Limp Bizkit you'll 
 like that.
  
  The shotgun seems too powerful. It has nearly the range of any machine gun and instantly kills 
 most enemies and gives you nearly full aggro with 1-2 shots. Yet even more powerful than the shotgun 
 or even RPG is the unholy melee attack. Yes, that's right. I can choose to empty a clip into another 
 player in the back from 5 feet away to make them go down, but if instead just run up and hit them 
 ONCE with a headbutt or punch to the face, down they go!
  
  There are some technical bugs too. First time I started the campaign training mission it went to 
 a black screen. I could hear sounds, but nothing on the screen. After quitting the mission and 
 re-starting it worked fine. This happened again the first time I started the campaign to play co-op 
 with a friend. Also, at nearly every checkpoint where you can access the weapons store, my friend 
 gets dumped from the game completely. I have to quit, then re-start from checkpoint, invite him 
 again to continue. This is very annoying.
  
  Online multiplayer was a huge letdown for me. This is touted as a co-op game and you can't even 
 partner up with a friend then join games. To play with a friend, one of you will have to host, 
 meaning the team you play against won't know each other giving you an advantage. After every match 
 you're dumped back to the main menu. For a game that is popular enough to currently be #1 on Gamespot, 
 it sure does take a long time to find a game for me to join (sometimes 2-3 minutes) . Many times 
 one team is able to complete an objective without the other team having a chance just because they 
 happen to be right near it when it appears on the screen. The GPS system doesn't use the guidance 
 arrow pathing from the campaign to show you which way to get to an objective; you just have to 
 rotate around looking for the icon showing where it is, then try to navigate around walls and find 
 stairways to get there. There is no way to level-up your online character like COD4. You don't 
 get to keep anything you buy from one game to the next. Each game you start out as either the heavy-armored 
 or light-armored guy and your buddy is the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastemmerich
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  The game took forever to make, but the extra time they spent was well worth it. The game reminds 
 me of Gears of War as far as dialogue and some of the up close and personal moves you can perform 
 on the bad guys. Customizing your weapons is cool and "pimping" them is also a fun idea.
  
  They mix up the missions pretty well, so it doesn't feel like your shooting the same people in 
 the same scenery. Being a mercenary for hire and actually getting paid based on your mission performance 
 and completed objectives makes the game more interesting. I kept out performing my partner in the 
 finance department...... so there is even competition between the two players if your playing with 
 a friend. Shooting seems realistic.
  
  I have not yet tried the game solo, so I can't help you there.
  
  Overall I would say it is 
 definitely worth adding to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeMakinBacon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  ... If you can overlook its flaws - which isn't too hard. Great views and visuals, with nice attention 
 to detail pretty much everywhere except the loading screen. Also noticable are a couple of overlap 
 problems with character models positions carrying certain weapons. Some say knock-off but this 
 game can definately stand on its own. Although a gears of war vibe of gameplay is undeniable, it 
 still feels pretty fresh and new and very fun at that. The Controls were very easy to get used 
 to, although complicated, it seems like there was good attention paid to streamlining input to 
 let you keep your attention on the game. Online play is interestingly different - including AI 
 enemies and a changing variety of missions that are all entertaining given your approach to completing 
 them. However the Online Mode is where my biggest gripes are. After spending all that time upgrading 
 your weapons and buying new gear in the campaign mode - you cant use them or show them off in online 
 play! This is a big issue that takes a lot of attention and replay value off of the Online Mode 
 and makes it quicky become very repetitive. It seems like it would be more entertaining to spend 
 time replaying the campaign on a harder difficulty with someone online just to max out all of your 
 weapons.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, with some influence from other good games, but so what? It's still 
 damn fun to play, and its just downright entertaining plain and simple... isn't that what it's all 
 about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lBravolASTALKER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Army of Two...
  I've always had a thing for games which incorporate Co-Operative play (even games I find mediocre 
 at best, Halo 2 and 3 for example) , and I've always dreamt of a game that would take Co-Op play 
 further than Gears of War did, even Left 4 Dead (which will be hitting Stores and Steam this Summer) 
 doesn't look like it will take Co-Operative play as seriously as Army of Two does.
  
  Despite the fact that I enjoy this game immensely and believe firmly that anyone who didn't enjoy 
 this game either had no friends or had no taste in games, I'd be lying if I said this game was 
 perfect, it isn't.
  It is however an incredible experience, especially when you've got a friend online, or a brother/sister 
 at home with nothing else to do.
  Army of Two plays like Gears of War in a sense, however the main difference being that while you 
 can crouch behind cover in Army of Two, you can't 'attach' yourself to it like in Gears of War.
 
  While this may at times be a problem, it means that if you're behind a pillar with an enemy charging 
 at your rear, you can maneuver behind the pillar fairly easily instead of moving behind it and 
 getting stuck on one side of the pillar.
  
  Army of Two uses a system called 'Aggro', for the uninitiated Aggro dictates who is doing the most 
 damage, with a meter swinging one player's way if he/she is doing more damage.
  Aggro is also swung one players way if he/she has the bigger, flashier gun, for example if you 
 have a diamond-studded, gold plated AK-47, enemies will aim for you because let's face it, who's 
 seen a gold firearm in a warzone? Chances are those guys firing at you haven't either.
  
  Aggro doesn't just give the 'Rambo' an advantage, Aggro can be used to the other players advantage 
 as well, the more aggro the other player has, the less likely it is your enemies will fire at your 
 partner, giving him/her the oppertunity to sneak around and crack some heads.
  The Single-Player is a good way to get into this great game, but the general advice is 'always 
 play with a friend', and you'd better believe that, because while your AI buddy isn't a total dumbf*ck 
 he's not too bright either, sure he's efficient and, at times, capable of taking on an entire army 
 and winning, he has issues when you're down, he might drag you nearly a kilometre away to where 
 it percieves as 'safe ground' or he might decide to heal you on the spot with terrorists capping 
 your tender, armoured asses only ten metres away.
  
  Some of the Co-Op maneuvers are useful but others feel plain unnecessary, like the 'swap weapon' 
 ability, most of the time you won't need to do that at all unless you either want to see what firing 
 your partner's gun is like, or if you decide halfway through a firefight you made the wrong choice 
 in gun, you don't get any extra ammunition and when playing with your AI buddy... Yeah...
  
  The single-player campaign is also over fairly quickly, and while you'll get a fair enough 
 of fun in that, you won't feel too much of an incentive to do it again.
  Leaving you with the multiplayer...
  
  Multiplayer is without a shadow of a doubt the highlight 
 of the game, tfour players (two teams of two) go head to head (or not) in 3 different modes of 
 play, each consisting of rescuing POWs, blowing up **** and in general, gaining more cash than 
 your opponents.
  There are only 3 modes and a half dozen or more maps but EA has plans to add more maps and modes 
 in future, in that alone my respect for EA has increased to 'almost cool'.
  However only a couple of maps and modes won't keep many players busy for too long.
  Still Multiplayer 
 is an enjoyable experience and shouldn't be missed at all.
  
  Overall AOT is an incredible Co-Operative game, and if you've got an itching in your belly to take 
 on armies with you, your weapon and your best friend, this is definitely a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jwoo2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a awesome game. Graphics are great, game-play is smooth, even though sometimes the 
 computer AI can piss you off. Although this game is not as good as COD4 or its predecessor GOW, 
 it is a really enjoyable game for all you shooter fans. One criticism I have is the online. I think 
 it was a mistake to make it only 2v2. A good solution would have been to make it a 2v2v2v2 or something 
 like that, even though it may have created some problems. The 2v2 style closes so many doors, which 
 is why I gave it a 8.5 instead of 9.0. Overall great game, a must play.
  
  dsajofjdksah fkdashfgkj ljdashgkl hweraiuf hdsiahfk ldsahjfklj hklfldhsakl hfkldashf kldhsaklf 
 hdsalkfh kldashklf hsdkalh fjkldsahf kljdashf ildsabnvi ehnilsa ghrnwIAS LHDFILASD N FKSADsf NKLFDS 
 AFKDSAHFK LDSA HKLFJ HASDFfdk ask jdfhaskfhk skdajhfkdjsah fkdsah fk kdhjklfa shfkldsahak hkh hdfjksahjfkl 
 hdjsfa khsda kh k hskfah kjashk kh aksjjhf jkhfsdadkj hkjh ksdh kdsah kfdsahf ksadhf ksdahj fksdah 
 fk hjkf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  For the last few years it seemed the future of multiplayer gaming would be changed forever. Gone, 
 it seemed, were the days of "on the couch" multiplayer with friends. The days of split screen multiplayer 
 personified by such games as Goldeneye seemed to be at an end. Online multiplayer, first made popular 
 by PC gaming and taken to new heights given the popularity of Xbox Live, ended the need to have 
 friends over for multiplayer action. Relative anonymity and lack of real contact with people seemed 
 to be the name of the game. Pleasantly however, the last year or so has brought a resurgence in 
 what it means to have "multiplayer". The general popularity of the Nintendo Wii (a console that 
 relies heavily on its group oriented multiplayer) , as well as the co-op epic that was Gears of 
 War have brought back the good old days.
  
  With the release of Army of Two, now is the perfect time to get over that anti-social stint and 
 call up an old gaming buddy
  
  Army of Two is a third person shooter that attempts to take the co-op partner concept to a whole 
 new level. In Army of Two, you play one of two former US Rangers turned mercenaries or Private 
 Military Contractors (PMC? MGS4.. anyone?) . The plot is borderline silly and sadly takes itself 
 too seriously. You will have more fun if you ignore it entirely and take the game for what it is. 
 The bread and of this game is in its gameplay not the storyline, though there's enough twists, 
 turns and political machinations that you at least have some excuse to shoot things (like you EVER 
 need one) . 
  
  Gameplay works out very similarly to the popular Gears of War. Running and gunning is often an 
 exercise in finding cover and laying down suppression fire. The latter is very important in the 
 game actually, as laying down suppressive fire draws the enemy "agro" (MMO players.. yes, same 
 meaning) and allows you or your partner the opportunity to flank targets. Controls are fairly intuitive; 
 moving, shooting and firing from cover all feel natural. The only fluke in the controls seems to 
 be the close up melee (which was very heavily featured in the Army of Two preview media) . You use 
 the same trigger to fire your weapon to melee a close target, unfortunately sometimes the game 
 assumes your trying to shoot the target behind him and fires off rounds instead of performing one 
 of the quick and devastating melee attacks at your disposal. 
  
  The majority of the game is very action oriented and the shooting rarely stops. The enemy AI is 
 a paradigm in itself; sometimes it does wonders, and enemies seek cover and support each other 
 all the while throwing grenades to flush you out, but sometimes (on some levels more often) they 
 can be mindless drones that seem to run at you and past you waiting to get blown away. At the normal 
 difficulty they do provide a decent challenge to you and your partner, and at the higher difficulty 
 they can require some strong teamwork to overcome by virtue of their numbers and startling accuracy.
 
  
  You are of course given the requisite stockpile of modern weapons and equipment to choose from 
 and a light weapons upgrade and customization option is available. The way the game is paced however, 
 you often will end up sticking to a favorite combination and playing the game with it. The weapons 
 and upgrades are a blessing and annoyance. On one hand they do feel decent and generally fit in 
 with the "arcade" feel of the game, on the other hand the sheer unrealism of the guns detract from 
 the game.
  
  Graphics are on par with a modern next-gen title and have their moments of lackluster and shine. 
 Models and textures are generally good, especially the player models. Environment textures and 
 modeling can suffer from blandness from time to time, it doesn't give the same sense of awe or 
 scale as Gears of War but it's not shabby by any means. Physics and interaction is decent, with 
 semi-destructible objects and the requisite exploding barrel or two. 
  
  While Army of Two does give you an AI partner should you choose to play solo, the game just isn't 
 the same with it. The AI does a decent job of taking care of itself and following the rudimentary 
 squad controls, but makes no mistake, this is a game best served for two. 
  
  In the end Army of Two is a great way to start the lineup of titles this year. If you're looking 
 for the next Rainbow Six or realistic tactical shooter then look elsewhere. Army of Two is a purely 
 arcade affair. A good blend of action, gameplay and partner dynamics make the game a great choice 
 for some good co-op fun. It's a decent title by itself played solo, but its co-op focus help to 
 make it shine just a little brighter. So now would be a good time to make friends 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABLO2boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. i loved every bit of the game i played, seeing as i played it with my brother, 
 its really fun if you have a second player with you. But the AI on the second player when your 
 alone is pretty darn good too!. And i thought it was a pretty difficult game too, i mean there 
 were a few hard parts in the game where you just surrounded by enemy's. And the aggro system they 
 had in the game made the game really fun to play too, one guy with a huge gun just firing as the 
 other player goes around to flank the position and take out enemy's, thats team work right there!!. 
 The customization of the guns in the game was good to, you could customize ALL the guns in the 
 game, all exept the most powerful guns, like the Mini-gun and the grenade launcher, and you can 
 Pimp out all the guns! making them look really cool, though some of them look kind of stupid when 
 you pimp them out, like the MP5, looks like someone dropped it in mud or something. The only thing 
 wrong with it that i could see was it was entirely way to short for me, after i finished the game 
 i still wanted to play some more, it was just plain fun!. I reccomend this game for whoever wants 
 a good, solid two player game, that revolves around you, and the other player, not some... random 
 person they give you that looks like no one can see, like in other co-op games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was something I thought was a good idea. After playing it, I was completely wrong that 
 this game is worth buying. It feels like a dead-head pointless shooter with al ot of pointless 
 cursing. This game uses the F word more than people I work with, and that says a lot. The game 
 starts with a rather boring way to explain how to play, in a not fun to learn tutorial. Then it 
 throws you in a run and gun, get shot up and not die story mode. The ideas that are used are used 
 better in the games that it copied off the ideas. The co-op is alright if you have never played 
 Gears of War or Halo 3 online before. The shooting at point-blank range and having the human type 
 Al-Quida (how ever it is spelled) not die, or fall like you are playing Resistance (ps3) lifeless 
 gore.... with sub-par sound effects... this game is for you. I am very sad to say I spent $60 on 
 this and will trade it in for a loss. RENT THIS 1st. please. If you can actually say that this 
 game is worth it, then please tell me what I am missing.... message me please... I might give it 
 another chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuckInParadise
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out in a quick tutorial, like every war game has, and explains some basic rules. 
 Pretty much the main thing is Aggro, which is basically how much enemies pay attention to you. 
 Most of you know what it is, so Ill skip to the gameplay. Your partner AI is pretty intelligent, 
 although they do nothing to special. Sometimes when youre wounded and your teammate will have to 
 drag you to a safe spot and heal you, theyll simply continually try to heal you where ever you 
 got wounded. So youll have to somehow elimate all the enemies and save yourself. Melee attacking 
 enemies is hard, as the same button for shooting is the melee button, so most of the time youll 
 just end up shooting them from close range. The characters are nice looking, but its nothing special. 
 A lot of animations dont work out, so youll see an explosive floating near your character for a 
 second or two before you actually take it out and set it. This wouldnt be that much of a problem, 
 but it seems to happen if youre not lined up exactly with whatever youre trying to do. Switching 
 from your primary weapon to your secondary weapon, your primary weapon seems to fuse with your 
 character, so the gun will be sticking out of their chest. When you run out of ammo, you wont automatically 
 change guns, which isnt that annoying at first, but if youre in a firefight having to hold LB then 
 select your weapon and find one that has ammo does get rather frustrating. There is ok customization, 
 the gear is pretty much just light, medium or heavy, which doesnt seem to have much of an impact 
 other than your character is different. Theres a lot of masks that you can buy, but theyre really 
 just different colors, and they do nothing. There is a nice selection of guns, with some nice attachments, 
 but there seems to be absolutely no scopes or any other type of color change than "pimp". It changes 
 any gun pretty much into a golden gun with diamonds, rubies etc. Even the sniper rifles have no 
 other available scopes, that is you wont really be sniping unless youre parachuting. The loading 
 times are a little on the long side, and there are quite a few, so going through the menu or anything 
 takes awhile. The single player is not a strong point, then again there are games that have terrible 
 single players and are still great multiplayers. Unfortunately, this is not that game. I have a 
 rather weak WIFI, which would contribute to a bad online experience, but I somehow am able to play 
 CoD 4 just fine online. So theres ranked and unraked matches, and it pretty much just throws you 
 into a match. It is a quick match, but theres no lobby or anything. It will randomly give you a 
 character, which can range from very cool looking to rather ugly. It seems that the main weapon 
 everyone has is the AK-47, no matter what game type youre playing. I assume coop play would have 
 been better, although I dont see how much more exciting it can be. It has plenty of flaws, but 
 there is some fun to it, so give it a rent if you planned on buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakthelion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Ive seen alot of reviews giving it a 9 or 10 and ove also seen them giving it a 1 or 2. I think 
 this review will sum it all up.
  
  Ive beaten the game on every difficulty, bought and played with every gun, played with AI and a 
 co-op partner, I have every acheivment aswell. So Ive thourghly played the game through about 5 
 times.
  
  The starting is a litte slow or at least the first 2 missions. Then it picks up moving throught 
 the game it gets better and better until you beat it (which sadly wont take to long) . The game 
 has 6 missions all of which are moderatly long, they have small side missions within them (ex: 
 Shoot down a helicopter for $5000) and they all satisfied me the first time around.
  
  The games AI is fantastic although can sometimes be annoying. Your team mate (If an AI) will follow 
 your exacat commands and will never beat the level for you (unless you want him to) i never got 
 frustrated with it and it never botherd me that it would occasionally shoot me in the back. but 
 it was mostly my fault anyways.
  
  Taking cover is much like Gears Of War. although if youve played gears of war as aviddly as i have 
 you will start with problems because instead of actully getting behind cover (like sticking to 
 it) you simply crouch behind it. i would always jump over it by accedent and get myself killed.
 
  
  The guns are great. None to good or to bad each taking certain skills to fully master (ex: shotgun 
 is a very will rounded gun although it does not shoot fast, if you miss ur first shot it could 
 be your last) .
  
  These are just some of the ups and downs of the game. The game is probably one of my favorites 
 right now but if you dont wanna play it... then dont. Unless your an acheivment junkie like myslef 
 i doubt you will find much replay value in the game. If you find its getting to boring then up 
 the difficulty. easy is easy, medium is still easy and hard is pretty easy as well (although you 
 take damage much faster) .
  
  In the end the game is a total mixture of COD 4, Gears Of War and just about all of Tom Clancys 
 games. If you like any of these there genre of games youll love this one
  
  oh... if ur playing with a friend... make sure hes experianced at shooter games or else your gonna 
 be in for a long wait dragging him through the level. Quiet simply. its Army Of Two not Army of 
 You +1.
  
  8.5 from me
  
  - Ace
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fearless_BadAss
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this game but after having it for less than a week and beating 
 it twice already, I have to say that I have definitely gotten my money's worth.
  
  If you are looking for realism then look elsewhere cause this game has practically none. That being 
 said it was still incredibly fun to play and replay, Probably the most impressive thing is that 
 the story was actually half way decent. Dare I say that I was even compelled to play more because 
 of it.
  
  Don't be scared about any of the AI issues you have heard. So far I haven't had a problem. On the 
 rare occasion that your AI partner does get stuck all you gotta do is switch his orders for half 
 a second and he goes back to being a fairly decent teammate. However, I am very tolerable of such 
 things.
  
  The only issues I have with the game is that the upgrade system wasn't as awesome as I initially 
 thought it would be, though playing with a "pimped out" gun is rather fun. I was thinking there 
 would be more variety and that all the guns would have an equal balance with one not being better 
 than another but that just isn't true.
  
  Anyway, I also found the humor to be entertaining. In fact, I would say that overall this game 
 is one of those pleasant surprises you get every once in awhile, and after only a few levels you 
 feel the game grow on you as you enjoy the never ending fun this game has to offer.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTalkative_Mime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game where you actually have to strategize with your partner. I played through 
 on all three difficulties, and each time I realized I was telling my partner to flank, to shoot, 
 to cover me, to get a riot shield and was doing it without even thinking about it. The game is 
 definitely what it says it is... Co-Op. It is so much more fun if you get your Xbox Live buddies 
 to play it with you... The game offers lots of customization in your weapons and gear. It is a 
 5-10 hour game based on what difficulty
  
  Recruit - 5 hrs.
  
  Contractor - 7 hrs.
  
  Professional- 10 hrs.
  
  I personally love the multiplayer. There is 3 game modes.
  
 
  
  Warzone - Warzone is basically just kill who you can and get side objectives
  
  Bounties - Bounties is where you and your team mate capture objectives for cash, the objectives 
 come up ever 30 seconds and after 15 minutes, whoever has the most money wins.
  
  Extraction - There is multiple hostages on the battlefield, and you have to kill the guards, take 
 the hostage to a safe point, then get the next hostage.
  
  The multiplayer is very intense. 
  
  
  The campaign is pretty short, but it is one that you 
 can play over and over without getting bored. 
  
  Overall, great game. Second best game I own next to Call Of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enyheavyhitter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  By now there has been an amass of reviews for AO2, some them good and some of them bad. AO2 is 
 a good action/shooter platform, mediocre at best. It definitely has its ups and downs but is a 
 solid play. I plan to tell you my interpretation. Let's start with some cons.
  
  Cons: First off, if your expecting a 3rd person shooter with a complex storyline with complexing 
 twists and gameplay, then your looking in the wrong direction. This game is meant to be played 
 in under 8 hours and repeatedly. If your into earning achievements and getting the most out of 
 a game, expect to play this game over and over. The game is short and straight-forward. The storyline 
 is as good as it get with minimal gameplay to support it. The environment design is lacking, missing 
 out on a lot of potential excitement for gameplay. For instance, if you're having a gunfight at 
 an oil field there such be more explosions then some explodable fuel drums. The partner AI system 
 can definitely use some work, there should be more options to communicate with your partner (such 
 as squad commands) .
  
  Pros: Now the good part. This game is somewhat of an ode to shooter platforms from the old days. 
 The game takes you globe trotting in 6 levels. The pick of weapons and upgrades are pretty good. 
 The levels are straight-forward, giving you a linear direction to the goal. There are plenty of 
 enemies to take out. The partner and enemy AI are decent to play with/against. 
  
  Overall, the game is short with some good points to make it an average game as well as a good platform. 
 There is definitely a lot of potential for any future installments in this series. I am definitely 
 looking forward for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merc117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  
  Army of Two is an ambitious title from the minds of EA Montreal about a game not having co op as 
 an add on feature but is the entire game. Army of Two delivers on the promise of co op action with 
 ur friends. That is how Army of Two must be played. On single player the partner AI is competent 
 enough to do what you ask it to but on several incidents it dragged me from cover where I was down 
 into the open and wondered why it could not heal me. 
  
  Co op is easily the best aspect of Army of Two. With a friend you can complete the 6 mission campaign 
 spanning across the globe. While you do this you get money. One of the deepest portions of Army 
 of Two is the weapon customization. The choices range from a standard grip for your assault rifle 
 or adding a shotgun and covering a gun in gold. Army of Two succeeds in what it set out to do and 
 it accomplishes that with co op moves performed throughout the game. From step up to swapping weapons 
 to co op snipe where players take out two enemies at the same time; Army of Two delivers on a very 
 well put together co op game. 
  
  The story of Army of Two is what you would find in a season of 24, full of betrayels and world 
 conflicts. The story's one catch is that it exposes the world of PMCs or Private Military Comapanies. 
 PMCs hire men and women to make war or whatever the PMC needs and the contractor receives money 
 for their services. The beginning and middle of the story flow nicely through the course of the 
 game but the ending feels a little lacking in closure. Many loose ends are not tied and it begs 
 the question of what EA montreal maybe be thinking of doing in the following years. 
  
  A new addition that was borrowed from the MMORPG genre of games is the system of AGGRO. Aggro is 
 the system of priorities. If one character is shooting the enemy the attention of the enemy is 
 shifted to that person and the player that is shooting turns red. The other character, however, 
 is invisible to enemies eyes and can move freely without being spotted. Using Aggro is essential 
 for taking down the later levels and bosses. While Aggro is not new to gaming it is certainly a 
 new way of linking the players from beginning to end by relieing on each other to grab the attention 
 of the enemy. 
  
  The graphics in Army of Two isn't pushing the 360s processing power but it gives the console a 
 good sweat. The character models for the Tyson Rios and Elliot Salem, the two mercenaries you play 
 as in the game, are the highlight of the game with reflective armor and realistic movements in-game. 
 The same can be said about the cinematics in Army of Two with NPCs looking practically amazing 
 and really enhances the experience that Army of Two delivers on. In-game enviroments and enemies 
 look similar which is a mistake for a game that spans the globe. Considering the delay of the game 
 and how poor the game looked before, there is a noticeable improvement and is much welcomed. 
 
  
  The controls in Army of Two work fairly well but take some time getting used to. Army of Two works 
 similar to Gears of War but there are noticeable gameplay differences. When in cover, you aren't 
 magnetically attatched to the cover, you can move freely and are able to blindfire depending on 
 the type of cover and the where you are in relation to the cover. You are able to perform melee 
 attcks using the Right Trigger but you also fire with the right trigger so about half the time 
 you wanna give someone a dose of melee justice you end up firing a couple rounds and the enemy 
 takes advantage of that. The length of Army of Two is a bit of an issue for people that dont like 
 short games and have no interest in co op. It spans about 5-6 hours personally on the medium setting. 
 
  
  There is a suprising multiplayer feature added to the game that is well thought out but lacking 
 in execution. Having played Army of Two multiplayer, there is alot of thought about the gametypes. 
 One has you completing objectives while competing with another 2 players trying to complete the 
 same objective but enemy AI is strewn across the map trying to stop you. The winners are the ones 
 who have the most money. This mode is well thought out and is a nice breath fresh air from the 
 standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch in games such as Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3. 
  
  Overall, I like Army of Two but its lack of length and depth and slightly wonky controls beg you 
 wanting more. If those who are still unsure after reading this whether its worth your hard earned 
 cash then rent it and see if its the game for you. If you already own a copy of Army of Two, ill 
 see you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is made for co-op play with a friend, but luckily the game works also in Single Player 
 mode. The experience is short but sweet.
  
  In Army of Two you play as a mercenary in a 2 man team working for a private military corporation. 
 These men fight in Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, China and Miami through a short but ultimately rewarding 
 and different story line: this time you are a simple mercenary instead of a noble freedom fighter 
 or something. Story starts of strong, but in the end boils down to a very typical and predictable 
 conspiracy plot. But it's the different mercenary setting of the game that drives you forward and 
 not the story itself.
  
  Graphics are good, especially in cutscenes and character models, but for some reason the environments 
 look a little too grainy. Color palette is mostly brown, which is due to the fact that most of 
 the game is played in a desert environment. 
  
  Music is orchestrated and somewhat different while still bringing memories from Gears of War. Sound 
 effects on the other hand could have used some improvements and most of all: the sound of firing 
 a gun is terrible! There's no masculine feel or kick at all in it. Voice acting and dialog works 
 well and there are some memorable one-liners throughout the game.
  
  When starting to play I strongly recommend that you forget about Gears of War: Army of Two doesn't 
 play like that. There's no specific covering system per se and it takes a while to get used to 
 the different controls. For me and my friend it took about a 3 hour worth of gameplay to really 
 get into the game.
  
  Army of Two relies on 2 different gameplay tactics: cover and Aggro. This means that your partner 
 starts to shoot behind cover growing his Aggro Meter and in this way drawing the enemies' attention 
 to himself. In the meantime you can run behind the enemies and kill them very easily. This is used 
 throughout the game and even though it gets predictable it's always rewarding to do so. For some 
 reason you can't shoot through any object excluding a glass window: even an American flag is bullet 
 proof. If there's ever a sequel I really hope that this mistake is fixed.
  
  Every time you complete objectives in the story mode you gain money which can be used to buy and 
 upgrade new weapons and also to buy new masks to wear. You get to keep all your weapons and gear 
 after you unlock them once so playing the game gets always a little easier when doing it again 
 on a higher difficulty setting for example. There are 2 difficulty settings to choose from: Recruit 
 and Contractor, but after finishing the game once you unlock a harder Professional mode. All of 
 these things combined will make you want to play the game multiple times with different friends 
 and using different difficulty settings.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints and only checkpoints which in a few occasions are way too far between 
 one another. Fortunately this happen only 3 or 4 times in the 6 or 7 hour experience.
  
  Enemies can really be a pain in the ass. Their movement is usually so unpredictable that it's hard 
 to hit a moving target. AI is also good so they always use cover and even know how to change their 
 position while staying behind cover. After dying they seem to lose their mass and stamina just 
 like in Gears of War and this is always a weird thing to notice.
  
  There's of course also versus multiplayer and all of the game modes are somewhat objective based. 
 This is a good thing, because matches are only 2 vs. 2. This number is extended by putting additional 
 enemies a. k. a bots in the game. There's some fun to be had here, but I don't think you will be 
 enjoying versus multiplayer for very long. If you're specifically looking for an online shooter 
 I suggest you play Call of Duty 4 instead.
  
  There's also 2 noticeable flaws when playing multiplayer: matches are too seldom played from start 
 to finish, because if 1 of the 4 players leave in mid-match it's game over for everybody and you 
 need to start all over again from the main menu of the game. You can also play online only with 
 player whose game is the same region as yours. This is very unusual choice and a weird thing for 
 EA to do.
  
  Ultimately Army of Two really is a great game despite its flaws and shortcomings. You probably 
 want to play the game through multiple times and the online multiplayer is worth checking out. 
 "Now go out there and kick some ass!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UbiGatewood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's put it out there! How does Army of Two stack up to Gears of War? Very darn good if 
 you ask me! Graphically, yes, Playability, uh yes, and online, well we'll get to that! Overall 
 I think any fan of the third person shooter genre will be thoroughly pleased to say the least! 
 The weapon choices and customization ability alone add a nice change of pace to genre! And who 
 wouldn't love the interaction between characters, giving "props" when it's due! Or how often have 
 you wanted to demonstrate to a partner a bonehead decision he or she has made! It's there! So to 
 ask me, and I know Gear Gods will curse and reign down their mighty frustrations upon me, coop 
 playability is one better than Gears! (I'm ducking and waiting for gunfire!) . . . well I'm still 
 here to be able to say that where Army of Two does fall short is with it's Godforsaken XBox live 
 play! I didn't know that 9 year olds could apply for internships to design servers! I mean if you 
 are able to connect and "stay connected" you are in for a very exciting game campaign or versus! 
 But I do recommend that you go to church before you attempt online play, because you will need 
 those hail marys that God allows! But if your looking for the typical run n' gun death match you 
 won't find it here. Army of Two has done something to set themselves aside from the others by giving 
 you objectives to accomplish with your partner. Rescue hostages, defend missle silo, destroy enemy 
 helicopter, assassinate target, etc. . .This makes every experience different and that's a good 
 thing right? Of course it is until the end ot the match where you realize that the only way that 
 you can continually play with someone is to set up a room yourself (after each and every match, 
 and I do mean each and every match!) or pray that they do the same! Yeah curse the blasted executive 
 who said that this would be "a really good idea!" 
  But overall I think anyone who is looking for something different to play with some friends or 
 even by themselves should definitely give Army of Two a go! It's to me a definite "must have" in 
 the library!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze11987
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  EA tread new ground with this title with a premise of 'co-op is no longer just a mode, it's the 
 game' which was a breath of fresh air for many gamers across the globe but does this really deliver 
 and prove the saying that two heads are better than one? read on to find out.
  
  As always with EA, Army Of Two in terms of graphical eye candy is superb, wether were talking about 
 its gorgeously rendered cut scenes or character models and locations. When first seeing the two 
 playable characters, instantly noticable is the pain staking attention to detail the developers 
 have put in to the character models and this ranges from the scuffs and battle worn look of their 
 body armor to the way their kit and weapons will bounce as you move through the lush and nicely 
 lit environments available. In sticking with the characters, the dialogue is witty and sharp, and 
 sometimes plain amusing. Someone at EA clearly spent some good man hours scripting the interactions 
 between the characters, even fitting in some swearing to reinforce the realistic sense without 
 just tacking it on to the point of being needless and downright ridiculous in an attempt to make 
 the company look hip like so many games i could but won't mention. The environments in the game 
 are extremely well designed both graphically and purposefully in fitting with the fix 'em and flank 
 'em style of gameplay with multiple routes to your enemies backs (on most occasions) and plenty 
 of places to hide from the withering amount of hot lead that will inevitably come your way. The 
 enemy A. I is on the smart side of the scale and do a very good job of making sure their rounds 
 hit the mark and yours don't. They will very rarely deviate from cover and will when possible, 
 fire their weapons with just an arm visible which will leave fans of run and gun style gameplay 
 out in the wind because it simply can't be played that way unless you enjoy kissing the tarmac 
 and having your own blood sprayed over the screen over and over again. The AGGRO system works well 
 in the game, very rarely failing to live up to its specific function where one player lays down 
 cover fire while the other moves in to a more favourable position in order to decimate the enemy. 
 If your playing alone, the A. I of your buddy is more than up to the task of both moving up under 
 your cover of fire, or providing it thanks to an easily available command system situated on the 
 D-pad. Although the list looks limited at a maximum of 3 movement commands consisting of 'move 
 up, hold position and return to me' you will soon find that they are more than enough to get the 
 job done without over complicating things or cluttering up your HUD. With sandbox style games becoming 
 increasingly popular, this game definently does'nt try to follow the trend. it's a stricly linear 
 affair which is annoying at times because you want to go out and explore those amazing landscapes 
 but you can rest assured that you won't get bored in the space that your in because a small army 
 of smart enemies (who are also nicely designed) will keep you occupied at every turn. As far as 
 the online goes, this is where the game stumbles slightly. You will want to make sure that your 
 teaming up with someone you actually know because relying on a stranger to fight your battles with 
 you will quickly see the game degenerate in to nothing short of chaos. Players will rarely comply 
 with tactical solutions you voice for the good of the team and most will simply attempt to run 
 and gun through the scenario resulting in any player who is playing the game properly having to 
 drag the downed player to cover and heal them only having to repeat the process again 30 seconds 
 later which brings me to my first real problem with the game. No system link. This makes it actually 
 impossible to team up with anyone in the immediate area that lacks xbox live unless you want to 
 play split-screen, but half a screen to yourself is very annoying even when playing it on a 42" 
 HD television, which makes me think that the link between who develops the game and the inability 
 to play the game as it should be played, without an xbox live subscription is no coincidence seeing 
 as EA are one of Microsofts biggest contributors of titles for the Xbox 360. It just reeks of a 
 scam to up the number of people subscribing to Live. Although i'v been on Live for a number of 
 years now, people like my brother that work unsociable hours simply don't find the time to game, 
 which defeats the purpose of having Live. probably the most well done part of the game is the weapons 
 dealer function which gives you a huge selection of arms to fill your primary, secondary and special 
 weapon slots. The money earned by completing objectives in the game is spent here buying and upgrading 
 weapons which is expansive and not just tacked on, which actually makes a huge difference on your 
 performance on the battle field with custom barrels to improve accuracy and even a shield mounted 
 on the end of the weapon to protect the user, although the ability to 'Pimp' your weapon, which 
 turns the weapon in to a gold plated, jewel studded gangsta wall decoration is ridiculous and slightly 
 childish, not to mention a waste of ten grand. All in all, its a fun, fast paced, albeit linear 
 and slightly short shooter which im confident will give any shooter fan a nice week of diversion 
 that they will enjoy and have you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  
  Games are made for a variety of specific target audiences these days. Girls, women, senior citizens: 
 everybody's got a game made specifically for them. And if you're not a part of that target audience, 
 you're bound to 'not get it' and move on to another game. Army of Two is pretty much the same deal. 
 It's made for a specific target audience and it you're not part of that demographic, keep that 
 money in your pocket. 
  Specifically: if you're not a mildly confused teenager with pimples and hormones fighting for the 
 light of day, steer clear of this game.
  
  Army of Two is a pretty uneventful carbon copy of Gears of War. Instead of improving on the two 
 year old original, however, the developers managed to make this game far less of a product.
  
  The story and characters are, as often noted, close to non-existant and just barely an excuse 
 to string the abundant violence together. Story-telling is at an all-time low, with uninspiring 
 level-design, unlikeable characters, confusing cut-scenes and horrible pacing.
  
  The game mechanics are not nearly as thrilling as the gritty violence that was Gears of War. In 
 GoW, your guns felt real, bullets felt real and cover was a good, good thing. In Army of Two, combat 
 just doesn't grab jou. Guns feel flimsy, cover only works half of the time, the enemy AI is horrible 
 and death is a thing from the past. The game tries to make up for shoddy combat balancing by throwing 
 more AI opponents at you, which makes things even worse. The most thrilling challange you'll find 
 is manouvering through the monotonous levels with the clunky controls and your character taking 
 up about 25% of the screen real-estate.
  
  Like a bad movie pimped in editting, Army of Two received some tacked on gameplay elements that 
 feel, well, tacked on. Back-to-back, duo sniping, parachuting... Their respective impact on pacing 
 and credibility hurt the game more than what's added to gameplay value.
  
  In all, this game was a waste of money and likely to start catching dust real soon while I give 
 GoW one more spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurkeySwammish
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this short and sweet. I've haven't seen co-op of this calibur... ever! Just assisting 
 your partner by ripping down doors, swapping weapons, boosting each other up to ledges, high fives 
 and headbutts, EA Montreal has really given these two BAMFs true personality! The use of the environment 
 is real buttery. I can finally say I've ripped a door off a car and deflected bullets with it. 
 If they can make a Hitman movie reach Hollywood then they would be a fool not to make a 5 star 
 film from this idea. The game-play is phenomenal. I love being able to slide into a barrier. I 
 do the same thing playing Paintball in real-life. The fighting technique is perfect for urban combat 
 such as this. I'm already waiting for a sequel. I will say its a tad bit too short, the hovercraft 
 gets old fast, and the sniper rifle engine needs a little tweaking. Perhaps a Steady Aim? Overall, 
 NICE JOB CANUCKS @ EA Montreal, I salute you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  It's been delayed, multiple times. It's been edited, shined up, all that crap. But now it's out, 
 and with all the hype that it's gotta live up to, does Army of Two deliver?
  
  Gameplay: The game plays pretty well. The enemy AI is usually good, but it does have flaws - you 
 may encounter an enemy who's more focused on running around upon a table that shooting you. But 
 like I said, it's usually good. The partner AI can get aggravating, and sometimes it feels like 
 he's waiting on you for orders, and you want him to just go and be useful.
  The cover system is very much like that of Kane & Lynch, you just walk to the object and you, rather 
 than stick your back to it, just stand staring at it, but whenever shoot, your character either 
 pulls out to shoot or blind fires, depending on if you move the left stick or not. And once you've 
 come out of cover, you'll be stuck in the middle of nowhere with bullets flying to you at all angles. 
 So stick to cover! 
  The GPS system is activated by pressing BACK, and the screen turns blue, with objectives, paths 
 and co-op spots shining in a different colour. That brings me onto the co-op spots - back to back 
 and step jump are tactics only available at certain points in the game, and cannot be performed 
 anywhere else. However, you can perform co-op snipe, weapon swaps, and friendly or aggressive interactions 
 with each other at will.
  The AGGRO system is the main tactic of the game - you know it... one guy gets all the attention 
 and the other sneaks about, and it works fine. Once one person has full attention, you can optionally 
 enter overkill mode, by pressing A. In overkill, the soldier with the attention's attacks are more 
 lethal, with the other guy becoming practically invisible. This helps when you've got the tough 
 guys coming for you, and they can only be killed from behind. AGGRO is more easy to gain if your 
 guns are customised to be deadlier than before, and 'Pimping your Rifles' is very in-depth, and 
 it gives you the opportunity to look at your mini-arsenal and say... "Yeah... I'm so kickass".
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, nuff said. Cutscenes are amazing, and in-game graphics are obviously 
 not as good, but they feature great character models. Explosions are a let-down, and the air-strikes... 
 I mean, air strike, barely seems to have an infernous aftermath.
  
  Sound: Guns and choppers are great, and listening to Salem or Rios' air guitar taunt is worth going 
 back on guitar hero for. "Doodoododilididilididee!"
  
  Plotline/Tilt (May contain spoilers) :
  In 1993, the game starts, leave the Army for the SSC, a 
 private military contractor, along with your Lieutenant, Richard Dalton. And it seems that your 
 luck is unbelieveably high - just as soon as you join the SSC, the company expands into the biggest 
 PMC in the world, and the Army's squadrons are being constantly ambushed. Salem doesn't care, and 
 just loves the cash, whereas Rios is concerned and sure that something's not right...
  Although it is very, very short (you can finish it in a day) , the storyline is intense, and as 
 it captures your attention, you know the only way to find the truth is to keep on playing.
  
  Ok, here's the ratings.
  Gameplay - 8/10; it gets challenging, and you'll enjoy speaking 
 tactical to your mates on co-op.
  Graphics - 8/10; fantastic in cutscenes, and great in gameplay. Explosions let it down.
  Sound 
 - 9/10; no noticeable problems, alot of times to say "Wow! That sounded sick!"
  Plotline/Tilt: 7/10; enticing plot, just too short.
  
  Conclusion:
  It's very hard to decide 
 whether I should recommend this game or not. It's great for the hours you'll get out of it, maybe 
 more if you wanna play it again, but I'd say the best options are:
  
  Buy it if you're often with your mates (playing the xbox) .
  Rent it if you want a quick blast 
 with a friend.
  
  Notes:
  Unfortunately, I cannot give a verdict to those for whom Xbox Live is the deciding factor, but 
 I can recommend following the guidelines above if you don't have XBL, or you're tempted otherwise.
 
  
  The rating is based on buying it only - as for renting, you have nothing to lose, so go ahead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukusgetts
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  army of 2 is a realy great 3rd person shooter it has great graphics which look alot like gears 
 of war. Realy fast paced and exiting great campaign and multiplayer 2v2 with added bots. The multiplayer 
 makes this game great it is based on money and you have to complete missions such as assassinating 
 a computer controlled boss which you get money for . whoever at the end of the game has the most 
 money wins. Some people say that the single player life is short i dont think this because you can 
 buy upgrades for guns and armor splitscreen and online coopi have this game its been out for 3 
 days and half way through my second campaign this is good for me as i usually complete it once 
 then leave it. 3 diffrent skill levels novice, contractor (medium) and proffesional even novice 
 isnt that easy ive completed it on contractor ansd the last few levels are realy hard without a 
 freind (coop) now trying on novice by myself and this is easy compared to contractor but not easy 
 compared to games such as cod 4 on easy. all together i think this is a great game and worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyo92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  army of two is a good game i have spent many hours playing it online and offline with either the 
 computer partner or a human partner i like the way that it is not actually the army you are in 
 but a special forces team who do missions that they are assigned for money the aim of the game 
 online is to complete minor objectives and kill the opposition in order to get the most money for 
 your team in the campaign and online you can use two man tactics to help each other out such as 
 step jump and coop snipe and riot shield also in the campaign there is certian parts where you 
 go back to back with your partner and eliminate the terrorists who are attacking you from all sides 
 in the campaign and online again if your partner is injured you will have to go over to him and 
 heal him if you dont get there quick enough the first time online you can revive yourself but i 
 takes ten thousand dollars away from you if you dont get there quick enough in the campaign your 
 partner will eventually die and you will fail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharrky
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this is a good game; but its no COD or Halo. The co-op story mode is really good and anyone 
 who likes intense, action packed shooters should at least rent it, because it is fun; especially 
 with another person. The AI is decent enough, but no substitute for a real partner. The aggro feature 
 is excellent; it really is quite thrilling to go into overkill and be invincible for a short amount 
 of time, but a problem with this is that most of the enemies are dead before you can go into overkill 
 usually. It also means there is a tangible link between the two players, which is essential for 
 any co-op shooter. The vehicular sections in the game are also very good and well thought out; 
 it would have been nice to have a level with the car that is seen in multiplayer aswell as the 
 hovercraft.
  Unfortunately that is where the positives end. The story seems so conceited it lets down the gameplay. 
 Not only that but the time jumps which happen between each level mean the game lacks any continuity. 
 Cutscenes are used too frequently also.
  Then we move onto the multiplayer, which would be brilliant; were it not unplayable due to lag. 
 The level design and objectives seem great; but it is impossible to kill anyone unless melee is 
 used.
  In conclusion this is definitely worth a rent; as it will give you 5ish hours of good story mode; 
 there are few game moments more satisfied than meleeing someone in overkill which picks them up 
 by the throat and hurls them fully 6 feet in slow motion. But the game is let down by the story 
 and the multiplayer severely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atljindo
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  To start off I was excited and had high hopes for this game. Particularly its coop feature. I think 
 it was cute how critic reviews prerelease have been so vague and misinformed, as well as the lagged 
 reviews following the actual release.
  
  Army of Two has an excellent game concept which had tons of potential. However this is all ruined 
 by the fact that; the single player takes all of maybe 8 hours in professional difficulty with 
 an AI partner. I can't help but point out the idea of the "GPS" did EA hire some down syndrome 
 wheelchair baby to come up with this idea. It sucks. The replay value of this is shot, unless your 
 one that enjoys completing your achievements. The multiplayer is complete trash. Once you get over 
 the sluggish movements, the drop in fps, a half ass'd purcashing system, as well as the chaotic 
 overkill in variables it's minorly entertaining. However not on a competitive level, it's more 
 like trying to force square blocks into round holes.
  
  I'm wondering if the release delay was only to incite hype on a poorly developed game.
  
  However 
 I should of expected this from EA. A company who produces quantities of terrible games, then drops 
 support on them. Go back to making sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash1521
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been watching the previews and movies and the game looked great. When I got it though it 
 wasnt all I thought it would be. Dont get me wrong its a great game, one of my favorites but it 
 could have had just a few more tweaks in it like length wise and aiming wise. I still think it 
 is one o the better shooting games out right now but like I said before, its not Call of Duty 4 
 which is a very hard game to beat though. Online could have also been better but the online co-op 
 makes up. If you have a friend who loves shooters and is actualy good at them then this would be 
 a great game to use co-op with them and have fun killing terrorist. All in all I say its worth 
 the 60 bucks because I can see my self waiting for a new game later and popping this one in just 
 for the hell of it. Just make sure you dont leave your partner during the game because you will 
 not last that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LqDcRsS
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is definitely lacking, what happened to all the hype. It would be nice if you could 
 turn off the CPU helper. Are you expected to know where exactly you're shooting at? When the AI 
 helper was not in the way, I still had a hard time seeing the cross-hairs, especially when taking 
 cover. Using the LEFT BUMPER and the DIRECTIONAL PAD in order to switch weapons is cumbersome. 
 Ever heard of Gears of War, they implemented a much better system for swapping weapons on the fly. 
 I am not a fan of the AGGRO bar either. Rainbow Six's AI seems to handle aggro better then Army 
 of Two and RS is without the AGGRO bar.
  
  Army of Two seems like "The Club" with a partner and a decent story. Suppose I can always trade 
 Army of Two for Las Vegas 2 when it is out.
  
  Has anyone else had trouble getting the weapons after beating the game. Are you not allowed to 
 start over with the weapons that you unlocked from the previous game?????????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  It's funny to see some crappy reviews on this game....
  
  What are you expecting?
  
  This game is actually really good - and I'm pretty picky. If you're an average gamer and you're 
 looking for a good game, I highly recommend this one. It's a lot of fun. My first recommendation 
 is to find a buddy and play online - doing so makes this game a friggen' blast. I played with a 
 good friend last night and it is an awsome (maybe of the better) to play online.
  
  That being said, the single player campaign is just right. It's pretty hard but not in a bad way. 
 The aspect I like the most is the way the saving/checkpoint system works. If you die your AI partner 
 will revive you. Unless you both die, you can pick up right where you left off. If you DO both 
 die, the save spot is usually pretty close to the area where you died.
  
  This game is straight up, a lot of fun. Give it about 4 hours to really get into. Once you do, 
 you WILL like it. Like I said, I'm pretty critcal of games and this one is solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I was watching this game for about three months, waiting for the day it released, it was well worth 
 the wait. My friend and i rushed out of school, went home, grabbed our wallets and headed to target. 
 When we both bought our copies i sped home, and slapped that baby in my XBox. Immediately the "awesome" 
 effect took its grasp on me as the main menu featuring salem and rios in their war tattered body 
 armor and badass face masks. I went to campaign, created a private co-op match and my friend and 
 i began the beautiful and addicting journey. You are at first thrust into a training simulation 
 that you and your partner embark on. You are assigned one of the two character, either the smart-ass 
 money-hungry salem, or the massive deep-thought muscle bound rios. As you progress through the 
 training you begin to get a feel for the unique controls, which have about a 10-20 minute learning 
 curve. You learn about the aggro system which allows you to draw enemy fire to yourself as your 
 patner runs behind and skullbashes them, or vice-versa. You also learn the art of saving your partners 
 butt when they are shot one two many times. This unique experience allows you to drag your partner 
 to a safer place while he provides some cover fire while you fire using one hand. Once you get 
 your partner to safety you are able to heal him so he can kick some more ass. The first taste of 
 real action is in mogadishu (more familiarly known from Black Hawk Down) where you are to meet 
 up with a special forces sniper to help take out a warlord. As the story progresses, with the many 
 plot twists and supsenseful and beautiful cutscenes that keep you wanting more, you become more 
 involved with the story. I do not understand those who think this game was a complete flop, but 
 i do realise that the game is only enjoyed to its full potential if you are able to play multiplayer 
 with someone you know, so as to be able to communicate better and strategise. The single player 
 is missing that certain something that makes the game great, but you arent stuck with the typcial 
 half retarded AI. The AI in this game is actrually pretty smart, they actually drag your bleeding 
 body to a smart place to heal you (most of the time) . The game on recruit posed as a challenge 
 in itself and required good team work. The XBox achievements are actually rather hard to achieve 
 if you arent trying to be a gamerscore whore (cough) . The multiplayer is pretty great, but it lacks 
 the death match and party compatability that would make it that much better, but its the single 
 player that i truly love. I strongly strongly recommend this game. 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DullBozer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The best move EA made with Army of two is to 1- Not released a demo and 2- distribute their review 
 copies late to make sure few reviews make it by the release date and hope to sell as many as possible 
 before people caught on. Il be brief because this game is not worth 30 minutes of my time and as 
 i already wasted many precious minutes trying this game i want to cut my losses now. Simply put 
 the gameplay is just wrong, it plays like a first gen Xbox or PS2 game that got rushed to meet 
 the deadline. The graphics are subpar at best and the constant interuptions during gameplay for 
 those anoying yet short cutscenes are just aweful. I have not seen such bad AI in a long time, 
 the kind you can expect from a Movie Game such as FF4 . The overall lack quality of the game is 
 amazing. This is not even worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Depresso
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I have bought this game on friday with high expectation for something that could take me away from 
 Gears of War. I found it unecessarily complicated
  and unlike gears it takes some learning to. Online is ATROCIOUS. Lagging is not the word, on the 
 versus mode is completely unplayable. I would get to the screen and not be able to move at all 
 only for 10 seconds later to receive the error message and be thrown back to the menu screen. What 
 is that ?
  A lot of online mates I play gears with had bought this, the day after the we're all back playing 
 gears. The money prize gimmick, is just that, in fact the whole thing lacks atmosphere and is graphically 
 uninmpressive. I know this game is heavily advertised in this site so the review might take a while 
 to come out. Needless to say, this game lasted less then 24 hrs in my house, it was sold in a hurry 
 on Saturday afternoon. I know now that if it's more Gears of war I want I will have to wait for 
 Gears 2. I might try Dark Sector, at least it doesn't hide the fact it steals the gameplay from 
 Gears down to the same buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid5554444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very good campaign and is very fun for you and your friend to play whether it be 
 via online coop or offline splitscreen. The actual multiplayer mode outside of the campaign is 
 sub par but the amazing campaign and loads of customisable weapons is what makes this game one 
 that is buyable. The game alltogater takes about 6 hours to complete on normal difficulty but sence 
 for every objective you get money to upgrade weapons and armor it keeps you coming back for more. 
 Online you get to run around with a partner and complete random tasks while trying to beat out 
 the other pair you are playing against. Pro's: Great fun with a friend, progressive upgrade system 
 makes the game much more fun to replay, beautiful graphics. Con's: Multiplayer is not very consistive, 
 campaign is too short, there are a few bugs that are here and there that need to be worked out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  i think every body who likes run and gun with a story will like this games a third person action 
 adventure game Unlike other co-op games Army of Two throws gamers into hot spots ripped from current 
 day headlines where they will utilize unique two-man strategies one man is not enough, it will 
 take an army of two to fight through war, political turmoil and a conspiracy so vast it threatens 
 the entire world. Players can use special co-op features to complete their paid missions including 
 the new and unique Aggro feature that ensures their partner goes unnoticed when approaching enemies. 
 Dependent on the intensity of their gun fire, distance, line of sight and type of weapon, players 
 can put the enemy's attention on one player while the other plans a sneak attack to take them  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flairlend_l337
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game and then seen the first trailer I knew right there and then 
 that this would be a great game and I was right. As soon as you put the disc in and you begin, 
 you get the sense that they put a lot of time and effort into this. The menus look great as they 
 rotate Rios and Salem. The cinematics look absolutely amazing and they took my breath away and 
 even made me say "wow" and that's a hard thing to do. The in game graphics are just as amazing 
 as the cinematics. The game play is great and even though it takes a little bit to get used to 
 the controls, once you get them down the game begins to get fun. Sometimes however you're PAI or 
 partner AI can be frustrating with the commands you give him, such as you say to give cover fire 
 and the odd time he stands in the way off bullets even after you throw him in defensive mode. This 
 however is cured by actually playing with another human. Another thing I wasn't too happy about 
 was the length of the game, seeing as how I received it the day it came out and beat it later that 
 night. Although it is very fun to run through the game again and again maximizing the customization 
 on all of the weapons that you earn. All in all this game is a terrific game and I would recommend 
 it too anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Great game to short replayability great. what else is there to say? well the weapon system is very 
 diffrent from many other games because your weapon is how you want it to be. Want a gun that scares 
 the crap out of ur enemy's or want a gun to silently kill them without noticing? Its your choice! 
 The stronger your gun is, the more they are afraid and want to kill you. Thats Aggro one important 
 game part. Achievements are going to also be addicting to the game since they yes are easy but 
 take some replaying and good attitude plus some fun to make it work. Blow a chopper with a rcoket 
 and make a pience land on a soldier or you? Who wouldnt like that? Multiplayer is great but doesnt 
 relate to the game event though there are the game charachters in it but its just like Team deathmatch. 
 Rescue the hostage and break them to Evac. Get in ur car squish to run over them to only find out 
 there is a take right in front. Personally i wish u could have more people in one game instead 
 of 2vs2. I was suprised on how the Npc's are in multiplayer and how much of a challenge they were 
 and as well a good distraction to snipe opponents. Well this is my review of army of two. Buy it 
 if you are going to play multiplayer and play co-op with friends or if you are curious rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofhalogeek
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  army of two was way overhyped. the game is average at best. i played 2 player co op with a friend 
 and i found a few problems.
  
  first the framerate dropped to completely null and looked like we were lagging, even though we 
 werent online. this lasted in its worse case 5 full seconds.
  
  the graphics were o. k. but nothing to write home about.
  
  the gameplay was boring. i can see 
 where the developers were going with the co op but they just didnt accomplish it. they had some 
 good ideas, but it just didnt work. the back to back aspect was an ok thought, but i didnt really 
 like it.
  
  the story was pretty bad. the writers couldnt figure out if the 2 main characters were mercenaries 
 or in the army. (its kinda weird that the whole game revolves around you being mercenaries and 
 getting paid for each objective, and then a NPC says "welcome to the army" in the second level. 
 (oh and by the way, mercenaries in the real world dont go on top secret missions for the government, 
 they are used as bodyguards for government contractors..... the only top secret missions mercenaries 
 get are from corporate bigwigs wanting to push some foreign poverty stricken farmers from their 
 land in foreign rural areas, or hired by drug cartels to protect their investments, another thing 
 i thought amusing.
  
  online play is all 2v2 (i didnt even try it because of the MEH feeling i got from single player 
 and CO OP.)
  
  all in all its an average game that shouldnt have gotten all the hype it did. i wouldnt recommend 
 it as a 60 dollar buy. rent it first, and if you enjoy the average gameplay, story, and graphics, 
 then buy. 
  
  this was not a must buy title in my opinion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great main characters, amazing co-op mechanics, great weapons customization, good amount 
 of variety
  
  The Bad: Versus mode should have been scrapped in trade of a lengthier and more polished single 
 player campaign, controls could have used slightly more tuning, not worth the pricetag if you plan 
 on playing alone
  
  After suffering from a few delays Army of Two from EA Montreal is finally here, and does it live 
 up to the hype? The answer is both yes and no.
  
  In Army of Two you play as mercenaries send out to clean out terroristic threats around the globe 
 and you'll choose to play as either Salem or Rios.
  The story of the game which is mostly told trough CG cutscenes isn't all that interesting in itself, 
 what makes you pay attention though is that the game touches down on some recent ground breaking 
 events in modern history like 9/11. Also the main characters Rios and Salem makes things better 
 as they can be hilarious to listen to and watch.
  
  The core gameplay isn't too far away like the ones you will find in games such as Gears of War 
 except for a few key details. For example the cover system doesn't lock you up against any surface 
 instead you slide and just crouch behind the closest wall or object and pop out to shoot or even 
 blindfire. Then there is the system called Aggro which most of the gameplay surrounds on. By dealing 
 out a lot of suppressive fire you will gain the Aggro and start glowing red which means the enemy 
 will focus their attention on you, giving your partner a chance to flank around and take them out 
 fairly easy. 
  Yes if you haven't heard before you'll have a partner with you at all times, either Rios or Salem 
 depending on who you chose to play as. Your partner will either be controller by an AI or by a 
 real life person either sitting beside via split-screen or online via Xbox live/PSN. And trust 
 me if you are gonna play this game you better play it with a buddie.
  Those of you who have followed the game know that this game's main focus revolves around co-op 
 it shouldn't come as a surprise the game plays better with a friend. 
  And to progress in this game you need to play as a team. For example dragging your partner to safety 
 and perform first aid if he's hurt compared to Gears when you only needed to tell your squadmates 
 to get up and keep on fighting. Sometimes you will go parachuting when one player will control 
 the chute while the other one will use his sniper rifle to take down enemies down below. You will 
 also help eachother open doors, reach higher platforms, stand back to back to clear out the area 
 in bullet time etc. Aside from the main objectives you and partner will go trough with each mission 
 you will also have the choice to do side missions which will earn you cash to spend on new weapons 
 and gear and upgrade them for greater effect and for a more badass look. You can end up spending 
 a lot of time of this mode disscussing with your partner to what to invest in and upgrade, so that's 
 pretty great.
  So the overall gameplay in Army of Two is great and contains a lot of variety, it's just a shame 
 that the game suffers from some controls issues as many actions are mapped to the same button on 
 your controller which creates some needlessly frustrating moments. Also the game isn't as much 
 fun playing by yourself as you'll get the feel that the game moves at a slower pace and also all 
 those cool little events with your partner simply won't be as much fun.
  
  The visuals of the game are good all around especially the main characters and metal surfaces and 
 water but nothing mindblowing.
  
  The sound of the game is overall good as well with good voice acting, especially from Rios and 
 Salem. It features some nice music and good sound effects from weapons and such but also here nothing 
 out of the ordinary.
  
  The game takes around 6-8 hours to beat on the Normal difficulty when being played with a buddy 
 which is pretty short though games of this type are shorter these days, though they do expect you 
 to pay 60 dollars for this game. With that said the game is very fun from start to finish especially 
 when being played with a friend aside from a few sections where enemies will just come at you for 
 what feels like an eternity. 
  The game also have a Versus mode where you play 2vs2 and complete varies objectives to earn cash 
 and the team with most of the cash at the end of the match wins, sure this mode is kinda fun but 
 I would defiantly have preferred if this mode wasn't in the game at all in trade for a longer and 
 more polished singleplayer campaing as that is where the main focus of this game truly lies.
  
  To sum it all up Army of Two is indeed a great game for the action fan and is worth it for 
 someone urging for a co-op game even though the game is short as it features some of the best co-op 
 mechanics ever in a shooter which kinda makes up for it. Those who prefer to play by themselves 
 though should only give this a rent or wait for a pricedrop... or two.
  
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buyerorseller
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  i wish other game maker would stop trying to be like the hot game thats out at the time of there 
 release like army of 2 tryimg to be like gears of war and cod 4 it shows in this game play its 
 all about how much money we will make please take the time to make ur own great game and stop being 
 like the hottest game thats out like cod 4 dont worry make it good we will buy it... this is a week 
 long playing game u will be on the next sooner then u think it has a very short life by the time 
 rainbow 2 comes out this will be on the dust rack... dont rush to buy u will be using it as a trade 
 in ,,, rent it out by the time 5 days is over so will be the hype.... i feel like its on the same 
 level as super mario brothers ... there are too many games that come out and just can't live up 
 to the hype.. i still feel for rainbow six , gears, halo 2 , cod 4 all day long but games like this 
 just let u down without the feeling of a well spent 59.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  "Army of Two" was highly anticipated co-op shooter from Electronic Arts. The game manages to live 
 up to its hype, mostly. My main gripe with the game is that it is criminally short; you can beat 
 the game by yourself in less than 7 hours. & with a friend, you can beat the game even faster! 
 The length of content truly hurts this game. The game is not worth $60.00 since you will be done 
 with the game in a week. That being said it is defiantly a great game to rent.
  
  "Army of Two" borrows many other games and improves upon them for the most part. The lose cover 
 system works well, and I in my opinion a better system than the sticking to cover mechanic from 
 games such as "Gears of War". 
  
  The core focus of "Army of Two" is aggro which you and your teammate are supposed to manage between 
 the two of you in order to complete missions. Aggro is a simple concept. Either you or your teammate 
 makes more noise than the other and the enemies will focus on what is perceived as the bigger threat, 
 allowing the other player with less aggro to flank enemies units. By in large this is the whole 
 focus of the game play. The game does throw in some changes of pace. Back to Back, riot shields 
 & Co-op Snipe are welcome breaks from the constant swapping of aggro back and forth between the 
 two players. Co-op snipe is a cool idea, but ultimately useless at any point in the game other 
 than when it is forcing you to do it. If a player is unfortunate enough to get 'disabled' the other 
 teammate will have to come and drag them to safety and than heal them. This has some cinematic 
 appeal, as you see one player dragging the other player, and both of them are still able to shoot 
 at enemies. 
  
  "Army of Two" lives up to its initial hype, but I do not see it as having any lasting appeal. Some 
 players may be driven to complete all the Xbox live achievements, but even those don't help to 
 keep this game in a players system for more than a couple weeks. And this is what hurts my rating 
 of the game the most!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I never thought I would right a negative review about a game, but I have been mislead by EA and 
 I don't want my fellow gamers to fall into the same boat. This game will whoo you with emptiness. 
 As far as originality is concerned it gets a few points in that department. The aiming is a complete 
 joke. Even when you adjust the sensitivity, it never seems to get quite right. You will find yourself 
 being completely frustrated at not being able to hit a moving target, even when it is a few feet 
 away. Playing this game alone with feel just like that. The AI has no "intelligence" what so ever. 
 You would expect him to pull you out of the crossfire before trying to heal you, but he usually 
 keeps trying even though the enemy AI is constantly bombing both of you with bullets. The story 
 is spoiled once you look at the included book. Seriously, it outlines the entire story which is 
 the equivalent to a one-hour tv episode. The weapons and armor buying screens are space savers. 
 You can play the entire game without upgrading one weapon. And to get the more expensive weapons 
 you'll pretty much have to wait towards the end of the game to afford them. For a game using the 
 Unreal Engine, they should have spent more time reading the instruction manual. If you have a friend 
 willing to play a quick game with you then by all means "RENT" this game. If you buy it and dislike 
 it, be prepared to get about $25 from Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i wasent to shure what to expect. i did here it was fairly short but when 
 i got it i realised it was an amasing game with the best CO-OP ive ever played in my life and an 
 awsome twist to an online mode. but you got to play the game to figure out what that is now this 
 is a about 8 hour long game with olny about 7 mission. but its a game you will want to play 3 or 
 four time over also the maltiplayer makes up for the length of the game. so pick army of two up 
 its worth the bucks.
  
  P. S if you like an all out shooter this may not be you're game beacause this is a tactical shooting 
 game but even if you are an all out shooter i recomend you still at least rent it if you like rainbow 
 six vegas or gears of war you will love this the controls are alittle bit like gears of war and 
 the moves like back to back are a little bit like stanglehold
  
  so get off halo for a bit and try something new for a change try army of two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradster18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  The campaign, while a little short is VERY fun when played with a friend or even just a random 
 player online, while singleplayer with the AI partner isn't near as good. The competitive multiplayer 
 is very good as well and is based mainly on completing objectives (AI enemies are also spawned 
 to defend these objectives) then actually fighting the other team, and can be very fun, my suggestion 
 is that if you enjoy co-op and have other friends who can play the game with you then you should 
 definitely buy (or at least rent) this game. While if you don't have any friends with a 360, or 
 they just don't want the game, be warned that the AI partner screws up sometimes, and just isn't 
 as fun, but thats true of just about all games that have a co-op feature. The story is pretty good 
 and starts out with Rios and Salem training in the Army, displeased with the army they quit to 
 join the SSC Mercenary corporation, and the story starts out with Rios and Salem just working as 
 mercenaries as conspiracy begins to unfold
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Multiplayer: 10.0
  Singleplayer: 7.0
  Story: 8.5
  
  Total: 9 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  ill keep it clean this time. army of two is almost flawless. ive beaten the game with the a. i partner 
 and now im working with my friend kevin on prro. the a. i partner isnt as dumb as youd think, because 
 its pretty much you controlling him, by telling him to advance regroup, or hold. but this game 
 really shines when your with a friend. its sooo deep in the weapons you can choose from. (primary, secondary, and 
 special) ) plus you can upgrade them to the limit to make them even more deadly. the controls are 
 great. its fun playing air guitar with your friends. lol . and then there is online, its actually 
 very fun. but i keep getting disconnected during the middle. darn you ea servers. only things i 
 didnt like about the game where 1 when your up close and trying to hoot someone it becomes verry 
 hard to aim, you will end up just meleing them. and again with the onlin e it disconnects a ton, 
 and i dont like the purchasing weapon stations, there should be a brief intermission where u can 
 buy weapons, or when u respawn you can do that. heck why not let us bring our guns from offline 
 into online. all in all ao2 is a hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AltFan113
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The difficulty is good, there's a decent learning curve, and despite all the online videos it really 
 does present itself as a well thought-out game. As well it should thanks to the delay. It looks 
 good, plays good, and generally feels good. 
  The problem? There's not enough of it. The campaign is too short by far and the online multiplayer 
 feels somewhat tacked on. While it does take co-op campaigns to a whole new standard, you just 
 feel like there wasn't enough of the game to really sink your teeth into. 
  Having said that, this game is a great rental for a week or two. The customization options for 
 all your guns and gear, the speial two man commands like climbing walls or using riot shields, 
 and the good spirit of camaraderie makes this a solid all-around game for huddling in for the winter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: civicbeef
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The CO-OP on this game is simply amazing. campaign is really short : ( EA could have definatly taken 
 some extra time and added about 5 or 6 missions but other than a shot campaign this game is amazing. 
 the large selection of weapons will defiantly keep the game interestingM134 enough said". the 
 multi player is a little different but still really fun once you get used to it. as far as bugs 
 go there are very few in this game (that i have found) . this game can be played with just one player 
 and is still fun. but if you have xbox live you can play CO-OP campaign with other players around 
 the world. this game is defiantly made for CO-OP playing. like i said it is still fun with just 
 one player but it is way better when you are playing with someone else. so go grab a friend and 
 go kick some ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhand44
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I want to start off the review with the fact that my XBox Live is acting up and I have not been 
 able to play the game online at this time. With that said this game is just plain fun. I thought 
 when it was delayed last year for quality problems it would have been horrible. With this game 
 there are two gripes that I have one is that the game is short. I ran through the game on average 
 by myself in one night in a few hours. The other is that sometimes the controls seem to stick like 
 when you are trying to climb up somethng like in the airport the baggage area and you find that 
 it will not let you out at times. Outside of that the game is great. I loved playing this with 
 my friend and I am hoping when my XBox live is working with my internet again the online will be 
 comparable. This is the best EA game not called Madden that has come out in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying the game overall is a lot of fun to play and worth the money. The graphics 
 are also very well done and the campaign was enjoyable. I really liked the effects bullets had 
 on the enemy, wherever you hit them on their body, their body seems to react correctly from being 
 hit in that location. Also, finally someone included suicide bombers, which you hear about all 
 the time in the news, but for some reason games don't include them. Nice, touch.
  
  That said, the lack of single person content beyond the campaign makes this game disappointing 
 for me. The Xbox Live game types should also be available against bots for the single player. 
 
  
  The Xbox Live games are pretty good, but the lack of a lobby so you can have rematches is big let 
 down. As soon as one game is over, you or your friends have to re-host a new game and send you 
 an invite. Very annoying.
  
  Overall, though I enjoyed it, this will be trade in material very soon. You really haven't missed 
 much if you don't buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiar11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  so like i said my hopes weren't very high but when i stated playing it grew on me and might as 
 well grow on you to. Gameplay: so the gameplay is great of course it all focuses on coop but the 
 the coop is very fun. my favorite coop moves are the overkill (over kill is when the person a whole 
 kills a whole bunch of people and and gets a special move which slows down time and the person 
 with no aggro is literally invinsible) and the back to back. Graphics: where do i start so the engine 
 in this is the same engine from gears of war so the graphics are superb. sound: the sound is as 
 good as the graphis when shoot a hole in the wall you can hear the pieces of the wall crumbling. 
 replay value: the replay value is really low but thats not to say you wont want to play through 
 it one more time. there is alot that did not say in this review cause i wouldn't have enough spac 
 but there is alot of things in things in this game to make wakeup one morning wanting play to some 
 more that gtaIV came out already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGreenMachine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Though i found pieces where missing, i soon found them when i sat down with my girlfriend to play 
 the co-op split screen. Getting the tactics together to have one of us lay down suppression fire 
 so that one of us could sneak around and come up from behind our enemies really paid off. But it 
 quickly wore off and i found myself just picking people off with my newly upgraded weapons. But 
 after 8 hours of playing i found myself quite addicted to the upgrade menu. there's something about 
 completely rebuilding and upgrading your weapons with a ton of combinations that makes the game 
 really fun. the only downside is when you run out of $$$$. i thought this game has massive potential 
 to become a great series, they've started off well with a great cast of characters that could live 
 on for many games, they even have a stereotype bada** nemesis who likes like a reject from the 
 insane clown posse. But sadly the story gives nothing much in depth, the usual shebang, government 
 company pays you to do dirty work, dirty work goes well, you dig too deep, then bang they want 
 you dead and they betray you. I wasn't shocked or surprised at all... this will be a game i add 
 to my sequel watch, along with bioshock (whoever unlikely) , and Gears of war. the weapons dealer 
 menu adds quite a bit of value to the game, which will make me replay it to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  So I don't usually write reviews for games, as I personally feel that most people make up their 
 minds whether to buy a game or not, based on their opinions not someone elses. However, I do think 
 that with a game like Army of Two that has reviews ranging from terrible to fantastic something 
 needs to be said to try and help those who are unsure about buying it to make a decision.
  
  First of all, i'll get over the negatives, which are in my opinion in the minority compared 
 to the positives of Army of Two:
  
  - The campaign IS short, so far i've only played it through on the easiest difficulty (Recruit) 
 simply so I could get a hang of the controls and mechanics, and depending on your playstyle it'll 
 probably only take between 6-8 approx to finish. If you're a speed player who just plays games 
 to get to the end (shame on you) then it'll probably be even shorter. However, game length is something 
 I will come back to in positives. 
  
  - I have not attempted any multiplayer elements yet (as I only got the game yesterday) , but it 
 seems that it is region locked, i. e. EU players can only play other EU players and US can only 
 play other US players. This is something you are either going to like, or dislike. I for one find 
 it a bit odd and uncalled for as I have plenty of friends in the US and I havn't heard of this 
 sort of thing being used before. But as I said, some might enjoy only being able to play with more 
 local players, and will possibly reduce the lag.
  
  - There are quite a few loading screens, which break up the pace a little... but all of them are 
 out of battle and only last less than 10 seconds.
  
  From the negatives, to the positives...
  
  - The companion AI is superb, from some reviews 
 seen here and elsewhere you'd be forgiven for thinking that the AI must be awful. From my own experience, 
 I have to say that these people must be playing either an old verison of Ao2, or a completely different 
 game altogether. 
  The command system is simple, easy to understand and effective. If you ask the AI to hold position 
 and provide cover, he will do exactly that... take to cover and lay down blind fire enabling you 
 to get to a flanking position, or even sneak up on an enemy. If you ask the AI to advance he will 
 make his way towards the next objective point, moving from cover to cover and laying down fire 
 if you give it an aggressive command (red) , and if you give the AI the command to regroup he will 
 stick to you like glue.... hiding behind cover near you, watching your six when you're out in the 
 open, and if you're near a step up position he will quickly take his place to give you a leg up
 
  In my experience so far, the AI has not got stuck, he's been able to take down plenty of enemies 
 on his own (especially when Overkill is triggered, you will see the companion AI sprint towards 
 the enemy positions and wreak close quarters havoc) , although sometimes his marksmanship is questionable 
 but does the job. Also when you require healing, the AI 99% of the time will NOT drag you into 
 fire, he will intellingently take you behind cover and heal you up there. 
  Overall to get companion AI this right, is an exceedingly difficult task (e. g. Dom in GoW and his 
 fondness of trying to take on General RAAM in hand to hand and his constant love of the dark and 
 thus the kryll) and I think that the Ao2 team has done wonders.
  
  - The enemy AI is similiarly impressive even on Recruit, they will instantly take to cover when 
 they come into the battle, constantly attempt to flank your positions and if you manage to take 
 out one of them near to another, the survivng one will often panic and sprint from his current 
 position to new cover. Also, If you use feign death you will hear the enemy say something like 
 "I got him!" and then when you get back up the suprise is quite funny..
  
  - The weapons all feel beefy and manly, especially in back to back mode and overkill when slow-mo 
 kicks in and you can hear every singly bullet casing clink to the floor. Aiming is NOT difficult, 
 its more or less on the exact lines of Gears, except that blind fire gives you a crosshair still 
 and is more accurate.
  The upgrades are also very impressive, most guns have a good range of upgrades ranging from barrels 
 (that change damage mostly) , stocks (for accuracy) , magazines (to carry more bullets) , suppressors 
 (less aggro) , shields (extra protection) and bling (simply to be gangsta!) . On top of these upgrades 
 you have the different Mask variants which are simply for fun, especially when you headbutt and 
 enemy wearing a painted clown face.
  
  - The mechanics of the game work well also, the cover system is in my opinion BETTER than Gears 
 of War, simply because its more loose and you don't throw yourself against a wall for cover... instead 
 you slide in and keep your head down. The Co-Op techniques work well and are fun to use, even with 
 the companion AI... especially Co-Op riot shield and step up. 
  
  - The graphics of the game, are technically very impressive. The character models are all well 
 done, from the grunts to the protagonists. I have to admit that Salem and Rios are probably two 
 of the most badass looking character models i've seen (much more so than any of Delta Squad in 
 GoW) and the feeling of being badass has a tendency to rub off on you. Environments are also well 
 done, some can be bland, but in many cases you have to remember where you are (Somalia and Afghanistan 
 are going to look similiar) , the Aircraft Carrier is particularly impressive, especially the water 
 effects.
  
  - As I said I would, back to game length. Yes the game is quite short, but that has not been considered 
 a bad thing in some other cases (Call of Duty 4 anyone?) . To combat this, there is very much a 
 good sense of replayability... some weapons are unlocked at the end of a playthrough, up the difficulty 
 to be challenged by an even smarter AI, play as the other character of the duo and of course bring 
 in a friend to have a hugely different experience. On top of all this, is also the multiplayer 
 2v2 (something I havnt tried yet, but intend to) .... some people say this mode is sub-par or limited 
 in the number of maps etc, but to me I was suprised there is even a multiplayer beyond story co-op. 
 I think that it is a commendable merit of the Ao2 team that they even bothered to come up with 
 another mode that is different to the standard deathmatch, fragfest, bloodbath.
  
  I have gone on for a while about this game, simply because i think that too many people are providing 
 incorrect, inaccurate or ill informed reviews about this game. I admit I havnt even played with 
 another player in Co-Op or tried multiplayer.... so this review is not 100% definitive, but I have 
 tried to give as much info, and an accurate account about the points that many people have tried 
 to use to bash this game into the ground.
  
  Overall, I think that this game is something that fans of action (GoW especially) should definately 
 look into getting, great fun by yourself (yes on your own in a co-op game!) and with friends.
 
  
  A great stop-gap game before the big titles of 2008 like FarCry 2 and GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - A lot of weapons make it fun. Assault rifles, SMGs, Shotguns, pistols and more. Also 
 you can upgrade your weapons with unusual upgrades which seems kind of crazy but pretty cool at 
 the same time. But yes... finally another third person shooter! You aim from the shoulder and get 
 behind covers easily. I don't know why people think it's something like Gears? It's a completely 
 different game nothing is the same except the third person shooter view. Some of the parts of the 
 game are really funny!
  
  Graphics - are pretty good i would give it about eight out of ten. Some of the things could of 
 been improved though. Things like water and some walls could of been better. Everything else seems 
 to be pretty good.
  
  Features - Masks makes your character look pretty cool. There are also couple of other armor types 
 which protects you from bullets so it's pretty cool. Another cool feature about the game is that 
 you can change weapons with your partner. It doesn't matter if you're doing co-op or playing alone. 
 That doesn't change anything you can still change the weapons with your partner.
  
  Multiplayer- It's alright nothing special. It's two vs two and there are only 3 games types. If 
 it was at least four vs four it would make a lot more fun. So the multiplayer is kind of boring. 
 But some of the parts when you play with a partner make it fun.
  
  Overall - It's a great game. If you're into TPS i would recommend you get this game. But the game 
 seems kind of short. The campaign is about reight to ten hours long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Suffering from a few delays, Army of Two is finally available for everyone wanting to be a pair 
 of mercs-for-hire. But the end result may leave gamers wondering what the delay really was for, 
 since the final product we're left with can be completed in under 10 hours.
  
  Army of Two does two things very well; give you lots and lots and lots of guns and lots and lots 
 and lots of bad guys to shoot with said guns. A simple formula, and one that works well with this 
 game. There's no real puzzle aspect, nothing in the storyline that's going to 'wow' you; just some 
 interesting run-and-gun two-player action.
  
  And that is where AoT is going to get to shine. Adding a second player to the mix has surprising 
 depth to it. Whether going it alone with the AI, or a friend, either way it ends up being a fulfilling 
 experience. The AI for both the other player and the enemies is fairly intelligent; the BAI (buddy 
 AI) is on-par with Ghost Recon, perhaps a touch better. The key is learning how to use the AI to 
 your advantage. For example, letting the AI sit and soak some Aggro (touched on in a moment) is 
 a good way to let you slip past the enemies and flank them without them being completely attentive 
 to you. The BAI also shoots fairly accurately, and guides well in vehicle and parachute levels. 
 And it doesn't make it feel like you're missing out an anything if you're not playing with another 
 human player.
  
  Aggro is the 'innovation' to AoT, and may not seem like much of anything at first, but in practice 
 is the cornerstone of the game. Aggro is accrued by whichever member of the team is taking the 
 enemies' attention; i. e., whoever is shooting. The more Aggro one of the characters gets, the more 
 focused the enemies become on them, to the point where the other character can be literally invisible. 
 This can be useful for diversionary tactics; flanking, etc. Get enough Aggro, and special moves 
 can be temporarily performed, such as double damage and unlimited ammo.
  
  Backing up the 'warzone' feel of the game is an impressive array of weaponry; 3 guns can be carried 
 at any time, a primary (assault rifles, shotguns, machineguns) , secondary (pistols, sub-machineguns) , 
 and 'special' (sniper rifles, rocket launchers) . Complete missions and rack up money to purchase 
 more weapons and upgrades to currently purchased weapons; upgrades range in everything from more 
 powerful barrels, magazine expansions, shields, and more. There's even an option to 'pimp' a weapon, 
 which adds gold trim, chrome, and/or custom paint jobs and decals. Wepons can also be switched 
 mid-mission from the mid-mission shopping screen if you charge off into battle with the wrong tools. 
 A collection of extra combat masks are also available, optional to buy, and confer no bonuses, 
 just a different look. Unfortunately, the mission sets are rather short, and you'll probably find 
 yourself having to play the same first 3 or 4 missions to get enough money to afford the more powerful 
 weapons and upgrades.
  
  Crippling-short single-player campaign is probably this games' major achille's heel. The game could 
 nearly be completed in a single sitting. The only thing that extends playtime is going back to 
 play through for money to get the bigger guns, and go back and use them on earlier levels. There's 
 also a harder difficulty to unlock, which, for anyone wanting to play through on that setting, 
 will keep players busy for a bit longer. The levels are also fairly linear, which also detracts 
 from the need to replay them. 
  
  Multi-player, like many games, feels like the center of the game. Offering a variety of game modes 
 to play through. Unfortunately, there is no game lobby, forcing you to reinvite and rejoin after 
 every match. Matches are small, no bigger than four players at a time. The MP is fun enough, but 
 like the campaign, doesn't have much to choose from.
  
  With the extra time taken on this game, it seems like there should have been more included than 
 what was here. Not that it's a bad game, it just feels like there should have been more for the 
 amount of time that this game was in production.
  
  Summary
  _____________
  
  Pros:
  +Well-rendered backgrounds and characters
  +Massive range of weaponry 
  +Tight enemy, 
 and, more importantly, buddy AI
  
  Cons:
  -Too short
  -Small multi-player options
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbiter98
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  On a personal level i loved Army of Two... it was fresh, fun, and simple. EA Montreal pretty much 
 took Co -Op as far as it could go, don't get me wrong, it isn't perfect but the game does a pretty 
 good job making the players work together and pushing the concept of Cooperation pretty close to 
 its limit. For the anal gamer, i did notice that there is no actual reload animations other than 
 rios or salem (who ever your preferred character is) moving their arms so it looks like they are 
 reloading, and for the M134 or Gatling gun the barrel doesn't actually spin, personally this doesn't 
 bother me at all, but, if that kind of thing does bother you... prepare to be annoyed. Playing with 
 someone in splitscreen or xbox live is when this game is at its best, don't get me wrong, The A. I. 
 in the campaign mode did pretty well at being a acceptable replacement for a real person in split 
 screen or a buddy over xbox live, but, its not as fun as it with another human being. The story 
 mode is short, only six missions, but the length of each game time in each mission is above average, 
 and takes longer the higher the difficulty is. The purchasing and upgrading concept of the game 
 is fun to work with as you can personalize with the given upgrades as long as you have the moolah 
 to purchase the weapons and the upgrades, At the same time that system could have been taken a 
 step or two farther. The Multiplayer or versus mode was also interesting and new, as all the game 
 types were 2 v2 
  and in most of the game types you were tasked with doing a variety of objectives to earn cash to 
 buy weapons, the cash also doubled as your score, and when you spent some cash you would lose the 
 same amount from your score, interest, but it discourages players from actually buying weapons 
 packages. To balance out the 2 v 2 game play A. I. bots have been thrown into a few of the Versus 
 game types and they are no mans friend and will shoot players on either team. The A. I. Bots definitely 
 keep a player on his toes, and i think this is the first game, in a long time, where i've seen 
 A. I. bots online except shadowrun. While they A. I. bots were interesting they can get annoying 
 and frustrating as they can sometimes be ridiculously hard to kill. 
  Overall, Army of Two, is a fun game that definitely brings a fresh take on Co operation, in the 
 campaign mode and Versus mode. what really takes this game down a notch is that online play could 
 have been better and the weapons customization could have been taken a step or two farther, ultimately 
 leaving this game with a 9 points out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaboy_101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  in this game you will be in the foot steps of two mercenaries working for this company called the 
 ssc, and you and your partner will travel the world to fight army's in a urban and forest environments 
 as you play , you are later convected or murder and u and your partner are kind'a like half terrowrest 
 and solder but in the end you come threw , the story is good and strong , easy to under stand , 
 it leads to loyalty and betrayal , in a way this game is like mercenaries but with less or a GTA 
 side to it, you can buy weapons, customize your armour and weapons , the online was not as good 
 to the story but its was better than nothing . over all this is a very good game , u wont be disappointed 
 . so if you and your best friend think you are the best co-op players , show it in army of two 
 ,
  
  hope u enjoy! , kevin , 13, Montreal, Canada 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raylee93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The game in my opinion was good but short. Me and my friend finished it up in under 4 hours. There 
 was alot of thing the just did wird things to like some times ur gun keeps fireing after u let 
 go of the triger. Some stuff like flood lights dont touch the ground. Some ggod things are the AI 
 somtimes knows whats going on and the Agro thing is realy cool. ithink the story could have been 
 better and the deathmatch just sucks umless u know what the HELL is going onand there is now fight 
 for the last bad guy but over all i like it.
  The game in my opinion was good but short. Me and my friend finished it up in under 4 hours. There 
 was alot of thing the just did wird things to like some times ur gun keeps fireing after u let 
 go of the triger. Some stuff like flood lights dont touch the ground. Some ggod things are the AI 
 somtimes knows whats going on and the Agro thing is realy cool. ithink the story could have been 
 better and the deathmatch just sucks umless u know what the HELL is going onand there is now fight 
 for the last bad guy but over all i like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman4991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is amazing! I don't know where to start, I guess with campaign. As you probably know, 
 the game revolves around co-op play. Although there is a single player game, the real game lies 
 when playing with a friend. Whether it's over Live or having a friend right next to you, the game 
 really shines when you have another living person to play with. All the objectives you complete 
 within the storyline will give you money. With this money, you can buy all different weapons or 
 masks for your characters. There's is nothing cooler than getting a full set of pimped out weapons. 
 The versus mode is also fun. It is basically two versus two in some interesting game modes. However, 
 it does lack a straight up team deathmatch mode, with is holding it from the perfect score. But 
 besides that, this game is great. You might as well not rent it because I guarantee you that you 
 will end up buying it anyway! One of the best games and it will be a toughy to beat for game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When thinking about recent EA developed games most of us think of them as uninspired and lacks 
 polish. However, Army of Two really grasps the idea of Co-Op play. The idea of agross and the different 
 teamwork situations really allows for strategy and brings out something not seen very often in 
 gaming. This game is perfect to play with a friend and the different online challenges really intensify 
 competition because you are working with a teammate to accomplish a common goal. The unique gameplay 
 freshens up the jam packed genre of shooters out. It allows for it to stand out from other shooters 
 and really produces a fun interactive experience. However, there are some flaws. The campaign is 
 short and the fun experience dwindles when played alone. Overall, the experience is unique and 
 if you enjoy shooters you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMurphy28
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Army Of Two is a game that introduces new and creative ideas to games that need a bit of change. 
 You cannot classify it as a Gears Of War game or Call Of Duty game as it is neither. It is it's 
 own which is why I like it. The game has really cool features that leave you thinking "Wow! That's 
 so cool!" when you first see them and you quickly become used to them. This game is literally the 
 best shooter game to play with your buddies as it's just you and them against an army and you have 
 to use your strategic abilities to complete harder levels. 
  
  There is a downside though. The single player in this is pretty lame, and the ai for your partner 
 is pretty bad as well. Online is also pretty lame as you only have 4 maps and 3 game types and 
 none of which are very fun. The multiplayer feels like a completely different game where both teams 
 basically just run around holding the shoot button rather than playing the stategic part of the 
 game. 
  
  The good parts about the game is the awesome 2 player campaign and although it's short, as long 
 as you arn't a hardcore gamer, you will be able to re-play it 2 or 3 times. The customization is 
 great too. Your characters are designed great to fit in with the game. You get to choose your mask, 
 gun, you can buy attachments for your gun and even "pimp it out" to make it look good. The graphics 
 are very nice to look at and the voice acting is superb. The story, although quick, is good and 
 will not leave you disappointed.
  
  
  Overall, this game is the perfect game for casual gamers who play with friends, siblings etc. and 
 the $60 price tag is well worth it. On the other hand, hardcore gamers or people who can't find 
 others to play with may be disappointed and you might want to rent it first to see what you think. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXtremeTaktics
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I wasn't liking the feel of it, specifically the controls. 
 However, within 1 hour, I was addicted. The graphics are outstanding, the storyline is cool, and 
 customization is exciting. 
  
  I recommend playing the campaign with another person on XBL if you can. I played with a stranger, 
 and we were playing as if we knew each other forever. Good communication is key in this game. Playing 
 single player with the AI is fun, but not nearly as fun as 2 live people causing chaos on the battlefield. 
 
  
  The only thing I am not too impressed with so far is the versus XBL multiplayer. I encountered 
 quite a bit of lag. But I haven't given it but 5 minutes of my time yet. So this may not be as 
 bad as I am assuming. 
  
  This game will definitely keep me happy until Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 comes out and longer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strawberry9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game! It really does copy Gears of war though, however it exceeds in doing so. what ever 
 Gears of war had, this game has, BUT BETTER. If you ever played gears of war you would know about 
 the whole taking cover thing.... well here you take cover when u go behind an object, and you are 
 never stuck to a wall. I was really happy with that just because it gives you so much more freedom. 
 
  
  Anyways this game has very good graphics (specially the way the water looks... wow) , the gameplay 
 is very fun, alot more fun to play with another person rather then play with the computer teammate, 
 even though the game is still good playing with the computer. A lot of teamwork is involved int 
 his game, and by doing this you will make the game alot easier for yourself. There is alot of little 
 features that puts this game up there. The way you revive a downed enemy is just a huge step from 
 what you would do in Gears of War, you actually drag your partner to a safer area and heal him 
 while you partner is shooting from the ground as he is being dragged.
  
  Im not really sure that you get your money's worth with this game however. The Campaign is very 
 short (only six missons to be exact) and online play is limited to two on two with a whole bunch 
 of computer controlled men running around. 
  
  This game just keeps your hope up until an army of two sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuffg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game is amazing. If you're the type of player that likes to run & gun this game 
 is perfect for you. Or if you're the player who likes to sit back and pick the enemy off from afar, 
 this game is also perfect for you. The Agro system is probably the best feature of this game, it 
 gives it somewhat of a strategy when you go up against some of the enemies and bosses. I like to 
 sit back in AGRO mode and tick the enemy off while Salem runs up and takes everyone out. The weapons 
 customization in this game is ridiculously awesome! Graphics are solid and story is simple yet 
 fun. The characters are fun to play, you can chose from either of them to play as which is awesome. 
 I'd recommend this game to my worst enemy! If anyone needs to buy or rent a game to kill A LOT 
 of time i would recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_Aim_X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  To start off,
  
  The new aggro system brings a whole new perspective to 3rd person shooters, which is actually a 
 decent new look to a game for once.
  
  The graphics are immense but do have some loading glitches with most new graphic intense games 
 on xbox titles such as; Mass effect, Gears of war, etc..
  
  The game has a good story but for the more hardcore gamers if you don't want to complete it in 
 under 5 hours then i would recommend a harder difficulty than normal or easy. although once complete 
 the story is'nt really fun to replay only with your customised weapons... as there is no choice 
 of where to go its a fixed map game.
  
  Also a high lack of armor customising, only 3 layouts, light, med, heavy, you can't actually change 
 the look, only about 14 masks which aren't really too amazing.
  
  The main hype is the customised and saving money for your weapons and making them look overly good 
 and exciting.
  
  Pro:
  Good graphics
  Good new "aggro"
  Decent weapon layout + customizability
  Good story
  
  Con:
  Gameplay time 5hours or less 
 on easy/medium
  Short story
  No replayability ( freeroam not included )
  
  
  Overall i'de say a 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  Money's worth: 5/10
  LEarning curve: 
 Easy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Hello this is kaneandlynch93 and i have another review in army of two you play the role of Tyson 
 rios or Elliot Salem you earn money and you can custermize your own guns. This game is really fun 
 i alsoo loved the storyline the game also had a really good plot. the gun play is really good the 
 graphis are really good. In ARMY OF TWO you do missions for cash i like upgrading your guns this 
 game has a lot of action alot of gunplay this game is really fun. A true next-gen game a true kick 
 ass game. I love army of two.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iam_sparticus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Well thank you EA for a wonderful game, despite the length of the game I was genuinely pleased 
 at the way the game played, breathing a breath of fresh air to the congested shooter genre.
  Army of two was all about the "action", but dont get me wrong the game packed a big punch in the 
 strategy department, offering challenging setups which the user has to overcome.
  The approach to gameplay is very similar to that seen on Gears of War, but at the same time it 
 doesnt feel like a rip-off, as the storyline keeps you interested in the bickerings of the two 
 main protagonists.
  The only downside I can point out in this game is the lack of a more diverse range of online modes. 
 A negative which can hopefully be fixed with updates?!
  But also as a player on other EA online games, I have no faith in the robustness of EA servers 
 in keeping up with the need to create a fluid inline exoerience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Well Army of Two... what the hell? Honestly. My friend brian and I were so excited for this game, 
 man were we let down. Note that this review is after 3 hours of game play (versus, single player) 
 and about an hour with co-op (on contractor difficulty) with brian.
  
  Pros: Great ideas such as weapon customization, body armor, different masks, etc. Funny celebrations 
 with co-op partner, solid gun fire, and versus mode is decent.
  
  Cons: Ahh hhh...... tis tis tis........... graphics, game play boring after first few missions, bad 
 storyline, bad acting, uninteresting dialogue, explosions seem muffled and small, bad enemy AI, 
 short campaign, short co-op, way to linear, surroundings are boring, audio is bad, and frame rate 
 and lag are terrible.
  
  Overall: Don't bother renting it. Its too short and disapointing. Wait for GTA or Battlefield: 
 Bad Company, or even Brothers In Arms: Hells Highway. This game had a lot of potential. The only 
 reason why I don't return it, is for the versus mode. When Ive had my fun with that, then its just 
 another disapointment that I can forget about and move on. Its so disapointing I don't have any 
 "smart a**" remarks. And you know I love my sarcasm.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first big titles for 2008 and it delivers on most counts. The main draw here 
 is 2 man co-op. Playing this with another player is the way to go, but the A. I partner is no slouch 
 either. 
  
  The gameplay is fairly straightforward. You issue commands to your teamate to flank, cover, blind-fire, hold 
 position and heal you while your down. Honestly, your partnet is compentent and pretty much does 
 as he's told. 
  
  The actual game consists of 6 missions and a training mission. You'll move through each level dispatching 
 enemies and completing some simple objectives. During the game you increase Aggro by fighting acgressively 
 and enemies will direct all their fire at you allowing you to have your partner sneak in and flank 
 them. This become important to take down certain enemies.
  
  Graphics are pretty good. The game runs on the Unreal 3 engine and maintains a good framerate even 
 with a lot going on and good use of HDR throughout the levels.
  
  Sound is mixed, most guns sound similar and the music is nothing special.
  
  Through the game 
 you'll earn money as you kill enemies and destroy targets, allowing you to buy weapons from shops 
 and upgrade them.
  
  The game is very good overall, but it is very short (6-8 hrs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryShaft
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I'd been waiting for this game for a while and I just don't know what else to say except; man I'm 
 disappointed. Weak controls, weaker story and some of the lamest game devices I've seen in a while. 
 It's not completely awful but it certainly isn't very fun. The game itself looks great, the models 
 are cool, environments well designed... but I couldn't really get into it's supposedly immersive 
 co-op play. After a few hours, coasting easily through the game, we simply shut it off turning 
 to reruns of Seinfeld for entertainment instead. I'm not really sure how this is meriting good 
 reviews except that hype seems to carry everything shortly after it's release. While it's great 
 that innovations are being made in these games, the co-op function simply wasn't enough to carry 
 through yet another, by the numbers military action game. The fact that they actually incorporate 
 9/11 into the storyline is a pretty good example of how ridiculous the storyline is. Though all 
 of this could probably be forgiven, were it not for the constant (and I mean constant) bantering 
 between the two main characters. They sound like a pair of cartoon characters and the strange intimacy 
 to their relationship gets weird more then once, especially since they have seemigly four or five 
 "fights" in the first few levels that would put any sitcom's annoying married couple to shame. 
 There's no option to turn this off as it apparently was adding to the story but the dialogue encompasses 
 about 75% of every mission and gets very tiresome very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinator66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The weapons are satisfying and really cool to upgrade. The enemies 
 are pretty fierce especially if you have most of the aggro. I only played this in co op because 
 the single player is meh. The partner AI isnt the best. Online can get pretty hectic, the only 
 dissapointment is that theres only 4 maps. So if you get this make sure a friend is getting it 
 too, thats where the real fun is. The aggro works quite well, there are other co op features but 
 they dont show up too often. You'll do parachuting a few times which is nifty, there a some back 
 to back scenes but you cant do them whenever you want, using shields is fun and even holding someone 
 up over a ledge so they can shoot is really cool. But the main co op feature that works really 
 well is the aggro. The characters are really creative and just fun to watch do the things they 
 do. so i suggest this to action or especially co op fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feudemonj00
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I am about 3 missions deep into this game, and I've found a few things that are a bit rough. The 
 partner AI seems like it doesn't really work that well sometimes. Most times it's okay, but it 
 can do some weird things sometimes.
  
  Also I think that the shooting is a bit flakey. I have never been a huge fan of "tracer bullets" 
 where you can see every single little firey bullet that comes out. I like a more instantanious 
 deal where you pull the trigger and you know you hit your target when you see little sparks and 
 blood and stuff. 
  
  I'm liking the story so far, it seems to be a good idea. We'll see if it holds up all the way through. 
 The only thing I don't really like is all the gratuitous "F Bombs" and swearing throughout. I swear 
 a bit myself, but I just don't think it is super tasteful half the time. There were a few moments 
 were it did make me chuckle though.
  
  Now for the online play.
  
  Online is horrible, but online play is awful in EVERY single EA game I've ever played, so I'm not 
 surprised. More thought should have gone into it, I'm afraid that it's about as fun as Kane & Lynch 
 online. Laggy connections, bad framerate, and other small things make it ANNOYING. The EA servers 
 are not good, I wish they would stop using them. They think they have this awesome network, but 
 it's a broken piece of trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delronimo
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is finally here. after over a year of waiting i finally got my hands on this game. 
 first impressions, amazing cut scene graphics and gameplay graphics, nice selection of guns and 
 nice to earn money to buy and customize guns. but all this was short lived. the aiming system is 
 pathetic, the camera changes so much its hard to shoot straight and the A. I is awefull, the worst 
 ive ever seen. you tell him to stay put and cover you and he does bugger all. he will sit there 
 and watch you get shot insstead of helping. worst thing of all was the AGGRO, it just doesnt work, 
 even when your partner has all aggro you still get all the enemys firing on you as well as it changing 
 so quick you dont have time to find cover. you will always need to be the one without aggro because 
 he cant do anything else apart from hide and get shot at. all i can say is YOU NEED A FRIEND TO 
 PLAY THIS WITH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djsmiles
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  this game has got to be the biggest let down in the world, they kept pushing it back time after 
 time, and i have yet to see why, because they havent done much to this game, sure the grafix are 
 nice to look at, and the customized guns are real cool, but thats where the good stuff ends, this 
 game for one is VERY short, also it seems like every 5 - 10 minutes is another loading screen. 
 the blind fire is inaccurate to say the least, the enemie A. I. is so freakin dumb i feel like im 
 in a room full of cloned Brittany spears (lol) also for some reason it seems like every gun has 
 the same exact amount of power behind the shot... i mean i can shoot a guy with a little pistol 
 and he will do 2 flips then die, shoot another guy with a shotgun and he will do the same, EA didnt 
 seem to care if they made this game real or not, it seems they only wanted to give us something 
 pretty to look at, also this game is supposed to be a 2 man tactical shooter... but there really 
 isnt all that much tactics involved one guy shoots to draw attention the other guy flanks and kills 
 everyone, thats all its jus rinse an repeat, also im not sure why they give you a sniper rifle, 
 because for one, you only get about 15 shots then your out, and once u run out of ammo, itll be 
 a while before you find more, also when you ZOOM in to aim a shot, the gun bounces sooooooo much 
 its almost impossible to get a good hit on someone and it seems like they forgot to add the button 
 that allows you to hold your breath for more accuracy, one more thing the online 2v2 multiplayer 
 STINKS its more like 2 V a crap load of dumb enemie AI v 2 and whats even worse is you cant bring 
 your pimped out guns into the online matches, you get stuck with a crummy ak47. in closing i just 
 wanna say that this game got way to much hype and its just a big let down, if you are a gamer that 
 is dying to try it, please take my advise and rent it first, i would hate to see you spend 60 bucks 
 on something that will proly be returned in the same day..... thank you for your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  For GS to give this game a 6.5 is a disgrace. Glitchy, cludgy Frontlines Fuel of War scored better 
 than this game. Preposterous!!!! First just to illustrate the 'bias' of certain industry critics 
 of this game take a look at how 'TeamXbox' scored 'AOT' versus 'Frontlines: Fuel of War.' It gave 
 AOT a 7.1 and Frontlines an 8.1. This is so preposterous a spread that this negative review should 
 be viewed with a solid grain of salt.
  
  This game has a great 'feel' to it. Especially in the Co-op mode and has much to recommend it. 
 In the genre of Tactical Shooters it introduces some new concepts that are quite interesting and 
 most engaging such as Back to Back, Aggro and the centrality of real co-operation etc. I also like 
 the ability to swap weapons with your partner. More than almost any other Tactical FPS I have played 
 this game is about team work. This is best experienced in the actual Co-op mode as opposed to the 
 single player mission. Most tactical shooters thus far have involved larger harder to manage squads. 
 Games like 'Gears of War', 'Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter', and Brothers in Arms etc. The two 
 man squad is lean and mean perhaps closer to a fusion between Rainbow Six Vegas and Splinter Cell 
 for two. It kind of splits the line between stealth and tactics a new hybrid of sorts. I like the 
 hand to hand combat element. These guys are not afraid to mix it up. The Aggro concept is unique 
 and fun really making you consider how to outflank and fool the enemy.. who is not always easy to 
 fool. The campaign is both challenging and interesting. The player models are the best in any game 
 I have ever played. The detail is incredible to the level of the players actually breathing. Very 
 nice touch. This is a great concept that is realized reasonably well. Some imporvements that the 
 game 'geeks' have mentioned would probably be in order. I am sure that EA's Montreal Studio's will 
 listen and make some mod's to the inevitable expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chadni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  The gameplay mechanics had us trying to play Gears of War too much at the beginning. This isn't 
 Gears of War. Taking cover is a good idea but Army of Two doesn't make it as easy. 
  
  The geopolitics being played by the mercs seemed repulsive at first but we got over it. When I 
 caught myself excited for a little "mid-level shopping" I realized I was hooked. The gold filigree 
 on my 'pimped' weapon is fantastic -- and understandably caused our enemies to shoot for me just 
 a wee bit more. Knowing that the gold was an attractor, I found myself stepping up my game just 
 that little bit more. 
  
  The co-op features are great to see even if they take a little getting used to. I hope to see more 
 games like this. Not only can you heal your partner but you can drag them to cover if the firefight 
 is just too intense. And he can keep shooting cover while you drag him to safety. This kind of 
 feature was well-executed in SW: Republican Commando and Gears of War and I'm glad to see it continuing 
 to evolve. 
  
  My greatest gaming memories have usually involved a wingman. I know that you can play this game 
 solo -- but why? This is Army of Two. This is not Army of Me and My Robot. Go find a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eligracia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for two days, and I've really enjoyed it. It's got great visuals, a good 
 solid plot, great voice overs, and intuitive gameplay designs. It's pretty easy to jump into this 
 game, as the quick and easy tutorial explains everything fast and simply. Single player is very 
 fine, really co-op play and multiplayer where the game stands out, and these two modes ( co-op 
 or multiplayer ) will most likely keep you playing for a long time Large character models, detailed 
 environments and striking explosions add to the action on the battlefield. Voice acting is excellent, 
 and sound effects bolster the action. The single player experience is pretty shallow, and you won't 
 return to it once you've beaten it. Co-op and multiplayer, on the other hand, will definitely extend 
 the fun factor. 
  !!!! This game is highly addictive!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonRock16
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I, like a lot of people was very excited to play this game. I will admit however that when it was 
 initially supposed to be released last year I definitely had absolutely no intentions of purchasing. 
 But after the extra hype and the hopefully polishing that went on for those extra several months, 
 I was on board. 
  
  To sum it up, the game has a co-op experience like no other, very pretty graphics but not much 
 else. I'm just going to cut to the chase and spare you my wonderful writing skills: Shooting in 
 this game is extremely frustrating. Not to mention the behavior of the AI is annoying. That = hard 
 to kill. You will take a ton of hits and go down for the count when you don't really expect to. 
 The melee-ing is terrible. You need to be face to face with the enemy and if you CAN manage to 
 get into that position, you still have a 50/50 chance that his magical computer powered skills 
 won't melee you first. 
  
  I've read other reviews that this game contains great production values. I heard all about the 
 battleship sinking while you are on it, and though I am no Call of Duty Fan Boy (by the way, I 
 have disowned the game as of last week in support of R6V2) the first mission of COD4's ship sinking 
 blows Army of Two's ship sinking out of the water (figuratively and literally) . Sure it's awesome 
 to see some fighter jets falling past you but it's short and honestly appears to be half done. 
 A TOTAL dissappointment. Other than that there really is no huge action sequence to write home 
 about. 
  
  A stiff breeze could knock the bosses down. Yes the "Aggro" system is novel and unique, but you 
 don't really need to use it, and even when my human partner and I tried to utilize it, we were 
 basically punished because it did not work. Also if you WANT to use Aggro you are required to unload 
 all of your ammunition which is not extremely plentiful. Every single boss in the game can only 
 be killed one way: from the back. The boss in the first mission is just as hard as the boss you 
 fight in the 5th mission. There is no curve of difficulty. The same goes for the other enemies 
 in the game. 
  
  A lot of the Co-op functions in the game are pretty useless. Co-op snipe is a cool concept but 
 you utilize it 2, maybe 3 times. The back to back feature which sounds awesome cannot even be initiated 
 by the player, the game itself automatically puts you into it, USUALLY at the very beginning of 
 the stage. I will give credit where credit is due, the co-op parachuting is awesome. It is a challenge 
 to snipe while in motion but still awesome. The hovercraft contains the most ridiculous controls 
 I've ever encountered in a game. I highly doubt it is that complicated to operate an actual one. 
 
  
  The game can be blown through in 6 hours on the initially given hardest difficulty. Once beaten 
 you have the option to complete on a harder difficulty, but why you'd want to put yourself through 
 that mindless drivel a second time given the fact that you know exactly what to expect is beyond 
 me. 
  
  I myself LOVE LOVE LOVE multiplayer aspects of games. I hold it in higher regards than nthe single 
 player. I hoestly wish I could give you a full review of the multiplayer, but unfortunately after 
 waiting 15 minutes in a room witih my friend we could not get 2 more people to join our match. 
 However we did successfully enter one match and to say it wasn't fun would be an understatement. 
 I enjoyed it yet it was a little ridiculous because along with with the human opponents the map 
 was fully of AI opponents which always happen to come out once I engaged the human opponent. This 
 really leaves the multiplayer match winners to be determined by luck. That does not equal a strong 
 multiplayer component in my eyes. 
  
  One strong suit of this game is the selection of guns and the amount you can customize them. This 
 section is awesome. It almost looks as though they spent more time fine tuning this aspect than 
 the actual gameplay and AI choices made while creating. Although it would be fun to unlock all 
 weapons and masks, I don't think I could play the amount required in order to accumulate enough 
 money to purchase them all. But I admit that the weapon selection and customization is the strongest 
 part of the game.
  
  In closing, yes it was a diversion of 6 or so hours from my normal life. But I am currently selling 
 my copy used. It is in immaculate condition: disc, case and instructions, you can find it on amazon 
 in the used section it is selling for 48.99. If you don't believe me you can try for yourself and 
 let me know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINvanBURA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Play this game as it is intend to be played: With a real life buddy at your side! Then you will 
 have tons of fun!
  
  We started playing yesterday and dived right to the highest difficulty level that was available 
 at start.
  
  That way the AI provided a great challenge. If we tried to storm on blindly into gun fire we ended 
 up death quite quick.
  
  At those moments we started to figure out what the game really is about.
  
  The AGGRO System. 
 The enemies tend to concentrate the fire on the one player that caught their attention. The other 
 player can in the meantime flank the enemy undetected.
  
  
  There are so many tactics that you can build around this basic system.
  One blind firing the 
 other sniping. 
  
  Both slowly moving from cover to cover switching the Aggro back and forth.
  
  Should one player 
 use the big heavy machine guns and rocket launchner while the other player goes stealth all the 
 way?
  
  Should you both use Silencers on your main weapon and use your secondary weapon for building up 
 aggro when neeed?
  
  You will have a lot of fun trying out new weapons and buying upgrades for obtained ones.
  
 
  All that won't succeed if you do not carfully plan and discuss with your real life partner how 
 you are going to master the next situation.
  
  Finally a coop game that really needs you to work together and not just wander around each on his 
 own in the same area.
  
  
  This is not a game for those who expect great and long stories. But it is a great game for all 
 those who are looking for a entertaining Coop Game to play with a buddy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed45823
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is an interesting game. It's almost a breakthrough in the 360 games era since this 
 game takes co-op playing to the next level. The story is quite intriguing but it is the gameplay 
 where Army of Two shines. U can play single or with a buddy, online or offline using split screen 
 and system link. Playing with ur buddy is definitely cool since tactical decisions can me made 
 throughout each mission and the game lets u explore with that. The guns have also a wide range 
 of variety and they are quite strong. They can also be modified from part to part to make it better 
 and stronger not to mention make it llok good. U can apply some visual upgrades to the charecter 
 like masks and armor. 
  
  The only issue wiht this game is that, it is short. It is even shorter than Call Of Duty 4. So 
 expect to finish this game by 1 or 2 days if u keep playing. Multiplayer is okey but its not that 
 revolutionary but theres fun to be had for a while.
  
  My recommandation to u is to rent it first to see if this is the kind of game u want. Its got some 
 really sharp graphics and voice acting and the charecters do feel like real military /mercanary 
 / macho dudes. Having said that, this sweet experience would only last for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  OK so I played this game for a hour last night. I think I got the feel of the game pretty well 
 and it was the co-op with a friend. That is the real meat of the game the co-op. Maybe because 
 it is army of two, makes sense to me. 
  
  So the quickie, The game looks insane the cut scenes are off the hook and the people look about 
 perfect. Sometimes I felt like things were real. So the deal is the game is cool thats about it. 
 It is pretty fun but dont pay for it, at least full price. The key to this game is working together. 
 I did not feel it was a must to do so. But it is fun to play that way. The only real tmust is healing 
 the other dude when he went down. there are some goofy double snipes, the geeky getting each other 
 pumped but making some goofy noises and high fives. The AI is so so, the controls are a little 
 funky at times when you want cover you have to slide into it. you can just run around and kill 
 the bad guys but it is awkward and a bit lame at times. I am telling you is it can be fun but it 
 is not polished and not what they wanted it to be. IT COULD HAVE BEEN GREAT but it is a bad game 
 to get when there are so many better games coming out in the next few days. Borrow it, dont rent 
 unless you rent everything save the cost of a rental for a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil50thug
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  NO IM JUST KIDING ITS Fing SIK!!!!!! so many thing u can do i beat it ill admit its short..... 
 and online isnt the greatest but yo can "pimp" alll your weapons theres 3 types primary (machines 
 guns, mini guns , bruteshots, shotguns) , secondary (pistols, P90, and other small machine guns 
 no mini uzi...) and last but least specail ( snipers, RPGs) and the gear isnt all that good yo 
 can change into light, meduim, and heavy i dont even now if it helps.... but you can change your 
 mask and theres about 11 for each character.... so 22 in total... you can pick your chacter in 
 the begging and theres really no deffernce except that Rios has a sick scare but u wont really 
 see it oh ya and on online you can pick chacters but u can be any main chacters like Rios and Salem 
 or Simely this is my frist review lol i wus waiting for the right game i say rent it if u want 
 a good story or buy it if u want all the acheiments because there chaallanging lets just say you 
 have to beat the story mode more than once to get them..... i have liek 350..... and there are 
 some online..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  You can sit down and beat the game in a day easy! Very short storyline. The multiplayer co-op is 
 very nice, I've yet to try the multiplayer veruses modes so I can't review that part. The game 
 functions pretty well, and the AI doesn't have to hard of a time being aggreesive and elusive at 
 the same time. On the professional mode you will notice if you PAY ATTENTION, to give the computer 
 a upper hand it increases accuracy (nothing wrong with that) and randomly spawns bad guys on the 
 map, sometimes behind you. (That I did not like.) The Agro meter was a good approach to game, and 
 I feel over looked in warfare. If someone is shooting at you - its really hard to keep track of 
 anyone else, and the agro meter displays this correctly. While it doesn't make you entirely invisiable, 
 it makes it easy for you to flank the enemy. The bullets fly abit slow, and after awhile it feels 
 like Gears of War (this time the main characters left the anabolic steroids behind, they are abit 
 smaller.) The co-op split screen runs good, and still looks decent, the multiplayer co-op is also 
 a treat. The storyline is abit iffy, doesn't leave you guessing at all. Don't pick this up thinking 
 it will be a realistic shooter because its not. Its a tactical shooter, there is a large difference, 
 even though there is a presense of this in a realistic shooter. I would love to see these guys 
 make a realistic shooter, I feel they could make it shine.
  
  Either way this game was made to HOLD ME OVER, until Vegas 2. It has good game play, good cover 
 options, although sometimes its hard to get the camera to pan to the left side when your trying 
 to fire off that direction, which lets the baddies take cover before you can get into position...
 
  
  Rent it, simply because how short it was. If the game was longer, had a larger multiplayer (again 
 haven't played mutliplayer yet, but I don't think it will be alot of fun, due to low numbers. 2-4 
 players!?)
  
  Decent game, afew flaws hold it back from being a top dog on my list.
  
  Ignore the typos - in a hurry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camichan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  I don't want to knock AO2. I like the game. It has a handful of new ideas which I think are very 
 useful to gaming and I'd like to see in the future. "Aggro", or the aggressiveness rating of the 
 character was a fresh new twist, and the co-op strategy ideas were solid core ideas which the game 
 brings to the market. This is worth applauding. The co-op fundamentals this game introduces are 
 a big part of my favourable rating. Creating new ideas is not easy at all and I overweight this 
 purposely. 
  
  However, I think what left me feeling a bit empty at the end of this games was lack of memorable 
 boss fights. I'm not saying I always want games fitting the generic cookie cutter mold, but there 
 is something to say about a game with great boss fights. My favourite games, SOTC, MGS1,2 and 3, 
 and ZOE2 are all games with awesome boss fights that really bring a sense of accomplishment, continuity, 
 and epic-ness to the game. I feel like there was only 2 real bosses in the game, and they were 
 early in the game. The enemies all felt the same, either general soldier enemies or the armored 
 types that you need to flank. That's about all that was memorable to me after stage 2 or 3. *MINOR 
 SPOILER* At the end of AO2, I was running around a corner with Rios, and I got shot by some really 
 nasty weapon, perhaps a grenade launcher. I was tagged out and had to wait for Salem (AI) to come 
 get me and heal me so I could continue. While I was on the ground calling for help. I noticed a 
 soldier firing at Salem. So I reloaded my gun and shot him in the face as he came up again to fire. 
 Little did I know that that soldier was the final boss in the game. I beat the final boss while 
 I was laying on the ground bleeding!! And I didn't even know that was he was a boss. I mean, talk 
 about unmemorable... I was so confused when the ending cutscene came into play that I was in disbelief 
 that it was the end of the game. Definitely felt lackluster.*END MINOR SPOILER*.
  
  The sound and graphics in this game are great. Actually the sound is excellent and the graphics 
 are great. Whoever did the graphics for the ocean water should get a bonus, great work. I was really 
 impressed. The voice acting is phenomenal too, so no complaints there at all. I'd say the biggest 
 disappointment is the level design and the storyline to some degree. The level design always led 
 me to situations where I was in a free-for-all shooting match, unable to use the environment much 
 to my advantage, leaving me feel that every stage might have well been the same, since in the end 
 my strategy was either shoot it out, or flank the enemy when possible. The back to back fighting 
 with the motion blur was also very nice, reminiscent of the KO moment in EA Fight Night Round 3. 
 The programmers of the game mechanics delivered with this game. Kudos to them. 
  
  One boss that felt like a boss in this game was this guy who yelled, "Long Live Saddam!". His boss 
 taunts were good, and the enemies in the game do give decent taunts from time to time. I'm a fan 
 of taunts, so that was a plus. 
  
  I think AO2 should keep the fighting system they developed, the sound and the graphics as well, 
 but make a sequel with some memorable bosses requiring co-op strategy . Sophie Madison (another 
 private reviewer on gamespot) had it right. The first stage in the game is the way we'd like all 
 the stages to be. Unfortunately they just didn't shine as much. If all the stages were as good 
 as the first with a few memorable boss fights thrown in, this game would receive a 9.0 to 9.5.
 
  
  So overall, I feel like Ao2 is like the original Zone of Enders (ZOE) . It's a good honest effort 
 and has some awesome elements which allow you to see the potential of what an awesome game it could 
 be, but the storyline and boss fights just aren't enough to leave you wanting for more once you're 
 finished with the game. So if there is a sequel, I would hope it's like ZOE2, better story, and 
 more diverse and better fights. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genripperinsane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Absolute great buy for me. I went to the game store on the 6th not knowing what game to buy . This 
 game was released so I bought it. I definatley made the right decision. you have 2 soldiers that 
 co-operate to complete military missions. Another nice feature is the earning of cash and able 
 to purchase upgraded gear from weapon merchants. Games is all around good and i like it a little 
 better than gears of war because of the co-operative moves. You can also pimp your gun out and 
 make it gold which is real important. The game controls are a ease to get a grip on and graphics 
 are great.
  
  Absolute great buy for me. I went to the game store on the 6th not knowing what game to buy . This 
 game was released so I bought it. I definatley made the right decision. you have 2 soldiers that 
 co-operate to complete military missions. Another nice feature is the earning of cash and able 
 to purchase upgraded gear from weapon merchants. Games is all around good and i like it a little 
 better than gears of war because of the co-operative moves. You can also pimp your gun out and 
 make it gold which is real important. The game controls are a ease to get a grip on and graphics 
 are great.
  
  Absolute great buy for me. I went to the game store on the 6th not knowing what game to buy . This 
 game was released so I bought it. I definatley made the right decision. you have 2 soldiers that 
 co-operate to complete military missions. Another nice feature is the earning of cash and able 
 to purchase upgraded gear from weapon merchants. Games is all around good and i like it a little 
 better than gears of war because of the co-operative moves. You can also pimp your gun out and 
 make it gold which is real important. The game controls are a ease to get a grip on and graphics 
 are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sophie_Madison
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone!
  
  Army of Two is a game filled with great ideas but, unfortunately, it does not live up to its own 
 reputation.
  
  Let's start with a brief overlook.
  
  The very first mission, training groung, is in itself a good summary of the game: you get multiple 
 instructions at once, most of the time rather nonsensical, added to visual informations (texts 
 and GPS system turning your view to a GRAW-meets-Predator like view) contradict each other.
  In the end, you just press buttons without fully understanding what the game expects from you. 
 It takes a little while to get used to it, though.
  Army of Two alos has a nice system called Aggro. It works in a very simple way: when you shoot 
 at ennemies, you will get the Aggro, making your character glow with a reddish light. The aggrometer, 
 in the upper part of the screen, is all in your favour, allowing your team mate to become invisible 
 and peform other actions in the meantime. As long as you keep up shooting ennmies and drawing their 
 attention, you will get Aggro. Basically speaking, the game is all about doing this: getting aggroed 
 or letting your team mate getting aggroed.
  
  Well, indeed, it does bear potential... but not in the good area.
  
  The first mission is, 
 in my humble opinion, the best one since it takes place in a urban location, with crooked streets, 
 junk cars, plenty of places to hide and fire and/or blindfire, many coop options and loads of action. 
 The pace of the game is rather pleasant and cooperating with your team mate, be it AI or Human, 
 is a real joy. However, it must be said that the overall control system rather feels clumsy and 
 inapropriate, especially when it comes to switching weapons. You have to press and hold LB and 
 then choose a direction on the D-Pad. This might not sound so annoying at first, but when suffering 
 heavy ennemy fire, it rapidly becomes a nuisance.
  
  The game incorporates a duck-and-cover feature, very reminiscent of Gears of War. However, it does 
 not work very well. By pressing the Y button, you are supposed to hide behind an element, such 
 as a car, a pile of concrete, a wall, etc. But most of the time, you'll end up climbing that element, 
 or sliding right nex to it, leaving you in the position of a sitting duck. It gets aggravating 
 pretty quick.
  
  After the first mission is over, Army of Two makes us believe it shall give us the same game opportunities 
 again. But no, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately no. The remaining missions are all constructed 
 upon the same pattern that gets rapidly boring, as intense or tactical as it may be. More or less, 
 the fighting settings are huge, vast and with plenty of space to fill in. But they are empty of 
 opponents, be it on the lowest or normal difficulty setting. Soo enough, you will get to a nice 
 carrier, evolving in the open sea. But as gigantic and majestic that it may feel, fighting one 
 group fo four ennemies scattered among the deck really feels... well... boring, yes.
  
  Talking about the weapons of the game, there is a little customisation available. As you progress 
 through the game, you will earn money by completing missions, collecting side objectives and such. 
 With the cash flowling right in, you will get to buy a nice set of weapons, ranging from shotguns, 
 handguns, rifles, automatics, snipers, rpgs and such. You can buy mods for your little firespitters, 
 but all in all, it feels rather useless. The difference between firing an AK47, a sniper rifle 
 or shotgun definitely is tense, even with the mods on. You might think it adds power to your attacks, 
 but the game does not give the feeling it should.
  
  Six to seven hours will be necessary to finish the game. A little more if you intend on looking 
 for side objectives. There is more to be found online, where the coop campaign played with one 
 of your friend can still be funny and entertaining. For a while, only. Yet, remember: the same 
 missions over and over again, easily completed when you know them by heart.
  
  There is also a Dual Match available, which takes the basics of coop gameplay into multiplayer. 
 Why not?... For those of you who like it, why not? But then again, there are maybe other games 
 out here that are much more fun to play than Army of Two when it comes to multiplayer.
  
  Army of Two is a game filled with great ideas, but does not live up to its own reputation. It might 
 be great to play online with a friend, but it'll quickly get boring. Also, getting through the 
 game in six hours is extremely frustrating and irritating, given the fact that the game costs quite 
 a lot of money. And it's not through the multiplayer features and xbox live gameplay that we shall 
 get "refunded", for the coop missions are the same simple missions, over and over again, which 
 can get done very fast, especially when you get better weapons and wipe the whole level out in 
 no time. Cooperation then becomes rather useless, leaving you free to fire at will without the 
 fear of getting hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntslayer150
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is finally here. After many delays its here. For those of you that don't know what 
 game this is, its a co-op based third person shooter. Its action packed. The main characters are 
 Salem and Rios, two war-hardened mercenaries. You are fighting against secret military corporations 
 that have controlled major hot spots in the world. The game play in this game is amazing 
  U must use each other in battle to achieve your goal. Surprisingly the A. I. in the game is really 
 smart. They comply to you every command. The enemy's are not that easy too fool either. The are 
 tons of weapons in the game to use and upgrade. There is a major problem though. This game is TOO 
 SHORT!!!!
  There are only 6 levels to play through so that sucks. There is also online play so u and a friend 
 can go against another pair of soldiers. 
  This is also online co-op. There tons more to talk about but im too lazy to type all of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Lord777
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This was a very big dissapointment. I was looking forward to getting this all the way back in November. 
 When it was delayed for another coat of "polish" I had mixed feelings, I was happy they were putting 
 more work into it, but i also wanted to play it right then and there. I ask myself, "Is this what 
 a polished game looks like?" the answer is no. I just didn't feel that the controls were right, 
 the AI wasnt what it should be, and the fact you couldn't pick up guns or ammo from dead enemies 
 also frustrated me. You had to pick up "ammo bags" dropped from some enemies.
  
  Despite all of that, I had fun for the 5 or 6 hours I played it. It still wasn't up to par with 
 some games on different levels. The cover system in the game is horrible, no where near the system 
 in Gears or RS: Vegas. Both of those games looked alot better visually than Ao2. I wasn't too impressed 
 with the flow of the storyline. Its like a trickle compared with say, the river of Mass Effects' 
 story.
  
  In all honesty, I still had fun playing the game, even though my expectations for it were too high, 
 and it fell short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percy6744
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I am personally very glad that it was delayed firstly because it built way more anticipation for 
 this game. Secondly, because it wouldnt have the level of polish it does now. Now, this doesn't 
 mean the game is perfect. It has its flaws, but I'll start with the good.
  
  The weapons are awesome, looks, sounds, and the amount of damage they do is superbly balanced well 
 for the co-op play. One of the two can have a machine gun with gold and diamonds on it and attract 
 aggro like white on rice, while the other can get an assualt rifle, put a silencer and new clip 
 on it and be silent as a ghost. This system of aggro is the whole concept of teamwork that you 
 need to pay really good attention to. If you just run around running and gunning without cover 
 you're going to die. Easily. Which brings me to my next point. My brother and I played it through 
 on Recruit (Easy) difficulty and it is pretty hard even on that difficulty. Not a turn off however. 
 It is actually kind of refreshing to have a game that's actual difficult. It really requires lots 
 of teamwork. Communication is key here.
  What kept this from being a 10 for me was the fact that the story is so dang short for such an 
 anticipated game. I expected it to be much longer. Finished it in about 5 to 6 hours. About the 
 length of Halo 3's campaign. Perhaps a bit longer. But you get the point
  The multiplayer:
  The multiplayer consists of objective based game-types mostly. You and you're partner have to complete 
 these objectives while, at the same time, fending off your opponents. The maps are well balanced 
 and there are ways for everyone to get kills. Again, team work and communication is still key here, 
 as your opponents are usually in groups of two and just as good as you are. The few things I didn't 
 like about multiplayer were that you couldnt select a permanent character, or select a character 
 mid-game. The game is also not specific enough about how to buy new weapons, etc. Also, you can 
 earn points while playing the game, then suddenly the game lags out and you lose every bit of points 
 you earned. Which i didnt like at all.
  
  All in all I would highly recommend Army of Two, especially for people who have been looking for 
 the co op experience of a lifetime. This is it. A refreshing title in a world of single player 
 and unoriginal shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jq6sic6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The co-op tactics are cool. Dialogue between Rios and Saleem is a bit entertaining and adds a little 
 humor to the game. It would be nice if there was a little more interaction from your part. For 
 example, it would have been cool if you could choose when to co-op snipe or shoot back to back 
 instead of the game choosing it for you. The character movement could use a little improvement 
 (i. e. when jumping down from ledges your character just kind of falls down straight. Looks pretty 
 cheap) As for the aggro-meter, it is a nice touch to the firefights adding a sense of realism to 
 the combat. Customizing your weapons does become quite addicting, however, and definitely adds 
 some replay value. Overall, it is a pretty good game that was a little over-hyped but it still 
 manages to grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I can tell you that Army of Two is more like Gears of War then COD 4, so if 
 you are looking for another "realistic" game play, forget about this one. What AOT does do well 
 is getting you into a pretty well laid out story with a lot of fast arcade style gun fights.
  The graphics are very well done, and the sound is all there and sounding good. The main characters 
 looked great, very detailed, the enemy AI players didn't look at good, but it doesn't hurt the 
 game at all. 
  The gun battles are again very arcade like but very fast action and can get intense at times. The 
 enemy AI is dumb and a door knob but does know to hide once in a while, you can plow through them 
 pretty fast though.
  The things that just turn me off in this game is the ridiculous gimmicky Aggrometer system, and 
 this co-op mode where you can do things like stand back to back and fire in sync. The Aggrometer 
 is a totally silly system that allow your aggression to make the enemy target you so your teammate 
 can sneak around and target the enemy from a different location, You can also hand off this Aggro 
 to your teammate so you an do the same. Very silly but I have to admit it is a different take on 
 FPS and it does make it important to work as a team.
  The Co-op wheel can be used to make you and your team work in unison to execute moves like back 
 to back fire, swapping weapons, and sync fire. Maybe a good idea and maybe it's ok in an arcade 
 style game, but to me it's way too gimmicky.
  Overall the game is fun to play but maybe too arcade like for some, for sure for me, I was looking 
 for something a bit more like COD4 or Rainbow 6. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Tatonka
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  It was fun but got repetitive quick. The on-line play is a big let down too. Great idea but underdeveloped. 
 definitely rent first. I was really excited about this game and had been anticipating its release 
 for some time now. I beat the game in six hours and tried to play some on-line but got frustrated 
 and just turned it off. It does not seem like there is no way to carry over the character customizations 
 over to the game which really is a big let down. It leaves an open ending which i hope they spend 
 a hell of a lot more time on it than they did with this one. The grenades are hard to operate and 
 are really useless in an intense fire fight. Also some of the upgrades to the weapons are really 
 pointless and dont help in any way. Also the vehicles are really limited and extremely hard to 
 operate. Im regretting buying the game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanX97
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought army of two today, and was hopping for an amazingly action packed game, which in all did 
 deliver, but only for a short period. 
  
  The single player is amazing, filled with intense action you will truly love. This game is truly 
 great! The enemy AI will flank you and throw gernades, take cover when you are firing, it is truly 
 something to be seen! but on a negative note the enemies are not all that varied, but that isnt 
 a big deal you are not really looking at them, you are shooting them!
  
  The campaign is not all that long, but it is really fun, so fun you may want to play it again alone. 
 If not you can bring a buddy with you and do the entire campaign, because we all know playing with 
 a buddy is always so much more enjoyable! But if you dont have a buddy the AI i think does a great 
 job filling the void. A lot of people have complained the AI wasnt all that great, but i havent 
 had any major game stopping problems. The AI dragged me to good locations to heal, if he was about 
 to die he would run off until he was okay and come back to heal, it is really smart i find.
  
  Graphicly the game looks good. Environments can look washed out, but other ones like the Carrier 
 mission the water looks fantastic. Character models look fantastic also of the two players you 
 can choose to play as!
  
  Final comments, this game is atleast a rental, and if you and a buddy find the game interesting 
 and want to play long term campaign online it is definetly worth a buy! this game has a lot of 
 fun, even if the replay value isnt all what a person would want it to be, this game is truly short 
 and sweet from start to finish!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan ----117
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a new third person shooter from EA. Now we all know that EA is notorious for toning 
 games down, but hear me out, Army of Two is an excellent game for anyone looking for a co-op fix. 
 It's beautiful, all the guns sound differently, it has some great customization. and overall has 
 a breath taking feel to it.
  
  The co-op aspects of the game is what really makes it shine. You and a friend can take on the entire 
 game together. The game has this ability called "aggro" that enhances the co-op experience even 
 more. Aggro happens when a player kills more enemies than the other, so most of the enemies start 
 to shoot at him. This provides an excellent time for your teammate to flank the enemy and take 
 them out without a hitch. Also teamwork is cruicial if you wish to survive. You must constantly 
 keep your teammate informed on where the enemies are if you wish to come out alive. The downside 
 is if you don't have live or a friend to play with, for lack of a better word, your team AI is 
 completely brainless. He will run into the enemy then just stand there.
  
  The gameplay is cover based and frantic. Army of Two does an incredible job of making the game 
 feel like a movie. The game is frustrating at first, but it grows on you. The story hooks you too, 
 so you won't be able to put this down until you win. The Single player mode will take the average 
 gamer about 7 to 8 hours, but if you have friends you'll want to play it over and over again. There 
 is an aspect of customization to the game that adds even more depth. You can buy various helmets, 
 add extentions such as sheilds and silencers to your guns, and gain experience for your soldier.
 
  
  The online matchmaking would be fantastic 2 vs 2 play, however your teammate will often leave or 
 kill you. There is just something about this online community that makes Halo's online community 
 look angelic. If by chance you can get a game going it is a blast and you will keep coming back 
 to play it. You can customize your avatar in the multiplayer as well. Also for those who preordered 
 you will gain a few new weapons
  
  Overall this game is a memorable experience that you will want to pop in for a revisit a few times, 
 but if you don't have Xbox Live the experience wont be nearly as epic for you. With stunning graphics, 
 intense sound, realistic AI, and captivating gameplay you would have to be insane to pass this 
 game up.
  
  Pros:
  -Gorgeous visuals
  -Smart enemy AI
  -Great co-op
  -Intense feel
  -If you can get a matchmaking game going, its amazing
  
  Cons:
  -IF you 
 can get a matchmaking game going...
  -Stupid partner AI
  -Not for those who plan to play over and over if you don't have Live
  -It's too damn short!
 
  Score: 9.0 Excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solitude156
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited for this game. But i have to admit it was my first big letdown of 2008. I bought 
 army of two at 10 o'clock wed morning and sold it back to gamestop around 3 or so. The idea and 
 concept of the game is terrific. The weapon customization was also a great perk. But the enemy 
 AI was terrible. The melee attacks were cool but controls were all around quirky and awkward. I 
 found the game extremely repetitive as you come up against hordes of the same terribly made AI 
 enemies. With all that said i am stressing how long i have been following this game. Even after 
 the delay and all the time waiting i am only left pissed off about the final result. If i could 
 afford it I would have thrown my copy in an open fire to display my disappointment. I sold the 
 game back to gamestop and put the money towards the force unleashed. I can only hope that game 
 is made with much more care. Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightmareCV
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, there is a great story line to play. I really couldn't stop playing until I 
 beat the game, then all I could say was that I hope they make a sequel. The game plays well, though 
 at closer ranges it is sometimes hard to get an exact lock on your enemies. Aggro is a big part 
 of the game. You would be surprised how fast you will turn red with aggro and become the center 
 of attention. This does however, add a great deal planning and tactical opportunities to flank 
 or confuse your enemy. The weapons you use also have an effect on how you draw aggro, the bigger 
 the gun, the bigger the target you are. The A. I. is no pushover, even on lower difficulties it 
 is not "easy". Your partner A. I. will easily get the job done, but it is still better to have another 
 person to play with. The co-op is the best part of the game. There is both split screen and Xbox 
 Live co-op. The multiplayer is fun and will add more life to the game. The graphics are good, no 
 Call of Duty 4, but good none the less. The only real flaw in the game is that it ends too soon. 
 The games builds up a lot of intensity toward the end and really gets you into it, and then it 
 just ends. Hopefully there will be a sequel. Also, other than the hovercraft, there are no other 
 usable vehicles. The hovercraft turret is good, but the craft itself is a bit of a waste. The weapon 
 selection is very nice, there are also many upgrades for the guns that affect damage, accuracy, 
 ammo, and aggro. The game is also very achievement friendly, the achievements vary from killing 
 100 or more enemies with various weapon types, to getting $1 million in campaign, to getting $1 
 billion in multiplayer. Overall this is a great game. I would highly recommend it to anyone looking 
 for a good time or a great game to play with a friend. I'd go as far as to say that this could 
 be one of the top 10 games of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is one of those games that had so much potential but falls short because of some poorly 
 made choices. In that way it's hard to call it a bad game but at the same time it's sure to never 
 be considered a classic game. As I write this review, I have to state that I've played about 4 
 hours of the game and these are my conclusions based off of what I've seen so far. 
  Graphically, Army of Two looks solid. It has sharp textures, main character models look great, 
 and the outdoor lighting looks fantastic. Drawbacks to the graphics are the overall level design. 
 The levels are very linear and while the environments and locales are varied, the areas within 
 them are very bland. Some levels are just plain boring to look at and don't have much life to them. 
 When playing a game where you play a mercenary that's covered head-to-toe in body armor and armed 
 to the teeth, you expect to see a little destruction when firefights ensue and this just doesn't 
 happen in this game. Another drawback to the graphics is the lack of effects for a lot of things 
 in the game. Not that they were neglected completely, but the effects such as gun fire, bullet 
 impacts, and explosions just seem muted. I personally was extremely underwhelmed by every single 
 explosion I've seen in this game so far. Enemy character models are very generic looking and some 
 anomalies were seen with dead enemy bodies such as heads, arms, and legs popping off the ground 
 and suicide bombers whose vests, sandals, and heads bob and sway back and forth while lying dead 
 on the ground. It just looks weird.
  All of the graphical stuff can easily be overlooked in most games as long as the gameplay is tight. 
 Unfortunately for Army of Two, this also falls a little short. While the aiming and shooting for 
 the most part feels good, a few design choices regarding both the control scheme and weapons created 
 some problems for me. First and foremost, you can't move when using special weapons such as snipers. 
 Whenever you engage the aim on your sniper rifle, your feet become frozen to the ground. You cannot 
 move left or right at a decreased speed as is the standard for every other shooter game in recent 
 memory. This comes to be an annoyance when sniping from behind cover because when you aim and realize 
 that you're still too far behind cover to take a shot, you have to disengage the aim, move, and 
 retry. 
  Another weird decision was the choice to map the weapon switching to holding LB and using the D-Pad 
 to select between Primary (Assault Rifles, Shotguns) , Secondary (Pistols, SMGs) , Grenades, and 
 Special (Snipers, RPGs) . Although with most assault rifles, you're likely to not need to switch 
 weapons, but it's still a bad choice. Another bad choice is the way you interact with your AI teammate. 
 There's a B button mapped to "High Fiving". I'll let that sink in another second. This feature 
 has no effect on the gameplay at all. Meanwhile, the weapons are mapped to the clunky LB+D-pad 
 combo and the special teammate interactions like synchronized sniping (which has limited uses) 
 and swapping weapons with you teammate are mapped to RB+D-Pad. WTF Electronic Arts? The Y button 
 which is a context sensitive, diving, climbing, and rolling button is the most useful button is 
 the most useful face button next to X which reloads. The A button on the other hand, is only used 
 to interact with the environment and that's it. It does nothing else. So it and the B button are 
 now tied for the reward of being equally useless. 
  The game mechanics are a mixed bag. The cover system is a nonmagnetic one so think non-Gears of 
 War style. You will never be stuck to a barrier in this game. Weapon upgrades are nice and remind 
 me of Resident Evil 4 but they do add an RPG like element to the game which is a welcome addition. 
 You gain money for upgraded by completing mission objectives and that's about it. I thought EA 
 missed an opportunity to add in cash bonuses for destruction and saving innocents that sort of 
 thing but none of that exists.
  One core mechanic the game harps on but isn't all that impressive or necessary is "Aggro". Aggro 
 is a system where the player which is seen as the biggest threat is primarily targeted by the enemy 
 and how else do you get all the aggro than by shooting a whole lot. Just in case you can't figure 
 out who the enemy is shooting at, they included a meter. Why? I couldn't tell you. I thought it 
 was pretty obvious that when I stuck my character's head out and layed down a good bit of fire, 
 and the enemy turned and returned fire that I had the aggro but just in case the meter isn't enough, 
 your character will glow red to indicate this. Once you've had aggro for a long enough time, you 
 can go into overkill mode where the game becomes sort of bullet time-like for about 15 seconds 
 and you do more damage to you opponents and don't need to reload. IMO, Aggro would've been best 
 left as a background or subdued game mechanic rather than a core one. Verbal cues such as you character 
 screaming and cursing could've been used to indicate aggro better than a meter. 
  The story line is straight up "B" action movie stuff. If you can't guess the story line by the 
 second level (I mean who the bad guys are, and why things are going the way they are) you haven't 
 watched enough TV. The story is predictable and the inclusion of real world locales and events 
 rather than made up countries like DurkaDurkaDurkastan helps to draw you in but this game is like 
 the video game equivalent of "Tango and Cash" story and dialog wise. 
  In the end, the only thing that matters is that the game is fun, which it is, but you may want 
 to consider just renting this one rather than buying it. I don't see myself playing this one much 
 after I beat it and I'll probably trade it in when I buy R6: Vegas 2 in a few weeks. 
  
  L16HT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_prince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  have played the game for only 30min.. but liked the gameing style... Players can use special co-op 
 features to complete their paid missions including the new and unique Aggro feature that ensures 
 their partner goes unnoticed when approaching enemies. Dependent on the intensity of their gun 
 fire, distance, line of sight and type of weapon, players can put the enemy's attention on one 
 player while the other plans a sneak attack to take them out! the co-op is really getting at allmost 
 all games after Gears of war... the graphics are awsome, gameplay is good but the enemys are sometimes 
 very easy to kill.. have to play more of this to give a better score or less.. but till know its 
 a good game... with nice tutorial and a comic like thing between the co-op player... last but not 
 least a game to collect before the big names comes out soon:) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, Ao2 is an amazing third-person-shooter that is even more than what it's cracked up to 
 be. With stunning visuals, gameplay, story, and characters, this is a must play.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 Has great, realistic blood effects and details on all things, be it terrain detail, 
 building detail, or character models. AND I'm playing on a standard T. V. As always, if you have 
 a hi-def, this is an even bigger reason to buy this game. Bullets and spray are very realistic 
 and look quite nice, like everything else.
  
  Gameplay - 9.8/10 Almost perfect. Perfect amount of health and damage tolerance. Great ability 
 to be healed/revived and dragged to safety. It's pretty cool to be able to feign death, something 
 I like to attempt in games where it would never work **cough**CoD4**cough**. Only thing that isn't 
 perfect is how when you are attacked by a melee, it makes you stop, and cannot be avoided. Kinda 
 sucks, but if you were able to counter...
  
  Story - 9/10 As I'm only about an hour and a half into the game, I don't know much, but so far, 
 the story is good, with plot twists and things like that. Seems like I should be ready for a betrayal 
 or soemthing like that... foreshadowing is present. WAY TOO SHORT.
  
  Characters - 9.7/10 Your Army of Two, Salem and Rios, are so serious it's as if they aren't real... 
 oh wait, he just headbutted Salem for screwing up. If you couldn't tell, I was being sarcastic 
 about the "are so serious" part. They act hilarious, whether they're doing a handshake, hit each 
 other, or playing the air guitar.
  
  Multiplayer 9/10 Not much to say, amazing like everything else, except they objectives are pretty 
 east to figure out ahead of time for the ones that say, "1 out of 3". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful in everyway there is nothing bad about this game. This game was specially 
 made for coop so you should only get this game if you have a brother or sister or friend or xboxlive 
 to play with you because you might a well call this game a normal shooter because your teamate 
 is a bot that doesnt know what you want to do. But besides all of that this is a very awsome game. 
 This game is also kind of like the club when it comes to shooting and turok graphics and thats 
 a good combination even if you think those two games are bad. Now time to talk about the team work. 
 If you ever find a car door or sheild on the floor you can have one guy walk out with you behind 
 him protecting both of you with it. Another one is that if you get shot at alot and get down you 
 can shoot like the "last stand" in COD4 and to get picked up your teamate has to hold th A button 
 down and if you get down in the middle of a battlefeild your teamate can drag you into cover to 
 heal you saftly. You can also swap guns and flank and all that team stuff. But no matter what get 
 this game it rocks!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillJr106
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Basically I followed this game for what seems to be around a year long. The game looked promising, 
 graphics seemed to look good in stills and trailers, and looked to be the next best Co-Op game 
 to come around. Long story short, this game disappoints on all ends.
  
  The graphics are the best part of the game, and they are really not much to brag about. They offer 
 about what you expect from a next gen system 2 years ago. On my first time playing, the very first 
 real mission, I was planted in a world that looked bland and lacking textures. Little did I know 
 that it was going to take 5 minutes for the ground textures to load, which is just unacceptable. 
 Other then that, there is a lot of clipping in the animations and player models, and the over framerate 
 is just a smidge over playable.
  
  The gameplay itself is quite boring. The shooting is on par with the early grand theft auto games, 
 only less rewarding. The entire game is based on shooting and the Co-Op element, however both of 
 these feel as if they were an afterthought as the shooting controls horribly (throw a grenade only 
 to watch it appear out of this air to the far left of your character) and the Co-Op element seems 
 like it was just added in afterwards (you can play most the game without really needing another 
 player or the AI to help you, except to lift you up on to ledges) .
  
  The game is not without its positives, the graphics are passably acceptable, the voice acting is 
 on par, the online portion runs smoothly. However there just really isnt any reason to play this 
 game, you are almost better off waiting for Grand Theft Auto o come out, with better graphics, 
 more features, better shooting control, vehicles, and a very coherent online portion of the game. 
 This game just isnt quite the Army of Two its title led it to be, more like a Meager Attempt at 
 a Shooting game.... err... of Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoriderandy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  the game was well-made and the co-op is awesome. however, the melee is hard to do and the controls 
 are a little too slippery. also when you play single player your AI partner is not that smart as 
 it says on the back of the game box. the game was indeed short but has great replay value. the 
 game is hard if you are a run-and-gunner. if you are a major halo player you will not have an easy 
 time with this game. if you liked Gears of War then this game is made for you. its like Gears on 
 steriods. the game take a crap load of tactics and if you have no tactical skills then you might 
 want to buy a spare 360 cuz you will most likely throw your controller at it and break it with 
 frustration. all in all the game is definitely worth the buy if you are 50/50 on it then rent it 
 its still worth playing and i highly suggest playing co-op cuz the single player isnt too hott. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingliono
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  The bottom line is that if you have someone to play this game with then it is an absolute must 
 have. Level progression and story line are are both strong points of the game. The new game mechanics 
 such as Back-to-Back, Aggro, Overkill, and the vehicle segments set the game apart. What you really 
 want to know is why isn't this game a 10 right? First, my biggest pet peeve is the targeting. Spinning 
 in place to target an enemy feels like you are trying to swim in a tank of molasses. You do get 
 used to it but it is very frustrating being just a bullet's width behind an enemy and never being 
 able to spin just a hair faster to target them (too many years on PC FPS games no doubt) . Targeting 
 while on the vehicle segments is an utter joke. The tandem parachute is near impossible so we quickly 
 opted to simply dodge, hit the ground and start shooting. Third and finally, while the mid-game 
 upgrade screen is nice dropping out of a fire fight to go to the store is a bit ridiculous, especially 
 given that you are on occasion surrounded by a host of hardware dropped by the bad guys that you 
 can not pick up! I have attempted to go through the game solo and it is not worth the effort, if 
 that is your plan then I suggest rent and don't buy. If you are on Gold though you should have 
 no problem getting into a pick up game. In closing, if you are the person that played through Halo 
 3 with a buddy in Co-Op, just like me, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintacell25
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game does have flaws but the quality masks over any of them and makes this game a 10. amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazingamazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surjin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Like most I couldn't wait for the release of AO2. My COD4 disc is getting worn out and the only 
 way my 10 year old daughter can get my attention is by yelling "grenada!!!". I played through the 
 1st mission in the campaign and while it has added a new dimension with the addition of "aggro" 
 and some cool customizable weapons options, the co-op AI player is abysmal. At least twice when 
 I was down, instead of dragging me behind cover to heal me, he dragged me into more open fire on 
 both of us. Graphics are good, but not quite as polished as Gears of War or COD4. To me the multiplayer 
 is the most disappointing. I had some games with terrible lag time and 3-4 times I got a message 
 saying I had lost my connection. Never had with problem with other online games. Maybe this was 
 just a first day problem?? Trying to complete the "objectives" was very difficult. Being used to 
 "deathmatch" and "domination" type games made me want to just run around and kill people. My partner 
 and I both struggled with trying to work together towards completing the objectives and earning 
 the most money. You start with the standard weak weapons and later have the option to upgrade your 
 trusty sidearm with your earnings. The melee attack looks really cool, but it seems random as to 
 who meelee's who first. That was the most annoying thing about the multiplayer. Overall, it just 
 seemed rushed and not quite as polished as I expected. Maybe I just expected too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalrexionium
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  With quality Offline split-screen Co-op games selection being thin these days, Ao2 takes over where 
 Gears of War and Halo 3 left off. I purchased this game for that reason alone and have not been 
 disappointed. If you like sitting down together with a friend and prefer having a good offline 
 gaming experience, this game is for you. The graphics and frame rate are up to par for an average 
 game these days.
  Game play is easy to learn and presents no challange.
  The game menus (like all) take some getting use to.
  The replay value is there if you like playing 
 offline.
  Halo 3, CoD4 and Gears of War set the bar high for multiplayer online play. This game willl never 
 reach that high and most will be disappointed regarding the repetative multiplayer VS. online mode.
 
  If you prefer an online experience, your rating for this game may be less than mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubspack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a good way to get through the last of the winter months. The team play is solid and 
 the AI is actually intelligent. Have been playing on the easiest mode and getting killed. I'm missing 
 a lot of the secondary objectives by just trying to survive. I'll replay it in the harder settings 
 after I once get through it and try to find all the intell and secondary objectives. When lost, 
 the GPS mode helps you find your way to the next checkpoint. While it's not up to Call of Duty 
 4 standards, it has some unique gameplay that is worth your time and money. The back to back feature 
 is cool and so is the parachuting. If your playing by yourself, your partner's AI is actually quite 
 good. I do wish you could direct him to specific locations rather than just move ahead, and in 
 sniper mode, the gun doesn't wavier like in COD4, but the sniper ammo is hard to come by. I would 
 suggest paying close attention to the tutorial at the begining when your training. It makes it 
 a little easier than just learning on the run. And you'll definately have to use your partner to 
 sucessfully complete the missions. If you Rambo up, you'll die a lot. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Wow, I must say I am really impressed by this game. I had doubts at the start that this game would 
 not be all that it was hyped to be. I got it yesterday and brought it home and started playing. 
 Quite frankly I could not stop playing. The story is not the best thing in the world but it is 
 enough to drag you in the game and make you keep on playing.
  
  The controls are really good. I was worried that they would not be all that great but they are 
 good. The cut scenes are well done, and the detail on the facing and everything about the character 
 is good.
  
  There are a lot of many guns to choose from, however you do have to buy them. But to be honest 
 that's not bad, for the fact that in one single mission you can make about $50,000 and that will 
 get you some good weapons and upgrades.
  
  I don't want to give to much away, it is a good game, and it is HIGHLY recommended.
  
  Side 
 the fact, I have not played multi player yet so I can not say anything about that.
  
  Go get this game, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Army of Two (Ao2) is a great game. This game breaks away from the cliche FPS. Ao2 has a buddy system 
 that requires you to play a two man game and everything about the game from map navigation to combat 
 involves two people. Most will understand the concept of suppression fire and out flanking and 
 these concepts are the core of the game. Dont be put off by thinking this is the formula for the 
 entire game because the battlefields, cover, terrain and weapons are so varied that you cant follow 
 the same tactics for long.
  
  My single most impressive statement should be about the AI. They will constantly change position 
 and finally when you kill an AI the guy next to him actually reacts instead of standing around 
 talking to a dead guy. The AI is quite impressive for your AI controlled partner and the enemy.
 
  
  The game has a single player and multi player element. As mentioned everything in the game requires 
 two man fighting so your partner in camaign is controlled by the AI unless you have a friend that 
 wants to join in. A quick note to remember is your friend must have reached as far as you have 
 in the campaign in order to help you in the fight. The campaign (Single Player) experience is very 
 good and fun to play. I rarely say fun to play but I found my self excited about every encounter. 
 The combat is somehow very engaging and exciting to tactically solve. You are still running and 
 gunning but with a lot more risk.
  
  Multi player is superb. The game tasks you with fighting 2 vs 2 online with AI controlled opponents 
 to mix it up. Again dont be put off by only 2 vs 2 online. The online experience is not about killing 
 your opponent but about walking away with the most money. You will have to rescue hostages, assassinate 
 a target and destroy vehicles. You can but weapons online but again that will cost money so there 
 is a balance to risk and reward. Do you buy the better machinegun because you can kill faster or 
 do you stick with the sub machine gun and win the match with a few dollars to spare.
  
  The innovation into a stagnate area we have come to call First Person Shooters is a welcome change. 
 Ao2 does tomething truely unique and it does it very well. I believe this game will be a huge success 
 and I cant wait for the hours I will spend with it.
  
  Highly recommended.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headrush55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I feel this is happening more and more lately. These games that seem to have great ideas and great 
 concepts for innovative ways to play the game but then they fall short of expectation. Am I expecting 
 to much from a game? 
  This game killing for money. Bounties in a sense. Great concept. Forces you to earn your way and 
 really gives you a sense of accomplishment if/when you hit your goals. Lots of ways to expand on 
 your weapons (all the way down to the barrel of the gun) . I feel though there is still things lacking. 
 
  You HAVE to play this with another human being. I'm a huge solo player. I love campaigns. Co-ops 
 are great but lately i've had no one to play with and i really don't want to get into a story with 
 some random person. The teammate AI in this game is just horrible. When i have 30 kills and he 
 only has 9 (even though i had him in aggressive for most of the level) is just pathetic. he seems 
 to shoot into space more often then not. On the other hand the opposing AI has amazing accuracy. 
 I pop up just to take a quick shot and i'm already red screened before i can even pull the trigger. 
 
  I also had sticky issues. Times when I lost enough health that the teammate had to "drag" me to 
 safety to patch me up he more often then not dragged me in circles just to patch me up while being 
 shot at. I also had a moment where he got stuck. he was stuck on a wall while dragging me and just 
 kept wiggling back and forth. And the camera in this mode is bad. it often goes behind the character 
 dragging u and jumps from one side of him to the other. I would have rather bin forced into a first 
 person view when he dragged me.
  Overall if you have a friend to play with that is also getting this game then definitely pick it 
 up. if not I would recommend this as a rent first. Again this game could have bin amazing but it 
 just seems like it came out to early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is, with all justice, one of the more surprising games of action in which it goes of 
 the year. A remarkable effort of Electronic Arts to rise the car of the most spectacular action, 
 violence and emaciated, with two charismatic antiheroes, cynical and to whom only it concerns the 
 money. Excellent presentation, robust vocabulary and a cooperative gameplay for a genuine, personal 
 and enjoyable game. 
  
  Shooter is, without doubt, the key word of this generation. There are of all the classes and colors, 
 in first person, with perspective in third; warlike, fantastic, horror... The supply is ample, 
 and in many cases of an unquestionable quality, nevertheless one of the most difficult parts for 
 a game of this sort is to become a hit between the avalanche of titles, and to obtain that the 
 product is remarkable and is equipped with personality.
  
  In the new title of Electronic Arts we will cross part of the professional life of two mercenaries, 
 Salem and Rios, in a military company, the SSC that carries out missions all over the world under 
 the direct orders of the government of the United States. 
  
  The force of the game is, indeed, in its cooperative mode, and although the artificial intelligence 
 of our companion is quite competent when we played in single, the certain thing is that it cannot 
 compete with a human rival. 
  
  The system to give orders is tremendously simple and it is entirely carried out with the pad in 
 a fast and intuitive form. The money is fundamental in the game, and thanks to it we will be able 
 to do succulent improvements for our arms and equipment. Lamentably, the interaction with the surroundings 
 is null, there are very few objects that react to our bullets or explosions. Also the artificial 
 intelligence of the enemy is not very good.
  
  Army of Two opens in a spectacular form the doors of which it could be one of the new success franchise 
 for Electronic Arts. With great variety of scenes and situations, the new action title from EA 
 bets on the cooperative mode without palliatives, giving it a brutal weight to all the actions 
 in coop-mode, and where to play without considering our companion it is a suicide. Good graphs, 
 entertained campaign and action without limits for one of the first surprises of this 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roSkoRGV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  this game is the **** It has so many available options and manuevers that it actually makes it 
 a learning shooting experience like no other.... great game and well worth the money and waiting 
 time. This game give you the options to customize your own guns, bling them out and all kinds of 
 stuff. From what i have played so far, the stages seem pretty fair and will more than sure give 
 you a hell of a challenge when you get to professional. Anyway you should definitely own this game. 
 Playing on xboxLIVE also allows you to coOp with ur best LIVE buddy to take down and conquer it 
 together. Its sweet going all out on all the money you make and buying these huge guns, masks and 
 armour.... game is sweet as hell now stop reading this and go out and get your own now. join me 
 as we to can become and army....
  roSkoRGV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Ao2 is a good game. The co-op campaign is fun, either with an AI teammate or a buddy. The campaign 
 has well designed, varied levels, great pacing, and the enemy AI is specatacular -- almost like Brothers 
 in Arms series, where they are constantly trying to rush you, retreat, flank you when possible, 
 etc. Add in the new "aggro" system and the co-op game is a joy to play. Finally, ANY gun you unlock, 
 buy or upgrade in ANY version of the co-op game (playing solo, with a buddy online or split-screen) 
 can be used in ANY other co-op game -- this is awesome and adds a lot of personality to the co-op 
 game...
  
  Now for the bad, you notice all the praise is for the co-op version? If you're looking for a good 
 "competitive" multiplayer shooter to replace H3/CoD4 you're going to be VERY disappointed. The 
 versus mode gets old fast -- and it's not because of the objective based gameplay, that part is ok. 
 It's the fact that you always start with either an AK or the shotgun, no customization whatsover, 
 in every versus game mode. Now you might be saying, "well when you complete objectives more guns/loadouts 
 get unlocked", and this would be true... here's the problem though -- the base guns are so weak, that 
 quite often, the first 2-3 objectives turn into just a "race" -- ppl online just completely disregard 
 someone shooting them in the back for 4-5 secs... that's lame. If you had say, $100k, $200k or some 
 other set amount to "customize" before any map started it would add a LOT of variety to the versus 
 multiplayer portion of the game. But trust me, it gets old fast always, always, always playing 
 with the AK for the first few objectives (and that's if you're winning) ... they could have easily 
 added in some other customization or server set-up like i mentioned above (hence, the tack-on feel 
 of versus play) . Also, when the versus game ends, the server ends -- last night, playing with four 
 friends, after every single 10-20 min match I had to resend out invites seperately to every single 
 player... in this day and age, that's almost inexcusable and it gets VERY tiresome.
  
  Bottom line -- the AI, story, level design, etc are all brilliant in the co-op, online, single player, 
 or split screen. The online versus play leaves you feeling "what if" -- as if they had spent just 
 a little more time making this portion better (letting the server decide on customization beforehand, 
 letting you bring in your customized mercs, etc -- something!) Ao2 might have seriously been a game 
 of the year candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostfacekilr50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Army of two is a very fun game. A great co-op game. After that it is missing something. Single 
 player is so so. It works to get the play used to the controls. Your AI Partner is dumber than 
 a sack of rocks. The enemy is smart, On harder difficulties they will out flank the hell out of 
 you. The most fun comes from hoping online for co-op. Its great when you get a competent partner. 
 If you get some noob or a person that sucks i degrades into a drag and heal fest. Customizing your 
 guns is fun but not very in depth. You eather have it pimped or you dont. Some guns look great 
 when they are pimped others look like crap. Versus mode is fun. instead of deathmatch or CTF basically 
 its who can make more money. you get objectives like blow up a fuel tank or rescue a hostage. Over 
 all Army of two is a fun experience but its hard to justify the price tag. You can get the entire 
 experience in 4-6 hours. This is a good rent. Just too short to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a third person shooter from EA, and while it's probably not the greatest game of 
 the year, it sure has a lot of great things going for it. 
  
  The Pros:
  
  AoT does a lot of things right. Most of all, it does a wonderful job of creating the need for teamwork. 
 There are plenty of games with co-op, but none that implement it so well into the core gameplay 
 as Army of Two. There are features such as Team Sniping, Back to Back 360 degree shooting, Lifting 
 eachother onto ledges, and team commands.
  
  The team commands aren't terribly deep, but they do the job. There are three basic commands- Advance, 
 Regroup, and Hold Position. However, a simple tap of the D-pad can tell the A. I. specifically if 
 you'd like him to perform the command aggressively or defensively, making it much easier to keep 
 your teammate alive or get enemies off your back. Of course, these commands simply aren't needed 
 when playing with a human partner.
  
  For the most part, the game has spots that automatically place you and your partner into the Back 
 to Back shooting position, and usually tells you when you need to activate Team Sniping. Both of 
 these features have their flaws, but provide a nice break from the steady stream of regular combat.
 
  
  The character models look fantastic in Army of Two, even when the camera is up close and personal. 
 A lot of fine detail work went into the armor, guns, etc.
  
  There's pretty decent replay value to be had here. It's likely you won't earn enough money to purchase 
 all of the guns on your first play through, and the game does a good job of upping the challenge 
 with each difficulty rating. There's plenty of different guns to use and for the most part they 
 all feel a little different from eachother. Not to mention, you can "pimp out" or customize most 
 of them to your liking.
  
  The stages are diverse and stay interesting throughout the game. In one mission you'll be fighting 
 through dilapidated city streets, the next you'll be parachuting over a river while dodging canyon 
 walls. The whole experience never gets boring.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Cons:
  
  A. I. 
 can be very stupid at times. Enemies and allies alike will get stuck on objects and become easy 
 targets. 
  
  Team Commands don't always work properly, especially the "Advance" command. There is no way to 
 choose where your partner advances to, which means he'll usually try to go whichever way is towards 
 the end of the stage, even if it's blocked off at the time. Also, there is no way to command your 
 partner to give you a lift onto a ledge. You basically just stand next to the ledge and wait for 
 him to offer to lift you up.
  
  Team Sniping is pointless/ doesn't make much sense. It's also just not very interesting or fun.
 
  
  Online multiplayer servers seem slow.
  
  The environments aren't as finely detailed as the character models. Sometimes they can be very 
 bland and boring. A lot of objects are repeated (crates, brokedown cars, etc.) Also, the between 
 stage cut scenes can change quality suddenly. Sometimes looking very nice and other times looking 
 AWFUL.
  
  Campaign can be short. Anywhere from 6-10ish hours.
  
  There aren't a lot of different armors to earn for Salem and Rios. Basically just light, medium, 
 and heavy models. However, they left plenty of space in the market for downloadable content (*crosses 
 fingers*) .
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall:
  
  Army of Two really is unique. Most of it's flaws lie in its single player game. 
 The enemy A. I. can be improved a little by upping the difficulty, and the teammate A. I. can be 
 totally fixed by playing with a friend, which is what this game was made for.
  
  AoT shouldn't be compared to any of the other popular shooters out there today (Halo 3, COD 4, 
 etc.) because it truly stands on its own as one of the first games to get the teammate aspect right.
 
  
  It's simply a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Well, let me start this by saying wow. Aggro, Aggro, Aggro. This is a HUGE part of the game. I 
 myself, thought this game, would be like gears, run and gun. But it's aspects are that of much 
 more importance. You really can't get far in this campaign, unless you're using team work. I really 
 love the game so far. This stuff really gets the adrenaline pumping, lol.
  
  Anyway, onto MP, This part is fun! The Co-Op is really thought out well! The missions are great! 
 Then Mid-Mission Shopping feature. Awesome!
  
  The campaign, seems really strong, and it's long to boot.
  
  Overall, This game is about patience, 
 team work, and Aggro! You really can't rush things, because you find you're self, surrounded. ALSO, 
 The Back 2 Back, feature is really sweet. Matrix speed, great aspect. I also like the Team Sniping 
 thing. Helpful, in most cases.
  
  The cool thing about the Offline, is you can go, into, Options. Then set you're preferred character, 
 to either, Tyson Rios, or, Elliot Salem. Which i found out works for the CO-OP, as well.
  
  *note* The only bad thing about today, was when i reserved my game, it did not come with the code 
 in box. So if you pre-ordered make sure you call your local Gamestop, or EB Games, to ask about 
 it. 
  
  Overall, I love the game, I've had it reserved since 06. EA did wonders holding off on releasing 
 before. 
  
  Anyway, enough bragging. Buy the game! And have fun with it!
  
  I pray for a Sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllBOOMSTICK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Remember that scence in Pulp Fiction where Sam Jackson tells Tim Roth to pick his wallet out of 
 the bag....... This is how I felt when I picked this game up at Gamestop. Reach in there and grab 
 the game that says bad mother f**ker!
  The gameplay is great at times solo, but is drawn back by some silly partner AI routines. COOP 
 is this games bread and butter. Played thru the training mission and the Somali mission without 
 too much difficulty on easy solo. When my friend jumped in, we were playing a whole new game. We 
 were cussing more than the characters on screen. We jacked up the difficulty to medium, and I was 
 litterally blown away by the AI. We were getting flanked and spanked constantly. We quickly began 
 to learn how to effectively take down swarms of enemies without too much trouble. The game flowed 
 smoothly and minimal tears or clipping. The menu for selection of blackmarket weapons is kind of 
 cheap, but the weapons look great and function as they should. The over the shoulder cam is a bit 
 weird to me, but is growing on me again ala GOW. The cover system is smart and it is hard to mess 
 up once you get the hang of it. Enemies go down if headshot and you begin to rack up $$ for cool 
 weapons in no time at all. The game plays very fluid and overall I would only reccommend this game 
 to people that have friends to play with. If you are solo go get a different game as the game depth 
 just isnt as engrossing alone. When you save your buddy from certain death, you begin to feel like 
 you are a battlefield "Hero." It is not often a game comes along and makes you want to kick your 
 friends face in for not team playing. This is that game. The online component is nice and I have 
 noticed minimal lag or problems with execution. The main issues I have so far are:
  AI partner side solo
  Enemy onslaughts feel overwhelming
  4 maps
  2vs2 could be 2v2v2v2 would 
 be awesome
  partner sniping is a little silly and requires minimal expertice
  
  The main positives I have had are
  AI enemy side is awesome
  Guns feel right
  Big time COOP 
 fun
  Style is great
  Plot is laughable and reminds me of Tango and Cash
  UPGRAYEDD (See Idiocracy movie for more info) Weapons are great
  Overall I am glad to see the 
 game as what it should be. Throw in a demo on live with MP only and you will see what I mean and 
 EA would sell a ton of this title.
  Good luck and have fun with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose7293
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for a few hours now, and I've really enjoyed it. It's got great visuals, 
 a good solid plot, great voice overs, and intuitive gameplay designs. It's pretty easy to jump 
 into this game, as the quick and easy tutorial explains everything fast and simply. The new Aggro 
 concept is really innovative, and adds to the gameplay experience. While one player takes all the 
 attention away from the attackers, the other can sneak around and annihilate enemies. Once a player 
 has attained enough aggro, he can enter overkill mode, in which one of the players enters power 
 mode and the other in stealth mode. Power mode give you 2x damage and stealth mode makes you invisible 
 to enemies and move quicker. This system is designed for the ultimate in co-op, having you use 
 strategies to eliminate the opposition. All in all, the action is great, controls are simple, AI 
 is great, and I really enjoy this game. If you're not sure you wanna drop $60 for this game, try 
 renting it, as the single player game is only 6-8 hours of gameplay, however, I believe multiplayer 
 is where this game will shine... I have not been able to try much multiplayer, as nobody I know 
 has the game yet (I got it a little early ;D) . One more great feature of the game is the weapon 
 customization. There are several weapons to choose from, from a primary, secondary, and special 
 weapons categories. You can also purchase new masks and gear for your character. The weapon customizations 
 include buying new barrels, suppressors, underbarrel attachments, front-mounted shields, and even 
 pimp it out (turning it gold) . All of these upgrades affect aspects of your character, including 
 accuracy, damage, and how much aggro you generate. For example, a gun with a tier two suppressor 
 will generate less aggro than an unsuppressed weapon, however it will have decreased range and 
 damage factors. The plot is also a powerful aspect of the game, with a driving conspiracy about 
 to undermine the private military... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-Fei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Army Of Two represents excellent game for all fans of a genre action. In game are perfectly combined 
 tactics and actions. Partners supplement each other precisely carrying out the action charged by 
 it. Having sent the partner to take fire on itself you you can easily bypass the enemy from rear. At 
 wound of one of players treatment reminds games Gears of War, Kane and lynch, but unlike these 
 games in this treatment is added by that wounded shoots the enemy while the partner treats you. In 
 turn the player which treats can drag the friend from under bullets and cure the friend under covering. 
 It very much diversifies game. The graphics on top-level from a portrayal of units up to landscapes. 
 The sniper mode, and also application of various subjects for example a door from the machine is 
 very well realized, that considerably facilitates passage of game. Game is interesting for passing 
 both for one player and in a mode co-op mode. In general very good game for all fans well and to 
 do some shooting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
